2011 shaping tomorrow with you Fujitsu’s brand promise shaping tomorrow with you “shaping tomorrow with you” is about shaping the future of society and business. It describes our way of doing business, building on our long-term relationships with our customers. We work with our customers, using our experience and the power of information and communication technology (ICT) to contribute to their success and to the future of society. 1 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENTS Strategic Vision of the Fujitsu Group: Bringing About a Prosperous Future 3 Message from Management 5 The Fujitsu Group’s Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake 7 The Fujitsu Group’s CSR 11 Priority 1 Providing Opportunities and Security Through ICT 16 Highlights in 2010 “K computer”—Computing to Create a Prosperous Future that Fulfills the Dreams of People 17 Highly Reliable Cloud Computing Services for the World 19 Providing New Values Through ICT 21 Providing Reliable and Secure ICT Infrastructure 25 Increasing ICT Accessibility 23 Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment 28 Highlights in 2010 Green Policy Innovation: Working with Customers to Create a Prosperous Low-Carbon Society 29 “Let’s Make a Nationwide Dandelion Front Map Together!” 33 Fujitsu Group Environmental Management 35 Providing Environmental Solutions 53 Targets and Results for the Fujitsu Group Efforts to Prevent Global Warming 55 Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI) 37 Reducing Environmental Burdens at the Factory 57 Environmental Accounting 39 Reducing the Environmental Burden in Offices 60 Looking Back on FY 2010 Environmental Activities/ Green Procurement with a Centralized Global Expert Opinion 40 Procurement System 61 Operating Activities and Environmental Burden Environmental Considerations in Distribution 62 (Material Balance) 41 Conservation of Biodiversity 63 Leading-Edge Green ICT Research and Development 43 Environmental Contributions to Society 65 Eco-Friendly Products 45 Environmental Management 66 Reducing Chemical Substances in Products 48 Environmental Communication 69 Promoting Product Recycling 49 Solutions that Benefit the Environment 51 Priorities 3–4 Embracing Diversity and Developing Human Resources 70 Highlights in 2010 Cultivating Global Leaders Who Ask “What is Good for Society?” and Seek the Common Good 71 Diversity and Inclusion 73 Approach to Human Rights and Work Practices 76 Developing Human Resources for Their Contribution to Society and the Planet 75 Priority 5 Communicating and Collaborating with Stakeholders 78 Highlights in 2010 A Dialogue with Stakeholders in which Experts Were Invited to Address Fujitsu’s Five Priority Issues 79 With Our Customers 81 For Our Shareholders and Investors 85 With Our Business Partners 83 With Global and Local Communities 86 Corporate Governance 90 Risk Management 91 Compliance 93 Fujitsu Group Profile 95 Editorial Policy 97 Independent Assurance Report 98 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2 Strategic Vision of the Fujitsu Group Bringing About a Prosperous Future For the creation of a prosperous future that fulfills the dreams of people, we will strive to advance ICT and leverage its power for our customers, local communities and the planet, creating new values and underpinning the sustainable development of society. Sensing Collecting information from human and social activities Fujitsu’s Cloud Computing Platform For a more prosperous and dream-inspiring future For example, by acquiring and analyzing the patterns of power usage in businesses and homes we can optimize the Large amount Convergence energy utilization of society as a whole. Acquisition and of data analysis of locations and speeds from information terminals in the cars that travel our city streets can yield the practical Supporting a sustainable society wisdom to avoid traffic jams and accidents. Also, by monitoring the physical conditions and lifestyles of individuals, we can help them lead healthier lives, better manage chronic conditions, and more rapidly deal with acute illnesses. 3 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ICT that Has Become Truly Human-Centric Computers, which began to be widely used in the 1970s, performed important roles in advancing science and technology and in improving industrial productivity. However, computers called for special knowledge and skills. Business hours also had to be shifted depending on the timing of computer availability. It was a computer-centric era. The 1990s saw the explosive growth of the Internet and networking systems became central to Computer Centric Network Centric Human Centric business. E-mail communications, with information provided and searchable on the Web, made it possible to use networks to do business with the world. Networks brought dramatic changes in both lifestyles and work styles, and marked the advent of the network-centric era. Now, ICT is ushering in a new era in which people can take advantage of the computer/network environment without even being aware of it. Much faster networks combined with advances in mobile phones, smartphones and other terminals, and the spread of cloud computing now make ICT resources readily available to anyone. This has made ICT a truly human-centric infrastructure. Toward a Human-Centric Intelligent Society Now that ICT has permeated social life and business and can be readily used by anyone, tremendous volumes of data are being generated in our daily lives and Navigation business activities. Corresponding advances in ICT infrastructure make it possible to Benefiting people through social systems and ICT services record, analyze and use effectively this large amount of data. In product development, for example, digital data exists for everything from records of the design, through queries to call centers, to the product ratings on social networks. Collating this information makes it possible to detect potential problems early on and Creating new to take preventive action. The Group is developing technologies and service platforms knowledge to collect and analyze this data, which will shed light on what was once obscure and generate insights. Such insights have the potential to bring about innovations not only in business but also in agriculture, healthcare, energy and the environment or any other field of human activity. Leveraging the power of ICT, the Fujitsu Group is working to achieve an intelligent and human-centric society where people can lead prosperous lives. We will actively collaborate with our customers and other stakeholders and seek to create new business opportunities. At the same time, we will address global environmental issues and other problems facing the world, including that of poverty in developing nations. 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4 Message from Management Through the advancement of ICT, we aim to bring about a Human Centric Intelligent Society — a prosperous and sustainable future where an abundance of knowledge will be generated to the benefit of humankind and the planet. Q What sort of company do you want Fujitsu to become through its CSR activities? In collaboration with all our stakeholders, we aim for the creation of a prosperous future that fulfills the dreams of people. The essential purpose of CSR is to contribute to the sustainability of Earth and society while increasing corporate value. Based on this understanding, the Fujitsu Group aims for the creation of a prosperous future that fulfills the dreams of people, pursuing advances in ICT and making the best use of them, collaborating with customers, local communities and the peoples of the world to create new values that will benefit the sustainable development of society. As a step towards realizing this vision, CSR at the Fujitsu Group is practiced by implementing the principles and policies of the Fujitsu Way. Fujitsu subscribes to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact, and we strengthen our CSR activities keeping in step with international society. Please tell us the background and aims behind Q your Corporate Social Responsibility Policy and its five priorities. They are to strengthen CSR activities and integrate them with our business as we respond to the Masami Yamamoto needs of our stakeholders. President, Fujitsu Limited In November 2010, ISO 26000 was published, the first international standard providing guidelines for social responsibility. It is becoming increasingly important for companies to engage in CSR activities from a broader perspective. Furthermore, stakeholder demands regarding CSR activities had been diversifying year by year, and there was an urgent need to respond appropriately. It was therefore time for us to review all of our CSR activities in the past. We reconfirmed that the basis of 5 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CSR lies in implementing the Fujitsu Way and based on What are your management priorities for the this confirmation, we established a CSR policy. At the Q creation of a prosperous future and new values you seek to achieve? same time, we developed five priority issues reflecting stakeholder concerns around which we will focus our We will continue to prioritize the customer’s customer, environmental sustainability and globalization. CSR practices. Thus, we will strengthen on a global basis our CSR activities as an integral part of our business. To solve global social problems, we believe our business must consider the customer’s customer, in other words, society as a whole. On this basis, it is essential that all Q What are the “new values” that will help the sustainable development of society? our business activities, products and services should be We are working with experts within and outside in harmony with the global environment. To support the Company to create practical wisdom that our full array of customers our “One Fujitsu” initiative addresses social problems. seeks to unify the Group in appropriately serving each The situation surrounding ICT is changing rapidly. Last customer in every nation and region, with the priority year, the number of Internet users topped two billion, on “Think Global, Act Local.” with five billion mobile phone subscribers, and ICT has Q now become an indispensable platform for people’s How are you reacting to the Great East Japan Earthquake? daily lives. We are now seeing the movement towards a human-centric society in which the links between We are putting forth our best efforts in post-disaster people and between individuals and society, and the recovery and reconstruction. new knowledge to which they give birth, are We mourn the tragic loss of so many lives and express underpinned by global ICT networks. our deepest sympathies to those in the devastated areas. Here, the Fujitsu Group, as a global provider of ICT As an ICT enterprise providing the information hardware, software and services including cloud platforms and communications networks that support the computing, wants to provide people around the world social infrastructure, we are determined to harness all the with the benefits of ICT. A huge volume of data will be Group’s resources in overcoming this national disaster. The generated through the use of ICT, and we want to see it work of recovery and rebuilding for the people of the transformed into the practical wisdom to solve social region and the basis of their society has only just begun, problems. We are also actively using the sophisticated but by steadily continuing to do whatever can be done at technology of simulations made possible by the time, we are confident that Japan will recover. Through supercomputers to address some of the world’s ICT, we will contribute to Japan both during recovery and toughest challenges. By incorporating the new wisdom long after it, as we will to the advancement of the planet. generated in this way in social systems including environmental, energy, agricultural, transportation, healthcare and educational systems, we will be directly Q Please give us a message for stakeholders. contributing to the sustainability of society. We would like to work together with our stakeholders around the world to build a prosperous future. Naturally, to generate this kind of wisdom, we need to obtain accurate knowledge of on-site conditions, In 2010, Fujitsu introduced the brand promise “shaping and make our efforts consistent in bridging the gap tomorrow with you” to articulate one consistent between ideal and reality. The Group, by ensuring that message to the world. This is our commitment to build the latest advances in ICT permeate society and the future with our customers and with all our continually deepening its understanding of social stakeholders through ICT. realities, will generate a succession of human centric To keep this promise, the Group will support both wisdom. This will achieve a sustainable human centric disaster recovery and the Japanese economy as we intelligent society. continue actively supporting our worldwide customers through business activities that will build a prosperous future where people's dreams are fulfilled. 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 6 The Fujitsu Group’s Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake At 2:46pm on March 11, 2011, a magnitude 9.0 earthquake, devastated areas. We hope for their quick return to normal life the most powerful ever measured in Japan, occurred with its and the early recovery of the disaster-stricken areas. epicenter off the Sanriku Coast of Miyagi Prefecture. It Fujitsu will marshal all the Group’s resources to support produced severe tremors with an intensity of least 5.0 from the restoration of daily life and to rebuild the social Kanto throughout wide areas of the Tohoku region. A huge infrastructure in the disaster area. At the same time, we will tsunami accompanied the earthquake, causing major work to offer products and services that provide customers destruction along the East Japan coast. with safety and security in the face of natural disasters. We mourn the many deaths caused by this earthquake A report of the Fujitsu Group’s response to the Great East and express our profound sympathy for those living in the Japan Earthquake follows. Establishment of a Central Disaster Response The Fujitsu Group’s Disaster Recovery Activities Headquarters Damage and Recovery Situation for Business Locations Immediately after the earthquake, Fujitsu formed a Central Disaster The Group has over 50 business locations in East Japan, and Response Headquarters headed by the president. The task force immediately after the earthquake struck their lifelines (electricity, consists of two units, one to support in-house restoration (Restoration water and gas supplies) were interrupted, and damage to Headquarters) including corporate affairs & human resources group, buildings and facilities facilities gourp and ICT infrastructure group, and the other for included fallen ceilings and restorative measures taken by departments (Disaster Response HQs) collapsed walls, burst water to support customers, plants and R&D locations. The two units pipes, etc., so that a number coordinated their efforts to ascertain the safety of Group employees could no longer function. and customers, and started to collect damage situation reports. Locations in the Kanto Based on the information region were also affected by collected, meetings to decide rolling power cuts. the measures to be taken were However, of the nine The damaged Fujitsu Isotec Plant held using TV conferencing, manufacturing plants in which operations were affected, all-out and the appropriate company efforts successfully restored the last of them—Fujitsu measures to be taken for our Semiconductor Technology—to 100% operation by April 20, since own and our customers’ when all have been operating normally. facilities were decided for the Group as a whole. Meeting of Disaster Response HQ The Main Plants Damaged by the Earthquake The Company-wide Disaster Response Structure Products Plant Name Location Restoration Central Disaster Response Fujitsu Semiconductor Iwate Prefecture April 18, 2011 Headquarters Iwate Plant (Isawa-gun) Restoration Headquarters Fujitsu Integrated Headed by: Microtechnology Miyagi Prefecture March 23, 2011 President Yamamoto of Fujitsu (Shibata-gun) Miyagi Plant Deputy Head: Corporate Affairs Group Corporate Finance Group Fujitsu Semiconductor Fukushima Vice President Ishida (Fujitsu) Semiconductors Prefecture March 28, 2011 Vice President Fujita (Fujitsu) Aizu-Wakamatsu Plant (Aizu-Wakamatsu-shi) Vice President Saso (Fujitsu) Secretarial Group Facilities Group Vice President Ikegai (Fujitsu) Fujitsu Semiconductor Fukushima Prefecture April 20, 2011 Public and Investor Technology HQ Plant ICT Infrastructure Group (Aizu-Wakamatsu-shi) Relations Group Administration Fujitsu Integrated Fukushima (Risk Management Office) Microtechnology Prefecture March 18, 2011 Human Resources Group Procurement Group HQ and Aizu Plant (Aizu-Wakamatsu-shi) Fujitsu Isotec Fukushima March 23, 2011 HQ Plant Prefecture PC Servers (Date-shi) March 28, 2011 Disaster Response HQs Desktop PCs PC servers/ (Partially made at Desktop PCs Fujitsu Shimane Plant Customer Restoration On-Site from March 23) Countermeasures HQ HQ Workplace Restoration (Field support, system Restoration Organization Organization Organization April 18, 2011 engineering, sales) HQ Resumption of all desktop PC production On-Site Fukushima Product Business HQ Workplace Restoration Power Fujitsu Telecom Networks Countermeasures HQ Restoration Organization Organization Organization Prefecture March 22, 2011 HQ Supplies, etc. Furudono Plant (Ishikawa-gun) Tochigi Prefecture March 16, 2011 On-Site Fujitsu Nasu Plant (Operating to avoid Electronic Devices HQ Workplace Restoration Networks/ (Otawara-shi) Restoration planned power cuts) Countermeasures HQ Organization Organization Organization Mobile HQ March 16, 2011 telephones Tochigi Prefecture Fujitsu Oyama Plant (Operating to avoid (Oyama-shi) planned power cuts) 7 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In assessing disaster damage, good use was made of all over Japan to restore customers’ supporting social infrastructures, satellite mobile phones, MCA wireless links, and such as local government, hospitals and financial institutions. Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) type applications such as CRMate in acquiring and sharing up-to-date information. Response to Corporate and Individual Customers We set up multiple contacts to handle queries about corporate Confirming Employee Safety computer systems and individuals’ personal computers and Employee safety was confirmed by using the existing emergency provided guidance on our corporate website. For individual communication network, while simultaneously utilizing emergency customers living in areas designated under the disaster communication and safety checking cloud services proven in disaster assistance law, we provided a special service collecting damaged prevention drills, etc. These services use the mail functions of mobile Fujitsu products for repair. telephones, and they were invaluable in confirming employee safety. Response to Customers Affected by Rolling Power Cuts The Situation in Supply Chain Damage and Restoration In areas affected by planned rolling power cuts, we provided on While working with suppliers to restore supplies interrupted by our website details of the items to be checked and handled earthquake damage, we implemented the measures set down in properly before power interruption to ensure that customers’ BCP policy to ensure uninterrupted supplies to customers by systems could be restarted safely and operated normally after rapidly finding alternative components and suppliers. Also, when power was restored. Customers who had contracts with our some components proved difficult to obtain, we minimized their Support Desk (for maintenance and operational support) were influence on production schedules by modifying product design. also informed by e-mail. Response to Customers in the Disaster Area Activities Supporting Restoration and Rebuilding Establishing a Customer Restoration Countermeasures HQ in the Disaster Area In order to grasp accurately the state of damage at customers’ Providing Cloud Services locations and plan restoration, we established a Customer Until the end of July, we provided free of charge a special Great Restoration Countermeasures HQ in the maintenance division East Japan Earthquake cloud service support program comprising where their maintenance information was stored, and two 12 cloud services to companies, local authorities and other On-Site Restoration HQs, one in Saitama City and the other in organizations engaged in restoration. In addition to servers, Sendai City, to support the work of the unit. Information was storage and other infrastructure, we provided SNS and e-mail, web shared with all the departments involved using a disaster conferences, e-learning and other SaaS applications. These proved damage website that collected information on customer invaluable in confirming the safety of those in the disaster area, in damage and restoration, and the maintenance situation. ascertaining the damage situation, in collecting and distributing life-support information, and in securing mail services. Restoration of Social Infrastructure We also provided free of charge (until the end of March To ensure the safety and security of everyone in the disaster area, 2012) the SaaS-type CRMate application for speedy acquisition the On-Site Restoration HQs combined the local maintenance and integrated control of information on the damage situation personnel with 1,500 support personnel per day dispatched from at multiple places of business. Examples Fujitsu Isotec’s Approach All departments of Fujitsu Group companies prepare for natural Isotec had completed more than 40 practice drills for the disaster or accidents by drawing up a business continuity plan (BCP) replacement strategies laid down in the BCP, and those efforts paid designed to ensure that operations can be resumed within a certain off as shown. target time. Fujitsu Isotec manufactures desktop PCs, and earthquake PC Production Sites damage to its roofs, walls and production facilities were judged to Transfer threaten rapid resumption of operations, so in accordance with the Fujitsu Isotec (FIT) Shimane Fujitsu (SFJ) BCP, they started to move the production line to Shimane Fujitsu (in Location: Hobara Machi, Date City, Hikawa, Shimane Prefecture), which manufactures notebook Location: Hikawa Cho, Hikawa Gun, Fukushima Prefecture Business Lines: computers. Ten days later, the transfer was completed, and Shimane Prefecture Production of desktop PCs and PC Business Lines: servers, etc. alternative production began. Over the previous two years Fujitsu Production of notebook PCs and PCBs, etc. 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 8 The Fujitsu Group’s Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake Special Treatment of Equipment Repairs Response to the Accident at the Fukushima Repairs to equipment under maintenance contract or within the Dai-ichi Nuclear Power Plant warranty period are not covered if the damage arises from Basic Policy natural disasters, and must therefore be paid for, but under a Our basic response to the accident at Fukushima Dai-ichi Nuclear special Great East Japan Earthquake maintenance support Power Plant was to act in accordance with instructions published program we provided parts and labor at specially reduced prices. by government and administration officials. We are asking all We also offered concessionary pricing to those whose repairs Group companies, through the Central Disaster Response were not covered by a maintenance contract. Headquarters, not to let themselves be influenced by rumors but to take carefully considered actions. Providing the Means of Access to Information As of the end of June 2011, there were no Fujitsu Group To enable those living in evacuation centers to rapidly access locations in the areas designated by the government as an information using the Internet, we loaned a total of some 2,000 evacuation zone, a planned evacuation zone, or an emergency PCs free of charge to over 100 centers. These were used for free evacuation preparation zone, but in case these areas are access to the Internet. expanded in future and require the evacuation of Group locations, We also used Internet TV capabilities to let people view local we plan to respond in accordance with BCP requirements. TV programs, and linked the TV stations with evacuation centers in Saitama Prefecture by providing live on-demand equipment A Special Taskforce for Power Conservation free of charge. This enabled those evacuated outside the disaster The nuclear power station accident caused an electric power area to keep up to date with information on events within the shortage, and in order to respond properly to the government and area and to send information intended for the evacuees. financial sector guidance, and to review the mediumand long-term power supply situation, Fujitsu set up a power conservation committee with the Company president as chairman in April 2011. Example NIFTY’s Approach The committee seeks a reduction of at least 15% from our peak power consumption during the current fiscal year, and will be taking the following approaches. Group company NIFTY provided flexible access services free of charge to companies, local governments, universities and Transfer Fujitsu’s own servers other organizations that generate information of benefit to •Of the 10,000 or so servers currently used in Fujitsu R&D and disaster victims. These include the public NIFTY Cloud business operations, some 4,800 will be either moved to data service and the NIFTY Cloud Basic Hosting service, which centers away from Tokyo Electric Power and Tohoku Electric Power makes it easy to create home pages, constituting the basic service areas or temporarily switched off. ICT services for information generation (this has been Take initiatives at plants and offices extended through December 2011). •At manufacturing plants in Tochigi Prefecture and the surrowding region, fewer facilities will be used and some processes will be moved to night shifts. •At offices, some elevators and lighting will be switched off, air Sending Donations conditioning temperatures will be adjusted, water heaters and To support victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake and to refrigerators switched off along with a “cool business” initiative. help with the work of restoration, Fujitsu Group companies sent •Peak-load shifting will be introduced using smart power plugs donations of over 200 million yen. In addition, the sum of the and PCs that automatically switch over to battery operation. donations by the Group's individual executives, employees and unions exceeded 100 million yen, and this was delivered to the Change working systems disaster relief headquarters in each prefecture. At offices on our own premises, two national holidays falling in autumn were shifted to weekdays in July and August, when power Providing Emergency Supplies consumption was expected to peak, and each location took it in turn to Not only were rice, water, foodstuffs and other essential supplies create four-day long weekends. Where we have departments that are for daily life sent to the evacuation centers but Group member tenancies, we cooperate with tenant electricity savings by splitting up company FDK also sent 723,500 batteries and 1,500 flashlights. the one-week summer holiday and distributing it among individuals. 9 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1 TOPICS Providing Cloud Services that Match the Needs of Disaster Victims and NPO Networks Companies, NPOs and volunteers are among the many support needs, including projected needs, is supported by information systems organizations that have come forward to enter the disaster area and provided by Fujitsu Disaster Support Teams*1. Fujitsu has an provide many different forms of support. One of them has a name that established track record of providing on-site cloud-based services for translates as “The joint project linking disaster victims and NPOs” the early detection of infections of foot-and-mouth disease and avian (abbrev. “TSUNA-PRO”) and was formed to link a number of NPOs in influenza, rapidly providing information to prevent the spread of Sendai, Tokyo and the Kansai region with the Nippon Foundation. epidemics*2. Drawing on this experience, teams went into action on TSUNA-PRO performs assessments of the actual situation in March 13, two days after the earthquake, acutely aware of the evacuation centers, identifies needs and problems, and aims to match importance of gathering and sharing information. Only two weeks them with NPOs whose activities include the specialized services of later, the teams were able to provide a system based on the folders of care-givers, nurses and doctors, and of those who can support the paper notes initially compiled by TUSNA-PRO staff. With the handicapped, foreigners, or the seriously ill. TSUNA-PRO cloud services, they are now able to follow and rapidly The evacuation centers have a wide variety of needs depending respond to the continually changing needs of evacuation centers. on the degree of damage, the personal attributes of the victims and Fujitsu will continue to support the work of disaster recovery and local differences. Particularly when, as in this case, the disaster covers rebuilding through services that address real on-site needs. a large geographical area, many evacuation centers have been set up, *1 These teams take responsibility during emergencies or after disasters and provide system-related support to improve the situation. and the local governments administering them have themselves been *2 The Foot-and-Mouth Disease Recovery Support System and the Avian damaged, it is extremely difficult to provide support that matches the Influenza Epidemic Prevention System. The Fujitsu SaaS-type CRMate cloud precise needs of centers and victims. This is the situation in which system is used for all of them, including TSUNA-PRO Cloud. TSUNA-PRO seeks to deliver what is needed to those who need it. To The Support Framework Used by TSUNA-PRO do so, it forms multiple teams that go around visiting the various centers in Miyagi Prefecture preparing detailed assessments covering Built by Fujitsu Recording needs Examining needs over 100 items. For example, “food” covers not only the number and TSUNA-PRO Cloud kinds of meals but also checks their nutritional content. The TSUNA-PRO TSUNA-PRO information gathered in this way, along with the personal attributes of Hearing staff Matching staff individual victims, involving Matching personal interviews in which sympathetic hearings are given Specialist Collecting needs NPO, etc. to elderly and handicapped Support based on specialized skills victims, is passed along to the Evacuation Center NPOs with the necessary support capabilities. The Pregnant Foreigners The elderly women injured The gathering, analysis and Hearings for individual needs. Disaster victims needing specific care sharing of this information on (Photo: Courtesy TSUNA-PRO) 2 TOPICS Contribution by the Satellite-Based System “Sentinel Asia STEP-2”, Which Shares the Satellite’s Images in Disaster Areas Globally After the Great East Japan Earthquake, satellite images were prompt disaster responses in each nation. provided by Japan’s own Earth observation satellite, “Daichi,” and Fujitsu’s support for the project includes developing the Sentinel observation data was provided by Taiwan, India and Thailand and Asia STEP-2 system and providing the integrated BI.DAN-GUN other countries. These images helped government‘s information high-speed file transfer solution. gatherings activities. © JAXA, Emergency observations of This initiative is an international cooperation project, Sentinel the Great East Japan Earthquake Image by the satellite: A fishing port Asia, under the auspices of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency in Namie Machi, Fukushima Pref. (JAXA). Currently, 65 organizations in 24 countries and 10 showing the flooding in an area approx. 6km square. international agencies are participating. This project shares satellite Left: After the earthquake images of typhoons, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis and other (March 14, 2011) Right: Before the earthquake natural disasters in the Asia-Pacific region on the web, and enables (February 23, 2011) 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 10 The Fujitsu Group’s CSR The role and responsibility of the Fujitsu Group as a truly global ICT company. Masami Fujita Corporate Senior Executive Vice President Corporate Social Responsibility Policy and * CSR Promotion Task Force: Global Business Management Unit, Corporate Planning and Business Strategy Office, Corporate Brand Office, Customer-Centric Five Priority Issues Management Promotion Office, FUJITSU Way Unit, Corporate Affairs & Human In December 2010, the Fujitsu Group established a corporate Resources Unit, Diversity Promotion Office, JAIMS Promotion Division, Legal Unit, Purchasing Unit, Corporate Environmental Strategy Unit, Marketing Unit, and the social responsibility (CSR) policy and determined five priority following Group companies: Fujitsu Laboratories Ltd., Fujitsu Semiconductor Ltd., issues around which it will focus its CSR practices. Fujitsu Design Ltd., Fujitsu University Ltd., and others. The Fujitsu Group has carried out CSR activities in accordance with the Fujitsu Way, a corporate philosophy that sets forth guiding principles and overarching values for employees. In addition, in December 2009 the company Comments from Experts who Participated in the Dialogue became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (see (excerpted) page 15) as a way to enhance its CSR activities from a global Mariko Kawaguchi perspective. Then General Manager, CSR Promotion Department, In Japan, economic promotion organization Nippon Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Keidanren revised its Charter of Corporate Behavior in As markets become increasingly globalized, companies that resist September 2010 to reflect changes in attitudes towards CSR. In diversity will be unable to grow. As previously successful November, ISO 26000, the first international standard experiences become ineffective, it will be essential to consciously providing guidelines for social responsibility, was published. make use of human resources with different ways of thinking and standards of judgment. Society’s demands for CSR activities are intensifying both within and outside Japan. Based on this CSR policy, the Group will focus on five Taku Furukawa priorities in a more forceful response to the multiple needs and Board member (then Managing Director) of the Alliance Forum expectations of stakeholders so as to contribute to the Japanese companies are expected to develop human resources. sustainable development of society and the planet, As markets change and call for different approaches and communication skills, employees who can cope are essential. discharging its responsibilities as a truly global ICT company. In addressing the priority issues, Fujitsu will set key performance indicators (KPIs) and follow the PDCA cycle in Yukiko Furuya making actual progress. This progress will be disclosed within Board member, NIPPON ASSOCIATION OF CONSUMER SPECIALISTS and outside the company and shared while CSR activities are Stakeholder communications should not be a passive waiting being made an integral part of management. game, but actively initiated from the company side. When that happens, I would like to see the communications addressing the solutions of social problems. Ongoing Dialogue with Outside Experts In setting priorities, the CSR Promotion Task Force,* which has representatives from all concerned departments of the Company, formed a basic strategy working group that considered the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines and other internationally recognized CSR norms, identified global social problems, and held repeated discussions to decide those which Fujitsu should address as priorities (nine such discussions were held between April and September 2010). Two sessions of dialogues were also held with stakeholders, in which they were represented by outside experts, deepening our understanding of their needs and expectations. 11 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CSR Policy CSR at Fujitsu is practiced by implementing the Fujitsu Way. In all its business activities, by implementing the Fujitsu Way in light of the expectations and needs of multiple stakeholders, the Fujitsu Group contributes to the sustainable development of society and the planet. Fujitsu will focus on the following five priority issues in implementing its CSR practices. By pursuing these issues, Fujitsu will promote responsible management as a global ICT company. Five Priority Issues The five priority issues that the Fujitsu Group will focus on fall into three categories. 1. Addressing Society's Challenges through Corporate Activities The Fujitsu Group will contribute to the sustainable development of society and the planet by addressing a variety of society's challenges through its corporate activities. Priority 1: Providing Opportunities and Security Priority 2: Protecting the Global Environment Through ICT Fujitsu will contribute to the resolution of global Fujitsu will contribute to the creation of a society where ICT environmental challenges through ICT, while at the same time connects and supports the world's 7 billion people, providing reducing the Fujitsu Group's own environmental footprint. them with security and opportunities to pursue their dreams. Specific initiatives: Specific initiatives: •Reduce the environmental footprints of customers and society by •Provide easy-to-understand and user-friendly products and developing green ICT. solutions (based on the principle of universal design). •Reduce the environmental footprint of Fujitsu's own business •Contribute to the resolution of society's problems by providing activities. supercomputers and advanced ICT technologies. •Promote activities to conserve biodiversity. 2. Strengthening the Foundation of CSR Activities To contribute the sustainable development of society, Fujitsu will strengthen the foundation of its CSR activities to foster an environment in which employees develop a global perspective and actively participate in the Company's CSR activities. Priority 3: Embracing Diversity and Inclusion Priority 4: Developing Human Resources for Their Fujitsu will promote diversity in its human resources, Contribution to Society and the Planet irrespective of nationality, gender, age, or disability, to enable Fujitsu will lead the way in cultivating employees who, from a individuals to grow with the company. global perspective, are pioneers in contributing to the Specific initiatives: advancement of society. •Create a corporate culture that fosters innovation through the Specific initiatives: promotion of diversity. •Foster the development of globally minded employees. •Promote work–life balance among employees. •Foster a desire among employees to contribute to the advancement of society through their work. 3. Communicating and Collaborating with Stakeholders In order to promote the initiatives outlined above from multiple perspectives, Fujitsu will build relationships with a broad base of stakeholders, going beyond the boundaries of the Company's existing business. Priority 5: Communicating and Collaborating with Specific initiatives: Stakeholders •Build relationships with a diverse group of stakeholders, including As a good corporate citizen, Fujitsu will pursue a thorough NGOs and international organizations. •Promote CSR activities along the following four dimensions: 1) ICT understanding of the multiple needs and expectations of its for everyone; 2) challenges; 3) environment; and 4) community stakeholders and pursue business activities to meet these engagement. needs and expectations. Contribution to Sustainable Development for Society and the Planet Contribution of ICT to Address Societal Challenges Priority 1 Opportunity and Security Priority 2 Global Environmental Protection P16– through ICT P28– Communication and Collaboration Priority 5 with Stakeholders P78– Priorities 3–4 HRD for Contributing to Diversity and Inclusion P70– Society and the Planet Basics for CSR Practice 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 12 The Fujitsu Group’s CSR FUJITSU Way organization were introduced. The detailed information The Fujitsu Way will facilitate management innovation and regarding the Code of Conduct was shared and the obstacles promote a unified direction for the Fujitsu Group as we expand encountered in the course of our global business activities, bringing innovative technology the dissemination activities and solutions to every corner of the globe. were discussed. Activities in The Fujitsu Way provides a common direction for all line with the policy were employees of the Fujitsu Group. By adhering to its principles implemented at workplaces, and values, employees enhance corporate value and their and the results are being contributions to international society and local communities. monitored in order to further improve these activities. The FY 2010 policy conference Activities to Disseminate the Fujitsu Way Promoting group-wide dissemination Providing more Fujitsu Way tools In the Fujitsu Group, all companies around the world adopt the Booklets explaining the Fujitsu Way and credit-sized cards are Fujitsu Way and reflect it in their activities, creating a unified prepared in four languages (Japanese, English, Chinese and direction for the enhanced corporate governance. Fujitsu Way Korean) and distributed to Group employees around the world. leaders are selected from each group company or business unit Posters in 12 languages are posted at the workplaces. Top to work with management, to make references to the Fujitsu management videos are made available on the corporate Way in their messages to employees, and to disseminate it in intranet; President Yamamoto made one after his appointment ways appropriate to their organizations. in April, 2010. The e-learning contents are updated so that employees can further deepen their understanding of the Working with Fujitsu Way leaders Fujitsu Way at any time. To ensure further dissemination of the Fujitsu Way, 250 Fujitsu Furthermore, a new e-learning program has been designed Way leaders from Group companies in Japan were called for a for employees outside Japan and the course opened in April joint conference in June 2010 to reconfirm the activity policy 2011. Currently, we are working to expand the language option for FY 2010. for the booklet from 4 to 16 languages. These tools are aimed At this conference, in addition to the year’s activity policy, to be used in trainings and other projects as well. some of the good practices of promotional activities within the FUJITSU Way Corporate Through our constant pursuit of innovation, the Fujitsu Group aims to contribute to the creation of a networked society that Vision is rewarding and secure, bringing about a prosperous future that fulfills the dreams of people throughout the world. What we strive for: Global We act as good global citizens, attuned to the needs Citizenship of society and the environment. Society and In all our actions, we protect the environment Environment and contribute to society. Customer-Centric We think from the customer’s perspective and Perspective act with sincerity. Profit and We strive to meet the expectations of customers, Growth employees and shareholders. Firsthand We act based on a firsthand understanding of Principles Understanding the actual situation. Shareholders and Investors We seek to continuously increase our corporate value. Spirit of Challenge We strive to achieve our highest goals. Global Perspective We think and act from a global perspective. Speed and We act flexibly and promptly to achieve our objectives. Corporate Values Agility We share common objectives across organizations, work What we value: Teamwork as a team and act as responsible members of the team. Employees We respect diversity and support individual growth. We respect human rights. Customers We seek to be their valued and trusted partner. We comply with all laws and regulations. Code of Conduct Business Partners We build mutually beneficial relationships. We act with fairness in our business dealings. We protect and respect intellectual property. Technology We seek to create new value through innovation. We maintain confidentiality. Quality We enhance the reputation of our customers and the reliability of social infrastructure. We do not use our position in our organization for personal gain. Business Policy We use Field Innovation to find new approaches and the inspiration to improve ourselves, while delivering added value to our customers. We provide global environmental solutions in all our business areas. Fujitsu Group companies work together to accelerate our global business expansion. 13 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Organization Promoting CSR The Fujitsu Group and Its Stakeholders Four committees have been set up as the organization charged The Group sees its customers, employees, business partners, with the propagation and firmer establishment of CSR activities shareholders and investors, and international society and local in accordance with the Fujitsu Way. Reporting directly to the communities as its stakeholders. Particularly important Management Council, they are the Fujitsu Way Promotion stakeholders in international society and local communities Council, Risk Management Committee, Compliance Committee are government authorities, NPOs and NGOs. and the Environmental Committee. By holding dialogues with these stakeholders, we attempt to understand their various needs and expectations as we go Company-Wide Committees about our business. Management Council To a prosperous future and society Compliance Environmental FUJITSU Way Risk Management Committee Committee Promotion Council Committee (Chaired by the (Chaired by the (Chaired by the (Chaired by the executive executive president) president) Supporting ICT Working for harmony responsible) responsible) infrastructure with society Activities Promoting CSR Customers Fujitsu, in order to make steady progress in addressing CSR priorities, is taking practical approaches under the leadership of Technology solutions Shareholders, the responsible business units. Employees Investors In FY 2010, the CSR Promotion Task Force (see page 11) set up new working groups on basic strategy, communications, FUJITSU benefits to society, etc., with members coming from the various Ubiquitous Device business units. Each working group set up key performance solutions solutions indicators (KPIs), distributed information, and investigated new examples of benefits to society and solutions to social problems. Global and Local Business partners Communities FUJITSU Way TOPICS Holding Meetings to Study CSR Issues In order to build a common understanding of CSR, we have A Comment from One of Our Speakers invited experts to speak at seminars primarily for those Recently, with markets in developing responsible for CSR. Two such seminars were held in 2010 and nations attracting more interest, attended by a total of 120 employees. attention is concentrating on •1st Seminar: Millennium Development Goals revolutionary business models that •2nd Seminar: ISO 26000 and Nippon Keidanren’s Charter of Corporate Behavior secure profits while solving social problems faced by low-income groups. In the ICT area, mobile phones are being used to raise living standards, and great things are expected of the improved Toshiya Nishigori access to information provided by low-cost United Nations Development Internet technology. I would like to see Programme Tokyo Office, enterprises actively participating in this. Public Affairs and Civil Society Liaison Officer 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 14 The Fujitsu Group’s CSR Setting Key Performance Indicators In September 2010, Fujitsu was selected for the Dow Jones This year’s Sustainability Report lists major examples and Sustainability World Index for the 12th successive year, and achievements in each of the five priority issues that the Fujitsu continues to feature in the FTSE4Good Index. In February 2011, Group has started to address in line with its CSR Policy. All parts Fujitsu received the Silver Class Award from the Sustainability of the Group, when considering the Strategic Vision of the Asset Management (SAM) of switzerland as one of the top Organization, have previously seen “operating in harmony with sustainability-conscious companies in Japan. society and the environment” as an essential prerequisite, and worked to improve the quality of management. From now on, Status of Inclusion in SRI-related Stock Indexes CSR activities will be intensified to build a series of practical Name of Index Rating Company achievements. Key performance indicators (KPIs) have been set Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes for the practical objectives of these activities, and CSR (Asia Pacific) Dow Jones Indexes (U.S.), management will follow the PDCA cycle in implementing them. SAM Group (Switzerland) Supporting the United Nations Global Compact FTSE4Good Index Series Fujitsu announced its support of the United Nations Global Compact in December 2009. FTSE International, Ltd. (UK) The Fujitsu Group is committed to global CSR activities that uphold the 10 principles of the Global Compact. oekom research In this, the FY 2010 edition of our Sustainability Report, the following CSR oekom research AG (Germany) activities directly relate to the Global Compact. Morningstar Socially •Human rights: principles 1–2 Responsible Investment Index P73–74 Diversity and Inclusion Morningstar Japan K.K. P76–77 Approach to Human Rights and Work Practices P83–84 Promoting Socially Responsible Procurement P93–94 Compliance •Labor: principles 3-6 Status of Inclusion in Major SRI Funds P76–77 Approach to Human Rights and Work Practices P83–84 Promoting Socially Responsible Procurement Name of Fund Operating Company P93–94 Compliance Sumishin SRI Japan Open Sumishin Asset Management Co., Ltd. •Environment: principles 7–9 (Good Company) (As of March 2011) Sompo Japan Nipponkoa P28–69 Protecting the Global Environment Sompo Japan Green Open Asset Management Co., Ltd •Anticorruption: principle 10 (Buna no Mori) (As of April 2011) P83–84 Promoting Socially Responsible Procurement Daiwa BlackRock Daiwa Asset Management Co., Ltd. P93–94 Compliance Green New Energy Fund (As of May 2011) Nikko Asset Management Co., Ltd. Nikko Eco Fund (As of May 2011) Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Ratings Six Assets Balance Fund Fujitsu has been incorporated into the SRI stock indexes and Daiwa Asset Management Co., Ltd. (Dividend Type/Growth Type) (As of June 2011) SRI funds listed below. (Double Wing) What is the Global Compact? The UN Global Compact consists of 10 principles in the four areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption with which companies should rigorously comply. Human Rights Environment Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach internationally proclaimed human rights; and to environmental challenges; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Labor Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and environmentally friendly technologies. the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Anti-Corruption Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and including extortion and bribery. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment As published by the UN Global Compact Office, October 2008 and occupation. 15 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Priority 1 Providing Opportunities and Security Through ICT Fujitsu will contribute to the creation of a society where ICT connects and supports the world's seven billion people, providing them with security and opportunities to pursue their dreams. Proportion of Fujitsu Group Performance of sales overseas Supercomputer “K” system First place in world 35.1 % Highlights Increasing ICT Supercomputer Accessibility P23–24 Cloud Services Energy consumption P17–20 Aims at one-fifth the previous level Accessibility to Fujitsu public websites Domestic and overseas data centers Meets JIS Approx. AA 100 level (or equivalent) locations Providing Reliable and Secure Providing New ICT Infrastructure Values Through ICT P25–27 P21–22 Reforms and improvements Market share of domestic made through Qfinity activities electronic health records Approx. 33.7% (Calculated by Fujitsu from 94,000 data published by (in FY 2010) the Japanese monthly New Medicine) 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 16 Priority 1 Providing Opportunities and Security Through ICT Highlights in 2010 “K computer”* —Computing to Create a Prosperous Future that Fulfills the Dreams of People The growing list of complex and challenging problems faced by the world includes global warming, increasingly destructive natural disasters, depleted resources, and the emergence of serious new illnesses. Fujitsu looks toward a prosperous future that fulfills the dreams of people and is committed to rapidly finding solutions for the problems that stand in its way.This will mean gathering wisdom from the whole world and making rapid progress in advanced research. The key to this is a supercomputer with the ability to process huge volumes of information and reveal to us the unseen future. Fujitsu is cooperating with RIKEN, an institute of physical and chemical research, as part of the High-Performance Computing Infrastructure (HPCI) initiative led by Japan’s Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT), by developing the K computer, with completion planned for 2012. *“K computer” (or , the Japanese character for quadrillion) is the name adopted by RIKEN in July 2010 or Japan’s Next-Generation Supercomputer. Addressing environmental and Fields in which the “K computer” will be actively employed. y disaster-prevention problems Performing analyses to avert global warming and to strengthen buildings Developing new medical treatments and drugs against natural disasters R&D for new pharmaceuticals, and simulations to optimize the latest medical treatments and surgical procedures Developing leading-edge products Developing much safer aircraft, and Demystifying the universe automobiles that will minimize the effect of impacts Discovering new, unknown matter in space and resolving the mysteries of the universe Developing new materials and energy sources Developing energy sources and materials with lower environmental burdens The K computer uses over 80,000 CPUs in parallel that provide high performance and reliability while consuming little power. In June 2011, while still under construction, the incomplete system set a world performance record. 17 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The World of Computer Simulations that the Supercomputer Makes Possible The high processing speeds of which the supercomputer is capable enable it to model complex phenomena. Such computer simulations make it possible to evaluate the effects of radiation or arrangements in space that would otherwise be dangerous, and to assess the conditions for phenomena on such a vast scale as to make actual experiments difficult. Safe & Secure Our lives will change. We will work to save every possible cancer patient. Detailed weather forecasts will minimize disaster damage. How drugs work within the human While the accuracy of weather body, and the actual complex forecasts is improving year by year, mechanisms of life itself, are still not further improvements require more well understood. As the K computer precise data processing. This takes refines our understanding and an inordinate amount of time on predictions, we can expect dramatic today’s supercomputers, and they changes in the development of new cannot keep up with actual weather pharmaceuticals. For example, experimental evaluations have conditions. The high speeds of which the K computer is previously only been performed one by one on the vast numbers capable are expected to make detailed predictions of local of candidate drugs, but once we have an understanding at the heavy rain possible. molecular level of the proposed remedy and its working on cancer cells, we can look into the fundamental problems in the expectation of developing effective drugs with few side effects. Industry The way we make things will change. Efficiency will increase, without compromise on safety or performance. Various computer simulations are already used in the complex design and development of rockets and aircraft, but current supercomputers can only calculate on the basis of components such as fuselages and wings, so wind-tunnel facilities built at great expense must be used. The K computer is expected to be able to handle the aircraft as a whole, reducing both the time and cost of development, while offering the decisive advantage of constructing aircraft with superior performance. Basic Science The unknown will be rendered visible. We want to know how the universe was formed and its future. Various theories have been proposed for how the universe was formed. However, present technologies do not enable us to visit distant stars or galaxies for experimental proof. But this is where computer simulation comes into its own. The number of stars and the periods of time that can be handled are highly dependent upon the speed of data processing, and high performance supercomputers are essential. The K computer will give us glimpses of the distant future of the Earth and of humankind by simulating the phenomena of the universe. A Word from Fujitsu We are contributing to a prosperous “dream” future through Supercomputer Development. Throughout recorded history, humankind has always dreamed of of nuclear particles, and to make very precise predicting the future, starting with the weather, typhoons and frost predictions. We want to be a major resource in damage. In every age, sundials and astronomical observations were the solving humankind’s common problems, from most advanced technologies of their time, and aimed to discover the measures against global warming and natural laws of Nature and to prepare for its vagaries. The high regard in which disasters, through saving resources and energy fortune-tellers and shamans were held by the rulers of their day tells us to curing serious illness. Through Fujitsu’s Masahiko Yamada Head of Technical of the great importance that was attached to predictions. supercomputer development and usage, we Computing Solutions Today, supercomputers have made it possible to grasp changes on want to work with our customers to contribute to Unit many different scales, from the formation of the universe to the motions a prosperous and dream-inspiring future. 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 18 Priority 1 Providing Opportunities and Security Through ICT Highlights in 2010 Towards a Human-Centric Intelligent Society… Highly Reliable Cloud Computing Services for the World Fujitsu, in deploying globally a secure cloud computing platform that achieves the world’s highest reliability level (99.99% uptime), is concentrating on providing trusted cloud services that will minimize the consumption of resources and contribute to the formation of a sustainable society. Medicine The environment Green (environmental contribution) Agriculture Education Large-scale virtual platform Clarifying Safe and A Trusted Cloud (making visible) customer secure environments Network technology Operational Computing management technology technology/knowhow Open Usable development and and operating flexible environment Electric power Manufacturing 19 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Using ICT Effectively to Achieve a Sustainable Society make a sustainable society possible, we are strengthening the Large population increases, primarily among developing systems installed in our data centers and the network access to nations, are anticipated to take the world’s population from the cloud services they provide. today’s 6.9 billion to 9.2 billion by 2050. The rate at which The tremendous diversity and huge volume of data and global resources are being consumed is increasing even faster information stored in the cloud platform can be linked and than populations, and it is claimed that if all people were to utilized to resolve society’s problems and give birth to new enjoy the same standard of living as those in the developed knowledge. nations, it would require 2.8 planet Earths. We estimate that using this platform offers far greater energy efficiencies than can be achieved by processing the Predicted increases in world population and resource consumption same volume of information with existing (physical) servers. …Billion people This “global-scale brain,” which can be used by everyone, 2007 2050 constitutes an unimpeded and equally accessible business engine. Such are Fujitsu’s cloud services. 1.5 Earths 2.8 Earths Global Deployment of Trusted Cloud Services In providing cloud services used by many people, reliability is the highest priority. Data centers must also achieve further 6.7 Billion 9.2 Billion reductions in their energy requirements. At Fujitsu, based upon the systems and products developed in our existing business, we have used computing technologies Fujitsu believes that achieving sustainable development of such as data-stream processing and distributed parallel international society under these circumstances will call for processing in a tightly integrated vertical model to provide a completely new concepts. Here, the key to finding solutions will trusted cloud service, one that our customers can use with be the effective use of ICT in virtual digital society. confidence. Of our data centers deployed at over 100 locations The world’s Internet connections topped two billion in worldwide, those in Japan, Australia, Singapore, the United 2010, and over 100 trillion e-mail messages were sent. Today’s Kingdom, Germany and the United States employ the latest virtual society, free of physical restraints, is becoming the on-demand virtual system services among other leading-edge common platform for the peoples of the world. technologies so as to achieve not only the world’s top level of We see the evolution of ICT, employed to maximum reliability (99.99% uptime) but also energy consumption advantage while minimizing the consumption of resources, as efficiencies that are already five times higher than before and a source of new value that can help the peoples of the world to will be ten times higher by FY 2012. achieve a sustainable society. At Fujitsu, we are working with our customers in various fields to help build a sustainable society on this “trusted cloud” base. A “Global-Scale Brain,” Unfettered and Equal Access to a Business Engine for Everyone To minimize energy consumption while working with our customers, local communities and the people of the world to A Word from Fujitsu We are discharging our corporate responsibility for society’s infrastructure through the Trusted Cloud Service. As the amount of energy consumed by each individual continues of the movements of people or things and to increase, in conjunction with the world becoming “flat”, means cloud services can provide support for that the world’s energy resources are becoming seriously appropriate actions. In this way, wasteful depleted. Fujitsu sees its task as addressing this problem by consumption of electricity and the waste keeping energy consumption to the minimum while marshalling caused by those unfamiliar with proper the resources of ICT to devise means of sustaining growth. For us, operation can be avoided, and our actions Trusted Cloud Services not only provide society with an can be optimized sustainably. Fewer energy Chiseki Sagawa infrastructure that has the needed safety and security, but also resources will be consumed in building a Head of Planning discharges our dual social responsibility of using less energy and better society. This is Fujitsu’s purpose in Unit, Software sustaining growth. For example, ICT can provide active awareness providing Trusted Cloud Services. Business Group 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 Priority 1 Providing Opportunities and Security Through ICT Providing New Values Through ICT There are many problems confronting humankind in the quest for a sustainable society. Fujitsu uses ICT to address these problems over many areas, and is creating values that will enrich the future. Society’s Problems in Food and Agriculture Social Problems in Health and Medicine It is claimed that as many as 900 million of the world’s In 2030, the proportion of elderly people in the Japanese population population are starving. Japan can only supply 40% of its own is expected to exceed 30%, and coping with the soaring medicalneeds for food, and that percentage is declining, while the treatment costs, nursing care and hospital/clinic cooperation is an average age of farmers (66 years old) is increasing and their important issue for society. These kinds of problem are expected to numbers are dropping. Japan’s declining competitive strengths arise in the nations of East Asia and other areas in the future. in agriculture are a serious concern. Fujitsu’s Approach Fujitsu’s Approach Example 1 Example 1 Using Cloud Computing and Knowledge Management to Medical Treatment at Home Using Smartphones Foster Successors and Increase Competitive Strengths As the Japanese population ages, many more elderly people are With fewer members of the next generation to take over agricultural living alone, and the costs of medical treatment are soaring. One businesses, efficient knowhow transfer is a key issue. Fukuhara Farm, response to this problem calls for changes that would make Ltd., in Shiga Prefecture, uses Fujitsu’s cloud computer services to treatment possible at home. introduce an agricultural knowledge management system to reduce “You Home Clinic” specializes in providing treatment at home, such transfer periods from 10 years to just four or five. and since December 2010 it has been using Fujitsu’s cloud computing At Sowakajuen Co., Ltd., in Wakayama Prefecture, smartphones services and smartphones to control the scheduling of home visits to are used as data-gathering terminals for cloud computing services to patients, to check map information, to input vital signs, and to e-mail extend the production of fine quality mandarin oranges. Hitherto, prescriptions. By adopting the service, twice as many patients as growth control of the fruit was made in bulk, orchard by orchard, but before could be visited at home with an improvement in the quality now it is done individually, tree by tree, so as to improve the quality of of medical care. the fruit and products processed from it and strengthen the brand. Fujitsu has over 30% of the Fujitsu is using ICT to collect and analyze data on agricultural Japanese market for electronic health operations that previously depended upon the tacit knowledge and records, and has made improvements experience of individuals. The data for soil, weather, growing to the environment of medical care. conditions and the results of From now on, in the area of treatment operation are collected and analyzed at home, efforts will be extended to to make the factors visible, to help establish the environment for a workers acquire higher skills and to recycling oriented economy in strengthen the agricultural product cooperation with services for private brand, in this way helping to make health-care companies and lifestyle A doctor examining a patient Collecting meteorological and other agricultural business sustainable. information from sensors (Sowakajuen) support related services. at home Example 2 Example 2 Using Pedometers to Support Cattle Breeding Outsourcing ICT Services in Finland Increasing the birth ratio of cows is an important priority for many An urgent issue for medical facilities is how to provide seamless livestock breeders and dairy farmers. Fujitsu, noting that when cows information services to patients. come into heat their amount of exercise increases anything from In 2009, Fujitsu worked with a Finnish social insurance threeto six-fold, constructed a system that uses pedometers attached institution to construct an electronic health record system for to the cows to graph the amounts they exercise and deliver the medical institutions throughout Finland, and in 2010 it entered graphs over the Internet. It is positioned as a system for detecting the a contractual agreement with Finland’s third-largest city, fertile periods of cows. The system has been adopted by the Tampere, to undertake the outsourcing of ICT services for the agricultural cooperative of Iki City (JA Iki), where it is expected that Pirkanmaa Hospital District and eight administrative districts successful impregnations will be more than doubled. There is the surrounding Tampere. additional advantage that inseminators will no longer have to stay up From November 2010, a broad range of ICT outsourcing all night in cattle sheds watching for services have been provided, linking information among cows to come into heat, which is a research institutions, pharmacies and imaging centers of both great improvement in their working local government and groups of hospitals. conditions. This global experience will be used to ensure that Fujitsu Through this experience, Fujitsu continues to contribute to the good health of society. is contributing to the sustainable development of livestock breeding and dairy farming. A pedometer attached to a cow’s leg 21 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Social Problems in Transportation Social Issues in Education There are an estimated one billion cars in the world now, and Education is one of the fundamental infrastructures supporting by 2030 the number is expected to exceed 1.5 billion. The the future of society and the economy. There is more need than financial costs of traffic jams in Japan are put at 2% of GDP, ever for improvements in primary and secondary education, and it is not uncommon for this figure to exceed 3% in the which form the basis for fostering the mental capacity, judgment overcrowded countries of Asia and the Middle East. and powers of expression that children need if they are to thrive. Fujitsu’s Approach Fujitsu’s Approach Example Example Providing Vehicle Probe (Positional) Information Participating in the “Future School Promotion Project” In 2007, the Fujitsu Group formed a research association, the Introduction of ICT to the classroom makes children feel Taxi Probe Commercial Viability Study Group, jointly with Denso interested and motivated, and improves their understanding, Corporation and Panasonic Corporation to improve traffic-related while providing finely tuned educational support such as close and environmental problems by acquiring, processing and linkage between school and home. distributing positional information from several thousand taxis To promote the use of ICT in elementary schools, the Fujitsu in the Tokyo area. In 2010, this effort was extended to trucks Group has been participating in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and buses. and Communications’ Future School Promotion Project since Based on the information thus acquired and actual probe August 2010.The research provides each child with a tablet information, the research association was able to reduce CO2 computer, each classroom with an interactive whiteboard, and emissions by up to 30% by providing measures such as each school with a cloud system to distribute learning materials navigation functions that display the shortest routes. Fujitsu, by etc. Given the appropriate ICT environment, children can learn using this knowhow and deploying the SPATIOWL positional from—and teach—one another and so enrich their learning information service, will contribute to the solution of experience. In future, we will contribute to education by transportation problems including traffic jams and fuel costs. promoting learning that is adapted to the children’s situation. Children sharing their approach to problems (Hiroshima Municipal Fujinoki Elementary School) Aiming to reduce traffic jams and fuel costs TOPICS Using a Supercomputer to Create New Values Contributing to the Revitalizing of Industry in the Using a Supercomputer to Develop Treatments for United Kingdom Cancer Relapse and Metastasis In March 2011, Fujitsu was selected as a partner in a national The University of Tokyo’s Research Center for Advanced Science and project running through 2015 intended to revitalize industry in Technology and Fujitsu worked together to build and operate a Wales. Two Welsh universities will play the central roles in supercomputer system in August 2010 to develop pharmaceuticals introducing a supercomputer to be utilized by universities, public for the treatment of cancer relapse and metastasis. authorities and private companies. It is expected to create new Thanks to this system, an R&D process that previously took employment opportunities and new businesses to achieve economic three or four years of practical experimentation can now design growth and technology improvement within the Welsh community. synthetic antibodies in a matter of months. Fujitsu, by promoting the global use of supercomputers, aims to create a prosperous and dream-inspiring future. 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 22 Priority 1 Providing Opportunities and Security Through ICT Increasing ICT Accessibility To achieve a society in which the access to ICT is unaffected by regional or age disparities, or the existence of handicaps, so that all benefit equally from the advantages of ICT, we are actively promoting upgraded information communication networks and universal design. Our Basic Stance The number of the world’s Internet users has topped two Example 3 billion, and ICT has become an essential part of the Scanner Sales Network Expands in Africa and China infrastructure that supports daily life. In stark contrast, PFU provides “fi-Series” professional document scanners for however, broad-band Internet has hardly penetrated businesses that want to digitize large quantities of paper documents. developing nations, and this information disparity (the Through a network of partners across the world it sells and supports so-called “digital divide”) is a factor hindering economic in 185 countries and regions enabling it to achieve the leading development. market share globally. More recently, the demand for professional Fujitsu is introducing a number of initiatives to break down document scanners has been increasing in African nations such as this digital divide so that all people of the world can have Nigeria,Ghana and Gambia, driven by the adoption of electronic speedy access to information and an equal chance of making document processing by government and financial institutions. PFU’s economic progress. fi-Series has played an important role as an introduction of ICT. Through stronger cooperation with distributors and resellers the distribution network across Africa was extended in 2010 to cover 46 African nations that can now benefit from the business efficiency and Example 1 productivity gains brought about by Completion of an Indonesia Submarine using PFU’s fi-Series scanners. The National Bureau of Statistics of Optic-Fiber Network China also chose 1,700 Fujitsu Group Fujitsu has collaborated with the German cable maker scanners and Chinese-language OCR Norddeutsche Seekabelwerke GmbH (NSW) to complete the first software for China’s Sixth National Indonesian high bandwidth communications network, which Census Project from November 2010, links the islands of Java, Bali and Lombok, and Kalimantan and the census benefitted from accurate Explaining products at a meeting and Sulawesi. and rapid preparation of the statistics. in Ghana This “JaKa2LaDeMa” project provides PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia with some 1,800km of high-capacity submarine cable and forms the infrastructure to Example 4 support the Internet and the Telemedicine System Trials in Laos transmission of video and other Fujitsu, with support from Asia-Pacific Telecommunity (APT, an data to the great benefit of daily Asian international communications organization), has helped life for the Indonesian people. Installing the communications system the move towards e-government in Laos. One step in this is, for example, constructing basic infrastructures for the introduction of a database at a central hospital and the opening of access points Example 2 at provincial hospitals so that medical records/information can be Helping to Build China’s ICT Infrastructure shared. We are also working on constructing systems for an ICT environment that will support doctors in remote regions by Fujitsu has provided China Mobile Communications Corporation enabling them to consult with colleagues via web-based with over 500 units of UNIX servers and storage systems to teleconferencing and the two-way transmission of image data. handle massive amounts of data such as subscribers’ We will be using the knowhow acquired in this way to information and billing for its 600 million-plus subscribers. benefit the move to e-government in developing countries. Fujitsu is providing highly reliable ICT infrastructure platforms to customers in telecommunications, education and government sectors throughout China. They are used for systems such as business support systems, business analysis systems and network control systems. Fujitsu will continue to provide highly reliable products and solutions in the Chinese market as a global ICT partner. A telemedicine trial 23 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Universal Design—Equal Opportunities for All The Fujitsu Group recognizes its social responsibility to create Example 2 an environment that provides equal opportunities for a diverse Raku-Raku (Easy-to-Use) Mobile Phones and PCs range of people to use ICT effectively. With this in mind, we are The Raku-Raku Phone, a mobile phone whose delivery to NTT working to promote universal design. Docomo began in 2001 and proved very popular, achieved total The Fujitsu Group positions universal design as an important shipments of over 19.3 million units through March 2011 as a corporate management strategy and we are proactively simple-to-use design featured product incorporating multiple implementing it to meet our social responsibilities. By taking functions. advantage of these results in our products and services, we will We also released the Raku-Raku PC series in 2008. These PCs improve society’s productivity, increase our customers’ level of include a Raku-Raku keyboard that allows the user to recognize at a satisfaction, and contribute to their businesses. glance the characters they want to input and features the Raku-Raku menu, which allows the user to start work immediately. WEB Fujitsu Design Policy These products strive for ease of use, simplicity, and user confidence http://www.fujitsu.com/global/accessibility/policy/ and are optimal as products for senior citizens and beginners. Fujitsu Group ICT Universal Design Policy WEB Fujitsu Mobile Phone Products (in Japanese) http://www.fmworld.net/product/phone/ Customers WEB FMV Raku-Raku Personal Computers (in Japanese) http://www.fmworld.net/fmv/rakuraku/ Fujitsu’s Universal Design Philosophy ICT Work Places Work Style Example 3 Buildings/ Working, Hardware Software Internet Facilities Safety/ A Mobile Phone Application for Children Health Education with Special Needs •PCs •Mobile phones •Guidelines •Offices •Employment Children with special needs, including those with learning •Tools •Shops •Communications Accumulating •Automatic teller machines and disabilities and autism, need support in learning to tell the standardizing time, communicate, think ahead and write letters. design •Web services know-how Fujitsu has developed an application for the mentors and •Web applications guardians of such children that consists of three modules for mobile phones: “Timer,” “Picture Card” and “Handwriting” to help with living and learning. The children’s understanding of the time, messages to be conveyed, and the order of strokes in writing Japanese characters are all helped by using color filters and Example 1 vibration, etc., that take disabilities into account. The application can be downloaded free of charge from the Fujitsu website. Communications with Society The application was developed by Fujitsu and tested in The Fujitsu Group is active not only in using universal design for collaboration with Kagawa University’s Faculty of Education its products and services but also in publicizing its efforts to as (Sakai Lab), which is actively involved in employing ICT in many people as possible. education and support applications. After the tests, functionality •Fujitsu submits its corporate website to JIS audits and is and user-friendliness were further improved. committed to improving its accessibility so as to reach the JIS This initiative was recognized when Fujitsu was awarded the “AA” standard. fourth Kids’ Design Award in July 2010 and the Universal Design •Fujitsu participates in the International Conference for Award 2011 in March 2011. Universal Design, which publishes research and introduces WEB A mobile phone application for Children with Special Needs practical examples to encourage a society with high levels of http://www.fujitsu.com/global/news/pr/archives/month/2010/ universal design. There, the 20101029-01.html Fujitsu Group shares its attitude and collects messages from Facilitating the understanding of time participants on the theme Visualizing the concept of time Timer through graphics “Universal Design for Tomorrow” for publication on its website. Supporting communication Messages from participants Visualizing communication Picture Card using picture cards WEB Messages on Universal Design for Tomorrow http://jp.fujitsu.com/group/fdl/activities/ud2010/ Showing stroke sequences of Japanese characters message_global.html (in Japanese) Visualizing stroke order Handwriting through animation 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 24 Priority 1 Providing Opportunities and Security Through ICT Providing Reliable and Secure ICT Infrastructure The need for stable operation of ICT is a given, and it is used in the areas of security and disaster prevention, where it supports safe and secure living. To deserve growing trust from our customers, we are implementing ongoing improvements to our products and services. Our Basic Stance Today, as ICT supports the social infrastructure on which Example 3 business and daily living are based, Fujitsu has a social A New Biometric Security System for ATMs in Brazil responsibility to ensure stable systems operation. Bradesco S.A. is Latin America’s largest private financial Also, in order to respond to the world’s growing needs for institution (with 3,628 branches and 32,015 ATMs). Fujitsu has ICT in the areas of security and disaster prevention, Fujitsu is now supplied it with a Palm Secure biometric palm-vein offering reliability and security. authentication security system for its ATMs. Dishonest use of ATMs is a serious social problem in Brazil, and several biometric authentication systems were studied for Example 1 adoption. The high evaluation of Palm Secure’s outstanding authentication accuracy and the resistance of vein patterns to Launch of Next-Generation “arrowhead” external tampering led to the adoption of Fujitsu’s system. Palm Securities Trading System Secure contributes to safety and security within Japan and around the world with a widening range Advances in finance industry technology and expansion in online of applications for buildings and room trading have led to a need for greater speed in order processing and access, including PC login. the distribution of market information. The Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) selected Fujitsu as a system partner and launched a next-generation trading system called “arrowhead.” arrowhead achieves world-level millisecond-level speeds in both order processing and market-information distribution and provides the high reliability needed by TSE. The new trading Introduction of biometric security for ATMs system not only offers greater convenience to a wide range of users but also enables new styles of trading and the creation of new business models that promise to add Example 4 momentum to the Tokyo market. TSE Market Center Contributing to the Return of the “Hayabusa” Asteroid Probe Example 2 The Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) launched the World’s Largest Class of Registry Information “Hayabusa” asteroid probe in May 2003. Fujitsu helped to ensure System Using Linux the success of this mission by developing and operating a number of key systems, including the orbit determination Fujitsu has constructed a registry information system using Linux for system that determined its position and speed, and the Japan’s Ministry of Justice. The system contains the nation’s real real-time satellite status monitoring and fault diagnosis system estate, company and legal-entity registrations, comprising about that automatically detected equipment faults. 270 million real-estate registrations and about 3.5 million company “Hayabusa” overcame a number of problems, secured the and legal-entity registrations. The system supports the management world’s first asteroid samples—fine particles from the Itokawa of the above-mentioned information and daily data entry at about asteroid—and returned to Earth in June 2010. Fujitsu continues 450 registry offices. It is one of the world’s largest Linux systems in to provide development and operational support for JAXA’s the area of mission-critical tasks. ground systems and is committed to furthering the development The registry information system is a gigantic, critically important of Japan’s space technology. part of Japan’s electronic government system, of which the number of applications puts it on a par with the social security system. This project has concentrated some 50 facilities scattered throughout Japan into four locations in the effort to reduce costs and boost reliability. Fujitsu will continue to discharge its social responsibility by the construction and stable operation of The “Hayabusa” asteroid probe. (Illustration: Akihiro IKESHITA) government systems. Supporting a stable administration 25 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Quality that Builds Trust, Safety and Security Our Approach to Promoting Quality Assurance The Fujitsu Group attaches fundamental importance to product Fujitsu has established a group dedicated to quality improvement quality in all corporate activities so that everyone can enjoy the within each division and each Group company so that we can benefits of ICT in security. Again, the priority is not on satisfying provide high-quality products and services to our customers. ourselves but on making products that satisfy our customers by Also, through the Quality Assurance Unit, which consists of providing the quality they expect. representatives of these dedicated groups, we work to develop To provide these high-quality products and services, Fujitsu countermeasures through information sharing and by has constructed and operates a quality management system improving support structures, which transcend the (QMS). In operating this system, Fujitsu periodically verifies the organizational framework. In this way, we work to establish a progress of the PDCA (plan, do, check, act) cycle in the light of QMS that creates added value for the customer. ISO and other international certification standards. The Quality Assurance Structure To further increase our customers' trust in the Fujitsu Group, we implement quality management using QMS in Quality Assurance Unit President (Persons in charge of quality in divisions are also members process improvement. of the Quality Assurance Unit.) Our QMS-Centered Quality Assurance Activities Solutions BG Divisions Product BG Divisions Customers Persons in charge Persons in charge of quality of quality The Fujitsu brand Electronic Device Group company Group company Group Companies Persons in charge Persons in charge Persons in charge of quality of quality of quality Management Support activities/ policies technologies/tools Built in External Check Promotional Activities Corporate Applied standards: internal ISO and standards QMS others Developing human resources Qfinity Activities Since 2001, Fujitsu has implemented Qfinity* activities, which Third-party Check are independent quality improvement activities, in all divisions. Products-SI-Package-Operation-Maintenance-Service assessments The Qfinity concept emphasizes a quality improvement model Qfinity Activities using the PDCA cycle that exhaustively pursues not only better product functions and reliability but also quality improvements in all phases of work, including efforts to improve customer The Pursuit of Quality and Safety response and delivery and reduce costs. Fujitsu responds by anticipating changes at our customers and In each division, we are moving forward with efforts on their business environments so as to continue providing them themes that reflect the division’s major policies and the issues appropriate products and services. At every stage from design that arise in the workplace on a daily basis. Project activities through evaluation, production, to sales and support, we include both group activities concerned with a specific theme perform our quality improvement activities in line with the and individual activities to propose reform and improvement following principles. based on their findings. In principle, all Fujitsu employees participate in at least one of these activities. Quality Principles •FY 2010: Approx. 5,700 project initiatives 1. We pursue quality from the customer’s perspective. •FY 2010: Approx. 94,000 improvements/proposals 2. We build in quality that anticipates changes. Using the web-based Qfinity information system on our 3. We achieve quality consistent with our social responsibilities. intranet, all Qfinity information can be shared interdepartmentally, 4. We use first-hand feedback based on the actual situation. enabling us to do the benchmarking of the other divisions’ 5. We work with our business partners to improve quality. objectives and processes, and to acquire information and 6. We seek to make public quality-related information transparently. knowledge such as technologies, know-how and other expertise. 7. We foster employees who think about quality. Qfinity Group-Wide Quality Improvement Activities Based on the policy of emphasizing safety in all aspects of our business activities, we strive for assured safety in product Quality designs, collection and the publication of information on product-related problems, and rapid response to such problems. Infinity The infinite pursuit of quality *Qfinity: The word Qfinity was created by combining “Quality” and “Infinity” to express the concept of our commitment to the infinite pursuit of quality. 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 26 Priority 1 Providing Opportunities and Security Through ICT Providing Reliable and Secure ICT Infrastructure To make the successes of Fujitsu Qfinity activities widely previous product faults have been prevented from recurring. known within the Group, we provide information to each Group The concept of preventing product accidents before they company through the Qfinity website on our intranet and also can occur is becoming more important than ever. This calls not hold a Group-wide Qfinity conference every year at which only for familiarity with the accidents or hazards associated with exemplary cases of Qfinity activities and awards are presented. the product and with others possessing similar functions and Every year, these Qfinity activities are collected into a structures, but also for practical knowledge and assessment of handbook and distributed throughout the Group. any potential risks associated with the product itself and the way it is used, viewed from the perspective of the user. This is why, in FY 2010, we established Company internal standards for implementing product safety risk assessments and trained risk assessors. We have now started using these for PCs. From now on, risk assessors will be used for a widening range of products as we seek to further increase product safety. The Qfinity handbook Group-wide Qfinity meeting Customer-Centric Quality Assurance Activities for Products and Services In providing products and services, we adopt the customer-centric perspective. A customer-centric approach means understanding the issues from the customer’s point of view. This attitude is central not only at the design review stage but also at every stage Training product safety risk assessors of each process, where we ask “does it meet customer needs and expectations?” as we perform the evaluations and audits. Through this approach, items that do not meet customer Satisfaction and Quality Surveys by expectations are withdrawn and not allowed to proceed to Third-Party Organizations later processes. The products and services provided through Qfinity and other activities are only delivered and provided when they reach the Flowchart for Quality Assurance Activities level expected by our customers. Customer We also implement customer-satisfaction and quality Product, service Customer needs surveys by third-party organizations for these products and Field quality inspection Design review services, and have received particularly good results for Development Maintenance Design Development project customer satisfaction with reliability (in FY 2010 surveys Stabilization of customer system assessment covered some 1,000 companies). As a result, when this Fujitsu quality information is circulated to all parts of the Company, it can be Supplier control reflected in developing the next products and services. Moving Mass production testing Mass Evaluating material reliability forward, we will continue to work to improve quality through Evaluation production Inspecting manufacturing Evaluating device/system reliability the twin pillars of Qfinity activities and various surveys. processes Flowchart for Satisfaction and Quality Surveys Decision to ship Satisfaction survey/quality survey Quality improvement activities Framework for quality assurance and improvements Third-party organizations Quality Assurance Unit Qfinity activities (small group activities, reform/improvement proposals) Surveys Contracting survey Making survey plans Business divisions Fostering Experts Who Support Product Safety Customers Responses Analysis and reporting Survey results In supporting product safety, since 2003 we have fostered Product Safety Experts who are approved under the Company’s own system of approvals to check product safety. When they are unable to confirm safety, the affected product cannot be given final approval for shipment. These experts must be qualified in Improvements to processes, products and services safety standards including Japanese, international and Fujitsu’s own standards and must also check designs to ensure that 27 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Fujitsu will contribute to the resolution of global environmental challenges through ICT, while at the same time reducing the Fujitsu Group’s own environmental footprint. Environmental efficiency factors of green products Achieved Conducting biodiversity conservation/ 3.2 education programs Benefiting (ref. FY 2008) Implement at Customers and Conservation of Biodiversity 100 of locations % Society P43–54 Recycle ICT business P63–64 in Japan equipment globally Provide Green ICT to reduce CO2 emissions 93.3 reuse rate % Target effects on and by customers and society contributions to biodiversity Eliminated 5.6 Establish Integration Index m tons (cumulative since FY 2009) Increase proportion of renewable energy used 4.8 times (ref. FY 2007) Reduce emissions of greenhouse gases Pursuing Internal Reforms 11.7 reduction % P55–62 (ref. FY 1990) P65–69 Reduce CO2 emissions in domestic distribution 18 reduction % (ref. FY 2008) 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 28 Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Highlights in 2010 Green Policy Innovation: Benefiting customers and society Working with Customers to Create a Medium-term environmental vision Prosperous Low-Carbon Society Green Policy 2020 Pursuing Conserving internal biodiversity reforms The Fujitsu Group promotes Green Policy Innovation as a project to lower customers’ environmental burdens using Green ICT. This initiative seeks to seed the new technologies for reducing the burden on the environment, and put them into practical use through in-house practice. By providing a more advanced, greater variety of Green ICT, we work with our customers to realize a prosperous, low-carbon society. Our Global Target: Reduce CO2 Emissions by More than a Cumulative 15 Million Tons over Four Years Green Policy Innovation is a project to provide the products, Innovation, in the shape of new technologies that solutions and services that embody environment-conserving contribute to reducing environmental burdens, is the driving technologies and knowhow developed within the Fujitsu Group force of this project. To realize a prosperous, low-carbon with the aim of reducing the environmental burdens of society, the development and practical application of a more customers and society as a whole. advanced, greater variety of Green ICT is essential. The Fujitsu As a global ICT enterprise group, Fujitsu has set a global Group promotes developing leading-edge Green ICT, and works target to make a significant contribution to cutting the toward practical use of new technologies for reducing emission of greenhouse gases. This calls for reducing CO2 environmental burdens through in-house practice (as reference emissions by more than a cumulative 15 million tons over the models). Technologies that prove reliable and effective four-year period from FY 2009 to FY 2012. The whole Fujitsu are leveraged in the Green ICT we offer to our customers, Group is actively engaged in achieving this target. further strengthening our Green Policy Innovation initiative. Reducing Customers’ and Societies’ Environmental Burdens Through ICT Technology In-House Practices Providing Green ICT FY 2009 to FY 2012 Aiming to reduce CO2 emissions worldwide by more • Higher-performance, lowerOperating Data Centers ICT Infrastructure than 15 million tons (global target) power-consumption electronic • Building and operating data • Servers devices centers • Storage • More compact and • Using thermal flow simulations • Networks energy-saving products to improve air-conditioning Providing customers with • Personal computers • Making products’ power efficiency consumption visible • Middleware Optimizing ICT infrastructure • Virtualization • Integrating servers to optimize Solutions and Services Fujitsu Group Green ICT • Thermal flow simulation ICT infrastructure • Outsourcing • Highly efficient IDC cooling Utilizing ICT in work processes • Consulting • Advanced waste heat recovery • Utilizing ICT in environmental • Network services Green Policy Solutions operations (Solutions) • ICT solutions in environmental • Packaged software By ICT • Performing environmental Software/services impact assessment (outsourcing and consulting) Environmental impact assessments • ICT solutions in element know-how analysis Environmental Activities accumulated • Recycling products Green Policy Products through in-house • Analyzing chemical substances (ICT Infrastructure) used in products Of ICT Platforms, networks, software, ubiquitous practices technologies,electronic devices, semiconductors. • Long-term environmental activities in plants and offices Research, Development, Design, Manufacturing, Procurement, Accumulating Environmental Providing Green ICT Leading-Edge Technology Know-How through Based on Technology Logistics and Recycling In-House Practices and Knowhow 29 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Promoting Green Policy Innovation 1 Accumulating Environmental Know-how from In-House Practices In-House Implementation of Advanced Green ICT To achieve the practical use of new technologies for reducing environmental burdens, they must be applied in-house (as the “reference”) as the essential validation of their reliability and effectiveness. By adopting such load-reducing new technologies promptly within the Fujitsu Group, we can use the accumulated expertise and know-how in new products, solutions and services. Through this practical implementation approach using new technologies in the workplace, whether in R&D, offices, factories, data centers, or in management, we aim to acquire a wide range of practical know-how and use ICT to further improve the quality of Fujitsu’s environmental management. Tetsuzo Ozawa, Director, Environmental Reference Department, Corporate Environmental Strategy Unit Environmental Management Dashboard and Power Dashboard We have established and started to introduce Environmental Management Dashboards in daily environmental management. These automatically collect information from various sources, derive targets for management and actions by processing it, and make it visible on purpose-oriented displays to give support in the decisions and judgments of executives and managers, and the individual actions of general employees. Similarly, Power Dashboards have been created to make each business location’s electric power consumption visible, and have been used to save summertime electricity usage and to minimize the effects A Typical Power Dashboard Display of earthquakes. A Typical Environmental Management Dashboard Display Optimizing Natural Energy Usage Using the Cloud in Manufacturing (Engineering Cloud™) The amount of natural energy supply is weather-dependent, so achieving We are moving CAD, analysis, simulations, and product databases, which are all essential to the best distribution balance between supply and electricity storage is manufacturing, into the cloud. Concentrating servers offers reductions in power consumption and costs necessary to stabilize availability and spread utilization. At our Kawasaki and promises to accelerate technology development. High-speed graphic compression techniques Plant, the solar power generation system is combined with electrical developed within the Fujitsu Group are used to smooth remote network access and high-speed graphic storage batteries, and supercomputer simulations are being used to control displays, while adoption of the thin client approach provides a pleasant, stress-free operating the storage batteries, to develop the technology to use excess electrical environment for manufacturing. power and to smooth loads. This Based on the know-how accumulated through these in-house Achieves secure technology will contribute to practices, we established our Engineering Cloud™ concept, which we will development realizing the smart communities start offering in October 2011 as a cloud service to support our customers’ collaboration and the smart cities in the future. manufacturing operations. Solar panels installed at our Kawasaki Plant Supply p Optimization of operating g plan p Engineering CloudTM HQ R&D thin Electrical CAD Mechanical CAD client workstation Storage Demand Computer for control SSupercomputer Shared engineering platform Prototype engineering Design standards thin client ICT supports smart communities Simulation Validation (DRC*) library environment workstation * DRC: Design Rule Check Overseas partners’ thin client High-speed graphic display technology workstation Data still stored in the cloud can be rapidly transmitted and displayed. TOPICS Numazu Software Development Cloud Center Between FY 2008 and FY 2010, this center used our own products to amount used by individual ICT equipment can be identified, switching bring together six separated domestic facilities for the development off storage devices by the linkage to servers, and measuring the environment, forming a cloud-based concentration of the servers. temperatures of air at the inlets and outlets of servers so that local hot Through this process, it reduced the number of servers from about spots and cold spots can be reduced 1,800 to about 1,000, achieving a cumulative reduction in CO2 to raise the efficiency of air emissions of 2,660 tons over the three years. In future, this know-how conditioning. These measures, of concentrating servers and creating a cloud environment will among others, will reduce our CO2 contribute to a wide range of reductions in environmental burdens of footprint by 1,036 tons in FY 2011, our own and our customers’. and we remain committed to An inspection tour course of the Numazu We are also making power consumption visible, so that the further reductions. Software Development Cloud Center 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 30 Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Green Policy Innovation: Highlights in 2010 Working With Customers to Create a Prosperous Low-Carbon Society Promoting Green Policy Innovation 2 Reducing Customers’ Environmental Footprints through ICT Japan Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (JAIST) in Hokuriku Up to 151.5 Tons of CO2 Reduction per Year Working to Increase the Efficiency of Server Utilization Integration and Virtualization to Increase JAIST was founded in 1990 as a national graduate school to Server Utilization Efficiency, Cut CO2 perform world-class advanced technology research and to JAIST saw virtualization of servers and a cloud-based provide post-graduate education. Its campus is among richly computing environment as central to optimizing the usage wooded hills overlooking the Kaga Plain and it is actively of every individual server. JAIST worked with Fujitsu on the engaged in environmental preservation. validation of small-scale environments over several years Their environmental approach is reflected in system and finally established the university’s own private cloud configuration. For example, thin client computers were adopted environment in 2010. for the personal use of students, academic and administrative This private cloud integrated and virtualized the former staff in 2006, and about 120 servers were used to configure the about 120 servers in only 51 physical servers, enabling a internal ICT environment under integrated control. dramatic increase in usage efficiency. Air-conditioning In line with this approach, JAIST focused on improving the efficiency was also increased by ducting cooled air directly efficiency of server utilization. Servers were prepared based on into the server racks and optimizing the arrangement predictions of the maximum access numbers and peak load of racks. times, but in reality, the usage frequency of servers differed Validation of the between students, academic and administrative staff and varied environmental efficiency with time. JAIST therefore aimed to configure an ICT system that of this system revealed provided the necessary computing environment as and when that its introduction it was needed. reduced electrical power and space to save up to 151.5 tons of CO2 per year, Special ducts that supply cooled air directly within a reduction of 56.9%. racks and improve server cooling efficiency The effective introduction of ICT throughout society leads to its enhanced prosperity. The Fujitsu Group is committed to providing the Green ICT through which both we and our customers can create a prosperous low-carbon society. Presentation of Minister of the Environment Award for the Prevention of WEB Green Policy Innovation—a project to reduce the Global Warming environmental burdens by adopting Green ICT In December 2010, the “private cloud” implemented at JAIST, with its http://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/green-it/ significant reduction in ICT equipment energy usage, received the Ministry of the Environment’s 2010 award for activities to prevent global warming (Category: Technology Introduction and Diffusion). Before adoption Effective CO2 Reduction A reduction of 151.5 tons CO2 PRIMERGY PRIMERGY (tons) RX200 S2 BX620 S2 300 A 56.9% 80 units 40 units After adoption reduction 200 Before adoption 114.7 tons 100 266.2 tons 0 2009 2010 (FY) (tons CO2) Before After Amount After adoption Factors Adoption Adoption Reduced Space required for ICT equipment 158.1 62.0 96.1 PRIMERGY ETERNUS Burden of facilities (air-conditioning, etc., other than ICT power consumption) BX920 S1 DX80 ICT NW power consumption 105.4 51.7 53.7 51 units 3 units ICT /Network equipment power consumption Operating space Energy required for maintenance, operation and management work 2.7 1.0 1.7 31 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Japan Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, Hokuriku (a national university corporation) Founded: October 1990 No. of students: 946 (as of May 2011) URL http://www.jaist.ac.jp/index-e.html Stakeholder’s Voice A Word from Fujitsu Taking up the Challenge of System Partnering with JAIST; Always Aiming Efficiency Improvements for Leading-Edge Technology Ever since the school opened, we have consistently sought to JAIST had already been working on the virtualization of reduce power consumption and configure environmentally clients, and had completed this for all users. This was where friendly systems by choosing low-power-consuming hard disks. the present system started, and the customer’s insistence on This time, by improving the efficiency of server usage, we being right at the forefront of advances was a great example have significantly reduced the number of servers and the for our sales and system engineers. In future, we intend to power consumption. At the same time, we greatly reduced the continue as a useful partner, working closely with JAIST. space they required and by making changes to the cooling system we have also increased air-conditioning efficiency. We continue to address the challenge of ongoing improvements to system efficiency. Mikifumi Shikida, Associate Professor Center for Information Science, Akio Nagata, Fujitsu Hokuriku Systems Japan Advanced Institute of Noriaki Sunada, Fujitsu Hokuriku Branch Science and Technology Yusuke Yamazaki, Fujitsu Hokuriku Systems 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 32 Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Highlights in 2010 Benefiting “Let’s Make a Nationwide customers and society Dandelion Front Map Together!” Medium-term environmental vision Green Policy Interest in or fascination with the plants and animals familiar to us in our daily lives Pursuing 2020 internal Conserving biodiversity can be a starting point for the conservation of biodiversity. The call “Let’s Make a reforms Nationwide Dandelion Front Map Together !” springs from the idea that ICT could become the occasion for turning peoples’ interest towards familiar animals and plants. STEP 1 By Fujitsu Employees and Family Members STEP 2 Citizen Participation in Activities Using ICT to Create Enjoyable Opportunities for Spreading Interest in Biodiversity to as Many as Possible Encountering Nature Japan’s National Strategy for the Conservation and Sustainable This success encouraged us to believe that a familiar plant like Use of Biological Diversity in 2010 included as one of its targets the dandelion could serve to increase interest in biodiversity conservation of the special features of plants, animals and throughout Japan, so survey participation was extended from ecosystems characteristic of specific localities, and the employees to the general public. This started as “Let’s Make a formation of a network of such ecosystems to maintain and Nationwide Dandelion Front Map Together !” in February 2011. restore biodiversity by 2020. The survey had two main objectives. One was to To contribute to this conservation of biodiversity at the investigate the position of dandelions in the biosphere and the local level, in April 2010 the Fujitsu Group started to survey the effects of global warming by mapping the dandelion fronts distribution of dandelions using our own ICT. nationwide. The other was to bring people closer to nature and The survey made use of Fujitsu FIP Corporation’s Mobile so spread awareness of the importance of biodiversity among Photo System and Fujitsu’s On-Demand Virtual System as many people as possible. Service*, accumulating photos of dandelions taken by mobile People were able to participate simply by taking photos on phones with GPS functions in a graphic database, using their GPS-equipped mobile phones and attaching the location location information and mapping to view and analyze the and time information when they mailed the photo to the data. The survey was performed by Fujitsu employees and their survey E-mail address. families from April 2010 through February 2011, and received some 1,400 graphic dandelion data sets. Employees who participated reported that the project enabled them to enjoy time with their families while bringing them closer to nature. * On-Demand Virtual System Service: The ICT infrastructure including servers and storage was provided as a virtualized cloud service using network access to Fujitsu data centers. The survey used the Mobile Photo System and the On-Demand Virtual Service. 1)Mobile phone gathers dandelion data 2) Search and view dandelion data 1) Search data 2) Get GPS data 2) Display search result ○○Park 1) Take photo GPS □□ Main r oa d 3) Get time stamp Display map 4) Mail Mail server Biodiversity database Create map and display on website. Mobile Phone Photo System On-demand virtual system service 33 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Stakeholder’s Voice STEP 3 Finalizing the Nationwide Dandelion Front Map Biodiversity as It Affects Dandelions Shaping a Shared Desire to Cherish the Natural Environment We who live in the 21st century have no choice but to form a sustainable society based on biodiversity. Conserving biodiversity is also vital to make possible the continued future From the new start in February 2011 through the following use of biological resources. Investigating specific living things June, a total of some 9,700 graphic data sets on dandelions also reveals to us how we are affecting them. This includes were gathered. dandelions. Aichi University of Education (a national university) For example, if we examine the areas in which the cooperated with Fujitsu in classifying the collected dandelion indigenous Japanese dandelion (a typical harbinger of spring) data into indigenous and non-native varieties, estimating the is found, we see that its distribution shrank as urbanization date on which they flowered, and created the first Japanese spread. Conversely, if we examine where it still thrives, we will nationwide map of dandelion fronts that distinguished find certain urban areas where environments that predate between non-native and indigenous varieties (including Japan’s era of high economic growth still survive from when specifically the white dandelion*, taraxacum albidum), and the Japanese lived in harmony with nature. The Japanese published them on the website. dandelion may even provide clues on how to live in comfort ICT links and shapes the wishes of those who value nature. and peace—in an environment in harmony with nature. Fujitsu, as an ICT enterprise, is committed to benefitting By all means let us try to think of biodiversity through various uses of ICT, and will continue to biodiversity in terms of the living configure regional bio-networks and databases for things most familiar to us, starting bio-information. with the humble dandelion. * White Dandelions: This variety thrives in western Japan, and the northward Mikio Watanabe, Professor expansion of its habitat is attributed to global warming. Aichi University of Education (a national university) 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 34 Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Fujitsu Group Environmental Management We recognize environmental protection to be an imperative for us as a global ICT corporation and, together with our customers and society, we strive for sustainable growth and development while working to reduce our environmental burden. Operating in Harmony with Nature as the Starting Given this background, we revised the Fujitsu Group Point for Fujitsu Environmental Management Environmental Policy in April 2011. The Fujitsu Group Environmental The Fujitsu Group has pursued “operating in harmony with Policy spells out our ideals and directions to promote environmental nature” since its founding in 1935. Environmental conservation management that reflects the uniqueness of the Fujitsu Group is one of our highest priorities, and our environmental enterprise. In the latest revision, we state that “We proactively management is guided by Corporate Values enshrined in the promote environmentally conscious business activities to help Fujitsu Way, that “in all our actions, we protect the environment the environment and economy coexist harmoniously.” as one of and contribute to society.” those directions. While it goes without saying that we contribute to reductions in both our customers’ and society’s environmental Growing Together with Society and Our Customers burdens, this policy aims to grow our business to achieve The realization of a low-carbon society is one of the central sustainable growth and development for the Fujitsu Group along challenges for humanity in the 21st century. To achieve this, it will with our customers and society. be necessary for society as a whole to find more environmentally Fujitsu Group Environmental Policy friendly ways to work and live. Multifaceted support from ICT is an WEB http://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/approach/policy/ increasingly important part of these efforts. The History of Fujitsu’s Environmental Activities •1935 Park-style design adopted for new Kawasaki Plant at the •2000 Corporate Environmental Strategy Unit established suggestion of Fujitsu’s founder, Manjiro Yoshimura •2002 Fujitsu Group Environmental Policy established •1938 Kawasaki Plant completed •2006 ISO 14001 globally integrated certification acquired, •1972 Environmental control sections established at each plant including overseas Group companies •1989 Environmental Committee established •2007 Environmental Burden Reduction Project by Green ICT, •1991 Environmental Engineering Center established Green Policy Innovation, started •1992 Fujitsu’s Commitment to the Environment formulated •2008 Green Policy 2020 medium-term environmental •1993 Fujitsu Environmental Protection Program (Stage I) vision formulated formulated •2009 Biodiversity Action Principles formulated •1997 All domestic manufacturing sites certified ISO 14001 •2010 Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program compliant (Stage VI) formulated Fujitsu Group Environmental Activities 2007 2010 2012 2013 2020 2100 Initiative for reducing customers’ What the Fujitsu Group aims for. environmental impact Environmental Green Policy Innovation Medium-term Environmental contributions to (FY 2007 to FY 2012, environmental vision Concept customers and ending March 31) Fujitsu Group Green Policy Green Policy 21 society Environmental 2020 We make every activity green Protection Program Green Policy Green Policy Factories Solutions (Stage VI) Green Policy (FY 2010 to FY 2012, Earth Reducing Fujitsu Group Environmental ending March 31) Green Policy Products environmental Protection Program (Stage V) impact from (FY 2007 to FY 2009 ending March 31) Green Policy Management business activities Based on the results achieved by and issues Responding to global Backcasting from our medium-term arising from Fujitsu Group Environmental environmental problems environmental vision, Green Policy 2020 Protection Program (Stage V) 35 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Based on Explicit Concepts and Vision In December 2009, we established the target of helping To instill all Group employees with the concept of “operating to reduce CO2 emissions by at least 15 million tons worldwide in harmony with nature,” which is the starting point for over the four years from FY 2009 through 2012, and have environmental management, we stipulate our “Green Policy 21” been promoting the provision of green ICT while working for environmental concept. Based on this concept, we implement cooperation with local regions throughout the world. continuing environmental activities in all our business areas. Furthermore, Green Policy 2020 is our medium-term New Environmental Action Plan Strengthens environmental vision, which indicates the directions and roles Environmental Activities Globally that the Fujitsu Group must play as targets for 2020. Green Then, in April 2010, we created the Fujitsu Group Environmental Policy 2020 stipulates three targets, benefiting our customers Protection Program (Stage VI) that covers FY 2010 through FY and society, pursuing internal reforms, and conserving 2012 based on back projections from our Green Policy 2020 biodiversity, and sets up specific topics to work on in achieving vision and recent global environmental issues such as climate these targets. change and biodiversity conservation (see pages 37 and 38). We will continue to reliably implement environmental Environmental Concept “Green Policy 21” WEB action plans as a unified group and work to realize a prosperous http://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/approach/greenpolicy21/ low-carbon society. Medium-Term Environmental Vision “Green Policy 2020” http://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/approach/greenpolicy2020/ First Certification as an “Eco-First Company” in the IT Services Industry Reducing Environmental Burdens Based on Global Targets In September 2010, the Fujitsu Group was Since December 2007, the Fujitsu Group has been promoting certified as an Eco-First Company under the Ministry of the the Green Policy Innovation initiative to reduce our customers’ Environment’s Eco-First Program. This was the first such certification in the IT services Industry. environmental burden using green ICT to achieve the Green The Eco-First Program encourages even further actions related to Policy 2020 vision’s goals. Under the initiative, we provide environmental protection by industry leading companies. Under this customers with solutions and ICT infrastructure that leverage system, each corporation promises the Minister of the Environment the accumulated technologies and expertise of the Fujitsu that they will make efforts to protect the environment, for example, Group with the aim of lessening the environmental burden by measures to counter global warming or conserve biodiversity. from companies and society in general. Medium-Term Environmental Vision: Green Policy 2020 Environmental Concept: Green Policy 21 Fujitsu’s Green Policy 2020 vision proposes a transformation of the At Fujitsu, we place our global scale environmental activities, called Fujitsu Group into an organization with low-carbon corporate “Green Policy Earth,” at the core of our environmental concept and activities while it works to create technology solutions in collaboraposition the specific activities to implement these as our Green Policy tion with a variety of independent parties. It envisions these efforts Products, Green Policy Factories, and Green Policy Solutions. We realizing a low-carbon and prosperous society. further position the mechanism that supports these activities as Green Policy Management. We make every activity green Striving for Contributing to the global Supporting the environmentally friendly environment with each and achievement of a activities every employee as a leading recycling-oriented society player by taking advantage of ICT Green Policy Green Policy Earth Green Policy Factories Solutions Green Policy Products Promoting the development Green Policy of technology with superlative Management environmental protection, Strengthening providing environmentally mechanisms that support friendly products, and environmental recycling management 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 36 Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Targets and Results for the Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI) Fujitsu instituted a new action plan for the period from FY 2010 through FY 2012 and aims to achieve its goals while practicing the PDCA cycle steadily. Setting up an Action Plan and Targets for the activities that conserve biodiversity. Moreover, we have established Period from FY 2010 through 2012 a further 18 items to serve as specific program targets. In April 2010, we created the Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI) to run from FY 2010 to the fiscal year All FY 2010 Targets Achieved ending March 31, 2013 (FY 2012). We succeeded in achieving all of the targets set in the Fujitsu Group The program is based on the three targets established in Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI) for FY 2010. the Green Policy 2020 and defines six key areas: strengthening Furthermore, since we achieved results significantly better than advanced green ICT R&D, improving the environmental value the targets for certain of the items (R&D on advanced green ICT, of products and services and strengthening the development environmental efficiency factors, renewable energy, CO2 reduction and provision of green ICT, strengthening efforts to reduce the in distribution and transportation), we raised the targets. environmental burden from the Group itself, strengthening our We will continue to use the PDCA cycle and work toward the FY foundation for environmental management, promoting activities 2012 goals. that make environmental contributions to society, and promoting Targets of Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI) WEB http://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/management/ program/stage6/ Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI) Green Policy Action Plan Targets Performance Targets Targets Related 2020 Item Item Breakdown (FY 2010) (FY 2010) (FY 2011) (FY 2012) Status Pages Three Targets Strengthen advanced green ICT R&D •Develop technologies for next-generation datacenters •1.2 times •1.3 times •1.5 times •2 times Strengthening and networking that will double overall efficiency of ICT advanced products by end of FY 2012. P43green ICT R&D •By end of FY 2012, more than 70% of all technology •25% •58% •60% •70% developed will be solutions for reducing the burden on the environment.* Develop & deliver green ICT to contribute to customers 5.26 million tons 5.60 million tons 9.55 million tons 15 million tons and society. or more Provide green ICT that will reduce cumulative CO2 P38 emissions by 15 million tons over FY 2009–12 period. Develop and provide Eco-friendly products (Super Green 10% or more 17% 20% or more 30% or more products). With respect to newly developed green products in all departments, Super Green products that contribute to P45reduced environmental footprints through low energy Benefiting and resource demands must comprise 30% by end of FY customers Improving the 2012. and environmental Develop and provide Eco-friendly products Raise to 1.5 Raise to 3.2 Raise to 3.5 Raise to 4.0 society value of (environmental efficiency factors). products and With respect to newly developed green products in all P45 departments, the environmental efficiency must be services, and raised to 4.0 times the FY 2008 value by end of FY 2012.* enhancing the development Promote product recycling. Sustain 90% 93.3% Sustain 90% Sustain 90% and delivery of Sustain 90% resource reuse rate of business ICT P49green ICT equipment globally at Fujitsu recycling centers. Develop and provide environmental solutions. Departmental Departmental Departmental Departmental •Promote the development and provision of and regional and regional and regional and regional environmental solutions in all areas, including coverage rate: coverage rate: coverage rate: coverage rate: industry, transport, business, households, and energy 70% 78% 85% 100% conversion sectors. P53•Expand provision of environmental solutions in major regions, including Japan, Europe, Americas, and Asia/ Pacific. Reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 2.5% reduction 11.7% reduction 3% reduction 6% reduction Reduce total greenhouse gas emissions associated with manufacturing globally to 6% below FY 1990 levels by P55end of FY 2012 (CO2: 5% reduction, other greenhouse gases: 20% reduction). Reduce greenhouse gas emissions (renewable energy) 2.7 times 4.8 times 10 times 10 times Enhancing Increase use of renewable energy sources to 10 times FY 2007 levels by end of FY 2012.* P55efforts to Pursuing reduce the internal Fujitsu Group's reforms environmental Reduce CO2 in transport and distribution. 9% reduction 18% reduction 16% reduction 15% reduction footprint Reduce CO2 emissions from domestic transport to 15% P62 below FY 2008 levels by end of FY 2012.* Promote business partners greenhouse gas reduction. 60% materials 62.7% 80% 100% Promote procurement from business partners that limit suppliers’ or reduce greenhouse gas emissions. procurement rate P61 (“no. of companies” rate) 37 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Green Policy Innovation—Achievements in CO2 Emissions Reduction Targets and Achievements through Reducing CO2 Emissions Green Policy Innovation ICT infrastructure Solutions Since FY 2007, the Fujitsu Group has been promoting the (10,000 tons) 600 environmental burden reduction project by Green ICT, Green 562 Policy Innovation. In FY 2009, Fujitsu set a global target of 450 429 cutting CO2 emissions by more than 15 million tons over a 313 323 423 four-year period from FY 2009 to 2012. During FY 2010, we 300 237 335 exceeded our targets and contributed to a total CO2 reduction of 213 256 150 149 255 3.23 million tons, comprising 0.67 million ton from providing 74 127 182 196 5450 68 115 126 139 Green Policy Products, which are eco-friendly ICT infrastructure 0 4 6 12 23 31 41 58 67 94 AchieveTargets AchieveTargets AchieveTargets AchieveTargets Targets Targets products, and 2.56 million tons from providing Green Policy -ments -ments -ments -ments Solutions, which are ICT solutions that contribute to reducing FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 environmental burdens for a cumulative total of 5.6 million Total tons from FY 2009. 10,000 tons 0 400 800 1,200 1,600 Green Policy Action Plan Targets Performance Targets Targets Related 2020 Item Item Breakdown (FY 2010) (FY 2010) (FY 2011) (FY 2012) Status Pages Three Targets Factory improvements (chemicals) 4% reduction 48% reduction 7% reduction 10% reduction Reduce output of priority chemicals to 10% below FY P58 2007 levels by end of FY 2012. Enhancing efforts to Factory improvements (waste) reduce the •Reduce waste generation to 20% below FY 2007 levels •11% reduction •20.1% reduction •13% reduction •20% reduction Fujitsu Group's by end of FY 2012. P57environmental •Maintain zero waste emissions at factories in Japan. •Status maintained •Status maintained •Status maintained •Status maintained footprint Office improvements Japan: trials using Japan: trials using Japan: 70% Japan: 100% Achieve four-star rating or better under the Green Office new standard new standard Internationally: Internationally: plan for every office by end of FY 2012. Internationally: Internationally: draft evaluation trial P60 field survey field survey standards implementation (completed) Continuously improve globally integrated •Customization •Trial •Block application •Block application environmental management systems. and trial of implementation rate: 50% rate: 75% •Promote further ICT deployment for environmental remote management, build smart environmental management communications systems. Pursuing •To improve environmental performance, by the end of •Establishment of •Performance •Trial •Expand as far as P66internal Strengthening FY 2012 we intend to apply a framework of performance assessment implementation domestic reforms assessments for the extent of target achievement and assessment procedures manufacturing environmental the compliance situation of 100% of Group main procedures established group companies governance domestic production companies. Promote environmental management through Improved Both internal and Improved Improved communications with stakeholders. communication external communication communication Promote environmental communication at all levels to of environmental information of environmental of environmental P69 improve environmental management. information dissemination information information improved Increase environmental awareness among all staff •Construction and •Network •Management of •Management of through community-based environmental actions. management of a implementatio the domestic the domestic •Launch Act-Local-System by end of FY 2010 to globally domestic network, •Japan: network, network, share information on social contribution activities Construction and Implemented at Management of Management of Promoting around the world. management of all business the international the international an international sites network network environmental •Sustain environmental social contributions activities network P65 around the world and promote activities that will Internationally: •Japan: once a •Japan: once a contributions contribute more to local communities through utilizing •Japan: once a year implemented at year year to society Act-Local-System. Internationally: 54% of business Internationally: Internationally: once every three sites once every three once every three years years years Reduce impact of company's operations on biodiversity. •Construction of •Completion of •1.5% reduction in •3% reduction in •Develop numerical indicators to measure impact of the Fujitsu numerical level of impact (in level of impact operations on biodiversity and build system to expand Group BD indicator main business (in main contribution of ICT to reducing that impact. integration development areas) compared business areas) •Promote procurement from business partners that work index to •60.9% to FY 2009 as compared to to preserve biodiversity. evaluate impact evaluated by the FY 2009 as on biodiversity BD integration evaluated by the P63•60% materials index BD integration suppliers’ •80% index Promoting procurement •100% Preserving efforts to rate (“no. of biodiversity preserve companies” rate) biodiversity Contribute to community-building that conserves •Implementation of •Survey •Pilot project •Development at biodiversity. survey to construct implementation based on survey main business •Build case studies that contribute to biodiversity a model to •Japan: results sites through ICT in all major offices by end of FY 2012. contribute to Implemented at •Japan: once a •Japan: once a •Conduct biodiversity preservation/education programs biodiversity all business sites year year P63in all offices by end of FY 2012. •Japan: once a year Internationally: Internationally: Internationally: Internationally: implemented at once every three once every three once every three 30% of business years years years sites * Target values were increased. 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 38 Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Environmental Accounting To promote environmental management, we introduced environmental accounting in FY 1998, and by evaluating our environmental protection activities, we have clarified the issues and promoted sharing of the results. Basic Environmental Accounting Elements Reasons for Changes in Costs and While conforming to the Ministry of the Environment’s Economic Benefits Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005, the Fujitsu Group’s Costs increased by about 3.1 billion yen compared to the previous environmental accounting adds estimated benefits based on year. This is because in contrast with management activities, whose Fujitsu’s own approach to environmental accounting. costs fell by about 600 million yen in association with reductions This accounting covers Fujitsu itself plus 30 affiliated in environmental advertising costs, the cost of R&D increased companies, mainly in the manufacturing system in Japan and significantly, by about 4.1 billion yen. R&D costs grew substantially overseas. Note, however, that other affiliated companies concerned as a result of promoting R&D on products and solutions that with environmental solutions, which have been added to the contribute to environmental protection in line with “Benefiting range covered by “R&D costs and benefits” since FY 2010, are also Customers and Society” which is a major goal of the Fujitsu Group’s included in this accounting. medium-term environmental vision Green Policy 2020. There were two additional changes to accounting coverage for Economic benefits increased by about 5.9 billion yen FY 2010: after the transfer of Fujitsu Media Devices Limited it was compared to the previous year. Although the benefits from our excluded from the totals, and Fujitsu Technology Solutions (Holding) management activities fell by about 600 million yen, benefits from B.V. was added. pollution prevention increased by about 1.5 billion yen, benefits from resource circulation increased by about 1.4 billion yen, and Costs and Economic Benefits in FY 2010 benefits from R&D increased by 3.4 billion yen. The benefits from The results of this accounting for FY 2010 showed costs of 33.11 management activities fell because environmental advertising, billion yen (a 10.1% increase from the previous year) and the which is a factor in reducing costs, was cut back, resulting in fewer economic benefits were 59.71 billion yen (a 10.9% increase from estimated benefits from that advertising. The increase in the the previous year). Thus both costs and benefits grew by over 10%. benefit from pollution prevention was due to aggressive promotion Also, our capital investment was 4.57 billion yen (a 90.4% increase of investments aimed at preventing both air pollution and water from the previous year). pollution in our affiliated companies. Specifically, this was due to Note that the influence of the changes in the coverage of an increase in the risk avoidance benefit, which is an estimated accounting was that when the values for the two companies were benefit from prevention efforts. Our benefit from resource subtracted, costs were reduced by about 200 million yen and circulation increased due to the influence of changes in the sale benefits were reduced by about 800 million yen. price of valuable items no longer needed at affiliated companies, which in recent years have been influenced by these changes. Trends in Costs and Economic Benefits With regards to the benefit from R&D, to contribute to reducing Costs Actual benefits Estimated benefits the environmental impacts of our customers and society, we have (billion yen) strengthened our Green ICT lineup, so providing these products to 60 our customers led to an increase in economic benefits as calculated 50 by our proprietary method of calculating these estimated benefits. 40 33.1 Thus R&D costs and benefits both rose significantly in FY 30 30.1 47.2 42.8 2010. In the future, we will continue to refine environmental 11.4 20.6 7.8 20 16.7 10.5 19.4 management by evaluating our environmental protection activities 10 20.3 17.0 19.3 11.0 12.5 using environmental accounting. 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Environmental Accounting WEB http://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/management/ accounting/ Capital investment Costs Economic benefits Related Item Main areas covered (billion yen) (billion yen) pages (billion yen) Pollution prevention costs/ benefits Preventing air pollution/water pollution, etc. 1.09（+0.17） 4.82（+0.01） 7.18（+1.49） P57〜58 Global environmental Business area costs/ conservation costs/benefits Preventing global warming, saving energy, etc. 1.70（+0.58） 2.84（-0.07） 1.38（+0.09） P55〜56、60、62 benefits Resource circulation costs/benefits Disposal of waste, efficient utilization of resources, etc. 0.02（+0.01） 2.87（-0.30） 10.64（+1.42） P57〜58、60 Upstream/downstream costs/benefits Collection, recycling, reuse, and proper disposal of products, etc. 0.00（±0.00） 0.82（±0.00） 0.44（+0.05） P49〜50、61 Provision and operation of environmental Administration costs/benefits management systems, environmental education 0.82（+0.74） 3.51（-0.60） 0.93（-0.61） P66〜69 of employees, etc. Research and development on products and P43〜48、 R&D costs/benefits 0.85（+0.58） 17.15（+4.08） 39.14（+3.42） solutions that contribute to environmental protection, etc. 51〜54 Social activity costs Donations to, and support for, environmental groups, etc. 0.00（±0.00） 0.06（+0.01） − P63〜65 Restoration and other measures related to soil and 0.00（±0.00） P59 Environmental remediation costs/benefits groundwater contamination, etc. 0.08（+0.08） 1.03（-0.08） Total 4.57（+2.17） 33.11（+3.05） 59.71（+5.85） − • Numbers in parentheses indicate increases or decreases in comparison with the previous year. • Items shown as “0.0” include items for which the value was smaller than the display units used. • Due to rounding, figures in columns may not add up to the totals shown. • See pages 41 and 42 for details on the environmental performance index (environmental conservation benefits). 39 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Looking Back on FY 2010 Environmental Activities All first year target were met for the Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI). Fujitsu is further enhancing its global environmental activities to be a leader in environmental management. In FY 2010, we started the Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI), which consists of 18 items, and achieved all of the targets for the first year. The main results of these activities included expanding provision of Green ICT products, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and starting the use of quantitative indicators to measure the influence and contribution of business activities on the new priority field of conserving biodiversity. We also made progress in expanding our environmental management globally. For example, to strengthen development of environmentally friendly products, we drew up common criteria for environmentally friendly design based on global standards with Fujitsu Technology Solutions in Germany, which develops servers and PCs. Also, to advance standardization related to procedures to evaluate reductions in environmental burdens, we participated proactively in international standardization institutions such as the ICT for Energy Efficiency Forum and the International Atsuhisa Takahashi Minoru Takeno Corporate Executive Advisor President, Corporate Telecommunication Union. As a result of these efforts, we received a (Environmental Strategy) Environmental Strategy Unit wide range of honors and praise from our stakeholders during FY 2010. Our awareness of energy and our values have been changed by We aim to be a future leading corporation in environmental the Great East Japan Earthquake, which occurred in March 2011, and management and will strengthen our global environmental activities we realize that energy must be used throughout society even more still further. efficiently than ever before. We in the Fujitsu Group have renewed our First, we will become more rigorous about compliance with the awareness of energy as both a critical management resource and a law and are working to strengthen our global governance. We will source of risk. We will work to save energy and reduce electricity also unfailingly achieve the targets of the Fujitsu Group usage by taking full advantage of the environmental management Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI), which are solemn foundation we have developed so far and will continue to improve undertakings to customers and to society. Furthermore, while our energy efficiency in the future. Furthermore, we will work developing environmental technologies that create new values for aggressively to develop products and services that save energy and our customers and providing environmental solutions, we will deploy result in even lower CO2 emissions based on our current successes. globally the leading-edge environmental technologies we have Thus, we will contribute to our customers’ business reforms and the developed at data centers and other sites in Japan. building of a sustainable society. Stakeholder s Voice Expert Opinion I recognize that the Fujitsu Group’s environmental efforts are solid firmly believe that Fujitsu will move ones that Fujitsu has sustained steadily and reliably over many years forward to even more “aggressive” while showing both visions and roadmaps. As a corporation environmental activities. positioned to reduce society’s environmental burden by taking While Fujitsu has put efforts into advantage of ICT, we have high hopes for Fujitsu’s environmental saving energy and reducing CO2 activities through its main businesses. I give high marks for Fujitsu’s emissions, I hope that they will, in the carefully considered allocation of resources, importantly not just in future, contribute to the creation of a the short term, but over the medium and long term too, including its society in which both the current and investment in R&D for these purposes. future generations can live happily When it comes to ICT technologies, Fujitsu does give the without excessively burdening the Earth’s impression of a “hard” approach. However, one of their strengths is environment based on a broader Junko Edahiro that they are also capable of a “soft” approach, that is, a more understanding of sustainability rather Representative humanistic approach that can speak to people’s feelings or appeal to than a mere preoccupation with the of e’s Inc., Representative of their emotions, such as a map that shows where and when the environment. the Japan for dandelions are starting to bloom across Japan. Furthermore, if that happens, the Sustainability NGO I also came to understand that in the solutions area, Fujitsu important issue to address in broadening handles matters that are less immediately obvious than hardware. and deepening activities will be more “How can we move forward?” This area is not about just improving or replacing hardware but rather than “What should we do?” I hope that Fujitsu will provide its involves a wide range of trial-and-error and practical experience to employees with increasing opportunities to acquire the habit of create proposals at a new level intimately related to the general way dialogue and collaboration with a wide variety of stakeholders to we work and live. whom they have not hitherto been so strongly linked, including NGOs, I believe that Fujitsu, in its efforts to become a top corporation in local communities, students, and children. environmental management, is making solid progress in most areas where society commonly has expectations of corporations and I 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 40 Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Operating Activities and Environmental Burden (Material Balance) We promote environmentally friendly business activities through overall quantitative assessment of our environmental burden from the life cycle and supply chain standpoints. Material Balance Raw Materials Chemical Substances Energy Total 23,450,000 GJ •Metal 28,013 tons 19,291 tons •Electricity purchased 2,116,128 MWh •Plastic 13,049 tons •Heavy oil, kerosene 20,798 kℓ INPUT •Others 22,717 tons Water 21,628,000 m3 •LPG, LNG 6,102tons •Natural gas, city gas 33,539,000 m3 •District heating and cooling 48,702 GJ Development/Design Procurement Manufacturing We develop Green Products based We select product parts We conduct resourceand energy-saving on product environmental and materials with an activities to minimize use of materials, assessments considering both eye to minimizing the energy and water resources; zero-emission Hardware energy efficiency during use and environmental burden. activities to achieve zero landfill disposal Products post-use recyclability. and simple incineration; and activities to reduce chemical emissions. Planning and Design Procurement Development Software & We plan and design solutions We promote Green Along with working to reduce the environthat contribute to reductions in Procurement to procure mental burden of our business sites, we Solutions the environmental burden when software and services develop environmental business solutions systems and services are from suppliers who give and systems and services that contribute to introduced. proper consideration to reducing the environmental burden of our the environment. customers and society in general. Raw Materials Atmospheric Release Water Discharge Waste •CO2 discharge •CO2 1,014,000 tons-CO2 20,373,000 m3 •Volume of waste generated 31,063 tons 1,034,000 tons-CO2 •NOx 254 tons •BOD 394 tons •Volume of thermal recycling 7,020 tons OUTPUT •SOx Chemical Substances •Greenhouse gases other than CO2 223 tons •COD 344 tons •Volume of material recycling 21,737 tons •Volume of waste disposal 2,306 tons 25 tons (e.g. PFC, HFC, SF6) 171,000 tons GWP •VOC 297 tons Calculation Methods INPUT Development / Raw Materials Material inputs to our major products* shipped in FY 2010 (raw materials per unit for each product times the number of units shipped in FY 2010) Planning & Design Chemical Substances Volume of PRTR Law target chemicals handled by plants/sites in FY 2010 Procurement Water Volume used by plants/sites in FY 2010 Manufacturing / Energy Electricity, oil and gas consumed by plants/sites in FY 2010 Development Distribution / Energy Energy consumption in transportation in FY 2010 Sales Electricity consumption by major products* shipped in FY 2010 (Assumed hours of use per product x age-based electricity consumption x the number of units Usage Energy shipped in FY 2010) The weight ratio of recycled parts and resources with respect to the processing volume of post-use products is calculated according to the method of the Japan Collection/Reuse/Recycling Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association. It excludes collected waste other than post-use electronic products. * Major products: Personal computers, mobile phones, servers, workstations, storage systems, printers, scanners, financial terminals, retail terminals, routers, LAN access equipment, access network products, mobile phone base stations, and electronic devices. 41 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Energy Energy •Electricity 8,158,115 MWh Resources recycling rate: 90.6% •Fuel (light oil) 437,000 GJ Amount processed: 6,406 tons (80,190,000 GJ) Distribution/Sales Usage Collection/Reuse/Recycling We strive to minimize the energy We strive for energy-saving products and We work to curb energy consumption consumed in product transportation and encourage their long-term use by through activities promoting post-use delivery to customers, and to curb the employing structures that permit product collection, reuse and recycling. volume of waste gases released into the performance and functional expansion Disposal of some industrial waste in atmosphere. and providing maintenance and repair landfills is unavoidable, but we are support. promoting effective use. Distribution/Sales Usage Operation and Maintenance We work to reduce the volume of We provide systems and services that We work to reduce the environmental exhaust gases discharged into the contribute to reducing the environmenburden imposed by our business sites. atmosphere while reducing the amount tal burden for customers and society. of energy expended in transporting products and delivering them to customers. Atmospheric Release Atmospheric Release •CO2 29,600 tons-CO2 •CO2 3,320,000 tons-CO2 Calculation Methods OUTPUT Material inputs to our major products* shipped in FY 2010 Raw Materials (per-unit volume of CO2 emitted from mining the resource until it becomes a raw material for each product times the number of units shipped in FY 2010) In FY 2010, we improved our grasp of the number of electronic devices used in our products with very high accuracy. Chemical Measuring the concentrations of PRTR Law target chemicals discharged through plants’ drains and exhaust ports in FY 2010 and multiplying the total volume Substances discharged (nickel compounds, manganese compounds, etc.) or total volume emitted (xylene, toluene, etc.), or calculating based on the chemical substance Development / balance (xylene and toluene). Planning & CO2: CO2 discharge volume associated with energy consumption by plants/sites in FY 2010 (Energy consumption times CO2 conversion factor) Design NOx, SOx: Calculated from concentrations in gases discharged from vents (boilers, etc.) by plants/offices in FY 2010 Atmospheric Greenhouse gases other than CO2: Discharge volume of process gases used in four semiconductor plants in FY 2010. Procurement Release (Calculated by formulas such as <volume of gas used> x <ratio consumed in reactions> x <detoxification ratio>) VOC: Emission amounts of the substances subject to emissions restrictions stipulated by the four electric and electronics associations for factories and business Manufacturing / sites for FY 2010 Development Wastewater volume discharged by plants/sites into sewerage or rivers in FY 2010 BOD: A measure of the emission volume of organic pollution of water discharged by businesses employing the volume of oxygen consumed when organic matter Water in water is removed by microbial activity. Discharge COD: A measure of the emission volume of organic pollution of water discharged by businesses employing the volume of oxygen consumed when organic matter in water is removed chemically by oxidation. Quantity of Waste Generated: amount of waste generated by plants/sites in FY 2010 Waste Volume of Waste Disposal: The volume of landfill disposal and simple incineration by plants/sites in FY 2010 (including waste which is not a zero emission target) Distribution / Atmospheric The total volume of CO2 emissions in FY 2010, including both fuel consumption by our shipping business in Japan when measurable, and shipping distance x Sales Release freight weight x coefficient when the freight of companies other than Fujitsu is included, as in mixed load transportation Atmospheric The volume of CO2 emissions during use of major products* shipped in FY 2010 Usage (Amount of energy consumed x CO2 conversion coefficient. The amount of energy consumed is calculated by multiplying the quantity of electricity used during Release the estimated time of use of each product unit by the number of units shipped in FY 2010) * Major products: Personal computers, mobile phones, servers, workstations, storage systems, printers, scanners, financial terminals, retail terminals, routers, LAN access equipment, access network products, mobile phone base stations, and electronic devices. 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 42 Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Benefiting customers and society Pursuing internal reforms Conserving biodiversity Leading-Edge Green ICT Research and Development We are concerned with reducing environmental burdens at the policy and proposal stages in our leading-edge research and development and we are continuously creating technologies that contribute to saving electricity and using next-generation sources of energy. Basic Approach next-generation data centers and networks and the area Promote the Development of Products and Services that are of solutions. Optimized to Benefit Lower Environmental Burdens The target for the next-generation data center and network To achieve the goal of reducing CO2 emissions by about 30 million area is developing technologies that can double the overall tons a year in Japan by 2020, as proposed in Green Policy 2020, efficiency of ICT equipment by the end of FY 2012. The target for our medium-term environmental vision, we need to develop the solutions area, also by the end of FY 2012, is to increase by at revolutionary leading-edge technologies that have even greater least 35% the development ratio for technologies that improve the environmental burden-lowering effects than at present. effective reduction of environmental burdens. Fujitsu Laboratories Ltd., which handles the Fujitsu Group’s In FY 2010, we did not just clear the target of developing leading-edge green ICT R&D, has introduced the slogan “Strengthen technologies that can increase ICT equipment efficiency by of 1.2 leading-edge green ICT R&D and contribute even more to Fujitsu times, we improved it to 1.3 times. Then again, in the solutions Group business” and is pushing forward with R&D on technologies area, we were able to achieve a development ratio of 58% for that can benefit lower environmental burdens. Based on the technologies that improve the effective reduction of environmental concept of Green R&D, we are establishing and implementing burdens rather than the minimum 25% of the fiscal year target. policies from an environmental standpoint in all development Based on these results, we revised the solutions area development work, from materials and devices through facilities, to systems ratio target to at least 70% by the end of FY 2012. and solutions. Fujitsu Laboratories Inc. will, while further increasing the environmental contribution of our leading-edge technologies, aim Efforts in FY 2010 to expand the applications areas to complete systems including Quantitatively Evaluating CO2 Emissions Reduction Benefits those in which the individual technologies work together. from the R&D Stage Press Release: To accelerate our environmentally oriented R&D, in April 2010 WEB http://www.fujitsu.com/global/news/pr/archives/ we started efforts to evaluate quantitatively the benefits in month/2010/20100329-02.html reduced CO2 emissions (i.e., the environmental contribution) to be expected from the products and services that would include Organization of Fujitsu Laboratories Ltd. (As of March 2011) leading-edge technology while we were still in the R&D phase of Software and Solutions Laboratories developing that technology. These efforts are implemented across Human Centric Computing Laboratories all units in the laboratories, and since researchers can evaluate the technologies they are responsible for (see figure), we can clarify IT Systems Laboratories the main advantages of the technologies from an environmental Network Systems Laboratories standpoint. Furthermore, by adding “the environment” to the axes Platform Technologies Laboratories of performance/functionality/quality and cost, R&D on leadingedge technologies that is balanced across all three of these axes Devices & Materials Laboratories Fujitsu Laboratories Ltd. becomes possible. Research Center for Cloud Computing The Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI) Image and Biometrics Research Center sets up “Strengthening leading-edge green ICT R&D” as a priority and divides this into two areas with specific targets: the area of ITS Research Center Environment & Energy Research Center Basic Approach to Research and Development Electronic Paper Project Group •Promoting the development of revolutionary leadingR&D Management Office edge technologies with green ICT as a priority area. R&D Strategy and Planning Office Rendering visible the low-carbon benefits across the whole value chain Business Incubation Planning and Promotion Office Low-carbon technologies for ubiquitous equipment Fujitsu Laboratories of America, Inc. Energy-saving technologies for data centers and networks Fujitsu Research and Development Center Co., Ltd. Environmental solution technologies Fujitsu Laboratories of Europe Ltd. •Exhibiting synergy between total technology development and open innovation Consolidation of elemental technologies from materials and devices to solutions Global technology coordination 43 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT R&D Example 1 Optical Switch that Cuts Power Consumption by Half In November 2010, Fujitsu succeeded in developing technology that consumption. Note that since this optical switch uses commonly reduces the power consumed by optical switches to one-half of available silicon fabrication technology, its price can be reduced through previous levels. mass production. An optical switch is a unit that can switch the optical signal path Fujitsu will continue to strive to achieve large-scale optical switches without conversion in a communication network. Previously, progress that can implement next-generation networks. had been made in developing next-generation networks with low power Press Release: consumption using optical switches, since the power consumption of WEB http://www.fujitsu.com/global/news/pr/archives/month/2010/20101109-02.html converting from optical to electrical signals is high. In the structure used in this switch, instead of the earlier fineOptical Switch Mechanism patterned silicon, Fujitsu used, for the first time, fine-patterned siliconOptical switching element germanium and achieved a reduction in power consumption to half that of earlier switches. Control electronic With the volume of data transmitted over networks increasing every circuit year, power consumption in network equipment is increasing in step Optical signal and there is concern that this could become a serious energy issue in input Optical signal the future. Next-generation large-capacity network communications output applications such as cloud computing and ultrahigh-definition video distribution can be supported by using this technology to reduce power R&D Example 2 Hybrid Energy Harvesting Device for Generating Electricity from Heat and Light Developed In December 2010, Fujitsu developed a power generating device with a in the form of light, vibration, heat, or radio waves and converted to new hybrid structure that can extract power from both heat and light. electricity. Although energy harvesting is seen as a next-generation Previously, to use both heat and light as energy sources for energy source, since a given mode of energy, say light or vibration, is not generating electricity it was necessary to provide two separate devices: always present, there is demand for the ability to switch appropriately to a thermoelectric element for generating electricity from heat and a an energy source that does exist in the surrounding area and generate photovoltaic cell for generating electricity from light. There was also the electricity efficiently. problem that combining multiple elements increased device costs. We are aiming for practical application of this device around 2015 For this newly developed hybrid energy harvesting device, Fujitsu as one that can respond to next-generation needs and are working to developed a new organic material that can generate electricity from increase performance and develop mass-production technologies. both heat and light and created a device that can generate electricity Press Release: from both thermal and optical environments. Previously, there had WEB http://www.fujitsu.com/global/news/pr/archives/ been cases where in one of these environments it would have been month/2010/20101209-01.html impossible to harvest adequate energy. This new hybrid device, however, makes it possible to provide a larger amount of energy by selecting the Hybrid Generating Device more favorable environment and switching to that mode of generation. N-type Light Low temperature semiconductor Furthermore, since the material used is relatively inexpensive, manufacturing costs can be held to a minimum. Since neither power Temperature from a generating station nor batteries are used, it is not necessary to differential use electrical wiring or change batteries. We hope that this technology can be used in the energy harvesting P-type area, in which energy is collected from the surrounding environment semiconductor High temperature R&D Example 3 Developing a Wide-Area Traffic Simulator that Can Provide a Virtual Driving Experience Smooth traffic flow is a critical issue for preventing traffic jams and acciIn addition to moving forward with practical implementation of this dents and reducing the associated CO2 emissions. Given this background, service, we will work to expand the simulation to an even wider area, to achieve future traffic patterns in which traffic jams can be avoided, expand the service, and aim at applying this system to verification of in December 2010 we developed a wide-area traffic simulator that also traffic policies over a wide area. allows drivers to experience the simulation. Press Release: At the same time as reproducing, in real time, the behavior of tens WEB http://www.fujitsu.com/global/news/pr/archives/ of thousands of vehicles on roads covering a wide area, this simulator month/2010/20101206-01.html also generates visual images for drivers and allows one of those vehicles to be driven virtually. As an example of traffic policies that make use of this technology, we simulated a service that notifies drivers of the recommended speed that will allow them to pass through traffic signals without accelerating or decelerating. As a result of evaluation, we learned that the ease of driving and the CO2 reduction effect change with the way drivers are notified and with the timing of such notifications. In addition to allowing the a priori evaluation of a variety of measures for smooth traffic flow, it also allows benefits and problems to be evaluated from the actual Driving experience simulator viewpoint of drivers. This will make it possible to implement appropriate measures that match the road conditions. 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 44 Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Benefiting customers and society Pursuing internal reforms Conserving biodiversity Eco-Friendly Products We are accelerating the development of Green Products and Super Green Products and are working to reduce environmental burdens throughout the product life cycle. Green and Super Green Product Development The Green Policy Innovation Logo The Fujitsu Group has adopted a unified Group-wide approach The Fujitsu Group green IT to eco-design for newly designed products and works to improve project “Green Policy Innovation” environmental performance throughout the product life cycle. We logo is affixed to Green Products and Super Green Products. have been implementing our own environmental assessments for products since 1993, and we strive to develop eco-friendly products that reflect environmental considerations in such areas as energy saving, 3R design*, non-use of hazardous chemical substances, Improving the Eco-Efficiency Factor packaging materials, and information disclosure. We introduced the eco-efficiency factor*, which evaluates both the Moreover, in 1998, to further strengthen development of environmental burden reductions and the product value increases eco-friendly products, we established Green Product Evaluation at the same time for newly developed Green Products in the Fujitsu Standards and positioned the products that satisfy them as Green Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage V) in FY 2007. In Products. Then, in FY 2004, we combined what had previously the Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI), we been two separate sets of regulations — for product environmental changed the base fiscal year for products from FY 2005 to FY 2008 assessment and for Green Product evaluation — into a single and are continuing these activities. set of standards with even higher levels of consideration for the In FY 2010, which is the first year of the Fujitsu Group environment. We called these Product Environmental Green Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI), we achieved a factor Assessment Regulations, and they have helped to both of 3.2 in comparison with our target of 1.5, significantly exceeding strengthen our Green Product development efforts and make them the target. The main factors were improvements in data-processing more efficient. power and energy efficiency in network products and PC servers. Furthermore, since FY 2004, we have been working on what Since we have already achieved the FY 2012 target of 2.5, we we call “Super Green Product” development for newly developed revised that target upwards for even further improvement. products. Super Green Products are those that meet the required * Eco-efficiency factor: A method for comparing old and new products that conditions for Green Products and are also top class in terms of quantitatively grasps improvements in both product environmental burden and value (functionality and performance). This is an environmental index that low energy consumption and/or 3R design technology, non-use promotes the creation of products that can provide even higher values with even of hazardous substances, packaging materials and use of ecolower environmental burden. friendly materials and technologies. Super Green Products are Basic product specifications products or systems recognized as having superior environmental (functions, performance) Improved characteristics to others we supply or are available on the market. value Product value Starting in FY 2010, the definition of Super Green Product Eco-efficiency (ratio of new to old product) factor ＝ has been revised to be the more strict “being in the top level Environmental burden (ratio of new to old product) Reduced in both energy saving and some other parameter (such as environmental resource saving).” CO2 emissions over burden the product life cycle In FY 2010, another 19 products were recognized as being Super Green Products. * 3R design: Design based on the principles of reduce, reuse and recycle Application to Global Environmentally Friendly Standard Products Mechanism for Green and Super Green Product Evaluation In May 2011, we established an internal standard, the Eco Design STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 Standard, that conforms to the IEC 62075*1 international standard Carry out and strives to meet the environmental requirements of the market*2. Carry out Product Carry out Green Environmental Product Evaluation evaluation based Fujitsu PCs and servers are designed in both Japan and Assessment on Super Green Product definition Europe and are provided globally. We are moving forward globally with product environmental friendliness with this round Must score 90+ Environmental of standards unification. total evaluation features satisfy the points Super Green Product definition *1 IEC 62075 international standard: A product life cycle environmental design Super Green Product standard for video, audio, information, and communications equipment. This (product with superior standard was published in January 2008 and established as JIS C 9914 in July environmental consideration) 2010 in Japan. All evaluation criteria satisfied *2 Covered equipment: PCs, servers, and storage systems. Green Product (product with enhanced environmental consideration) 45 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Super Green Product Development Examples SPARC Enterprise M3000 PRIMEQUEST 1400S2 IPCOM EX2500 Series UNIX Server Mission-Critical IA Server Network Server Energy savings Energy savings Energy savings Conforms to the standards of the Japanese 2011 Energy Conforms to the standards of the Japanese 2011 Reduces power consumption by 78% per unit Conservation Law and reduces maximum power Energy Conservation Law and reduces operating performance, achieves an eco-efficiency factor of consumption by 53% compared to earlier products. power consumption by 70% compared to earlier 7.49 and an environmental burden of 0.37. products. Uses the 80Plus Gold power supply. 3R design technology 3R design technology Weight reduced by 51% and volume reduced by 52% 3R design technology Weight reduced by 41% and volume reduced by compared to earlier products. Weight reduced by 82% and volume reduced by 91%. 53%. ESPRIMO D570/B ScanSnap S1100 SR-S316TL1 Desktop PC Color Image Scanner Secure Switch Energy savings Energy savings Energy savings Reduces operating power consumption by 20% or Reduces sleep mode power consumption by 77.6% Achieves an efficiency that is 300% of the energy more compared to earlier products and by 50% or compared to the international Energy Star consumption efficiency target standard and reduces more compared to the international Energy Star guidelines, reduces operating power consumption power consumption by 87% compared to earlier guidelines. Provides a power outlet linked to the by 44.4% compared to earlier products, and reduces products. on/off state of the display power supply. standby mode power consumption by 64.2% (compared to DC power operation). 3R design technology 3R design technology Weight reduced by 80% and volume by 82.5% 3R design technology compared to earlier products. Four or fewer types of plastic used in the chassis. Achieves the world’s lowest class in chassis volume, a weight reduction of 78.0% compared to earlier Chemicals Chemicals products, and volume and parts counts reductions of Halogen-free materials used for the chassis plastics. Lead-free solder is used in all printed circuit boards. 79.6% and 24.6%, respectively. Chemicals Using LED light sources (eliminating mercury additives) SG-2110 Palm Vein Recognition Unit MBH7WLZ23 FTR-K3L Room Access Control System Wireless LAN Module Power Relay Energy savings Energy savings Energy savings Operating power per unit performance reduced by Standby mode power reduced by 41% compared to Achieves a standby mode power consumption of 0 W half for faster recognition. competing products. in a self-maintaining relay. Chemicals 3R design technology Chemicals Weight reduced by 30% or more and volume by 10% Achieves the top level of miniaturization in its field. Lead-free solder used and contains no materials or more compared to earlier products. covered by REACH regulations. Chemicals Halogen-free materials used for printed circuit boards. WEB Table of Recognized Super Green Products (in Japanese) http://jp.fujitsu.com/solutions/eco/products/sgp/ 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 46 Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Benefiting customers and society Pursuing internal reforms Conserving biodiversity Eco-Friendly Products Carrying Out Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) The Fujitsu Group has made it obligatory to perform LCAs for all Environmental Efforts Example 1 its Green Products. Calculation standards have been formulated Efforts to Making Networks Greener for each product family, and the Group efficiently evaluates the It is estimated that, due to increases in network traffic, power environmental burdens of its products using its own database*. consumption in network equipment in Japan will be 13 times Performing LCAs makes it possible to determine which parts larger in 2025 than it was in 2006. Thus rapid increase in power of a product’s life cycle account for the greatest proportion of the consumption in this equipment is an issue of concern. environmental burden, so that environmentally friendly products To reduce our customers’ environmental burden through saving (see page 45) can be designed effectively. We also apply the energy in network products, we have been working to develop energyexpertise developed through our LCA activities to calculate the saving technologies from five standpoints: (1) devices, (2) systems, eco-efficiency factor, and are actively using this as a tool for (3) whole networks, (4) network construction and operation, and (5) communicating with our customers. solutions that use networks. We develop, for example, access transport * Our Own Database: This is our own unique database of unit values, created by systems and optical expansion wireless units as products that incorporate Fujitsu Laboratories based on input-output tables. a wide range of energy-saving technologies. At the same time as saving IPCOM EX2500 LCA Improvement Effects (CO2 emission) our customers significant amounts in operating and maintenance costs, Materials Manufacturing Distribution Use Disposal/Recycling these products contribute to making the whole network “greener.” (%) Access Transport System * Energy savings: Complies with 120 Flashwave 2440 Series the FY 2011 standards in the 100 Japanese Energy Conservation Law. Power consumption is 80 Power consumption improvements reduced by 64% compared to led to a use stage improvement of 63%. earlier products. 60 * 3R design technology: Weight Improvement effect: 63% was reduced by 62% and volume 40 overall reduction. by 66% compared to earlier products. 20 Weight reduction led to a 0 materials stage improvement of 9%. Environmental Efforts Example 2 Developing and Providing Software that Saves Energy –20 During ICT Operation IPCOM S2400 IPCOM EX2500 (Earlier product) (Evaluation product) Energy-saving effects during operation can be obtained in ICT equipment such as servers, storage units, and networks by combining effectively with appropriate software. Environmental Labeling and For example, we supply a variety of software that reduces power Information Disclosure consumption, including software to manage the state of energyWe actively disclose environmental information on our products, saving settings on PCs for the office*1, software to automate power both via the Internet and in the form of environmental labels. on/off, business operation, backup, and power supply control in Since the end of FY 2006, we have registered notebook servers for the data center*2, and software to monitor whether the personal computers under the EPEAT*1 system, which encourages power is turned off in servers not in the operating state and to keep the purchase of green PCs and is used chiefly by US government the number of powered on servers to an absolute minimum*3. In, bodies. Product environmental information for computers, for example, software to build private cloud environments*4, we contribute to energy saving by unified management of integration, magnetic disk devices, displays, printers, scanners, and mobile operation, and monitoring phones covered by green purchasing laws*2 is published on the networks, servers, storage and Ministry of the Environment’s website*3, while the equivalent other systems and increasing the information for computers, displays, printers and scanners efficiency of resource utilization. conforming to the ENERGY STAR Program in Japan is published on We are also working on the website of the Energy Conservation Center, Japan*4. developing software that achieves *1 EPEAT website: http://www.epeat.net/ further environmental burden *2 Green purchasing laws: Laws related to promoting the purchase of eco-friendly reductions by using the aboveCloud infrastructure management goods and products by the country or other parties. software monitoring screen for mentioned software to achieve server temperature and power *3 Ministry of the Environment’s website: http://www.env.go.jp/en/laws/policy/green/index.html energy savings. monitoring *4 Energy Conservation Center, Japan website: *1 Using Systemwalker Desktop Patrol V14g http://eccj06.eccj.or.jp/cgi-bin/enestar/pub_productsE.php *2 Using Systemwalker Runbook Automation *3 Using Systemwalker Centric Manager *4 For example, cloud infrastructure management software, ServerView Resource Orchestrator, and ETERNUS SF. 47 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Benefiting customers and society Pursuing internal reforms Conserving biodiversity Reducing Chemical Substances in Products We cooperate with our business partners in striving for strict management of chemical substances whose use is restricted by laws and regulations in Japan and overseas, as well as of other potentially harmful substances. Management of Restricted Chemical Substances Controlling Substances of Concern in Products The Fujitsu Group Specified Reportable Substances list includes The Fujitsu Group designates substances that are harmful to substances that are REACH regulation*1 candidate substances*2, people and the environment and whose use is either prohibited or and we collect information on substance amounts from suppliers regulated by law as “Fujitsu Group Specified Banned Substances.” and then manage these quantities on a per-product basis. Moreover, We provide products that do not contain such substances by strictly the Specified Controlled Substances list also includes data from prohibiting their use in our products and by working to eliminate suppliers on amounts for substances that may not be restricted by them through our green procurement programs. every country’s regulations, but which we consider to be of concern. We also recognize that minimizing the risks posed by certain As far as PVC is concerned, we not only control the amounts chemicals is of the highest priority in ensuring our customers’ included in our products but also require in our Green Procurement safety. For this purpose, we designate substances suspected of Direction that it be used as little as possible, and restrict its use in being harmful (Substances of Concern) as “Fujitsu Group Specified everything except sheathing for cables and insulating materials for Controlled Substances,” or “Fujitsu Group Specified Reportable electronic components. Substances,” and, based on principle of prevention, we manage *1 REACH regulation: Regulation concerning the Registration, Evaluation, the amounts included so that we can transition to forbidding Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals *2 REACH candidate substances: Selected chemical substances with properties their use in stages as the danger of these specified substances (carcinogenicity, mutagenicity, reproductive toxicity, etc.) regulated by REACH. If becomes clear. these substances are present in products, data on the amounts must be displayed. This effort is not limited to Japan but also applies to global regulations on chemical substances included in products. Contributing to Creating Mechanisms for Chemical Substance Management Management of Chemical Substances Restricted In the Fujitsu Group, we see efforts towards chemical substance or Banned by Law management as an issue for the whole supply chain and so we The Fujitsu Group defines legally regulated substances as “Fujitsu participate in activities such as the Joint Article Management PromotionGroup Specified Banned Substances,” and provides products that do consortium (JAMP) and the Japan Green Procurement Survey not contain them. Standardization Initiative (JGPSSI) industry groups and are studying how We have also established Fujitsu Group Green Procurement to configure a means of transmitting information efficiently. Direction (see page 61) and strengthen control of the chemicals Among these industry groups, we have been an active member in our products by requiring our suppliers to construct chemical of JAMP since its foundation. We were involved from the planning management systems (CMSs). stages with the input format and entry support tools for the AIS In response to regulations such as the RoHS Directive*, we (article information sheet), which is an included chemical substance have taken systematic action covering the entire supply chain by information transmission sheet, and also participated in creating constructing a system headed by our product business division and guidelines for appropriate management of included chemical including our quality assurance, purchasing, and environmental substances and in practical education for business partners to divisions, to manage chemical substances from design through promote the use of AIS throughout the industry. Furthermore, to delivery. we are in charge of activities promoting the use of the JAMP * RoHS Directive: Restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical information distribution infrastructure (JAMP-IT), which supports and electric equipment information exchange requests from multiple companies to create an environment for the smooth transmission of information. Framework for RoHS Compliance Fujitsu Using ICT to Control the Chemicals in Our Products From requesting surveys by outside organizations through to Environmental Division gathering information by our own efforts, the Fujitsu Group maintains 4. Confirmation of legal compliance 5. Confirmation an integrated system for managing the information on the chemicals contained in the components and materials it purchases from its 1. Requirement for non-inclusion Shipment Product suppliers throughout its supply chain. Further, we use the large Suppliers Customers Purchasing Business 8. Shipment Division decision volumes of chemical-related data we collect to calculate amounts on Division meeting 2. Proof of compliance 9. Confirmation a per-product basis, pinpointing the amounts of restricted chemicals of shipment at the product level and managing them accordingly. 6. Incoming inspection Delivery 7. Periodic auditing of The Group also offers an environmental business solution Fujitsu factories 3. Auditing of suppliers called PLEMIA/ECODUCE, a software package that utilizes this inQuality Assurance Division house expertise. Management of the Restricted chemical substances in products: * Fujitsu Group companies are also constructing their own frameworks based WEB on the above. http://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/products/chemical/ The PLEMIA/ECODUCE website (in Japanese) http://jp.fujitsu.com/solutions/plm/pdm/plemia/option-04.html 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 48 Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Benefiting customers and society Pursuing internal reforms Conserving biodiversity Promoting Product Recycling We are advancing collection and recycling of end-of-life ICT products from a global perspective to help create a recycling-minded society. Basic Approach disassembling at our booth and were honored by a visit from Recycling Activities that Conform to the Concept of Germany’s environment minister. Producer Responsibility Moreover, since 2008 Fujitsu Technology Solution’s South In accordance with the concept of Extended Producer Responsibility Africa office has been collaborating with local waste-management (EPR*), under which the producer’s responsibility for its products companies to collect and recycle from corporate and individual is not limited to the product design and manufacturing stages customers all products of any brand, including monitors, printers, but extends to the disposal and recycling stages as well, the mobile phones, desktop PCs, notebook PCs, calculators, TVs, and Fujitsu Group carries out recycling programs that comply with the DVD equipment. This is the first time an ICT company has provided waste disposal and recycling laws and regulations of the various such a service in South Africa. countries in which it operates. We also try to do as much collection, reuse and recycling as we can even in countries where recycling is not obligatory, in line with the concept of Individual Producer Responsibility (IPR), which sees each producer as responsible for its own products. IPR is a major challenge for the Fujitsu Group in expanding its business globally, but we believe that responding to this challenge and that of EPR in collaboration with industry associations and Large recycling bin installed at a public site in governments will enable us to help create a recycling-minded South Africa society in which the requirements and demands of all stakeholders are met. Also at other overseas sites we have linked up with local * EPR: Extended Producer Responsibility. The view that the manufacturer’s recycling partner companies and promoted the recycling of ICT responsibility lies not only in product design and manufacture but also extends products. to the disposal and recycling phases. This concept was made explicit in Japan’s Fundamental Law for Establishing a Sound Material-Cycle Society enacted in •Singapore: Fujitsu PC Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. (FPCA) (Starting in 2007) June 2000. •Brazil: Fujitsu do Brazil Ltda. (FBR) (Starting in 2010) •Australia: Fujitsu Australia Ltd. (FAL) (Starting in 2006) Promotion on a Global Scale •South Korea: Fujitsu Korea Ltd. (FKL)(Starting in 2003) The Fujitsu Group recycles products in EMEA and the Americas (the United States, Canada, and Brazil) and Asia (Singapore, the Promotion in Japan Philippines, Australia, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and South Korea). As an enterprise with official designation for wide-area industrial waste disposal in Japan, Fujitsu engages in various kinds of Overseas Activities Example contracts for accepting industrial waste for appropriate processing. EMEA: Fujitsu Technology Solutions (Holding) B.V. (FTS) We have established Fujitsu recycling centers throughout Japan Through its partner companies, Fujitsu Technology Solutions to create a nationwide recycling system. This system provides for (Holding) B.V. (FTS) recycles waste ICT products for corporate and rigorous traceability and security, and achieves a high resource individual customers in 27 countries in the EU, as well as in Norway reuse rate. By providing this safe and secure service, we are fully and Switzerland. In addition, since 1988 at Paderborn, the Group’s discharging our Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR). own recycling center in Germany, we have been contributing to the reuse of waste resources by disassembling products by hand so we Fujitsu Recycling Centers Throughout Japan can precisely classify and then appropriately recycle the materials. ■ Fujitsu Recycling Center In 2010 we processed 5,037 ● Affiliated Recycling Center Sapporo tons of waste ICT products and Fujitsu Chubu Area Recycling Center (FDK Ecotec) achieved a resource reuse rate of 96.3%. Fujitsu West Japan Recycling Center (Fujitsu Peripherals Limited) Fujitsu East Japan To disseminate these Recycling Center activities widely, at CeBIT 2010, Fujitsu Kyushu Recycling Center (FIT Frontier) (ECHO Electronic the world’s largest ICT related Industry Co., Ltd.) Kanazawa trade show held in Germany, Fujitsu Metropolitan Area Sagamihara Recycling Center we both presented our recycling (Fujitsu Kasei Recycle Limited) Visitor experiencing PC disassembly in efforts and demonstrated PC the FTS environmental booth. Okinawa 49 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Achievements in Collecting and Recycling End-of-Life Providing Product Recycling Information ICT Products In order to properly dispose of end-of-life ICT products, since FY Although the volume of materials collected is declining due to 2004 Fujitsu has been operating a digital management system for progress in miniaturization and reduced product weights, we its product disassembly manual. processed 6,406 tons of recycled ICT products from corporate Through this system, Fujitsu recycling centers can download customers in FY 2010, and achieved a resource reuse rate of 90.6%. from our in-Group website as animated disassembly manuals Also, we have now collected a total of 74,231 end-of-life PCs from all the information they need to recycle products. In addition to individual customers. providing a downloadable products disassembly manual, the system provides instructions on how to deal with items containing Promoting Recycling restricted chemical substances and plastic materials, and with Experienced workers carefully disassemble collected products by products that contain customer data. hand and separate the materials into categories such as steel, copper, aluminum, precious metals, glass and 20 different types of plastic. They also strive to raise their manual disassembly standards through the use of animated disassembly manuals. Materials recognition equipment has been introduced for plastics that are difficult to discriminate, so as to allow the complete segregation of different types of plastic. In addition to minimizing the quantity of Electronic Disassembly Manual Animated disassembly manuals waste materials in this way, we are continually trying to turn them Management System back into resources that can be reused to make products. Also, to keep our customers informed of these initiatives, we Developing a Traceability System distribute ballpoint pens and folders made from recycled plastic at We developed an integrated recycling information management exhibitions and other events, as well as demonstrating PCs being system and since FY 2007 have adopted it at the Fujitsu recycling manually disassembled. centers. This system prevents theft and illegal dumping by attaching barcodes to customers’ ICT products and managing data on the history of the recycling process from acceptance at the recycling center through disassembly and destruction of the hard disks on a per-customer basis. Targets and Achievements in Stage VI of the Environmental Protection Program The target was to sustain 90% resource reuse rate* of business ICT Plastic material identification equipment Ballpoint pens and folders made from equipment globally at Fujitsu recycling centers, and in FY 2010 the recycled plastic achievement was 93.3% (90.6% within Japan and 96.3% overseas). * Resource reuse rate: The ratio of the amount (by weight) of recycled parts and resources to the amount of end-of-life business ICT products processed. Fujitsu Integrated Recycling Process Customer Recycling center Plastic parts Crushing Plastic raw materials End-of-life ICT Crushing and ABS, PS, and PC (plastics manufacturers) products and others Conversion to Covers Polystyrene Regenerated pellets Products and pallets dissolving Plastic films compact pellets foam and bags PE, PP, PS Foamed plastic Mixed plastics Blast furnace reduced Manual disassembly shock-absorbing materials Covers (with metal parts) (steel plants) Metal parts Compressing and compacting Metals Steel, stainless steel, (metal parts aluminum, copper, cables, manufacturers) Sorting Wire and cables hard disks and cases Printed circuit Materials that include precious metals Precious metal recovery board connectors CPUs, ICs, motherboards (refining plants) Crushing and reduction Glass materials Displays LCD glass, CRT glass (glass manufacturers) 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 50 Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Benefiting customers and society Pursuing internal reforms Conserving biodiversity Solutions that Benefit the Environment We are working globally to provide solutions that reduce our customers’ and society’s environmental burdens through creating our own certification system for Environmentally Conscious Solutions. Basic Approach * 100% coverage of divisions and regions: Refers to implementing environmentally conscious solutions in five divisions (industry, transportation, business, home, The Vital Importance of Using ICT to Reduce CO2 and energy) and four regions (Japan, Europe, USA, and Asia/Pacific). To reduce the amount of greenhouse gas emissions worldwide, efforts will be needed to reduce power consumption and to develop Making CO2 Reductions by ICT Visible the environmental technologies required and to radically reform In FY 2010 we introduced mechanisms for our sales and SE staff to the way people live and work. To achieve these innovations, ICT quickly calculate the effect of environmental burden reduction by has an indispensible and ever increasing role to play in reducing ICT for customers who adopt it and to present that effect clearly to environmental burdens. It will be critically important to take full the customer. advantage of such ICT in the future. First, we created a proposal template that shows the standard For example, CO2 emissions can be reduced by Internet CO2 reduction amount for Fujitsu Group products and solutions teleconferencing that reduces the transportation of people and deployed this within the Company. Next, we developed an and things. environmental contribution calculation web tool and started The Fujitsu Group sees ICT as the way to reduce environmental using it within Fujitsu in October 2010. This tool uses a procedure burdens (which we call “Green by ICT”) and we are globally developed by Fujitsu Laboratories Ltd. for quantitatively assessing promoting the provision of leading-edge green ICT to reduce the the effect of environmental burden reduction (in terms of reduced burdens of society as a whole. CO2 emissions) when Environmentally Conscious Solutions are certified. This tool makes it easy for sales staff to calculate the Action Policy amount of CO2 reduced by ICT when customers adopt it. Concern for the Environment in Every Aspect of the Furthermore, to increase the use of these proposal templates Solutions Business and the environmental contribution calculation web tool by sales We believe that we must actively promote the reduction of and SE staff, we held briefing sessions on effective ways to use environmental burdens by using ICT to achieve the CO2 reduction them and gave in-house awards for proposals that incorporated CO2 targets in our Green Policy Innovation initiative. reduction amounts and reduction ratios. As a result, we were able Therefore, while we aim to increase still further the number to achieve CO2 reductions by ICT adoption in many business cases of products and services that both solve business problems and over a wide range of business types, including manufacturing, reduce environmental burdens, as we were already doing, in FY distribution, banking, and health care. We are using these 2010 we aimed to emphasize the quantitative reduction of burdens examples of CO2 reduction as reference material when customers our proposals will achieve and give examples of their effectiveness are considering the reduction in environmental burden that they when adopted. We also took the environment into consideration in will achieve by adopting ICT. all the business processes involved in providing solutions. In FY 2011, we named this environmental contribution calculation web tool EcoCALC. As we continue to improve its ease Efforts in FY 2010 of use, we will expand its target usage from within the group to Increasing the Certification of Environmentally our business partners. Additionally, we will disseminate and share Conscious Solutions superlative examples of CO2 reduction by adopting ICT both within Ever since FY 2004, we have assessed the quantitative reduction and outside Fujitsu to expand the area in which we promote ICT to in environmental burdens (in terms of reduced CO2 emissions) reduce environmental burdens. achieved when our solutions are adopted, and we certify products and services that exceed the required standard as Environmentally EcoCALC, which calculates CO2 emissions reduction effects Conscious Solutions. In FY 2010, we certified 33 new items, bringing the total to 230. While increasing the number of these certified products and services, we aim to indicate the CO2 reduction ratio for all our solutions. Global Efforts To proactively offer solutions that reduce environmental burdens in Europe and the Asia/Pacific region, we started full-scale overseas operation of our certification system for Environmentally Conscious Solutions in FY 2010. This was when we shared the evaluation procedures used in Japan for Environmentally Conscious Solutions and examples of their application with the heads of our key overseas centers and established the certification system. We are The EcoCALC screen aiming at 100% coverage of divisions and regions*, which is a target of our Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI) by FY 2012. 51 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Adoption Example Shizuoka Telecasting Co., Ltd. Updating the Platform for the TV station’s Core System for Editing, Sales, and Broadcasting and Reducing Power Consumption by Half Strengthening their ICT foundations became a critical issue for When we proposed this platform update, we made use of TV stations in handling new services such as terrestrial digital our environmental contribution calculation web tool. We showed broadcasting and 1seg (One Seg) broadcasting, and in supporting the numerically that this update would provide large benefits in terms July 2011 transition to fully digital broadcasting, Shizuoka Telecasting, of reducing both power consumption and CO2 emissions and made which broadcasts to Shizuoka Prefecture, upgraded their platform for proposals that combined cost reduction and environmental benefits. editing, sales, and broadcasting in November 2010. This editing, sales, We expect that this upgrade can reduce CO2 emissions by 51.6% and broadcasting system is the core system that handles TV station compared with the previous system. This corresponds to an annual CO2 business operations, from creating TV program schedules and time reduction equivalent to that of about 950 cedar trees. management for programs and commercials to issuing bills. In updating their system, Shizuoka Telecasting adopted leadingVoice edge platforms including a Fujitsu SPARC Enterprise UNIX server. At Sakio Sato the same time as implementing an ICT foundation that provides the Director for Information Technology, high quality and reliability required in the core system, we added Shizuoka Telecasting functionality such as fault prediction and detection to allow business We are grateful to Fujitsu for their proposals that operations to continue even if a natural disaster or fault occurs. Also, dealt with functional aspects and provided cost Fujitsu’s SupportDesk Standard maintenance and operations service reductions. makes 365-day/24-hour stable operation possible. While we optimized Until now, we had not really considered power it with a view towards future upgrades of the whole system, we also consumption, but Fujitsu rendered visible the reduced ICT operating costs. amount of CO2 reductions and electricity savings, which were useful reference materials in deciding to adopt the system. Adoption Example The Hokuriku Bank, Ltd. Achieving a 40% CO2 Reduction by Updating the System that Handles the Bank’s Daily Business As a regional bank representative of the Hokuriku area, the Hokuriku When we investigated the CO2 reduction effect of the new system Bank provides community-based financial services. They upgraded operated in this way, we found that it provides an effective reduction in their internal business system in February 2011. As one of their CO2 by about 119 tons per year, which corresponds to a 40% reduction. goals, in addition to increasing management efficiency and reducing operating costs, they also hoped to reduce their environmental burden. Voice For this bank, increasing the environmental efficiency of systems Akira Watanabe used in daily business was an important issue because it proactively Construction and Design Team Head promotes environmental protection activities and aims at reducing Management Control Division, their energy consumption by 1% per year and 5% over five years in The Hokuriku Bank, Ltd. accordance with the Japanese revised Energy Conservation Law, which Our bank has already pushed forward with a came into effect in April 2010. variety of approaches to reduce our environmental In upgrading their system, while concentrating the very large burden, including the installation of solar panels, number of servers installed at the various banking offices in one growing greenery on rooftops, and switching business systems center, they adopted Fujitsu green products. to LED lighting. As part of that effort we have been searching for a Furthermore, they switched to a mechanism in which virtual desktops mechanism to reduce our environmental burden within the bank. (including PC OS and application software) are provided on the servers While the main aims of this system update were to increase in the business systems center and the staff access that software from efficiency and reduce costs, the effect of reducing environmental their individual PCs. This created a system that can be used efficiently. burdens was also one that we could not overlook. I hope that in the As a result, the required ICT resources can be maintained while the future we can review our air conditioning and other equipment number of physical servers, the power consumed and their cost, could and facilities. be significantly reduced. 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 52 Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Benefiting customers and society Pursuing internal reforms Conserving biodiversity Providing Environmental Solutions We provide solutions that support both implementing and improving environmental management so that our customers can achieve both their management strategies and reduced environmental burdens. Basic Approach Environmental Solution Example Environmental Solutions that Support our Customers’ Starting to Provide Energy-Saving Solutions Environmental Management According to the revisions of the Japanese Energy Conservation In the context of increasingly severe economic crises and Law that went into effect in April 2010, every individual business environmental problems, our customers must promote environmental operator whose total annual energy use exceeded 1,500 kl when management that aims at establishing management strategies and converted to its crude-oil equivalent must report that usage to the reductions in environmental burdens. Both are essential if they are to government. As a result, there were businesses mainly involved in maintain and continue their business. office work and manufacturers owning medium-sized factories who We at Fujitsu provide environmental solutions to support did not previously have to file but were now required to report this our customers’ environmental management. We evaluate our usage. Furthermore, businesses subject to this law are required to customers’ environmental activities and we “render visible” make efforts to improve energy efficiency by at least 1% on average issues that must be improved in an integrated manner from a per year. For corporations, in addition to complying with such legal management standpoint. We propose measures that resolve obligations, saving energy is a critical issue that they must face environmental issues in a way that conforms with our customers’ from the standpoints of both CSR and cost reduction. business strategies. Furthermore, our efforts are not limited to Therefore, in FY 2010, we released “energy-saving solutions” evaluating the current situation and proposing measures; we that combine tools and processes to resolve such problems. also support continuously increasing the level of our customers’ First, processes form a foundation in which we iterate the environmental management by iterating the PDCA cycle. PDCA cycle, and this becomes the cornerstone of energy-saving When implementing an environmental solution, we propose activities. Even if a business simply introduced new equipment, optimal combinations of products and services from our extensive collected and tabulated energy consumption data from each lineup that marshals Fujitsu’s rich experience and know-how, division, and reported that to the government to deal with the including the collection and analysis of environmental information revised Energy Conservation Law, this would be mere compliance from within the organization, chemical substances management, with the law and would not be a true resolution of the problem. facilities infrastructure management, and office power The essential aspects here are saving energy and reducing costs consumption management. Various Energy-Saving Solutions Provided by Fujitsu On the Office Floor Cost reductions through management of printed records, electronic documents, and space saving •EcoGate Print — authorized printing solution •RAKU-RAKU Library — document filing Management Level, General Affairs, and software Environment Divisions •Facility Cube — ancillary facility all-in-one Implementing energy management server rack •SLIMOFFICE — environmental management information system that supports the revised Energy Conservation Law In Meeting Rooms Reducing business travel costs by reducing personnel travel •Internet Navigware — e-learning solution Facilities Control Room •JoinMeeting — Web teleconferencing service Reducing power and costs in facilitie (such as office buildings, factories, data centers) •EDRAS for Windows — facilities In Server Rooms management system Reducing electricity costs for ICT equipment •Futuric/SX Series — building management systems •Systemwalker Desktop Patrol V 14g — PC resource management, security, and power •Green Infrastructure Solutions saving measures •SupportDesk Maintenance Service Plus — Electricity saving status management Energy Saving Support and Consulting Contributing to saving electricity through a variety of consulting options that support reducing power consumption •Server room environmental diagnostic service •Sales premises environmental * Fujitsu energy-saving solutions support a wide diagnostic service range of workplaces, including offices, •Green facility service conference rooms, and server rooms, and support •Medium and long-term planning saving energy, reducing environmental burdens, support service and cutting costs (in personnel, physical objects, and transportation). Electricity and Energy Saving Solutions WEB (in Japanese) http://jp.fujitsu.com/solutions/eco/energy 53 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT by implementing the whole process of rendering the data visible, services provided by Fujitsu Facilities Ltd. For the phase in which analysis, forming a plan, and taking any required measures. Also, the necessary measures are implemented, we provide an extensive after taking the required steps to check the effect, they must also set of Fujitsu tools, including electronic document creation, collect and tabulate data and aim for further improvements. We at management of printed records, and videoconferencing tools. Fujitsu support our customers in implementing this Infinity Loop These processes and tools form two-fold support and powerful back (shown in the accompanying figure). up for our customers’ daily energy saving efforts. Additionally, it is important to increase the motivation of each The “Infinity Loop” that Promotes Energy Savings and Cost Reductions and every employee to achieve energy savings. Fujitsu doesn’t just render data visible to those in charge of energy savings, we also Establishing consider it important to make this data visible to employees. For Performing a plan appropriate example, by creating a mechanism that displays the previous day’s measures energy usage when an employee arrives at work and first turns on Reporting Saving energy and his or her PC, it becomes possible to rank individuals or divisions educing costs and to recognize individuals or divisions that achieve energy Complying with Analysis laws and saving targets. Raising the interest and motivation of employees Data regulations Rendering with positive approaches such as this can be effective in leading tabulation visible Data to successful energy saving efforts. We will continue to work to collection improve our support for our customers’ energy saving efforts through processes, tools, and proposals that lead to increased Furthermore, tools are necessary to actually iterate the PDCA employee motivation. cycle in accordance with the process. For example, we use the As an electricity-saving measure associated with the Great East SLIMOFFICE environmental management information system in Japan Earthquake, we started an energy-saving advice service in data collection and tabulation, reporting, and rendering visible. We June 2011 through which we can provide the Fujitsu Group’s energy support the analysis and forming of phased plans with consulting saving know-how to our customers. Adoption Example Dainippon Screen Mfg. Co., Ltd. Consolidated management of environmental management information achieved and data collection and tabulating work load reduced by 20% Dainippon Screen, which develops and manufactures printing Fujitsu’s know-how and can easily create the materials required for equipment and manufacturing equipment for semiconductor and environmental reporting documents and the regular reports that must display products, had previously managed their energy consumption be filed under Japan’s revised Energy Conservation Law. on a per business site basis. The enormous amount of work required As a result of adopting SLIMOFFICE EX, in addition to consolidating to organize the data was a burden when their environment and safety management of relevant information and becoming able to analyze promotion division assembled the data for every business site. its environmental activities, Dainippon Screen was able to reduce the Here, after looking into the systematizing of this work, the superiority amount of work associated with data collection and tabulation by of a standard template and pricing became evident and the customer about 20% and its CO2 emissions by 13%. adopted the Fujitsu SLIMOFFICE EX environmental management system. Furthermore, in July 2010, Dainippon Screen acquired the world’s Dainippon Screen started using this system in 2009. first international certification for the ISO 50001 energy management SLIMOFFICE EX is a dedicated software system for consolidated system of their Rakusai business site. In addition to support for ISO management and analysis of the entire process from the collection of 50001, we also plan to apply the SLIMOFFICE EX software system environmental performance data through environmental accounting. to activities other than environmental ones, for example labor and This system implements our standard template, which assembles safety management. Overview of SLIMOFFICE EX Entry of SLIMOFFICE EX Environmental management index • Index for the management level Table management Tabulation and analysis • Feedback to each department management data Corporate headquarters — • Addition and modification of new spreadsheets • Data conversion (CO2 emissions conversions) Rendering visible ISO Executive Office • Setup and other operations for departments • Tabulation (for the whole company and each and data collection items division and period) • Consolidated management of questionnaires • Table creation All types of report • Graph creation • Government reporting forms Entry of environmental • Environmental management index calculation • CSR reports environmental performance Various departments at English-language support corporate headquarters • Standard ledger sheet output • Stockholder meeting materials • Data input and input assistance Workflow Support Environmental Management data for each department Database • Approval flow setup • Target achievement status Branch office, factory • Environmental performance data • Automatic reminders • Records and documents • Environmental accounting data • Progress verification • Management data • Access to results in real time Overseas site 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 54 Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Benefiting customers and society Pursuing internal reforms Conserving biodiversity Efforts to Prevent Global Warming We are examining all of our business operations in our efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions——not only factories and offices but also transportation and the products and services we provide. Basic Approach Reduction of CO2 Emissions due to Energy Consumption We are working to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases CO2 emissions due to energy consumption are responsible for about associated with all our Group business activities. These efforts 85% of the Fujitsu Group’s greenhouse gas emissions. include reducing emissions of CO2 due to energy consumption and Therefore, we continuously work to improve the following other greenhouse gases at our factories and offices and reducing energy-saving measures to reduce CO2 emissions. emissions associated with transportation (see page 62). • Energy-saving equipment, focusing on motive-power facilities Furthermore, we are working to prevent global warming (introduction of free cooling, inverters, energy-saving facilities, throughout all areas of business activity by contributing to reduced fuel conversion, etc.) emissions of greenhouse gases by our customers, industry, and • Increased efficiencies through revised manufacturing processes, society in general by developing Green Products and Super Green accompanied by proper motive-power facility operation and Products (see page 45) that contribute to reducing environmental improvement of management burdens and by providing IT solutions (see page 51). • Adjusting appropriate room temperature for office air conditioning, saving electricity for lighting and office automation equipment Preventing Global Warming from the Business Site • Promotion of the measurement and visualization of energy Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Targets consumption and proactive use of that data We have set “reducing our total greenhouse gas emission by 6% • Use of natural energy sources such as solar power by the end of FY 2012 compared with FY 1990 (the breakdown for total emissions is a 5% reduction in CO2 due to energy consumption Further, we set up a new Low Carbon Committee (see page 66) and a 20% reduction in gasses other than CO2)” as a goal of the at the corporate level in September 2008, establishing reduction Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI). targets for each business unit. Stronger measures to achieve these Our actual total emissions for FY 2010 globally were about 1.185 targets follow reforms to processes and equipment (in mounting, million tons, which is a reduction of about 128 thousand tons from assembly and testing) and the development of new technologies. the previous fiscal year and an 11.7% reduction from FY 1990. Moreover, our Capital Investment Guidelines define the economic and environmental criteria for investment as we identify and Trends in Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions urgently implement priority measures. (whole group and global) As a result, our actual energy-consumption CO2 emissions CO2 emissions in Japan CO2 emissions outside Japan Emissions other than CO2 (10,000 tons) for FY 2010 were about 1.014 million tons (958 thousand tons in 200 Japan, 56 thousand tons outside Japan), which corresponds to a 189.4 Target total 27 thousand ton reduction from the previous fiscal year and a 6.4% emissions: 166.8 Target total 6% reduction from FY 1990. emissions: reduction 54.9 3% 150 42.8 reduction Reference 134.2 131.3 130.2 126.1 levels Other than Activities Example 25.9 19.8 118.5 CO2: 17.5 27.3 20% Reducing CO2 emissions with outside air cooling and 100 17.1 reduction the adoption of turbo cooling units for air conditioning 4.8 6.9 5.6 CO2 When we upgraded the aging water-cooled chillers at the Fujitsu emissions: Yatsuo Center, we reviewed the facility to determine an appropriate 103.5 114.7 106.6 97.1 95.8 5% 50 reduction cooling capacity and upgraded to turbo cooling units with high energy efficiency. In contrast with the COP (energy consumption efficiency) value of 4.1 for the water-cooled chillers, the turbo 0 cooling units have a COP value of 5.7* and achieve a reduction in CO2 1990 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) emissions due to energy savings. (target) (target) Furthermore, we adopted equipment that draws in the cool, * CO2 conversion coefficient for purchased electric power: Calculations have been comparatively damp, outside air that is characteristic of Toyama performed with a fixed value of 0.407 ton of CO2 per MWh since FY 2002 for Prefecture for server room air conditioning. We expect to save an performance reports in our Environmental Protection Program. amount of power roughly equal to that consumed by one server * Greenhouse gases other than CO2: These are converted to equivalent amounts air conditioner during periods when outside air is used. We expect of CO2 using the global warming potential (GWP) of each gas. Our FY 1995 performance is taken to be the emissions in FY 1990. to achieve an annual CO2 emissions reduction of 116 tons through these measures. * The values shown here for the water cooled chillers and outside air cooling are based on actual operating performance and the values for the turbo cooling units are based on the manufacturer’s catalogs. 55 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Reducing Emissions of Greenhouse Gases Other than CO2 Responding to the Japanese Revised Energy Conservation Law The semiconductor industry has established a voluntary action As a result of the revisions to and enforcement of the Japanese plan to reduce the emissions of PFC, HFC and SF6, which are all Energy Conservation Law*1, business operators are now required to greenhouse gases. grasp their annual energy usage at all their business sites in Japan. We in the Fujitsu Group have set a target of reducing emissions In the Fujitsu Group, we use a system (Fujitsu FIP’s SLIMOFFICE) by 10% relative to FY 1995 levels by the end of FY 2010, which is that grasps and tabulates the amount of energy we used in all of the industry target, and furthermore have set a target of a 20% Japan, include the office space we rent, and manages the amount reduction by the end of FY 2012 for the Fujitsu Group Environmental used by each company in the Group. Note that the Fujitsu Group Protection Program (Stage VI). In our semiconductor divisions, includes 26 companies that fall within the class of Specified we have changed to gases with a lower global warming potential Business Operators (businesses whose annual energy usage is in and, for example, continue to install equipment to extract harmful excess of 1,500 kl when converted to a crude oil equivalent value) materials in new and existing fabrication lines. newly stipulated in the revised law. In FY 2010, we reduced the amount of these emissions Also, the amount of energy used by the Group within Japan measured in global warming potential (GWP) equivalent by 101 under the Energy Conservation Law in FY 2010 was 618 thousand thousand tons to about 171 thousand tons by changing gases kl, and that corresponds to CO2 emissions of about 1.096 million used and other measures as well as installing 15 new harmful tons*2 based on the Law Concerning the Promotion of Global materials extraction units. Since this corresponds to a 33.9% Warming Countermeasures*3, which was also revised. reduction compared to FY 1995, we succeeded in achieving the *1 Energy Conservation Law (abbrev.): the Law Concerning the Rational Use industry target. of Energy. *2 About 1.096 million tons: There are differences in ranges for tabulation that include tenants and calculations based on CO2 conversion coefficients for Promoting the Use of Renewable Energy each electric power company for results reporting under our Environmental Although we have adopted renewable energy sources such as Protection Program. *3 A system for calculating, reporting, and disclosing the amount of greenhouse solar generation at some of our business sites, in the Fujitsu gas emissions stipulated by Japan’s Law Concerning the Promotion of Global Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI), we have set Warming Countermeasures. increased use of renewable energy as a new goal, and introduced the target of installing three times as much capacity by the end of Participating in a Trial Emission Trading Scheme FY 2012 as we had in FY 2007. We participated from FY 2008 until FY 2010 in the Japanese In FY 2010, we installed 30 kW of solar generating capacity in government’s domestic emissions trading scheme pilot project, the Fujitsu FIP data center, which opened in December, and 120 kW launched in FY 2008 with the aim of examining further global at FDK TWICELL. This resulted in a total installed capacity of solar warming countermeasures based on a medium to long term generating equipment of 265 kW at the end of FY 2010, which is 4.8 viewpoint. times that of FY 2007. Continuing in FY 2010, we were validated by an external Additionally, we increased our target value to 10 times the FY institution according to the trial emissions trading scheme* pilot 2007 level by the end of FY 2012, based on our current installation project, our emissions level for FY 2009 was verified, and we plans. achieved our targets for the FY 2008 to FY 2009 period. FDK TWICELL manufactures * Trial emissions trading scheme: The principal framework for the trial rechargeable batteries and has implementation of an integrated emissions trading market in Japan. Participants voluntarily establish emission reduction targets and are allowed to supplement implemented a mechanism in their own reduction efforts by trading emission allowances and credits. which solar generated electricity is used for initial charging of Solar panels at FDK TWICELL batteries before shipment. Efforts Related to Scope 3 We have disclosed greenhouse gas emissions due to corporate Cumulative Total of Installed Solar Generation activities through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP)* for many (renewable energy*) years and we are also working to calculate our emissions of Installation through the previous fiscal year New installation in the current fiscal year (Rated capacity, kW) greenhouse gases including those of the supply chain. 600 Target: Currently, the Scope 3 Accounting and Reporting Standard for 550.010Target: times 550.0 10 times calculating emissions from the whole supply chain is being studied for standardization in fall 2011 under the GHG Protocol, which is an 400 international guideline for calculating and reporting greenhouse 265.0 gas emissions. Also, in Japan, the Ministry of the Environment 200 120.0 held an investigative commission on methods for calculating 115.0 30.0 Reference greenhouse gas emissions in the supply chain starting in July 2010. 55.0 65.0 50.0 115.0 10.0 level As a member of the subcommittee on product systems of that 0 55.0 65.0 commission, we collected and assessed the data, and analyzed 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) (target) (target) the precision and completeness of the calculated values. Based on * Renewable energy utilization ratio: Calculated based on the rated capacity of the results of this case study, we are working towards methods for solar generation equipment installed at Fujitsu business sites. calculating the Scope 3 emissions internally. * Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP): A project in which institutional investors and others cooperate to request disclosure of information concerning climate change strategy and greenhouse gas emissions from the world’s leading corporations. 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 56 Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Benefiting customers and society Pursuing internal reforms Conserving biodiversity Reducing Environmental Burdens at the Factory We promote comprehensive environmental protection activities based on the Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI) at the factories that perform our manufacturing. Approach to Reducing Burdens at the Factory factories, as we did before, we first identify the total input of The Group continually strives to reduce the quantities of materials, materials (raw materials, chemical additives, etc.) and energy water resources, and energy used at its factories, as well as into the process, together with their purchasing costs, and then the amounts of chemicals and waste materials generated and establish our own original CG (Cost Green) index*. Based on this, atmospheric pollutants emitted, while trying to minimize we then set quarterly or semiannual reduction targets (planned manufacturing costs. It also takes a rigorous approach to complying values) at the production line level for each factory and evaluate with laws and regulations and eliminating environmental risks. the degree of attainment of these targets while going through the PDCA cycle. Based on the results, we try to continually improve Promotion of Green Process Activities in the our production processes through initiatives like introducing new Semiconductor Fabrication Process manufacturing technology, revising our processes, and improving In the Fujitsu Group, we promote Green Process activities, which the work procedures. implement, in coordination with cost-saving activities, measures Also, for activities other than those for manufacturing such as optimizing the energy and amount of raw materials used in processes at factories, if promoting the activity in coordination with manufacturing processes and switching to alternative components the manufacturing process would be more efficient, we adopt the with lower environmental burdens. CG index (Cost/Green index) approach in those activities as well. Previously, we promoted Green Process activities at all Fujitsu * CG index: Cost/Green index: This index describes the product of input volume used Group manufacturing sites. However, starting in FY 2010, we have, per product, the cost, and the environmental impact (on a scale from 1 to 10). based on the past results of these activities, specialized these efforts for semiconductor fabrication factories that require particularly Reducing the Amount of Waste Generated large inputs of raw materials such as chemical substances. We are Basic Approach also promoting activities at other manufacturing sites that focus Working towards a recycling-minded society, our 3R* policy on facilities and process improvements and on new technology encourages all employees to separate waste materials into different development in the manufacturing areas (mounting, assembly, categories for effective recycling. and testing processes) which we established in FY 2008. * 3R: Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle In the Green Process activities at semiconductor fabrication FY 2010 Performance In Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI), we Example of a Green Process Activity set the goal of reducing the amount of waste generated by our •Fujitsu Integrated Microtechnology Ltd. business operations by 20% compared to FY 2007 levels by the end Reducing Industrial Waste by Processing Waste Plating of FY 2012. Solution at the Factory Itself We generated 31,063 tons of waste in FY 2010, which was At Fujitsu Integrated Microtechnology, which handles the Fujitsu a 1.3% reduction from the previous fiscal year’s level and a Group semiconductor product packaging and test processes, each 20.1% reduction from the FY 2007 level. The reasons for these division within the factory sets its own targets for the Green Process reductions include the conversion of waste paper and waste acid activities it promotes. For example, at the Kyushu plant, when we moved the to valuable materials. previously subcontracted plating process in house, we decided to These results include the Japanese companies FDK TWICELL process some of the waste plating solution that had previously been and FDK Tottori, which have become consolidated companies as of subcontracted for processing as industrial waste to a vendor by using this fiscal year. liquid waste processing facilities within the plant and so reduced the amount of liquid waste shipped out of the plant. Amount of Waste Generated To process waste plating solutions within the plant, we installed Amount of waste generated Effective utilization ratio* (tons) (%) new waste plating solution piping and at the same time as asking 50,000 96.3 97.3 96.3 97.5 100 the plant builder for opinions on the load it would impose on Reference Reference 40,000 38,864 level level 80 the wastewater processing equipment, we repeatedly tested to Target: Target: 30,000 34,058 31,470 31,063 determine the optimal values for conditions such as pH adjustment 13% 20% 60 reduction reduction and the amount of processing chemicals added for the amount of 20,000 33,812 31,09140 liquid waste entering the equipment. 10,000 20 As a result of these efforts, we reduced both the CG value and 0 0 costs by 89.4% on average compared to the previous method. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) (target) (target) * This ratio includes waste materials that are the object of zero emissions policies including ordinary waste (Japan only). 57 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Reducing Chemical Substance Emissions Example of a Waste Generation Reduction Activity Basic Approach •Shinko Electric Industries Co., Ltd. Prevention of environmental risks that could lead to environmental Recovery and Reuse of Nitric Acid Waste in the pollution or adverse health effects due to the use of harmful Plating Process chemical substances has been established as our basic policy for We use nitric acid to strip off and remove copper and nickel that chemical substances management. We manage the amounts used has adhered to plating jigs and plating tanks at the Shinko Electric for about 1,300 chemicals, and we work to reduce the amount Industries Co., Ltd. Wakaho plant, and process that acid as liquid discharged and implement appropriate management at every waste containing dissolved metals. By purifying and concentrating this liquid waste using a diffusion business site. dialysis method, we made it possible to recover and reuse the nitric acid. As a result, we were able to reduce the amount of nitric acid Results for FY 2010 used by about 1,000 tons per year. We set the goal of reducing emissions of specific chemical substances by 10% compared to FY 2007 by FY 2012 in the Fujitsu Nitric Acid Recycling Using Diffusion Dialysis Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI). Liquid waste Pure water Emissions of specific chemical substances by the whole Fujitsu Group in Japan in FY 2010 were 132 tons, which was a 48% HNO3 reduction compared to the FY 2007 reference year. Anion exchange membrane Cu（NO3）2 While the acid diffuses to the water side due to the density Trends in Emissions of Specific Chemical Substances* HNO3 difference that occurs across the (tons) membrane, the metal salts, 300 Cu（NO3）2 which have multivalent cations, 253 Reference level Reference level cannot pass through. HNO3 200 243 Target: 235 Target: 228 Target: 4% 7% 10% 132 reduction reduction reduction 100 Waste nitric acid Recovered nitric acid 0 2007 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Reducing Water Use (target) (Levels) (Levels) Basic Approach * Specific chemical substances: Of the substances that are the object of VOC and PRTR regulation, those for which the amount handled is at least 100 kg/year, and We are working to reduce our use of water resources through one substance selected from the top three substances in emission levels for the recycling and reuse of service water, the use of rainwater, and reference year. other measures. Results for FY 2010 Example of Reducing Specific Chemical Substances Our water use for FY 2010 was 21,628 thousand cubic meters. Reducing VOC Emissions by Substitute Metal This was a 6.4% reduction from FY 2009 and a 12.0% reduction Mask Cleaners from FY 2008. We have been working since 2005 to reduce VOC emissions at the The ratio of recycled water to total water use was 27.0% in FY Fujitsu Nasu plant, which mainly manufactures cell phones and cell 2010, which was an increase from the 26.2% ratio in FY 2009. phone base stations. Among VOCs of concern, we previously used 1-methoxy-2Trends in Water Use propanol as a cleaner for the metal masks used when printing solder Amount of recycled water Water usage paste on printed circuit boards at the Nasu plant. As the result of (1,000 m3) evaluating an isoparaffin family hydrocarbon solvent that does not 35,000 33,906 contain this substance, we determined that the cleaning ability 31,608 of this solvent is not inferior to that of the earlier cleaner. In July 30,000 29,155 27,471 2010, we started switching over to non-VOC cleaners and succeed in completely eliminating the use of 1-methoxy-2-propanol. 25,000 Comparison of Metal Mask Cleaning Quality 20,000 The same quality level was achieved after switchover 27,894 24,569 23,106 21,628 (lower photograph). 15,000 672-pin BGA, 1mm pitch 10,000 5,000 Earlier method New cleaner 6,012 7,039 6,049 5,843 0 176-pin QFP, 0.5 mm pitch 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Earlier method New cleaner 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 58 Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Benefiting customers and society Pursuing internal reforms Conserving biodiversity Reducing Environmental Burdens at the Factory Environmental Liabilities Measures to Purify Soil and Groundwater Pollution Due to We intend to be a corporate group that accurately forecasts and Past Business Activities evaluates today the extent of its environmental liability tomorrow, We have dug wells to monitor groundwater contamination near our that does not defer settlement of this liability to a later date, and sites where soil or groundwater contamination has been found. We that discloses information to its stakeholders on the soundness of continuously monitored seven such sites in FY 2010. the Group from a mediumto long-term perspective. To achieve The table below lists the largest of the most recent this, at the end of FY 2010 we recorded as a liability on the Group’s measurements for chemicals whose measurements are recognized consolidated balance sheet 5.38 billion yen soil-pollution cleanup to have exceeded legal limits in FY 2010 stemming from past costs, high-level PCB waste disposal costs, and asbestos processing business activities. costs during facilities demolition. Based on data previously acquired, this total is the amount we calculate to be necessary for Business Sites Where Soil or Groundwater Contamination the Fujitsu Group in Japan to carry out these tasks. Has Been Found Monitoring Well For processing waste with high levels of PCBs (transformers Cleanup and Maximum Value (mg/l) Regulation Site Location Countermeasure Value and capacitors), we have registered in advance with Japan Name Status Substance Measured (mg/l) value Environmental Safety Corporation (JESCO), which processes PCB Kawasaki City, We are continuing Kawasaki to clean up VOCs Cis-1, 2waste under Japanese government supervision, and perform this plant Kanagawa by pumping and dichloroethylene 2.5 0.04 Prefecture aeration. processing based on JESCO plans. We are continuing Cis-1, 2Oyama Oyama City, to clean up VOCs dichloroethylene 3.075 0.04 Tochigi Responding to Soil and Groundwater Pollution plant Prefecture by pumping and aeration. Trichloroethylene 0.452 0.03 We have reviewed our internal rules established in FY 2006 in We are continuing Cis-1, 2response to soil and groundwater problems and will handle such Nagano Nagano City, to clean up VOCs dichloroethylene 0.33 0.04 Nagano initiatives by problems based on these revised rules for soil and groundwater plant Prefecture pumping and aeration. Trichloroethylene 0.045 0.03 surveys, policies, and disclosure. In the future, at the same time We are continuing Shinano machi, as performing planned surveys and, if pollution is discovered, Shinetsu Kamiminochi Gun, to clean up VOCs Cis-1, 20.048 0.04 Fujitsu by pumping and dichloroethylene Nagano Prefecture implementing cleanup operations and countermeasures aeration. appropriate for the conditions at each business site, we will Cis-1, 20.095 0.04 dichloroethylene also disclose relevant information in collaboration with Fujitsu Oyama City, We are continuing to clean up VOCs Optical Tochigi government authorities. Components Prefecture by pumping and 1, 10.024 0.02 aeration. dichloroethylene The following website gives an overview of our initiatives to combat soil and groundwater pollution, together with the results of Trichloroethylene 0.31 0.03 our surveys of groundwater pollution at our sites in Japan and the We are continuing Cis-1, 2Sanyo-Onoda City, to clean up VOCs dichloroethylene 0.061 0.04 FDK status of our cleanup operations at those sites. Sanyo plant Yamaguchi by pumping and Prefecture aeration. Trichloroethylene 0.11 0.03 Our initiatives to combat soil and groundwater pollution WEB (in Japanese) Cis-1, 20.42 0.04 dichloroethylene http://jp.fujitsu.com/about/csr/eco/factories/gwater/ FDK We are continuing Washizu Washizu, Kosai City, to clean up VOCs plant Shizuoka Prefecture by pumping and Trichloroethylene 0.16 0.03 aeration. Status of New Soil and Groundwater Pollution Measures Tetrachloroethylene 0.044 0.01 Undertaken in FY 2010 A voluntary survey in FY 2010 revealed soil and groundwater contamination at one site. We reported the state of contamination at this site and explained our countermeasures to local citizens and authorities. In FY 2010, we completed the soil and groundwater decontamination work started in 2007 at the Suzaka plant and reported its completion to the local citizens and authorities. We will continue to perform periodic groundwater monitoring in the future. Contaminated soil removal from an underground storage tank at the Suzaka plant 59 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Benefiting customers and society Pursuing internal reforms Conserving biodiversity Reducing the Environmental Burden in Offices We strictly observe all laws concerning the environment and also work to save energy and achieve zero waste emissions, not only in our factories but also in all our business offices in Japan and overseas. Green Office Systems To promote environmental burden reductions that exhibit the Activities Example greatest possible degree of group governance, even in business Reducing Power Consumption at Offices by Using Smart offices, we initiated our Green Office system in FY 2007. This Power Sockets system comprehensively evaluates aspects such as the level of In May 2010, we started trial use of smart power sockets (which environmental consideration and independent efforts at each office include a miniature power sensor) in some Fujitsu offices and and renders visible this evaluation by assigning one of three levels succeeded in reducing average monthly power consumption by (see the following figure). about 15%. This was due to increased individual awareness of energy In the Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage saving, in such things as making special efforts to turn off personal V), we established the goal of achieving a level of two stars (★★) computers when not in use by rendering visible power used in or more at every office in Japan covered by this system by the end individual employee and individual equipment item units. The smart power socket is a power tap that uses miniature highof FY 2009 and we aim to continuously improve and increase our resolution power sensor technology developed by Fujitsu Laboratories level of environmental awareness. As a result of this effort, all of and can detect the power consumed by the connected equipment. the offices at 371 sites had achieved the three star (★★★) level by This device renders visible the waste and variation in power used the end of FY 2009. At the same time we also achieved zero waste in individual employee and individual equipment item units and emissions* of waste materials from all 371 sites, which was the promotes energy saving without degrading business productivity. largest such effort in Japan. The detected values can In the Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage be displayed on personal VI), which started with FY 2010, we set achieving a level of four stars computers or accessed over a (★★★★) or higher at every office in Japan covered by this system network. These smart power by the end of FY 2012. In addition to the three star (★★★) level sockets have been marketed conditions, the following items were added to the four star (★★★ since April 2011 by Fujitsu ★) level conditions: biodiversity conservation activities, disclosure Component Limited. Smart power socket and gateway of environmental information to stakeholders, and unification of industrial waste processing for office emissions. Furthermore, Reduction Rate of Power Consumption by Using Smart there are now five achievement levels. At every office, at the same Power Sockets*(Per business day) (%) time as initiating activities to achieve this goal, we plan to create 10 opportunities to discuss issues common to all offices and promote Reference Rendering visible power used to users environmental activities intimately linked to the local community. 0 value For our overseas sites, we initiated surveys of current conditions in FY 2010. In the future we will collect proposals based on the -10 results of this survey and we are looking into implementing trials of -14.26 -15.40 those proposals. -18.93 * Zero waste emissions: For simple calculations of emissions from the incineration -20 -15.81 -15.13 or landfill disposal of industrial waste and paper waste May June July August September October * Results of tests at some Fujitsu offices Overview of the Green Office Evaluation System Implementation of unique Reducing Waste from Offices ★★★★★ activities that include top runner Even higher performance elements On-Site Waste Disposal Auditing Level targeted The important Law on Waste Disposal and Cleaning applies to all Implementation of Group Nationwide for all business offices in Japan. Activities that make environmental Setting energy-saving goals and sites in Stage VI unification efforts such as processing system global environment or low for industrial waste carbon emitted from To confirm that ICT equipment and other types of industrial ★★★★ Fujitsu Group offices waste are being properly dealt with, we perform standardized Addition of common Zero emissions of contributions to society: one per year operations management group targets and unique industrial waste, group-level checks of the regular on-site audits both of the security Disclosure of performance results ★★★ efforts corresponding to general waste (paper the business site’s and cardboard), and levels at companies that process confidential documents and at environmental burden confidential documents Fujitsu Recycling Centers that have elected to dispose of in-house Voluntary efforts as a group Energy savings of at least 1% ICT equipment. A member of the Fujitsu Corporate Environmental Setting biodiversity targets ★★ Processing of office Waste reduction and Strategy Unit visits both the recycling centers and companies equipment used operation management internally in the company based on business site rules that process confidential documents once a year with the person at recycling centers Paperless: at least 1% in charge of waste disposal from the relevant office, using a standardized checklist to check the documentation and the onsite Energy Conservation Law (partial) disposal operation itself. ★ Observing laws (compliance) Wastes Disposal and Achieved level Public Cleansing Act 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 60 Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Benefiting customers and society Pursuing internal reforms Conserving biodiversity Green Procurement with a Centralized Global Procurement System We are promoting green procurement together with our business partners by using our unique proprietary centralized global procurement system to provide our customers with products and services having minimal environmental burdens. Fujitsu Group Green Procurement Direction Drawing up an Activity Evaluation Index We set up an original three-stage index for measuring the situation of our We are aggressively promoting green procurement activities business partners’ activities and requested their cooperation. together with our business partners based on the Fujitsu Group Green Procurement Direction describing our basic approaches to Stage 3 Activity expansion procurement of eco-friendly parts, materials, and products and items we require of our business partners. Fujitsu Group Green Procurement Direction Stage 2 Activity implementation WEB http://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/procurement/green/ Green Procurement Requirements for Our Business Stage 1 Activity announcement Partners (declaration of commitment) We request that our business partners implement the following two activities to promote green procurement. Promoting Our Business Partners’ Efforts to Limit or Reduce Establishment of Our Business Partners’ EMS* CO2 Emissions and to Conserve Biodiversity We require as a matter of principle that all our business We provided them with our original CO2 emissions calculation tool partners establish a third-party certified EMS to ensure that they to assist with their actions for limiting or reducing CO2 emissions, continuously implement environmental burden reduction activities. and we promoted the establishment of their own internal structure We also periodically survey the status of their EMS implementation for it by holding a briefing meeting for each business partner to by using our original survey form. grasp its CO2 emissions or target. * EMS: Environmental management system We provided our original guidelines for biodiversity conservation introducing detailed informative explanations of activities and typical Establishment of Our Business Partners’ CMS*1 activity examples and our original checklist tool that readily evaluates We request our business partners to establish a chemical the current status of their activities. These were provided to our business substances management system (CMS) based on the JAMP*2 partners only. We also invited about 20 business partners to our guidelines on management of chemical substances contained in seminars on these themes to improve their knowledge and actions. products. If their management system is inadequate when we audit We achieved the 60% implementation rate that was the target their manufacturing sites, we will provide support for correctional for the end of FY 2010 as a result of these efforts. We are aiming efforts that aim to strengthen their management system in the at a rate of at least 80% for FY 2011 and plan to provide tools supply chain. and seminars for promoting these efforts in order to support our As of the first half of FY 2010, all of them covered by this effort business partners in making further improvements in these areas. had completed establishment of a CMS. We will continue with these efforts in the future. *1 CMS: Chemical substances management system Receiving the Grand Prize at the Green *2 JAMP: Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium TOPICS Purchasing Awards* http://www.jamp-info.com/english/ Green Procurement Activities Based on the Fujitsu Our activity for biodiversity conservation was awarded the grand Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI) prize at the Twelfth Green Purchasing Awards in October 2010. Our efforts were highly acclaimed for innovation and Since FY 2010, we have been promoting the limitation or reduction uniqueness. Specifically recognized were the Fujitsu Group’s of CO2 emissions and the conservation of biodiversity as the Fujitsu encouragement of its business partners to conserve biodiversity, Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI) and we ask all the fact that we provided guidelines to our business partners, of our business partners to implement activities regarding these and that we set up an two themes. evaluation index. We have set a target of 100% implementation by our business partners providing us parts and materials by the end of FY 2012 as one goal of the Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI). We drew up an activity evaluation index for the situation of our business partners’ actions and request that they carry out Awards ceremony at the Green Purchasing activities in line with this index to achieve the target. Awards * Green Purchasing Awards: An awards system that aims to spread green At the start of these activities, we held 14 briefing sessions for procurement through the Green Purchasing Network. both domestic and overseas business partners and a total of about 1,300 companies participated. 61 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Benefiting customers and society Pursuing internal reforms Conserving biodiversity Environmental Considerations in Distribution We are promoting the rationalization and streamlining of distribution while keeping the whole global supply chain in mind. We are also working to reduce the CO2 emissions associated with distribution. Promoting Global Green Distribution Purchased Materials We are working on Green Logistics Activities which strive to reduce From May 2010, we changed our method of transporting purchased CO2 emissions associated with transportation by coordination imported materials from Tokyo Bay to Fujitsu Isotec Limited. between the distribution divisions of all group companies In addition to the earlier 20-foot containers, we also changed and cooperation between manufacturing and sales divisions. from truck transport to rail transport for the 40-foot sea-going Furthermore, we take advantage of partnerships with our business containers. This was because we are participating in the Ministry of partners and strive to reduce the environmental burden associated Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism’s Rail Transport Model with distribution across the whole supply chain. Business program and implemented this effort jointly with the Our goal was to reduce CO2 emissions in domestic distribution Japan Freight Railway Company. by 11% compared to FY 2008 by the end of FY 2012 as proposed in the Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI). However, by expanding modal shifts and reducing the number of Receiving Minister of the trucks, we were able to achieve an 18% reduction (this includes TOPICS Environment’s Award fluctuations in amounts distributed and the effects of the March 2011 earthquake) compared to FY 2008 in FY 2010. We have We received the 2010 Minister of the Environment Award for the therefore increased our target for FY 2012 to a 15% reduction Prevention of Global Warming* sponsored by the Ministry of the compared to FY 2008. Environment for reducing CO2 emissions through modal shift. We have also started to measure the CO2 emissions in This award reflects the fact that we were given high marks international transportation and the transportation CO2 emissions for significantly reducing transportation CO2 emissions by at overseas sites and thus are promoting green distribution aggressively adopting modal shifts in cooperation between activities globally. distribution companies and our related divisions and by implementing a consistent system from materials procurement Trends in CO2 Emissions from Transportation (Fujitsu Group) through product shipment. (1,000 tons) 40 * 2010 Minister of the Environment Award for the Prevention of Global Reference level Warming: This award, established in FY 1998, is awarded every year as 30 36.3 Results: Target: part of the Ministry of the Environment’s promotion of global warming 18% 15% 31.6 29.6 reduction 30.9 reduction countermeasures to an individual or group that achieved distinguished 20 results in preventing global warming. 10 0 Adopting Hybrid Vehicles 2008 2009 2010 2012 (FY) Starting in November 2010, we switched over to hybrid vehicles for (target) the trucks owned by a cooperating transportation company used Expanding Modal Shifts solely by Fujitsu for mail We are working to reduce CO2 emissions using modal shifts and and package delivery in are promoting effective activities based on rail transport and the Tokyo metropolitan switching from air to surface transport. In FY 2010 we promoted area. These vehicles, such modal shifts for personal computers, cell phones, and equipped with purchased materials. ecological tires and As a result of increasing our use of rail Fujitsu in-vehicle transport, we acquired Eco Rail Mark certification terminals, reduce CO2 as established by the Japanese Ministry of Land, emissions by improved Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism and the fuel efficiency. Newly adopted hybrid vehicle Railway Freight Association in March 2011. Eco Rail Mark Drawing up the Fujitsu Group Green Logistics and PCs Procurement Direction In August 2010, we switched from trucks to rail for transport of We have formulated the Fujitsu Group Green Logistics and notebook personal computers for corporate customers and some Procurement Direction, which specify our basic approach to green maintenance parts shipped from Shimane Fujitsu Ltd. to the Tokyo distribution and the matters we require of our suppliers. We will distribution center. We implemented this by coordination between work to protect the global environment along with our suppliers the factory and related divisions and moving up shipment times. through distribution activities based on this procurement direction. Fujitsu Group Green Logistics and Procurement Direction (in Japanese) WEB http://jp.fujitsu.com/about/csr/eco/products/logistics/guide.html 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 62 Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Benefiting customers and society Pursuing internal reforms Conserving biodiversity Conservation of Biodiversity We have set conservation of biodiversity to be a priority area in the Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI) and are promoting activities aimed at conserving biodiversity based on four action plan items. Basic Concepts Biodiversity Action Principles in October 2009. In this, we Formulating the Four Action Plan Items that Aim at introduced both (1) Pursuing the Conservation of Biodiversity Conserving Biodiversity and the Sustainable Use of Natural Resources in Business Only the bounty of nature makes our daily lives possible. Activities and (2) Contributing to Building a Society that Like the provision of food and forests, climate regulation, Ensures the Conservation of Biodiversity and the Sustainable water purification, recreation, etc. ,the functions that nature Use of Natural Resources as themes for future efforts and performs for mankind are incalculable. These functions are established four related action plan items in the Fujitsu Group called “ecosystem services,” and they depend on “biodiversity.” Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI), which started in The recent remarkable deterioration of ecosystems makes FY 2010. conserving biodiversity an urgent necessity to ensure sustainable ecosystem services. Efforts towards Conserving Biodiversity Given this background, we set conserving biodiversity as Quantitative Evaluation to Reduce the Impact on one goal in the Fujitsu Group’s medium-term environmental Biodiversity of Our Business Activities vision, Green Policy 2020, as published in July 2008. To conserve biodiversity, it is important to evaluate the Furthermore, we set a goal of promoting specific efforts by quantitative impact of business activities on biodiversity and 2020 for all of the items proposed in the leadership declaration to promote activities that reduce that impact with targets set for the Business and Biodiversity Initiative, which was signed at appropriately. the ninth meeting of the Conference of the Parties (COP 9) to Accordingly, we first analyzed how our business activities the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD). affected biodiversity and ecosystem services. From this, we To achieve that goal, we settled on the Fujitsu Group understand that our influence on ecosystems mainly depends on the use of water and forest resources. We also understand The Fujitsu Group Biodiversity Action Principles and Four Action Plan Items that there were possibilities of impact on biodiversity through (1) use of mineral resources and energy resources, (2) waste Vision: Green Policy 2020 processing, (3) land development and reform caused by its use as business sites, (4) contamination due to emissions of Action principles: Fujitsu Group Biodiversity Action Principles chemical substances into the air and water, and (5) climate change due to emissions of greenhouse gasses to the Action plans: the four action plan items (in the Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI)) aimed at implementing the Fujitsu Group Biodiversity Action Principles atmosphere. To reduce such impacts, in FY 2010 we constructed the 1. Two items aimed at reducing the impact on biodiversity of our business activities Quantitative evaluations aimed at Activities for our business partners Fujitsu Group Biodiversity (BD) Integration Index as a means of 1 reducing the impact on biodiversity of our business activities 2 aimed at reducing the impact on biodiversity of the supply chain quantitatively evaluating the influences of business activities on biodiversity. In this framework, we identify business 2. Two items aimed at contributing to the creation of a society that conserves biodiversity activities that impact biodiversity and extract impacting Social contribution activities for elements as quantitative data related to this business activity. 3 Contributing to conserving biodiversity through ICT 4 conserving and making people aware of biodiversity Next, we use existing methods to evaluate these impacting elements so as to weight and integrate them, and it can Framework for Quantitative Evaluation Using the Fujitsu Group BD Integration Index Corporate activities that create Elements that exert an impact Fujitsu Group Biodiversity Corporate activities area factors impacting biodiversity on biodiversity (impacting elements) Weighting and integration (BD) Integration Index •Use of mineral resources Product and business lifecycle •Use of biological resources Quantity of raw materials used Objects of integration •Use of energy resources Development and design •Use of water resources •Integration of evaluations of Procurement Quantity of forest resources used different impacting elements •Contamination of rivers etc. by effluents •Air pollution •Integration of evaluations of Manufacturing •Acceleration of global warming by CO2 emissions different corporate activity Loss of ecosystems Quantity of energy resources used •Generation of solid waste areas caused by business Distribution and sales activities Use Quantity of water used •Energy use at time of use Disposal/recycling •Land use due to final processing of waste Weighting methods Quantity of emissions to the water •Weighting that reflects the influence on ecosystem loss Quantity of emissions to the air •Weighting that reflects the Land use/contribution •Modifying ecosystems by factory construction or expansion state of ecosystem loss Business site land use Quantity of solid waste processed Ecosystem value Environmental conservation •Forest conservation (Business sites, activity •Restoration of tropical rain forests Quantity of energy used in distribution Example of existing conservation area) evaluation procedures •LIME2 •Contributing to the conservation of Habitats -> Index: EINES Contributions to society biodiversity •HEP •Promoting the use of sustainable -> Index: Total habitat unit Use of ICT ecosystem resources Land area •Reducing the impacts of other sectors 63 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT therefore ultimately provide an index of the loss of ecosystems Furthermore, we are working on vegetation surveys using caused by business activities or of ecosystem value. “hyperspectral imaging analysis technology,” currently under In the Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program development. This technology measures the spectrum of (Stage VI), we have set a target of reducing the impact of our reflections from the ground in a helicopter or other aircraft main business areas on biodiversity, as evaluated by the BD and analyzes the distribution of vegetation over wide areas of Integration Index, by 3% by the end of FY 2012 compared to FY land. By using this technology, we can, for example, survey the 2009. We are currently evaluating and analyzing impact trends extent to which alien species have penetrated existing species’ in FY 2010. (The impact caused by the use and emissions habitats or grasp the distribution of cedars and Japanese of chemical substances is increasing, the impact caused by cypresses. We believe that this technology will significantly waste emissions is decreasing.)In FY 2011, we will strengthen reduce the effort required to survey vegetation distribution, our activities that reduce the impact on biodiversity while which was previously observed visually. aiming to achieve a 1.5% reduction compared to FY 2009, the In the future, we will continue to use our technological reference year. abilities and know-how to contribute to avoiding or reducing the loss of biodiversity as well as maintaining and expanding ICT and Biodiversity biodiversity through the use of ICT. Contributing to the Conservation of Biodiversity Using ICT The effective use of ICT will make it possible to perform Contributing to Spreading these Efforts operations such as the collection and analysis/evaluation of Throughout Society information about living things and ecosystems, the monitoring Participating in External Organizations of living things and of their habitat, and the management of We participate in external organizations such as the Business information on them efficiently. and Biodiversity Initiative (B&B) and the Japan Business As an example of this application of ICT to biodiversity Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) and contribute to the spread of conservation, we implemented a countrywide survey of biodiversity conservation efforts throughout society. dandelion distribution using the camera function in mobile At the ninth meeting of the Conference of the Parties phones (see pages 33 and 34). (COP 9) to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), Fujitsu’s ICT is also useful in forest management and B&B inaugurated the event with the signing, by more than conservation. With the number of forests in Japan that are 40 companies from around the world, of the “leadership deteriorating due to the inability to perform forestry care, declaration.” By publishing their best practices, these it would make easier to share information and implement companies promote the conservation of biodiversity and functions such as forest registry management, work plan sustainable use. Fujitsu published the results of those efforts at management, and operations performance management a side event to CBD COP 10. by connecting the forest worksites with the offices using an JBIB is a group in which over 30 Japanese companies from information network. a wide range of businesses participate. Its purpose is to deploy activities that contribute to conserving biodiversity by aiming The Possibility of Conserving Biodiversity through ICT for dialogue between stakeholders and other companies based Efficiently collecting, analyzing, evaluating, managing, and monitoring a large volume of information on the results of joint research. Fujitsu is involved with research activities and tool development for this effort. Information collection Analysis and Evaluation •Sensing technologies (remote sensors) •Biodiversity evaluation •Measurement technology •Management evaluation Activities on a Global Scale •Portable terminals, and others •Ecosystem evaluation •Performance evaluation for business Promoting Tropical Rainforest Restoration Activities in Malaysia activities •Evaluation of economic aspects, and To contribute to biodiversity conservation from a global Information management other items •Biodiversity database perspective, we have implemented tree planting activities in Avoiding and Monitoring (observation •Ecosystem/species database •Gene database reducing loss and surveillance) Thailand, Vietnam, and Malaysia. Currently, at the Fujitsu Group of biodiversity, •Sensing technologies •Measurements database, and other databases (remote sensors) Malaysia Eco Forest Park, we continuously call for volunteers maintaining •Traceability (RFID) and expanding •GPS to assure that the saplings planted grow into a tropical biodiversity •IR cameras and thermography rainforest and we also perform supplementary plantings and •Monitoring technologies, Education, dissemination, and others maintenance. and enlightenment Since FY 2010, we have implemented eco tours to study Support for social measures (e.g. trading systems) biodiversity while observing the actual condition of the rainforest, making the park not just a place for tropical rainforest restoration Comparison of Tree Species Discrimination by Earlier Methods and Hyper-Spectrum Methods activities, but also a place for education. Tree species discrimination Tree species discrimination by In FY 2010, 30 Fujitsu Group employees Aerial photographs by earlier methods the hyper-spectrum method and family members and 19 employees of local Fujitsu Group companies, experienced forest planting and forest maintenance and also took study tours of primary forests and mangrove forests. An eco tour in progress : Cedar : Japanese : Cedar : Japanese 100 m cypress cypress 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 64 Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Benefiting customers and society Pursuing internal reforms Conserving biodiversity Environmental Contributions to Society Environmental Protection Efforts Through TOPICS a Golf Event — Ecosystem Survey at the We actively promote environmental contribution activities at all Tournament Site Fujitsu sites, both domestic and overseas, and aim for coexistence with both the international society and local communities. We carried out an ecosystem survey at the Tokyu Seven Hundred Club, where the Fujitsu Ladies golf tournament is held, and identified many plants and animals that are on the Ministry Our Basic Approach of the Environment’s “Red List.” The effort made it clear that this All employees of the Fujitsu Group recognize the importance of golf course contributes to the environment as a place where the global environment and, to assure that the next generation wild plants and animals can live and grow. inherits a beautiful planet-wide environment, they contribute to their local community through activities based on the following three pillars: regional contributions, nature conservation and environmental education. Regional Contributions An Epipogium orchid Lefua echigonia To maintain local environments and to provide pleasing Ministry of the Environment: Near (a small catfish, like fish) environments for local residents, we implement regional Threatened Ministry of the Environment: Endangered contribution activities, such as cleanup activities and planting activities not only at our offices, stores, and plants throughout Forest Planting Activity at the Atsugi Research Laboratory Japan but at our overseas sites. In June 2010, we held a memorial tree-planting meeting at the Atsugi Research Laboratory and invited Mr. Akira Miyawaki, a Coastal Cleanup, Fujitsu Broad Solution & Consulting, Inc. leading botanist, to attend. Since a large amount of junk washes up on the Senbonhama We planted 80 seedlings based on potential natural vegetation seashore, a scenic area in Numazu City, Shizuoka Prefecture, we and collected acorns from the three main types of tree, Castanopsis, made “Having fun while cleaning up the coast on the Senbonhama Machilus thunbergii, and oak, and started raising them. seashore and having fun while thinking about the environment” a theme at the Fujitsu BSC Mishima Development Center and have Environmental Education Activities held seashore cleanup events every year since 2001. The Fujitsu Group visits schools to give lessons, in order to This effort was held on the third Sunday of June 2010, and make local adults and children aware of the importance of about 50 people, including employees and their families, attended. the environment. In FY 2010, we gave lessons in 56 locations, including elementary schools, junior high schools and community Coastal Cleanup in Hong Kong (Fujitsu Hong Kong Ltd.) centers, for around 3,400 people, in which we presented the “PC To protect the habitat of the endangered Chinese white dolphin 3R” exercise (in which students learn about 3R while dismantling (Sousa chinensis), eight employees of Fujitsu Hong Kong Ltd. a PC) and the My Earth card game (in which students study global participated in a cleanup activity of the seashore near the Hong environmental problems). Kong International Airport. We collected about 50 bags (500 kg) of Also, to respond to the demand for more of these lessons, we plastic refuse. held an instructor development course in FY 2010 in which a further 40 Fujitsu Group employees learned how to deliver the lessons. Nature Conservation As of April 2011, 85 instructors are providing these environmental We are working on farmland maintenance, forest planting and lessons at locations throughout Japan. similar activities to promote the maintenance and recovery of biodiversity and to defend nearby natural environments. On-Site Environmental Classes that Use Fujitsu’s Latest Technology We started a new on-site environmental class for elementary school Popularization of Biodiversity Through Agricultural Work students in the sixth grade that encourages energy saving by using We participate in the Yamanashi Corporate Farm Building System, the Fujitsu smart power socket with built-in power sensor (see page which is promoted by Yamanashi Prefecture, with employees 60) that was announced in April 2011. assisting as volunteers in the agricultural work of grape farming The program consists of teaching the students that electricity is through to harvesting. Our aim is to have participants learn how wasted when it is converted and that it is important to eliminate waste, appropriate management of agricultural land conserves biodiversity and having them think about saving energy when using a PC as a and to deepen their understanding of this while enjoying the familiar example. This class was developed when we participated in an experience of agricultural work. education support project using ordinary citizens as teachers. The project This activity started in March 2010 in one part of the farm was sponsored by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. run by Yumekyo Wine Farm in Koshu City, an effort we called the Fujitsu GP2020* Wine Farm. In it, a group of 107 employees and family members visited the farm three times and performed the vine training, placing paper covers over the ripening bunches, and helped in harvesting operations. Using the grapes that so many employees had assisted with, we completed 300 bottles of Fujitsu The scene at an on-site environmental class: Measuring power consumption using GP2020 wine. a smart power socket * GP2020: an abbreviation for Green Policy 2020, the Fujitsu Group’s medium-term * See pages 86 to 89 for more information on our efforts related to activities that environmental vision. contribute to society in general. 65 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Benefiting customers and society Pursuing internal reforms Conserving biodiversity Environmental Management We are continuously working to improve our ISO 14001-based environmental management system and to promote group-wide environmental management. Fujitsu Group’s Environmental Management The Environmental Committee’s deliberations are shared We have constructed an environmental management system (EMS) with the whole group and we have created a Global Environment based on the ISO 14001 international standard and are promoting Management Working Group (WG) under the Green Management environmental improvement activities across the group. After Committee as an organization to strengthen our EMS activities acquiring ISO 14001 certification for our Japanese consolidated through promoting an understanding of the results of the subsidiaries at the end of FY 2004, we expanded this effort to committee to encourage proactive actions. In the Global include our overseas subsidiaries and acquired global integrated Environment Management WG, we assemble people from across certification in FY 2005. the various business groups and inform them of items that we By constructing an EMS along with a supply chain spreading request be handled by the various divisions and group companies across the globe, we have further strengthened our global to unify our global information sharing. governance. This also allows us to promote even more efficient and highly effective environmental activities; not only grasping Structure for Environmental Activities our status of achievement of the Fujitsu Group Environmental Management Council Person in charge of Group internal audit Protection Program (Stage VI), but also collecting a wide variety of (chaired by president) (Head of Corporate Internal Audit Unit) information from all Group companies such as legal compliance Environmental Committee Low Carbon Committee (chairperson: Corporate (chairperson: Corporate Senior emergency response and environmental communication activities. Person in Vice President) Executive Vice President) charge of Issue-specific committees Group EMS Implementation and Operational Status environmental management •Green Management •Green Factories •Leading-Edge Green R&D •Green Distribution We have, as of the end of FY 2010, acquired global integrated (Head of Corporate Committee •Green Procurement •Green Products •Environmental Communication ISO 14001 certification for a total of 91 companies, including 12 Environmental Strategy Unit) •Product Chemicals •Environmental Reference •Environmental Solutions Promotion Projects overseas Group companies. In addition, our 25 overseas companies which are not production base sites are constructing and operating Business Groups an EMS in line with Fujitsu Group environmental policies. In this way, we have established an environmental management structure Fujitsu Group (within Japan) Group (overseas) across the whole group. Business Business Fujitsu establishes EMS based on a matrix structure composed unit unit (line) (line) Group Companies Group Companies of a “line program” which promotes activities associated with ownbusiness features and a “site program” which promote activities Business site to tackle site-based issues. This ensures rapid response to top management’s decision-making. Promoting the Fujitsu Group Environmental Environmental Promotion Structure Protection Program (Stage VI) Globally The final decisions on environmental management are taken at In FY 2010, as the first year of the Fujitsu Group Environmental meetings of the Management Council, chaired by the president. Protection Program, we announced the program through our lines, Fujitsu has two directly controlled organizations under the sites and factories thoroughly. In addition, we held joint briefing Management Council. One is the Environmental Committee, which sessions for environmental reports to the Management Council and controls a wide variety management controllers from of discussions related to improvements in the Environmental group companies at eleven Protection Program, EMS systems and so forth. The other one locations in Japan. We also is the Low Carbon Committee, which is made up of executives created opportunities overseas from business groups and studies companywide policies such as to explain the program emissions reductions associated with business activities for global directly to local managers and A Briefing in Europe warming prevention. environmental supervisors from The Environmental Committee sets up subcommittees to 29 companies in four areas (the Americas, Asia/Pacific, China, and handle specific environmental issues by people from across Europe) In the sessions we communicate all targets of the program business groups and units. In FY 2010, we inaugurated the while emphasizing the need to benefit customers and society, Leading-Edge Green R&D Committee as a new subcommittee to pursue internal reforms and conserve biodiversity. strengthen R&D on revolutionary green ICT that will contribute In addition to promoting the Environmental Protection to achieving a low-carbon society. This new committee promotes Program, by having each company make an effort to enhance the the development of leading-edge technologies that will boost Fujitsu Group integrated environmental management system, the efficiency of ICT products and improve the environmental load Fujitsu strengthens its global environmental management system. reduction effects of solutions. 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 66 Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Benefiting customers and society Pursuing internal reforms Conserving biodiversity Environmental Management Continuous Improvements to the Environmental One of the major matters was a serious flaw in the Management System succession of persons in charge. About 60% of all matters arose Constructing Smart EMS from compliance evaluation, objectives, targets and programs, Fujitsu has developed original environmental management and operational control. tools such as Global Environment Database System and ISO Operational control at subcontracting and maintenance 14001 Green Management System. The Global Environment companies was found to be inadequate. We are implementing Database System enables us to consolidate a wide variety control measures in our 2011 internal audit. of information such as plan, performance and measures of environmental load. And ISO 14001 Green Management External Audit and Results System consolidates risk and environmental information such FY 2010 an external audit was carried out from August 2010 as compliance to enhance and visualize our environmental through January 2011. In Japan, we were audited by the management. Also, we use Join Meeting* for remote Japan Audit and Certification Organization for Environment communication in EMS operation. and Quality (JACO). JACO made two comments that cover * Join Meeting: A web-based conferencing system group-wide activities. In addition, JACO pointed out two minor matters and made 79 observations for individual Efforts to Improve Environmental Performance Group companies. One of the targets of the Fujitsu Group We have been working on creating a system to evaluate the Environmental Protection Program was not well recognized. status of target achievement, compliance and operational Outside Japan, we were audited by Stiftelsen Det Norske management to improve our environmental performance Veritas (DNV). DNV identified no matters for the Fujitsu Group at factories. as a whole, but they identified 18 minor matters and 43 We continuously make efforts to strengthen environmental observations. Some of them were inadequacies with respect governance by promoting the Environmental Protection to specific laws and regulations and inadequacies with respect Program (Stage VI), adopting ICT for smart EMS construction, to internal auditing. We have completed remedying these and forming systems to improve environmental performance. matters as of the end of FY 2010. We shared the findings throughout the Group and are confirming the status of these Implementing Environmental Audits matters in the FY 2011 internal audit. Internal Audit Implementation and Results We started discussions with audit organizations in Internal audits are directed by the Corporate Internal Audit Unit, September 2008 about the introduction of performance which is unaffiliated with any line organization to ensure that evaluation (ISO 14031) in our internal audit to improve the our internal audits are fully objective and independent. The quality of our environmental activities. During FY 2010, we Corporate Internal Audit Unit allocates internal auditors who established evaluation methods and will implement them, belong to Fujitsu or Fujitsu Group companies. mainly in factories, starting in FY 2011. In FY 2010, we internally audited factories, offices, and other facilities at 484 locations both in Japan and overseas Status of Environmental Compliance from July 2010 to January 2011. While the Fujitsu Group committed no major violations of For this audit, we scrutinized the trends and results with the environmental laws and caused no accidents that had any FY 2009 internal audit and the external audit and found three major impact on the environment in FY 2010, there were 15 major points to be focused on: (1) verification of compliance, events in which laws were violated and our own standards were (2) verification of the status of efforts for our Environmental not met and delays in appointing a person to be in charge. Protection Program (Stage VI), and (3) verification of the Most of these were inadequacies in operating management status of human resources development. Also, we continuously procedure or documentation, such as (1) water quality standard implement mutual audits between different sales and values being exceeded (temporary BOD* excess in factory marketing divisions, a program we have been working on effluents), (2) insufficient verification of items associated with since FY 2009. This promotes invigoration by reflecting other solid waste processing, or (3) delays in setting an assignee division’s findings on our own activities. (delays in reporting an assignment). As a result of these internal audits, we discovered 409 At the same time as strengthening our reeducation indicated matters, of which five were classified as major, 35 as efforts across the whole Group, in moving forward to prevent minor, and 369 were observations. reoccurrences, we will aim at thorough reporting in constructing new waste processing systems at office sites. * BOD: Biochemical oxygen demand. 67 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Internal Education and Enlightenment Activities Training Workshop for Environmental Leaders Our Environmental Education System We hold workshops for environmental leaders from each site To ensure that our environmental activities take firm root, the to foster corporate abilities and know-how. In FY 2010, the Fujitsu Group believes it essential to inculcate and raise the conservation of biodiversity was the theme, and the participants environmental awareness of each and every employee to a brainstormed on what biodiversity conservation activities they point where it links to actual practice. To this end, the Group has themselves should work on. been carrying out environmental education and enlightenment In April 2010, we held a two-day/one-night training workshop training since 1995, based on the system described below. for supervisors at Nakatosa Town in Kochi Prefecture, where the In addition to having all of our employees undertake Fujitsu Group Nakatosa Kuroshio Forest is located, for those in environmental e-learning once every three years to acquire a charge of biodiversity conservation and enlightenment activities basic understanding of environmental issues, environmental at branches and group companies. This workshop increased the education also forms a part of the general training given to participants’ depth of understanding of biodiversity through river new entrants when they join the company and to ordinary water quality surveys and other exercises. employees, middle managers and senior executives whenever In September 2010, we also held a supervisors workshop at they are promoted. On top of this, customized environmental Furano City in Hokkaido Prefecture. At this workshop, we carried training is also delivered to individual areas of the business out a forest recovery activity in Hokkaido’s vast outdoors and such as sales, systems engineering (SE), design, quality implemented an environmental education program called Furano assurance and production. We are implementing facilities Nature School for participants to experience nature with all their management education and internal auditor education as senses and think deeply about the environment. In addition to professional education for employees in charge of work related studying at this environmental education facility, they participated to the environment. in a tree-planting effort. Fujitsu’s Environmental Education System New entrants Ordinary employees Middle managers Senior executives Environmental e-learning (triennial) Environmental Leader Course (biannual) Function-specific training (Sales, SE, Design, Production) (triennial) River water quality survey activity Furano Nature School environmental Level-specific Level-specific Level-specific Level-specific training (annual) training (annual) training (annual) training (ad-hoc) education program Environment Month (lectures, seminars, workshops, etc.) (annual) In-House Award Scheme Information provided via intranet (updated as required) Environmental Contribution Award and Environmental awareness survey (annual) Environment Contest To raise the environmental awareness of employees in all * See page 75 for details of our efforts in human resources development overall. Fujitsu Group companies, we have operated an Environmental Implementing Environmental e-Learning Contribution Awards scheme and an Environmental Contest Once every three years, we implement an environmental e-learning (with a photo division and an eco-life division), open to all program for all Fujitsu Group employees. This program is aimed at employees, every year since 1995. Since FY 2002, Fujitsu’s publicizing, understanding, and implementing the Fujitsu Group president has presented the top Environmental Contribution Environmental Protection Program and to carry out environmental Award at the company founding anniversary celebration held protection activities that conform to ISO 14001. in June every year. In FY 2010, we implemented an environmental e-learning program whose main theme was informing people of the Fujitsu Unique Award System in the Fujitsu Solutions Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI), which started Business Group in FY 2010, and continuation of ISO 14001 certification. In FY 2008 the Fujitsu Solutions Business Group independently established an awards scheme to help even more customers utilize our outstanding environmental solutions. Of these, the Special Environmental Award, which is given to organizations that perform outstanding activities, is awarded at the Solutions Sales Promotion Meeting, held in April each year. Environmental e-learning screen 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 68 Priority 2 Protecting the Global Environment Benefiting customers and society Pursuing internal reforms Conserving biodiversity Environmental Communication At the same time as working to achieve bidirectional communication with all our stakeholders including overseas stakeholders, we aim at strengthening our environmental management through participation in external groups. Promoting Environmental Communication Promoting Environmental Management Through Domestically and Overseas External Groups We recognize the importance of communication with our We participate in international external groups and promote stakeholders and take a wide range of opportunities for international standardization of products and services that proactive communication, including issuing social and contribute to environmental protection. At the same time environmental responsibility reports, disclosing information on as improving the international competitiveness of Fujitsu our website, conducting advertising campaigns, and exhibiting Group products and services and increasing our business at exhibitions and trade shows in Japan and overseas. We also opportunities, these efforts also aim at strengthening our work to improve our daily environmental protection activities environmental management. through bidirectional communication. Helping to Establish Global Standards We are promoting standardization for methods for evaluating environmental burden reduction by the use of ICT solutions through our participation in the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), the ICT for Energy Efficiency Forum (ICT4EE), and the Green IT Promotion Council. Our aim is International Greentech and Eco Eco Products 2010, Tokyo to see standardization encourage the widespread adoption of Products Exhibition and Conference Green ICT and for this to lead to reduced environmental burdens Malaysia (IGEM) 2010 (Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia) globally. In FY 2010, we submitted to the ITU-T* working group on Main Conventions in which Fujitsu Participated in FY 2010 ICT and climate change the results of the Ministry of Internal Convention Location Date Affairs and Communications’ FY 2009 “data center experimental Japan demonstration addressing the characteristics of ‘cold spots,’ N-expo 2010 Tokyo Tokyo May 2010 regions characterized by lower ambient temperatures,” which Interop TOKYO 2010 Makuhari June 2010 Hamamatsu Environmental Technology was positioned as an effort promoting ICT to achieve a lowHamamatsu, Shizuoka July 2010 Convention carbon society, and we incorporated our data center best The Best 100 Surprising Ecological Items of Kyoto and Tokyo August 2010 practices in that recommendation. 2010 Eco-Life Yamagata Yamagata October 2010 CEATEC JAPAN 2010 Makuhari October 2010 * ITU-T: The Telecommunication Standardization Sector. ITU-T is in charge of Ishikawa Dream Future Expo Kanazawa October 2010 standardization measures in the communications field, in the International Iwate Environmental Kingdom Morioka November 2010 Telecommunication Union. If a new standard is recognized, it is published as an Eco Products 2010 Tokyo December 2010 “ITU-T Recommendation.” Kawasaki International Eco-Tech Fair 2011 Kawasaki February 2011 Overseas International Greentech & Eco Products Exhibition & Conference Malaysia 2010 Malaysia October 2010 7th Eco-products International Fair India February 2011 Outside Awards Received by the Fujitsu Group and its Employees in FY 2010 Award Date Sponsor Reason for Award ITU-AJ Awards International Activities Working towards agreement within Japan, and promoting the Japanese proposal May 2010 ITU Association of Japan Encouragement Award to the ITU concerning ICT and environment change Efforts on international standardization activities in the environmentally Japan Electronics and Information Technology May 2010 Japan Electronics and Information conscious design area and contributions to strengthening Japan’s international Industries Association President’s Award Technology Industries Association competitiveness Telecommunication Technology Information Technology Award Achievement Award June 2010 Promotion of upstream activities related to ICT and climate change Committee (TTC) Green IT Award 2010 The Minister of Economy, Semiconductor laser using quantum dots that achieves significant energy savings October 2010 Green IT Promotion Council Trade and Industry Award in IT equipment 12th Green Purchasing Award Grand Prize October 2010 Green Purchasing Network (GNP) Efforts to conserve biodiversity in the Fujitsu Group Procurement Division The Green Grid Most Improved Data Center Energy The Green Grid, Japan Working group on saving energy and continuous energy trend monitoring for data October 2010 Efficiency Award Performance Award office/DatacenterDynamics centers 2010 Environment Minister's Award to Establishing medium-term goals for reducing the amount of solid waste emitted Distinguished Organization of Merit in Promoting November 2010 Ministry of the Environment from business sites, promoting achievement of those goals in a planned way, and the Creation of a Sustainable Society achieving significant reductions 7th Life Cycle Assessment Society of Japan Awards December Life Cycle Assessment Society of Japan Implementation of LCA in product development and production activities Incentive Award 2010 (JLCA) 2010 Minister of the Environment Award for the Modal shift based transportation CO2 emissions reduction activities/ Prevention of Global Warming Technology December 2010 Ministry of the Environment Significant reduction of energy usage in ICT equipment by building private clouds Introduction and Diffusion at leading-edge universities Low CO2 Kawasaki Pilot Brand ‘10 February 2011 Kawasaki City SPARC Enterprise M Series/Facility Cube 69 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Priorities 3–4 Embracing Diversity and Developing Human Resources Fujitsu will promote diversity in its human resources, irrespective of nationality, gender, age, or disability, to enable individuals to grow with the company. Fujitsu will also lead the way in cultivating employees who, from Employees feeling a global perspective, are pioneers in contributing to the advancement of society. proud of working for Fujitsu 79.3 % Approach to (2010 employee satisfaction survey) Highlights Global business leadership Human Rights Global Human training program intended to address and Work Resource social issues Practices Development Cumulative P76–77 Policy P71–72 614 participants (from start in 2000) Human rights trainings given 100 % (of all new employees in 2010) Diversity and Inclusion Employees of overseas Group P73–74 companies Developing 66,000 Human Resources for their Contribution In-house education through Fujitsu Net Campus (e-learning) people to Society and the 30 countries Participants of diversity e-learning courses Planet 96.1 % (Fujitsu and Fujitsu P75 206 companies Laboratories) (March 2011) 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 70 Priorities 3–4 Embracing Diversity and Developing Human Resources Highlights in 2010 Cultivating Global Leaders Who Ask “What is Good for Society?” and Seek the Common Good The world faces a daunting mountain of problems, from financial crises, through environmental threats to burgeoning populations and limited supplies of food. Companies that seek continuing growth therefore need not only a strategy for their own business but also a management that addresses the global issues of sustainability for society, humankind and the planet. The Fujitsu Group asks “What is good for society?” where the keyword is the common good achievable by cultivating business leaders who combine the pursuit of corporate strategy with the creation of social values. We Founded the Global Knowledge Institute to Develop We Develop Business Leaders Who Can Create Human Resources for Knowledge Management, and Social Value While Executing Management Strategy. Promoted the Global Leadership Program. The decisive factor for corporate competitiveness will No business today can consider profits without taking into dramatically shift away from “efficient manufacturing” towards account the sustainability of society, humankind and the “creation of new value by marshalling knowledge” as the global environment. As long as the pace of technological Internet advances. Fujitsu foresaw this new era, and founded innovation and globalization continues to accelerate, the Global Knowledge Institute (GKI) in 1999. Ever since, its companies will have to consider issues, make decisions and activities have been directed at developing global leaders and take actions on a global scale with greater agility. If we are to promoting knowledge management as the lynchpin of our continue responding to our customers’ expectations under such knowledge strategy. rapidly changing circumstances, every business location must Promoting knowledge management aims to maximize have business leaders with the corporate value and to provide products and services with high incisive judgment and knowledge content based on the strategic sharing and active actions to respond rapidly use of accumulated knowledge. In developing global leaders, to all eventualities. the main strategic aim is to educate those who will lead in this global knowledge competition. We have been systematically implementing this training program both within Japan and worldwide since 2000. 71 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Fujitsu Group calls the essential quality that these System of Leadership Development Programs leaders must possess Practical Wisdom, and our priority has Leadership Development Baseline Program Leadership Development been to develop such leaders. “Practical Wisdom is the wisdom for Business for Professionals that is based on a sense of the Common Good — what will be Strategic Business good for society. It will, in any specific and individual context, Proposal Workshops make it possible for a person to give insights into the meaning Global Knowledge Institute (GKI)/Advanced Course of interrelationships and values and to make the best decision” Programs outside of the Company (Ikujiro Nonaka, Management Guru, 1935– ). The Fujitsu Group Global Organization Leadership Global Business Innovation Development (GOLD) sees Practical Wisdom as the basic prerequisite for leaders Global Wisdom on Technology Program GKI / Development Program deploying a global business. Course Our training program for new leaders presupposes the JAIMS Global necessary basic management skills and puts the priority on Exchange Program Innovation Seminar Business Schools (Souzou-juku) Practical Wisdom. The program focuses on both subjective and (MBA) Global Competency objective view points, the ability to create “Ba,”* and humanity, Development Program seeking to identify essential qualities through dialogue, Business Global Technology Innovation Business Innovation knowledge and experiences. Through lectures by global authorities and dialogues with active business leaders, the participants study the basic theory of knowledge creation and Stakeholder’s Voice Practical Wisdom in leadership, and master the ability through practical exercises. In order to secure diversity in our employees The Fujitsu Group business leaders are and to promote globalization, joint sessions are held with participants in various overseas leadership development required to recognize and be committed to programs, such as the Global Organization Leadership the common good as citizens of the world. Development Program (GOLD), and joint workshops with We are well aware of the issues that test individual abilities overseas business schools, among other initiatives to link and when dramatic changes are taking place in the social advance global business leadership training programs carried environment. At times like these, true value is only created by out at our locations around the world. By March 2011, a total leaders who read the context of dynamic interrelationships, of 614 employees had participated in this program. think things through without losing momentum, then * The Japanese concept of Ba (roughly translates immediately reach a decision and take action. into place in English) is a shared space for emerging relationships. It can be a physical, The same is true for the business management since the virtual, or mental space. Knowledge, in contrast environment is changing day by day. From a global to information, cannot be separated from the context — it is embedded in Ba. perspective, we face dizzying changes, and business management calls for leaders who can decide and act on the spot. And surely this will only be possible if they have firm convictions of what is the common good. The Group has inherited many valuable things like the expression of the vision “Turning dreams into reality” or the Japan–America Institute of Management Science (JAIMS) — an attempt to bridge East and West through education — and has implemented it in many different ways. In the future, this vision will become even more important and central to the development of business management leadership resources. Ikujiro Nonaka Professor Emeritus of Hitotsubashi University, Chairman of the Economic Research Center, Fujitsu Research Institute, and concurrently Head of the Research Center for Practical Wisdom 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 72 Priorities 3–4 Embracing Diversity and Developing Human Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fujitsu is engaged in a range of activities and implementing systems to create workplaces in which employees recognize each other and all employees can exhibit their full abilities and work energetically. Diversity: Understanding It and Working Towards It light through earlier activities, setting goals, and implementing solutions in the workplace as our second medium-term plan Embracing Diversity and Inclusion Based on the statement “We respect diversity and support for the period from FY 2011 through FY 2013. In particular, we individual growth” in the Corporate Values of the Fujitsu Way, in are looking into workplace deployment of policies by managers 2008 we set up the Diversity Promotion Office as an organization representing the diversity promotion headquarters, setting target to promote respect for diversity throughout the company. values for female employee activities and providing support, and The Diversity Promotion Office’s vision for Fujitsu is: deployment of these efforts to Group companies in Japan. • Improving individual growth and job satisfaction That all employees will have mutual respect for one another, that each Support for Individual Activities and Promotion will demonstrate their own personal added value, and that everyone will contribute to the organization. of a Work/Life Balance • Improving corporate competitiveness and growth Creating a Workplace Environment Where Female That we will continue to create new knowledge and technologies through Employees Can Participate Actively free and active discussions from a variety of viewpoints. As an immediate high-priority issue, Fujitsu is setting quantitative With these two objectives in mind, we are aiming to create targets to reliably create significant numbers of female managers workplaces where people can work energetically, create new while promoting activities to achieve these targets. values, realize coexistence and mutual prosperity with society, and We are selecting people from the leadership level of our develop Fujitsu into an even better company. female employees and, in coordination with the workplace, the management level, personnel, and the Diversity Promotion Office, Efforts at Promoting Diversity establishing and implementing training programs appropriate To review the status of its diversity promotion, Fujitsu has been for these individuals as candidates for promotion. For other levels carrying out an annual survey of all corporate officers, employees of employees, we also hold workshops and events to review their and temporary staff. Based on the results of this survey we are careers and envisage the formation of their future careers. We are focusing on the following three measures: (1) a reform of mindset also planning and implementing networking events with other and culture in the organization; (2) support for individual success; companies and different businesses as opportunities to receive and (3) promotion of diverse styles of work and improvements to fresh encouragement from others. Furthermore, to help our female productivity and individual satisfaction. employees improve their self esteem and acquire job satisfaction, From FY 2008 through FY 2010, as our first medium-term we are implementing forums for all our female employees and plan, Fujitsu worked to create policies that foster awareness and giving publicity to role models. Starting in FY 2011, as a new understanding of diversity so as to create a basis for diversity effort, we are setting up “diversity mentors” who will support promotion. In addition to publishing the results of questionnaires personal and career development of our female employees from and interviews with top management in internal publications, we a different standpoint from that of their supervisors. have introduced role models and various efforts on our Diversity Note that we use the same recruitment standards regardless Promotion Office website (in both Japanese and English). We of gender with respect to promotion of managers. also held a variety of company events, including companywide Trends in Women Managers (Fujitsu Limited) (%) diversity promotion forums, various 4.0 networking events, and forums 3.5 2.9 3.1 with individual themes, which were 2.2 2.4 2.0 well attended by our employees. We implement diversity-related Companywide diversity promotion forums training in our training programs at various levels, including our 0 new employee training and workplace management training 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) for managers. Additionally, we study policies and resolve related issues in diversity promotion focus groups held by managerial staff volunteers from a variety of workplaces. We also hold seminars Employment of People with Disabilities and Creating on diversity management for managers based on the results of Workplaces Where They Can Play an Active Role those focus groups. Furthermore, from January to April 2011, we Fujitsu actively employs people with disabilities based on the implemented an e-learning program called “Creating a workplace concept of “consider carefully, but welcome unreservedly” and that inspires all employees to work energetically” aimed at handsmany people with disabilities are working in a wide variety of on experience in the workplace related to diversity promotion for positions, including as researchers, developers, sales staff, and all executives, employees, and temporary staff. systems engineers. In addition to past and ongoing activities, with understanding When hiring new employees, in addition to holding our own and achievement of diversity as the goal, we are working on seminars, Fujitsu strives to make it possible for many people policies aimed at resolution of individual problems that came to with disabilities to interview with Fujitsu by participating in 73 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT employment events held by commercial employment companies. Moving forward, in addition to continuing to improve Fujitsu also provides actual cases of people with disabilities workplace conditions, we will be reviewing the ways we work and working at Fujitsu in pamphlets and on web pages. In determining proceeding in line with the plan. workplace assignments, we work together with the workplace * Action Plan: Based on the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare’s approval of our first action plan (April 1, 2005 to March 31, 2007) and our second (April 1, 2007 to to bring out the best of the individual’s abilities, and after the March 31, 2010), we have established and are now implementing our third action assignment we hold interviews. Thus, we implement long-term plan (April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2013). follow up from human resource development until the employee is established. In addition, Fujitsu holds forums on the creation of Forums that aim at reforming the way we work networks of disabled employees and the creation of workplaces We are implementing a variety of forums to improve both where everyone can produce results regardless of any handicap productivity and individual satisfaction based on the many they may have. Moreover, we publicize on our intranet role models different ways people work with the theme “Reforming the Way and manuals for workplaces that can accept the disabled. We Work.” Although we focused on understanding differences in ideas Trend in Employment Rate of People with Disabilities (Fujitsu Limited) through FY 2009, in the FY 2010 forums, we paired managers (%) 2.0 1.92 1.90 2.01 with employees and implemented training based on concrete, 1.81 1.81 practical measures. 1.0 Introducing a work from home system So that each and every one of our employees can work efficiently 0 to create even higher added value, in addition to the existing 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) tele-work system (both the satellite office and mobile work types), Fujitsu set up a work from home system as of April 2010. Promoting a Work/Life Balance Arranging support environments for compatibility between Recruitment of Global Talent work, pregnancy, child care, and nursing care needs The Fujitsu Group, including its Group companies within Japan, Fujitsu is committed to providing a work environment that is easy recognizes the progress of business globalization and promotes to work in, allows employees not only to work but also to raise global recruiting. children or care for family members, and supports a diverse range of work styles so that all our employees can fulfill their potential. Support for foreign employees in Japan In accordance with the Law for Measures to Support the Fujitsu started the “Integr8” support project in 2007 to allow Development of the Next Generation, we have implemented employees from abroad to display their true abilities. As part of our action plans*. In addition, we provide our efforts to form a community that can connect foreign and babysitter subsidies, paid leave to honor Japanese employees, Fujitsu invited instructors from both within long-term service as well as volunteer and outside of Fujitsu and we heard lectures on topics of concern activities, and we have established and to foreign employees, such as the Fujitsu Group’s globalization are operating in-house childcare facilities strategies. In this and other ways, Fujitsu supports the formation at some of our sites. Furthermore, to assist of interpersonal networks and communication. In FY 2010, we Logo mark stipulated by the employees who are taking child care leave Minister of Health, Labour, held three such lectures. This community has now exceeded 300 to return to the workplace and help them and Welfare according to persons, both foreign and Japanese nationals, and is leading Article 14, Item 1 of Japan’s build networks, we are implementing Law for Measures to Support to autonomous, proactive activities that support the workplace. the Development of the Next training for employees accompanied by Generation (Next–generation In addition to providing a website on our intranet that includes approval mark) their children. the rules and regulations that must be followed while working at Fujitsu, and other procedures necessary for living in Japan, Number of Employees Using the Care Leave Support System we are also moving forward with the creation of a system that (FY 2010, Fujitsu Limited) (People) can respond to questions and needs for counseling from our System Total Men Women employees in English. Child care leave* 116 4 112 Family care leave 14 6 8 Creating a Workplace Environment in which Older Reduced working hours Workers Can Thrive (child care) 194 5 189 Fujitsu has established a post-retirement rehiring system aimed Reduced working hours (family care) 1 0 1 at providing opportunities to retirees who desire to continue Paternity leave 527 527 — work after the retirement age of 60 and who want to make the best use of their abilities. * The percentage of employees who return to the workplace after taking child care leave is nearly 100%, for both men and women. 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 74 Priorities 3–4 Embracing Diversity and Developing Human Resources Developing Human Resources for Their Contribution to Society and the Planet We consider the development of human resources and employee education as key management priorities, and are working to develop employees who can support a truly global ICT company. Developing Human Resources with a Global Fujitsu University for HR Development Viewpoint Drawing together the collective knowledge and expertise of the One point of the Fujitsu Group’s growth strategy is to accelerate the Fujitsu Group, Fujitsu University was established in 2002 to carry process of true globalization and to be a truly global ICT company. out world-class human resources development to lead the Fujitsu In order to develop global human resources who can carry out this Group and our industry. strategy, we created a global business leader training program In support of these goals, we have implemented systematic that carries out concentrated intellectual polishing of candidates education programs to develop high-level human resources based for the next generation of global business leaders. Furthermore, on the following pillars: (1) developing business leaders who can we have established a wide range of training and human resource exhibit global business leadership; (2) strengthening the baseline development systems. (the values and skills) of our people so that they can understand In particular, in creating these wide-ranging measures, we our corporate vision and act based on those ideals; (3) training are studying them from diverse standpoints and methods. The professionals who are able to provide customers with a high participants are selected from a broad range of occupation types — degree of added value; and (4) “work and life design support” that such as junior staff, experienced managers, Japanese employees supports a wide range of individual needs. working abroad, and foreign employees working in Japan. In the future, Fujitsu will coordinate proactively with Domestic programs are coordinated with those of various locations universities, other external educational organizations, and NPOs across the globe. Classroom lectures are combined with OJT. that provide high-level ICT human-resource development to raise the Fujitsu Group’s presence to even higher levels. Learning Language and Communication to Improve Fujitsu University Literacy and Minds Within Japan, we continue to work to improve our employees’ Fujitsu Group Employee Training language abilities, focusing on English. Our initial aim with Education planning new employees is for all of them to achieve a 600 TOEIC score. Training plan and implementation Employees not only study language intensively but also University headquarters Fujitsu University learn methods of language study that will lead to continuing improvement in ability through personal development. In Developing business leaders Education planning addition, in order to develop global viewpoints, a wide range of subjects, such as acceptance of other cultures, and communication Support for professional growth Group coordination and management skills are incorporated in the programs. Baseline education Furthermore, we offer support programs for foreign employees NetCampus/Infrastructure working in Japan, to improve their Japanese language capability development Support for work-life design and daily living. These programs support not only the employees themselves but also their supervisors and colleagues. Related HR Training Division Solutions Business Products Business Corporate & others Devices New Employees Become Global Human Resources Group Group HR Div. Fujitsu through Experience HR Development Semiconductor HR Div. Limited, General We operate a foreign rotation system (Global Exchange Program) Management HR Management Affairs HR Div. Management Div., Div. for younger employees, which started in FY 2008. In this system, FLM (Fujitsu FSAS (Fujitsu Employee Training and Learning Support and younger employees are sent overseas for a period of two to Media) Service) Development Div. five years. In FY 2010 we implemented our “Global Competency Development Program” targeted at younger employees in their twenties. This consists of three categories: global mindset, Fujitsu NetCampus communication capability development, and short-term overseas This is an online education and training platform open to all of experience. About 100 employees participated in this program. our approximately 170,000 employees in 206 Group companies As a new initiative in FY 2011, we have completed in 30 countries around the world (as of March 2011). It provides preparations to start a “Global Practical Wisdom Leadership applications/admissions for courses, study materials, testing, Development Program” for young managers in which participants questionnaire and other functions. Unified e-learning, which will learn global leadership from direct experience, interactions aims at disseminating corporate policies throughout the whole with other cultures, and actual models. In this program, we are company, is also implemented using this platform. aiming to actuate the ability to compete on the global stage In FY 2010, we held five of these courses in Japan and one through experiences that expand the participants’ capacity. This overseas. In FY 2011, we plan to hold a variety of such courses on program consists of a three months concentrated training and a various themes in cooperation with head offices. 1.5–year apprenticeship model. * Our environmental education program is presented on page 68. 75 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Priorities 3–4 Embracing Diversity and Developing Human Resources Approach to Human Rights and Work Practices In all of our corporate activities, we consider the spirit of respect for human rights to be fundamental. Based on this stance, we promote both human rights enlightenment activities and the creation of a work environment that will satisfy our employees. Efforts Promoting Respect for Human Rights To carry out these human rights enlightenment activities The shared principles articulated in the Code of Conduct of Fujitsu effectively, we also implement compulsory training every year for Way are guidelines for each employee to comply with in conducting line managers in the personnel division, which is the promotional daily business operations. Prime among them is “We respect human division for this effort, and strive to maintain their knowledge and rights,” a principle that underpins all our corporate and individual skills as promoters of human rights enlightenment. activities and disciplines the actions of every member of the Group. To handle requests for consultations from employees, we have In 2006, we stipulated policies for human rights in employment established the internal Human Rights Consultation Service and and clarified our Group stance of taking a consistent global approach. we hold periodic compulsory training sessions so that the service We continue to work for equal employment opportunities, respect for personnel can respond appropriately. human rights, elimination of discrimination, and the abolishment of forced labor and child labor. While we publish these policies on our Striving to Provide Equal Opportunity in website, we take every chance for education or enlightenment that Employment and Advancement will promote understanding and penetration of these policies. We will, in accordance with our commitment to the UN Global Equal Opportunity in Employment, Evaluation/Treatment, Compact in 2009, continue to move forward with management that and Promotion of Managers places a high priority on human rights. Together with our employment policy of not discriminating by FUJITSU Guiding Principles of Respect for Human Rights in education, age, gender or other factors, we offer opportunities for WEB Employment promotion once someone has reached a stage commensurate with http://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/responsibility/society/ general competence and performance. We are also strengthening employees/humanrights/ our multifaceted efforts to increase equality of opportunity, including Promoting Human Rights Enlightenment the introduction of a rehiring system for those who leave Fujitsu to In the Fujitsu Group, we implement activities to promote human rights raise children or care for infirm or elderly family members, and the awareness through Human Rights Enlightenment Committees. In FY proactive promotion of women employees to management positions. 2010, to strengthen our efforts based on the actual situations in the • The percentage of managers at major overseas sites (with some 37,000 workplace, we changed our regional human rights enlightenment employees) is 14.3% (most of whom are hired locally), and of those committees into a new structure in which they are mainly managed by managers, 19.6% are women. regional workplace representatives. Through this change, the Human • In FY 2010, the average length of employment was 19.0 years for men and 16.7 years for women. Rights Enlightenment Committee stipulates company-wide critical themes for the fiscal year reflecting the workplace situations summarized by the regional committees. The members of these committees aim to Communication with Employees instill their themes throughout all divisions and workplaces. Labor Relations The main activities of the Human Rights Enlightenment Based on labor–management agreements with the Fujitsu Labor Committee consist of taking up a variety of human rights issues, such Union, Fujitsu holds discussions about various employment conditions as discrimination and harassment in the workplace, and implementing and explains management policies and business conditions to its human rights enlightenment training for specific hierarchies or for all employees through regular and ad hoc meetings such as the Labor employees. Furthermore, every year in conjunction with Human Rights Council or Productivity Council. Furthermore, the collective bargaining Week (in December), we work towards fostering an environment in rights of the union are stipulated in those labor agreements. which everyone — employees and their families — can discuss human Note that since Fujitsu adopts a union shop system, all ordinary rights in the workplace and at home by, for example, putting up employees are members of the Fujitsu Labor Union. posters on preventing sexual harassment, inviting employees to come In Europe, starting in 2000, the European management up with slogans on human rights promotion and rewarding them, and attends the Employee Representatives’ meeting every year, and distributing human rights promotional leaflets. shares the overall financial conditions of the Fujitsu Group and other issues with them. Human Rights Enlightenment Structure Human Rights Enlightenment Committee Employee Satisfaction Survey Committee chair: Personnel Board member To gauge the dynamism of an organization and assess the level Committee members: Chairs of the regional human rights enlightenment committees of employees’ satisfaction therein, we have taken a multi-faceted employee satisfaction survey every year since 2004. Head office (Personnel Division) In FY 2010, we surveyed some 65,000 employees including those at Group companies. We maintain a high response rate in this survey (Regional) Human Rights Enlightenment Committees and achieved 86% this year, and have confirmed that the degree of Committee chair: Plant manager, branch manager, or equivalent overall satisfaction increases every year. (The percentage proud to work Committee members: Workplace representatives, Personnel Division line managers at Fujitsu was 79.3% in FY 2010.) However, if we look at responses by 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 76 Priorities 3–4 Embracing Diversity and Developing Human Resources Approach to Human Rights and Work Practices organization or by hierarchical level, there are differences in satisfaction trends and the issues to be faced vary. Therefore, we feed back the Workshop Held on Creating an Even results to each organization after we categorize them, and encourage TOPICS Better Labor Environment in China individual organizations to improve their employees’ satisfaction level. At the same time, we analyze the relationship between In China, the labor environment is improving rapidly, first with employee satisfaction and Company measures and policies so we the enactment of the labor contract act and labor dispute can improve employee satisfaction throughout the Company. In mediation and conciliation act in 2008, then with the publication of the Social Insurance Law in 2010, and now with the moves in FY 2010, we added two survey items; “Brand promise penetration 2011 towards making collective bargaining for wages (shaping tomorrow with you)” and “diversity promotion,” which are mandatory. At the same time, workers are increasingly aware of company-wide efforts, and analyzed the results, which we will be their rights. using. By adding necessary survey items like this, we plan to review In this context, the Fujitsu Group in China is striving to create good labor–management relations by making thoroughgoing our company policies, such as the personnel system, from the compliance efforts and providing even better working conditions standpoint of improving employee satisfaction. and environments. As part of this effort, once every six months In April 2011, we held a company-wide event, the ES (Employee we hold a workshop at which we assemble personnel managers to share knowledge and create synergy between workplaces. At Survey) Forum, to share practical examples of the employee these workshops, we analyze labor–management relations from satisfaction improvement in individual organizations along with a variety of viewpoints through discussions on a various topics knowledge of how leadership should function. Furthermore, from with third parties such as specialists from outside Fujitsu or time to time we publish messages from Fujitsu’s president on personnel managers from other countries and contribute to implementing concrete measures in each company. employee satisfaction. Through these efforts, Fujitsu is striving to increase awareness of improving employee satisfaction at all levels, from management to the individual employee. Thus, Fujitsu is targeting improved employee satisfaction from Health Management and Occupational Safety the standpoints of both individual divisions and the company as a and Health whole based on this employee satisfaction survey. Support for Health Management and Maintenance At the Fujitsu Health Promotion Division, we work to protect and Group Efforts in Overseas Businesses maintain the health of Group employees and their families with In April 2010, we took an employee engagement survey of overseas the goal of creating a culture and environment in which employees business group managers (some 1,000 persons, in both Japan and can work in safety and with a sense of well-being. overseas). This survey was intended to create work environments From treatment to prevention and health promotion that make it both pleasant and worthwhile for employees to work. Fujitsu is working to provide its health management activities not It focused on the degree of employee proactive commitment (or only to those who need treatment but also to our healthy employees. engagement) to the organization or management and to identify For example, as part of our promotion of preventive care, our health the elements involved in that commitment. insurance union provides financial assistance for breast cancer Employees who are highly engaged are proud to be working and screening and brain and lung checkups. Furthermore, we have adopted make every possible effort for colleagues and customers. Generally, it the latest CT and MRI equipment at the Fujitsu Clinics and are promoting is thought that in companies where the employees have a high level checkups and providing opportunities for medical tests as a company. of engagement, employees work harder than is required and achieve Health support activities superior business results, productivity, and customer satisfaction. At each Fujitsu business location we have established a health In response to questions related to engagement, such as “Do promotion center or a health care center, which is responsible for you feel motivated to go beyond your formal job responsibilities?” on health consultations and providing counseling for those in need of average 65% of employees in the overseas group responded positively mental health care. (whereas 23% responded “cannot say” and 12% said “no”). Since Our health support policies extend to the family members of results vary and individual elements directly related to engagement our employees and our company-sponsored health checkups are differ between groups, each organization creates and implements made available to retired employees as well. These activities target its own action plan. We evaluated the progress of these action not only individuals, but also operation at the organizational level plans continuously over a one-year period to assist us in improving to improve productivity. employee engagement in all organizations within the Group. Results from the recent survey carried out in April 2011 began Efforts to Improve Work Health and Safety to come in from June. This year, the survey was a large-scale effort We establish at each business site in Japan a joint management that extended beyond management to all employees and was and labor committee that works to improve workplace health and intended to clarify even further the state of engagement across the safety. We also perform workplace inspection tours to check for whole overseas business group. Furthermore, we are incorporating dangerous locations, improve safety, and perform risk assessments. the engagement index in the evaluation of top management of We promote health and safety education and training that matches the Group and thus managements are now evaluated based on the the characteristics of each workplace to create a workplace environment results of the engagement survey for their own organization. in which all our employees can work confidently in safety and comfort. 77 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Priority 5 Communicating and Collaborating with Stakeholders As a good corporate citizen, Fujitsu will pursue a thorough understanding of the multiple needs and expectations of its stakeholders and pursue business activities to meet these needs and expectations. Organizations in which Fujitsu participates as a member such as industrial associations, study groups, and NGOs Members of Fujitsu Family Association Approx. Approx. 1,300 3,500 organizations companies With Our With Global and Customers Local Communities P81–82 P86–89 With Our Graduates of JAIMS Business Partners (Global Business Training Institute) Responses made by Customer P83–84 Cumulative Total 23,000 Relations Center to inquiries Approx. 60,000 Questionnaires on CSR returned by our suppliers Approx. from 54 countries 750 (since foundation in 1972 by Fujitsu) companies For Our Shareholders and Investors P85 Individual briefings for investors Approx. 1,050 (60% overseas) 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 78 Priority 5 Communicating and Collaborating with Stakeholders Highlights in 2010 A Dialogue with Stakeholders in Which Experts Were Invited to Address Fujitsu’s Five Priority Issues December 16, 2010, Fujitsu published its basic policy on corporate social responsibility, in which communication and collaboration with stakeholders is one of the priority issues. We took this opportunity to plan the future promotion of various forms of communication with stakeholders, the first of which called on experts in a number of fields to gather and share their opinions on these major issues. The dialogue began with a presentation by President Yamamoto Providing Opportunities and Security through ICT of his thoughts on how Fujitsu had come up with the basic policy • Some of Fujitsu’s projects supporting developing nations make and priority issues for CSR. An additional presentation was made wonderful and full use of ICT, for example in offering inexpensive by Etsuro Yamada, President of the Public Relations Unit, giving and readily accessible communications services. I would like to practical examples of priority issues. Then, after we heard expert see them leading to the solution of social problems in those opinions on each priority issue, all participants exchanged views. regions from a long-term perspective, not ending up as In closing, President Yamamoto expressed his determination to field-trials. I would also like to hear from Fujitsu, as a global implement management consistent with CSR policy. enterprise based in Japan, a well reasoned opinion on how to Date: Thursday December 16, 2010 solve Japan’s own problems such as social disparities and an Place: Fujitsu Headquarters in Shiodome, Tokyo. aging society. (Ms. Edahiro) • ICT-related services are less subject to restrictive legislation and Experts: Junko Edahiro commercial practices in developing nations, so they are easy to Masaharu Okada expand. I believe Fujitsu could develop its own CSR activities through Keiji Kawahara social and other businesses by fully utilizing ICT. (Mr. Okada) Kimiko Horii Fujitsu: Masami Yamamoto (President and CEO) Protecting the Global Environment Masami Fujita (Corporate Senior Executive Vice President) • Fujitsu is pursuing various environmental initiatives, but Atsuhisa Takahashi things are moving fast world wide, and many other companies (Then Head of Corporate Environmental Strategy Unit) are also engaged in similar activities. It is therefore becoming Morimasa Ikemoto (President of Fujitsu Way Unit) more and more difficult each year to showcase activities that Etsuro Yamada (President of Public Relations Unit) evoke stakeholders’ sympathy. Kimitaka Kato (President, Fujitsu Design Ltd.) Junko Edahiro Masaharu Okada President of e’s Inc. President of the NGO Japan for Professor at Kyushu University. Executive Director of Sustainability. She translates, writes, lectures on the Grameen Creative Lab@Kyushu University. After environmental themes, and sends such information joining a Japanese communications company he overseas. She served as a member of the Council on worked in its American and Internet business Global Warming under the Cabinets of Prime Ministers subsidiaries in Japan, engaging in a wide variety of Fukuda and Aso, and is a visiting researcher at the international business centering around international Research into Artifacts Center for Engineering, the law. Since 2001 he has been a consultant to venture University of Tokyo. Her main translations into Japanese and entertainment businesses. include Al Gore’s book An Inconvenient Truth. Keiji Kawahara Kimiko Horii Executive Director, International Association for Former President and Advisor of the GEWEL NPO. After joining Universal Design. President of KIDStudio Corp. Japan Air Lines and then moving on to a foreign-affiliated Professor of the Nagoya University of Arts and Sciences battery company, where she served as Executive Secretary for Graduate School. He has won many awards in the General Manager in Japan and south Korea, she moved to international design competitions and has a foreign-affiliated cosmetics company. There, as National participated in the planning and development of Sales Director, she managed 700 salespeople. In 2003, she numerous industrial products that utilize the insights founded GEWEL (Global Enhancement of Women’s Executive of universal design, including the “Touch Me” watch for Leadership). With the aim of achieving diversity and inclusion, the visually handicapped. she is active mainly in consulting to promote diversity within companies, in surveying employee awareness, and lecturing. 79 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT This is why the last few years have seen what we might call Communicating and Collaborating with Stakeholders ecological exhaustion, a spreading sense of stagnation, with • For a company to advance, it must consider its relationships the activities of the ecologically concerned becoming with many people, including its customers, suppliers and habitual and some even disengaging from ecology. As Fujitsu employees. Today, enterprises and their various stakeholders has made protecting the global environment a priority issue, I are pooling their wisdom in attempts to address societal hope Fujitsu will make this the opportunity to effectively problems. Naturally, employees are also important convey the significance and the achievement of your efforts stakeholders, and increasing the satisfaction of different to your stakeholders. (Ms. Edahiro) categories of employee will contribute to the greater satisfaction of other stakeholders. I am interested to see Embracing Diversity and Developing Human Resources which social issues Fujitsu will address through dialogues • One problem of diversity in Japan is that in many companies, with its stakeholders. (Mr. Kawahara) even after they have introduced a new system to promote the • A social business can be seen as a business that values active participation of female employees and to improve work–life compassion. I would like to see Fujitsu create new businesses balance, it often tends to make no headway. I therefore highly that show its stakeholders a distinctively Japanese value Fujitsu’s inclusion of this among its priority issues. To reform compassionate DNA, such as the “waste not, want not” corporate culture through the promotion of diversity, a company recycling society of Edo (now Tokyo) period, and the “three needs to show acceptance of each individual employee’s values. I goods” of Japan’s Omi merchants (good for the seller, the expect to see Fujitsu’s top executives and the management layer buyer and society). (Mr. Okada) addressing this issue in word and deed, and would like Fujitsu, like other visionary companies throughout the world, to give clear messages at international conferences, etc. (Ms. Horii) The Last Word in Today’s Dialogue Thank you, every one of you, for the valuable opinions you have expressed today. Japan has traditionally seen virtue in unpublicized good works, and the Fujitsu Group has accordingly not aggressively publicized the CSR aspects of its corporate activities. However, both the Group and the world are becoming increasingly globalized, and we owe it to our stakeholders to provide them with accurate sources of information and explanations of the issues we are addressing as we seek to further increase the centripetal force of the Group. This is the thinking behind the brand promise “Shaping tomorrow with you” that we adopted in 2010. The “you” refers to you and all our other stakeholders. The brand promise represents our commitment to society that Fujitsu will, together with all of our stakeholders, envisage and shape one “new tomorrow” after another. Today’s stakeholder dialogue forms a part of this process, and we will continue listening to your opinions and providing you with information in the future as we strengthen our ongoing efforts in ways that are true to Fujitsu. Masami Yamamoto President and CEO 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 80 Priority 5 Communicating and Collaborating with Stakeholders With Our Customers We adopt a customer-centric approach and communicate proactively with our customers so that we can grow together as their partner. To Increase Customer Satisfaction The expansion of ongoing improvements Based on the statement “We seek to be their valued and trusted and innovations partner” in the Corporate Values of the Fujitsu Way, all our ideas and actions originate from a customer-centric approach to Integration of People, Processes and ICT for business. We aim to contribute to the success of our customers “overall optimization” Top management Make full use of and grow together as their valued and trusted partner. Make full use of ICT Change Fast-changing social and economic environments make processes this a difficult time in which to see far ahead, so we place Rendering intentions people’s knowledge. Set a targeted area visible Change ourselves in the position of the customer to better and more (“field”) people’s mindset and behavior rapidly understand new requirements and innovate to meet those needs as quickly and accurately as possible. We are aiming for management innovation through using the “Program Various areas of activities to Improve the Quality of Management ”* and taking a number of initiatives to form an innovative corporate culture that can keep pace with the changes at our customers’. The Field Innovation Process * The Program to Improve the Quality of Management: This is the framework We insist on rendering all the facts visible for customer-centric management excellence modeled on the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award of the United States, the de facto global standard for Field Innovation identifies the target field in which innovation management innovation. is to be applied and the facts are rendered visible thoroughly using ethnography*, visualization of PC operations, and the latest technology. Promoting Field Innovation with the Customer * Ethnography: A site survey method used in cultural anthropology. In this method, daily life is surveyed from the viewpoint of the subject by actually participating in Fujitsu incubated “Field Innovation” in 2007 to create a the life or work being studied. prosperous future along with our customers. It is important to get back to the starting point, where Facts modify attitudes ICT is seen as only a tool to support people in their work and Issues only become clear when the basic facts are known and increase efficiency in their working places. Field Innovation mindsets can be reformed. Also, we can aim for agreement concentrates on the customer’s work place to determine the on mindset reform through workshops and achieve reforms true nature of the issues by visualizing relationships between that take advantage of people’s knowledge. Our innovation people, processes, and ICT. This increases the value of using ICT methodology is threefold — in People, Processes and ICT, where by making full use of theses insights from the workplace. people’s mindset, actions and work processes have changed. By making such management issues visible, Field Innovation leads to continuing customer’s management Ongoing innovation brings an innovative mindset to innovation in line with the intentions of top management. We businesses and organizations have already implemented Field Innovation programs at as By continuing our innovation methodology in line with many as 300 customers and also continue to use it ourselves customers’ top management intentions, we aim to establish within the Fujitsu Group. powerful companies and organizations that will themselves Additionally, we have fostered specialists known as Field continue to innovate. Innovators. Now, 400 Field Innovators visualize the issues and build consensus with customer at customer’s locations to promote innovation. We continue to foster Field Innovators, to Operation of the Fujitsu Customer Relations Center and strengthen the framework and concentrate their knowledge. the Fujitsu Contact Line Fujitsu accumulates practical wisdom as the knowledge We established the Fujitsu Customer Relations Center in 2003 gained through Field Innovation, then uses it to increase the to handle inquiries and other problems concerning products quality of our activities and provide further value using ICT. and services from customers who are not sure where to address their inquiries. And we have also been providing rapid Results of Field Innovation Activity responses to customers concerning the functions and prices (Including Fujitsu Group internal projects) (Units: Activity) of products before they make their purchases. All such preFY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 purchase telephone inquiries are referred to a single window of Results of Activity 129 294 331 the Fujitsu Contact Line, with the telephone number for access published on our corporate website and in catalogs, press releases and advertisements. The Fujitsu Customer Relations Center and the Contact Line act as a clearing house that links the customer to the best line of communication for answering their inquiries. They not only contribute to increasing customer satisfaction 81 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT by their accelerated responses but also extract customer standards for selecting AC adapters for greater usability and feedback, which is reported to the departments responsible for lower cost. development and quality improvements of the related products As a result of this review, we switched from the earlier 80W and services. adapters to 65W ones. We implemented further miniaturization Note that when we receive opinions or when something is and weight reduction in AC adaptors. brought to our attention in the form of a complaint from the customer, the specific content of that feedback or complaint is reported to our executives. Placing Importance on Connecting Fujitsu Customer Relations Center (in Japanese) with Our Customers WEB http://jp.fujitsu.com/contact/customer/ Fujitsu Family Association The Fujitsu Family Association was founded in 1964 as our Fujitsu Customer Relations Center/Fujitsu Contact Line user community to help members exchange information and Extracting information from customer feedback improve each other’s skills. As of the end of FY 2010, it had 11 chapters and LS Research Committees throughout Japan with Customer Fujitsu some 3,500 members. Since there was increasing interest in new technologies such Customer Don’t Personal as cloud computing, many networking events, study and research know products support desk activities were held among the members on those topics in FY where to Relations Center Customer ask feedback 2010 covering how to apply these new technologies to their Phone business, and so on. Also, conferences were held in spring and Sales Mail Analysis and autumn in Japan, and an overseas seminar in the United States, Web report while six issues of the members’ magazine “Family” and occasional Sales support Contact Line Want to dept. of each know business unit issues of “e-Family” (the web version) were published during the Active use of the specific feedback in year as activities of the main office of the Family Association. The product products, services functions Group companies and LS Research Committee* held research section meetings on 16 institutionalization themes as its research activities on leading-edge management and ICT, and published a summary report. Furthermore, we held Quick response seminars and research meetings at 11 local chapters to provide problem solving and practical business support to local members. Trends in Inquiries Addressed to the Customer Relations Center * LS Research Committee: This committee was originally formed as the “Large Systems Research Association” in 1978, which was merged with the Fujitsu Family (Inquiries) Association in 2007 with the renewed purpose of carrying out research on leading60,000 edge technologies and leading-edge concepts, and implementing effective utilization of ICT that will contribute to members’ growth. 40,000 Fujitsu Family Association (in Japanese) 20,000 WEB http://jp.fujitsu.com/family/ 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Directions in Advertising In all advertising and publicity activities in the Fujitsu Group, we strive to observe all laws and corporate internal regulations and PC Support Center for Individual Customers to only use fair and appropriate expressions and graphic symbols. To handle the diversifying needs and environments of our Main advertising and publicity activities individual customers, Fujitsu has established a system that can •TV programming: Fujitsu sponsors ”See the world by train” and ”fight! provide technical advice and assistance 365 days a year at our KAWASAKI Frontale (a Japanese soccer team)” for Japanese TV. Azby Technical Center, which is a major part of the personal •TV commercials/newspaper advertisements: Fujitsu places products support desk. advertisements for Fujitsu products in daily life. The themes of this series of press advertisements have included firefighting, WEB Azby Technical Center (in Japanese) farming, the Automated Meteorological Data Acquisition System, http://azby.fmworld.net/support/intro/azby_tech.html the Subaru telescope, and data centers. Examples of Improvements Based on Customer Feedback Product and Service Marking/Labeling Miniaturization of notebook PC AC adapters In the divisions in charge of every Fujitsu product or service, we In response to customer requests to miniaturize and reduce make all possible efforts to observe all laws and company internal the weight of notebook PC AC adapters to make them more regulations concerning the marking and labeling of Fujitsu Group portable for business trips, we reviewed our internal evaluation products for content, performance, safety and specifications. 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 82 Priority 5 Communicating and Collaborating with Stakeholders With Our Business Partners We promote our CSR procurement in cooperation with our business partners as well as support their efforts to enhance business continuity management (BCM) and compliance. Promoting Socially Responsible Procurement Collaborative Promotion of CSR with Suppliers In procurement, we pursue a policy based on harmonious Promoting Green Procurement coexistence with our business partners, fair and proper We have set out the basic requirements for environmentally evaluation and selection of suppliers, and the promotion of sound procurement of parts, materials and products in the socially responsible procurement activities. Fujitsu Group Green Procurement Direction and are working with We work together with our suppliers to implement our suppliers on green procurement activities (see page 61). procurement activities grounded in the principles of corporate social We request that all of our suppliers implement an responsibility (CSR). In particular, in March 2006, we published our environmental management system (EMS) so that they can CSR Procurement Guidelines, which state our requirements such as continuously implement environmental burden reduction. In respect for human rights, labor, health and safety and fair trading, particular, we periodically survey their EMS implementation status asking our suppliers for their strict compliance. and, as a general rule, request that they establish an EMS subject Also, in 2007 we published the Fujitsu CSR Promotion to third-party certification. We also ask that our suppliers build a Guidebook, which describes concrete efforts based on the chemical substances management system (CMS*1) based on the CSR Procurement Guidelines, and held a briefing session for JAMP*2 guidelines for the management of chemical substances approximately 180 of our main suppliers. In the briefing session, included in products. We monitor our suppliers’ production sites in addition to the explanation about the CSR Procurement and promote efforts at improvement to strengthen management Guidelines and the CSR Promotion Guidebook to suppliers, we of chemical substances included in products in the supply chain. conducted a written survey to ascertain progress status and CSR As a new initiative starting in FY 2010, we request that activities systems at our suppliers (of whom there were about our suppliers make efforts toward limiting and reducing 750 in FY 2010). We carry out this written survey every year and CO2 emissions and conserving biodiversity. In particular, we provide the results to our suppliers as feedback to support their held briefing sessions for our suppliers, and asked for their proactive improvements related to CSR management. support after we explained the importance of declaring their commitment to these themes explicitly and of promoting Fujitsu Procurement Policy and CSR Procurement Guideline WEB activities with specific goals. Especially, with regard to http://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/procurement/policy/ conserving biodiversity, we supported our suppliers’ efforts in this area by preparing and providing guidelines for them which Informing and Emphasizing the Importance of CSR to Buyers include concrete examples of such efforts at corporations and Through education and training, Fujitsu keeps employees in information on ways of promoting such activities. charge of procurement informed of the importance of CSR*1 CMS: Chemical substances Management System conscious procurement activities. In FY 2010, we held trainings *2 JAMP: Joint Article Management Promotion Consortium on such themes as compliance with the laws governing subcontracting and worker dispatching, information security, and personal information protection in procurement activities Supply Chain BCM as well as CSR-conscious procurement and green procurement To ensure the stable supply of products and services to our activities. customers in the event of unexpected contingencies, Fujitsu In FY 2011, we will continue similar education to further has made a major commitment to strengthening the BCM increase our buyers’ awareness on CSR issues. capabilities of our suppliers since FY 2007. Fujitsu CSR Procurement Guidelines 1. Protection of the Global Environment 5. Maintenance and Promotion of Information Security Complying with the Fujitsu Group Green Procurement Direction, we promote We maintain and promote information security in order to properly protect the establishment of environmental management systems (EMS), and we our own information and information systems and those of third parties. aim to supply products and services that involve low environmental load and 6. Fair Trade and Corporate Ethics do not contain hazardous substances. 1. Fair Trade 2. Compliance with Laws and Regulations We promote fair, transparent and free competition and do not engage in We adhere to applicable laws, regulations and accepted social practices any illicit trade. governing our local and global businesses. 2. Protection of Confidential Information 3. Respect for Human Rights, Labor, Health and Safety We maintain and promote proper handling of confidential information, • We respect individual human rights and do not unfairly discriminate including third parties’ confidential and personal information. against people based on race, color, religion, creed, sex, social status, 3. Protection of Intellectual Property and physical or mental disability, and we do not engage in human rights We strive to obtain, maintain and utilize the intellectual property of others, abuses such as sexual harassment. Also, we do not induce anybody to understanding the role that intellectual property plays as an important infringe such human rights. resource to underpin organizations’ business activities. • We establish comfortable work environments for the security and health of 4. Prohibition of Bribes our employees. We do not engage in any bribery of public officials or any similar activities, • We do not use child labor or any form of forced or compulsory labor. or any corruption, extortion, or appropriation through the abuse of one’s 4. Assurance of Safety and Quality of Products and Services position in the organization. We maintain high standards of safety and quality in our products and services. 83 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We have so far held a total of 23 briefing sessions for our Main efforts in FY 2010 (For suppliers of software main suppliers to explain the necessity for BCM and Fujitsu’s development, services, or hardware manufacturing) approach to this issue. Furthermore, every year we conduct a • Information security seminars (Dec. 2010) questionnaire survey on the subject matter and in FY 2010 we A total of some 1,200 companies (some 1,300 individuals) attended surveyed some 750 suppliers about BCM by questionnaire. We •Questionnaires to suppliers on information security measures also held workshops in order for the suppliers whose efforts (Feb. 2011 through Mar. 2011) About 1,400 companies in this area are not making progress to acquire the necessary •Information security audits (on-site) of our suppliers (Apr. 2010 knowledge about BCM. As a result, the percentage of suppliers through Mar. 2011) who developed their own BCM plans improved significantly from A total of some 190 companies 11% in 2006 to 48% in 2010. In FY 2011, we will be promoting further BCM enhancements throughout the entire supply chain after verifying how our Compliance Line Available to All Suppliers suppliers coped with the Great East Japan Earthquake, which Fujitsu launched a confidential communication channel, called occurred on March 11, 2011. the “Compliance Line,” available to all suppliers, in August 2009. The Compliance Line is to receive reports from suppliers on any matters of potential or actual non-compliance action Thorough Enforcement of Compliance with regard to our purchasing activities (see page 93). The Fujitsu Group is working to ensure thorough compliance throughout the entire supply chain. Every year, we conduct a written survey to assess the status Partnerships with Our Suppliers of compliance system formation in our suppliers’ supply chains In 1997, Fujitsu established its suppliers’ performance review (i.e., secondary and more distant suppliers), which will verify (SPR*1) system, in which our about 200 core suppliers (covering the thoroughness of compliance enforcement. Also we are 90% or more of total procurement) are comprehensively evaluated promoting business transactions with the consideration of risk for their products and efforts from the standpoint of quality, assessment by identifying the products and regions that are technology, price, supply, the environment and reliability. From FY concerned with high risk of labor and other problems and by 2008, we have added the results of our survey on CSR, information determining whether or not we are procuring from the regions in security and BCM to “environment and reliability” section of the SPR question. Furthermore, in an effort to strengthen the compliance and used them to evaluate suppliers in the SPR program. For our of our suppliers, we held training sessions in February 2011 that partners in the solutions business, we developed a similar review directed the attention of management and workers in our major system (PPR*2) in 2004. Starting in 2008, we reviewed about 1,500 solutions-related partners towards compliance issues. solution-related system supplier companies and provided the results as feedback to about 200 of our main suppliers. With our main suppliers, we hold business review meetings Promoting Information Security Measures organized by our top management in which we directly share the The Fujitsu Group has set the goal of eliminating information results of our evaluation with suppliers and explain the outlook security breaches and, along with our suppliers, we of our business and our procurement strategies. continuously implement measures to prevent such breaches *1 SPR: Suppliers’ Performance Review and to prevent any reoccurrences should they still occur. These *2 PPR: Partners’ Performance Review measures include education, enlightenment, auditing, and information sharing. When we start business with a new supplier, we have made Fujitsu Supplier Day it a rule to explicitly state in the contract that the supplier shall Since 1997, we have held Fujitsu Supplier Day to strengthen manage information security and handle personal information our partnership with our business partners. In the event, we at the same level as Fujitsu does. If any serious problem in present letters of appreciation to those suppliers who have made information security occurs at a supplier, or if a supplier shows exceptional contributions to our business, no improvement in its security management, we reconsider the and the company president and the VP in business relationship with the supplier and may discontinue charge of Purchasing give presentations to placing new orders. share our procurement policies in line with In recent years, we have been working to implement Fujitsu’s business plans. information security measures equivalent to those used in our The FY 2010 event was held in January domestic (Japanese) activities for an increasing number of 2011 and was attended by approximately offshore development projects with overseas partners. 740 representatives from some 370 domestic and overseas suppliers. Fujitsu Supplier Day 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 84 Priority 5 Communicating and Collaborating with Stakeholders For Our Shareholders and Investors As we increase our management transparency by the timely and appropriate disclosure of information, we are moving forward with a variety of IR activities for even better communications with our shareholders and investors. Basic Policy on Information Disclosure A Variety of Meetings for the Investor Community, both Fujitsu emphasizes fairness and continuity in disclosure of in Japan and Overseas information, in accordance with the Financial Instruments and In addition to briefings on financial results, we provide a variety Exchange Act and other laws and regulations, as well as the of presentations on management policy and specific business rules of the exchanges on which its shares are listed. briefings targeted at institutional investors and securities Moreover, our policy is to be proactive in disclosing analysts in Japan. any information that we judge to be effective for helping For institutional investors outside Japan, we hold road shareholders, investors and other stakeholders to deepen their shows (explanatory meetings for investors) regularly in understanding of Fujitsu, even if such disclosure is not required Europe and North America, and local staff members also visit by laws, regulations or other rules. investors individually. Basic Policy on Returns to Shareholders Communicating with Individual Shareholders Article 40 of Fujitsu Limited’s Articles of Incorporation grants the and Investors Board of Directors the authority to distribute retained earnings. We prepare and send out interim and year-end financial As part of Fujitsu’s basic policy on the exercise of this authority, reports for individual shareholders and investors. We promptly we believe that a portion of retained earnings should be paid disclose IR materials used at analyst briefings and materials to shareholders to provide a stable return, and that a portion and images from the year-end presentation of financial should be retained by the Company to strengthen its financial results, utilizing PDF files and streaming technology. base and support new business development opportunities When we report interim dividends, we also carry out a that will result in improved long-term performance. questionnaire survey to derive feedback from a wide range of In addition, taking into consideration the level of profits, shareholders and investors. Fujitsu aims to increase the distribution of profits to our shareholders when the financial base is sufficiently strong enough, including through share buybacks. Publication on IR websites Fujitsu publishes information that we would like our shareholders and investors to know on our Japanese and Communicating with Shareholders and Investors overseas IR websites. This information includes overviews of We are actively involved in IR activities in Japan and abroad, Fujitsu and a wide range of disclosed documents. including holding briefing sessions for institutional investors We also use our IR websites for information disclosure and and securities analysts, responding to individual requests from communication to deepen people’s understanding of Fujitsu investors, visiting Japanese and international investors, and through IR activities, such as early public release of proposals transmitting information through the Fujitsu website as part of submitted at shareholder meetings. our efforts to improve communications with all our investors. •IR website for shareholders and investors (Japanese IR site) WEB We also disseminate press releases, providing information http://pr.fujitsu.com/jp/ir/ through the media to individual investors and the public at •Investor Relations (overseas IR site) http://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/ir/ large as part of our active efforts to ensure fair disclosure. •IR website for private individuals (in Japanese) The Annual Shareholders’ Meeting is taken as an opportunity http://pr.fujitsu.com/jp/ir/private/ to improve communications with all our shareholders, •Executive Presentations http://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/ir/library/presentations/ for example by displaying our products so as to increase understanding of Fujitsu. We also carry out questionnaire surveys of opinions of our Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, and the results are used to improve subsequent meetings. Main Results of IR Activities in FY 2010 2010 2011 May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. Feb. Mar. Apr. Jan. Annual Shareholders’ Meeting •Annual Shareholders’ Meeting Management In Direction Briefing •Management Direction Briefing Japan Financial Results •Annual Financial Results •First-Quarter Financial Results •Second-Quarter Financial Results •Third-Quarter Financial Results Announcements Business Briefings •R&D* •SI Business Study Outside Roadshows •North America •Europe •Asia •Europe •North America Japan In FY 2010, we held about 1,050 briefings for institutional investors and securities analysts (58% of them overseas and 42% within Japan). * This R&D Strategy Briefing was held on March 31. 85 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Priority 5 Communicating and Collaborating with Stakeholders With Global and Local Communities We engage in a variety of social contribution activities for a prosperous future where people’s dreams are fulfilled, and we make proposals and suggestions to governments and industry groups to help solve problems and issues. Basic Approach ICT Directions for Social Contribution Activities for Everyone The Fujitsu Group will create new value and knowledge together with our customers, communities, and people worldwide Environment and contribute to sustainable development for the earth and society to achieve a prosperous future where people’s dreams Challenges are fulfilled. Fujitsu engages in social contribution activities together with a wide range of stakeholders and bases those activities Community Engagement on four pillars: ICT for Everyone, Challenges, Community Engagement and Environment. Social Contribution Activities in FY 2010 (Fujitsu) ● ICT for Everyone ◆ Challenges ■ Community Engagement Environment (See page 65 for the more articles of Environmental Social contribution.) Promoting Learning & Education and Cultural & Artistic Activities Local Activities International Exchange ■ Sponsorship of the Fujitsu Concert Series ■ Spring Festival at Kawasaki Research and ● Fujitsu Kids’ Site (Japanese website) ■ Sponsorship of the Fujitsu Concord Jazz Manufacturing Facilities ● PC assembly workshops Festival ■ Tea-picking Festival at Numazu Plant ● Support for Information Ethics education ■ Hosting of the 18th Fujitsu Cup Masters ■ Kusunoki Festival at Fujitsu Solution Square ◆ Management of the Japan-America Tournament Institute of Management ■ Hosting of the 23rd World Go Championship Disaster Relief Support Science (JAIMS) Fujitsu Cup ■ Miyazaki Prefecture hoof–and–mouth ◆ Sponsorship of the Fujitsu Scholarship ■ Sponsorship of the Fujitsu Ladies Golf disease outbreak (May 2010) Program Tournament ■ China, Qinghai earthquake (May 2010) ◆ Support for the Mathematical Olympiad ■ Support for the Kawasaki Frontale ■ New Zealand earthquake (March 2011) Foundation of Japan & the Japanese Professional Soccer Team ■ Great East Japan Earthquake (March 2011) Committee for the International Olympiad in Informatics Company Sports ◆■ Track and field ◆■ American football ◆■ Women’s basketball Activities Related to Public Policy following three years and half of study and investigation. This report Fujitsu participates in government and industry group councils and provides specific estimates of the damage that could be sustained committees and promotes activities relating to the investigation of were large-scale flooding to occur in the Tokyo metropolitan area. The concrete proposals and measures to resolve social issues as well as report made specific proposals on measures the government should the creation and revision of legal systems. take to ensure timely and appropriate evacuation, and to strengthen In FY 2010, Fujitsu worked with about 1,300 partners such as emergency preparedness in public agencies, and other issues. industry groups, research organizations, and NGOs on activities including the following. Studying Regulations Appropriate for the Times While there are regulations under the legal system whose purpose Studying Ways to Protect the Country Against Natural Disasters is to protect the nation’s citizens or support smooth and active A Fujitsu board member served as the chairperson of a dedicated economic activity, regulations need to be reviewed in light of investigatory committee concerned with countermeasures for largetechnological progress and changes in society. scale flooding established by the Japanese government’s Central The Japanese government reviews regulations that may have Disaster Prevention become anachronistic under a subcommittee on regulatory and Council. Given that largesystematic reform established by the Government Revitalization Unit. scale flooding with Fujitsu executives serve on a working group of this subcommittee. the potential of severe In FY 2010, this subcommittee looked into procedural simplification damage to urban areas for wind and solar power generation and establishing rapid charging now occurs worldwide, stations for electric cars, diversifying the system of charges for this committee completed electric power among other issues, and made recommendations for a report in April 2010 Working with the Central Disaster Prevention Council regulatory reform to achieve a low-carbon society. 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 86 Priority 5 Communicating and Collaborating with Stakeholders With Global and Local Communities Activity Examples ICT for Everyone Japan Fujitsu Kids Event 2010 health management since In cooperation with the Japanese Olympiad in Informatics August 2010. Committee, we held an event to interest children in technology Additionally, since the end and foster their dreams in July 2010 at our Kawasaki research and of June 2011, we have operated manufacturing facilities. This was the fourth such event to be held, a patient support service for and about 100 children selected by lottery enjoyed learning about diabetes, a disease that affects computer mechanisms through play and games. a growing number of actual The event had two parts. In the first, entitled “Let’s have fun and potential patients every learning about computers!” after trying to sort a variety of data year. This system aims to use in a group project, the children learned about the mechanism the power of ICT to simplify by which multiple computers process data in parallel by walking personal management of daily around a picture painted on the ground. In the second part, “Let’s blood glucose levels and lifestyle so that patients can keep going find Fujitsu technology!” the children visited “Fujitsu Technology without wearying effort. Hall,” where many products Fujitsu is committed to supporting all kinds of health needs such as supercomputers from disease prevention and health improvement to patient support. and their applications, self checkout systems, and Websites for Kids to Experience the Joy in Learning undersea cables are displayed, To convey to children respect for intellectual property and the spirit and learned how the of creating things, Fujitsu FOM Limited, which provides ICT-based mechanisms they had studied education, supports the virtual patent application site “Brainstorm are used in actual products. Fujitsu Kids Event 2010 Champion” operated by Yamanote Consulting, Inc. Also, Fujitsu Learning Media Limited, which provides human Providing “Karada (Body) Life” to Respond to a Variety of Health Needs resource development services offers an internet browser for kids Fujitsu has been providing a service that records physiological “Hiragana Navi” to convert Kanji (Chinese characters) into Hiragana changes and other data acquired using mobile phone sensors or the alphabet, as well as to filter out harmful information. Nifty and personal computers on a cloud server to support daily and Fujitsu also provide enjoyable educational content for children. Overseas The Americas USA Asia Thailand Excellence in Leadership Prize Received for Contributions to PC Donation for Education and Sea Conservation Program Primary Education Fujitsu System Business Thailand In its home base of Richardson, Texas, Fujitsu Network Communications (FSBT), an ICT solution company in (FNC), which provides communications solutions such as systems for Thailand, joined hands with Siam communications carriers in North America, works to contribute to local Family Mart, operating a chain of communities. In addition to making donations to grade schools, these convenience stores in Thailand, in efforts include classes taught at school sites by Fujitsu employees, the project initiative entitled ‘Youth acting as judges at science fairs and invention fairs, and provision and Education’ in June 2010. In this Donating PCs to the “Youth and of the Fujitsu Challenge Prize to teachers who integrate creative and project, FSBT donated 12 PCs to rural Education” Project innovative use of technology as part of the instruction process. schools for the purpose of supporting education program. These activities have FSBT also donated 8 sets of PCs for education to Nongmakok been widely praised, and in Temple in rural temple at Petchburi province in July 2010. April 2011, FNC was awarded Additionally, FSBT organized Fujitsu Sea Conservation program Richardson Independent in February 2011 to celebrate the 20th anniversary for the School District’s excellence operation in Thailand. FSBT executives and staff visited a coral in leadership prize, the plantation area in Chonburi province and donated baby mangrove highest award given to a trees to support the coral plantation project. corporation for contribution to the community. Speech at the Awards Ceremony 87 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Activity Examples Challenges Japan Supporting a Programming Contest for Technical College Students Supporting Athletes in a Variety of Fields The programming contest is a competition at which technical The Fujitsu Group supports people who take on challenges in a college students from all over Japan exhibit the results of their variety of fields. studies and compete with their concepts and capabilities in Among Fujitsu’s employees there are many athletes who information processing technology. Fujitsu has supported this compete at the world-class level despite handicaps. For example, contest as a special cooperating corporation since the 6th annual Fujitsu employees have participated as Japanese representatives event in 1995. In commemoration of the 20th anniversary of the in wheelchair rugby, wheelchair basketball, and downhill chair founding of this contest, in 2009 Fujitsu established the Fujitsu skiing events. These athletes work seriously at their activities while Special Prize and presents a Fujitsu personal computer to the meeting their responsibilities in both their jobs and their sports. winning team as an additional prize. We also support the annual Oita International Wheelchair In November 2010, Fujitsu invited the winning team to its Marathon, where some of our employees participate as competitors. Kawasaki research and manufacturing facilities. In addition to Fujitsu continues to encourage employees taking on presentation and demonstration by them, we arranged discussions challenges by supporting those who work in various fields at the with a variety of Fujitsu employees, including engineers from the same time as they technology division. The students were forthcoming with technical are participating in question concerning development efforts at the site, project American football, management methods, and track and field, and other issues. women’s basketball Fujitsu is committed to teams. encouraging the growth of the young ICT technologists, who will in turn support future society, by supporting this 30th Oita International Wheelchair Marathon Technical college 21st Programming Contest programming contest. Overseas The Americas USA (Hawaii) Asia Educating Business Leaders at JAIMS Providing Opportunities to Study at JAIMS through the Fujitsu (Japan–America Institute of Management Science) Scholarship Program JAIMS is a non-profit educational institution set up with the full In 1985, in celebration of the 50th anniversary of its founding, backing of Fujitsu in 1972 to provide postgraduate level education. Fujitsu established the Fujitsu Scholarship Program to foster elite Anticipating the increasing importance of US–Japan business business leaders who will connect Japan with the rest of the world. relations, the institute was established based on the vision of Initially, this program started as a scholarship for participants Yoshimitsu Kohra, then Fujitsu President, to foster the development to study Japanese Management at JAIMS. In 1996, we expanded it of globally minded business people who could act as future bridges to include programs other than JAIMS and provided opportunities between the two nations. (A total of 23,000 people from 54 for businesspersons from the Asia-Pacific region to study, and the countries have participated.) cumulative total of recipients has reached about 420 persons as of Currently, its mission April 1, 2011. is to contribute to the Fujitsu Scholarship WEB http://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/responsibility/ development of human community/scholarship/ resources and the formation of a community through knowledge co-creation in Asia Vietnam the Asia-Pacific region. JAIMS Students Scholarship Program to 3 Universities in Hanoi Fujitsu Vietnam Limited (FVL), an IT company in Vietnam, gives JAIMS WEB scholarship for 2 excellent students in each of 3 universities, Hanoi http://www.jaims.org/ University of Technology (HUT), National Economic University and College of Technology every year. 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 88 Priority 5 Communicating and Collaborating with Stakeholders With Global and Local Communities Activity Examples Community Engagement Japan Supporting the Yosakoi Festival with ICT Supporting Career Education with Workplace Experiences and The Yosakoi Festival in Tosa, Kochi Prefecture, is one of the most Delivered-to-the-School Classes popular summer festivals in Japan, with 18 thousand participants The Fujitsu Group offers junior high school students opportunities to (dancers) and two million visitors over four days. Fujitsu Shikoku learn about society and professional people as a part of their career Systems Limited, which is based in Kochi Prefecture, and some education through classrooms or vocational experiences. other Fujitsu Group companies support its operation by developing Fujitsu Design Limited provides mobile-phone design workplace and operating a Performance Management System, the “Dokoiko experiences at their Kawasaki research and manufacturing facilities. Service.” This system is designed to resolve problems of crowding The Group also participates by visitors and traffic jams getting to the various event stages and in a program that delivers areas from the standpoints of both visitors and dancers. classes to students as part The “Dokoiko Service” provides real time information about of an NPO-sponsored career crowding at the event stages and dancing spots over the internet. education program. Thus It enables the dancers to see where they can dance at minimum Fujitsu works proactively in waiting time. Based on the information, they decide their route education support activities and apply for the performance so that they can dance at more and continues to support stages. On the other hand, visitors can check the performance local career education. A career education program at a junior high school schedule on the website, and get to the stages prior to their favorite dancers’ arrival. Thus, the Dokoiko System contributes to Activities that Contribute to Society by Group Employees efficient operation of Employees of Fujitsu Group companies participate in everyday the Yosakoi Festival. social contribution activities, such as collecting used plastic bottle caps, stamps and prepaid cards and donating the proceeds to polio vaccine or seedling planting projects. At the Fujitsu Shiodome headquarters in December 2010, employees collected and sold secondhand books and DVDs in support of internationally active NGOs. Also in that month, we held a fair trade product sales event at the Fujitsu Solutions Square (in Kamata) at which 5 NGOs exhibited. Introducing the Dokoiko Service at the Yosakoi Festival Overseas Europe United Kingdom Oceania Australia Charity Bicycle Race to Raise Money for British Heart Foundation Volunteer Activity for Challenged Persons in Vocational Training Facility Employees of Fujitsu Telecommunication Europe Limited (FTEL), In November 2010, 12 employees of Fujitsu Australia and New a UK telecommunications’ company operating in Europe and the Zealand Limited (FANZ) provided assistance with packing and Middle East, held a charity bicycle run to raise money for local assembly works to challenged persons in High Point Industries, emergency equipment for the British Heart Foundation (BHF) in a vocational training facility. This activity was organized in October 2010. Seventy employees and 15 family menbers joined cooperation with United Way Melbourne, a volunteer-led NPO. either a 50 or an 80 km course in Warwickshire, the United The purpose of the activity was to help challenged persons Kingdom and enjoyed running though the local countryside and exert their abilities seeing many sights such as William Shakespeare’s birthplace. In though the work. preparation for the run, many of FTEL employees were training However, it also became after work and in lunch breaks. a valuable opportunity FTEL raised for FANZ employees to GBP 7,500 (about recognize the importance one million JPY) of local communities. for BHF by this charity run. FTEL employees who participated in the charity bicycle run Employees who participated in volunteer work 89 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Corporate Governance We are pursuing sound and efficient management and strengthening our governance structure for putting the Fujitsu Way into practice. Basic Stance The Framework for Strengthening Corporate In order to continuously raise the Fujitsu Group’s corporate Governance value, along with pursuing management efficiency it is also Fujitsu has established Executive Nomination and Compensation necessary to control the risks that arise from business activities. Committees in order to ensure the transparency and objectivity Recognizing that strengthening corporate governance of the process for choosing candidates for the Board of Directors, is essential to achieving this, the Board of Directors has determining their compensation, and ensuring that the articulated the Basic Stance on Internal Control Framework, and compensation system and levels are appropriate. The Executive these measures are continuously implemented. Nomination Committee acts as a consultative body to the Board of Furthermore, by separating management oversight Directors. Taking into consideration the current business climate and and operational execution functions, we aim to accelerate anticipated trends, the Executive Nomination Committee makes the decision-making process and clarify management recommendations of candidates (draft) for the Board of Directors, responsibilities. Along with creating constructive tension choosing candidates having objectivity in making management between oversight and execution functions, we are further decisions, foresight and perceptiveness, and a superior character. The enhancing the transparency and effectiveness of management Compensation Committee is tasked with making recommendations by proactively appointing outside directors. on executive salaries and methods for calculating bonuses linked With respect to Group companies, we are pursuing total to financial performance, taking into consideration compensation optimization for the Fujitsu Group by clarifying each group levels at other companies with similar business activities, business company’s role and position in the process of generating scale, and other factors. The aim of this activity is to retain superior value for the group as a whole and managing the group to management talent, and provide effective incentives for improving continuously enhance its corporate value. the company’s financial performance. In addition, we have adopted the processes in place, in accordance with laws and regulations, to ensure that conflicts of interest are avoided, including but not limited to obtaining approval from the Board of Directors. * The information above is as of June 23, 2011. For the latest information, please refer to our Corporate Governance Report. Corporate Governance Report WEB http://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/profile/direction/governance/ Corporate Governance Framework (as of June 23, 2011) Annual Shareholders’ Meeting Election/dismissal Election/dismissal Board of Directors 11 members of the board (including 4 outside board members) Submit/propose Advise Election/ Supervision Put important matters on agenda/report Audit dismissal Board of Election/dismissal Auditors Executive Nomination 5 auditors President and Representative Director Committee Report Coordinate (including 3 outside auditors) and Compensation Committee Management Council (Decisions re. business execution) Corporate Instruction Report Internal Coordinate Report Put important Audit Unit Instruction/direction • Fujitsu Way Promotion Council Fujitsu Way • Risk Management Committee Coordinate Coordinate Internal matters on agenda/report • Compliance Committee Control Division Accounting • Environmental Committee Audit/Internal Auditor control audit Internal Supervision Report audit Corporate Executive Officers Business Group/Group Companies 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 90 Risk Management We are implementing practical and continuing improvements to our group-wide risk management, promoting activities aimed at preventing risks from materializing and minimizing the impact should an incident occur. Basic Stance Risk Management Structure Through its global activities in the ICT industry, the Group We have established the Risk Management Committee as a body continuously seeks to increase its corporate value, and to to perform risk management in accordance with the Fujitsu Way. contribute to its customers, local communities and indeed all This committee reports directly to the Management Council. stakeholders. The Risk Management Committee appoints risk Properly assessing and dealing with the risks that threaten management executives in all business units and companies the achievement of our objectives is assigned a high priority by throughout the Group, and encourages cooperation among management. The entire Group has built a risk management them both to guard against potential risks and to mitigate risks system in accordance with the Fujitsu Way, and is committed to that are threatening, forming a risk management structure for its continuous implementation and improvement. the entire Group. Board of Directors Customers Contributions to Employees stakeholders Management Council Shareholders & Business investors AN activities Risk Management Continuously PL DO Committee increasing Implementing and Business Corporate Risk corporate continuously Management Office partners value improving risk management AC EC Each Group Company K T Society Each Business Group FUJITSU Way CH •Establishing risk management Appoint risk committees, etc. management executives •Appointing risk management executives The Risk Management Framework The Risk Management Committee is responsible for grasping the risk management situation in all Fujitsu business groups Business Risks and Group companies, establishing the appropriate policies The Group identifies, analyzes and evaluates the risks that and processes, etc., and both implementing and continuously accompany business activities and works on measures to avoid improving them. or reduce them, and to deal with them quickly in the unlikely In practical terms, it decides on risk management event that they materialize. regulations and guidelines, applies them and regularly reviews and improves them. Examples of Business Risks •Financial and economic market trends Deciding policies •Changes in customers’ ICT investment trends and being unable to and processes maintain lasting ties with customers Continuously Applying processes improving •Competitors’ strategies and industry trends Monitoring and •Procurement, collaborations, alliances and technology licensing reviewing •Public regulations, public policy and tax matters •Deficiencies or flaws in products and services, information security, project management, investment decisions, intellectual Risk Management Processes property rights, human resources, environmental pollution, credit The Risk Management Committee, which maintains regular ratings, etc. communications with risk management executives, identifies, •Natural disasters and unforeseen incidents analyzes and evaluates the risks of business activities, confirms Note: These are just some of the risks of doing business. More detailed risk-related the detailed measures intended to deal with major risks by information can be found in our financial results and other reports to shareholders. averting, minimizing, transferring or retaining them. It also reports important risks to the Management Council. The Risk Management Committee also prepares responses against the actual materialization of a risk despite the implementation of various preventive measures. If a critical risk such as a natural disaster, product breakdown or defect, 91 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT a problem with a system or service, a compliance violation, Business Continuity Management an information security breach, or an environmental problem The risks of unforeseen events that threaten economic and social materializes, the department or group company reports continuity, such as natural disasters like earthquakes and large–scale immediately to the Risk Management Committee. The flooding, disruptive incidents, accidents, and epidemics such as the Risk Management Committee coordinates with the related new strain of influenza, have increased greatly in recent years. divisions and workplaces for rapid resolution of the problem At Fujitsu, we place great importance on business continuity by appropriate measures such as establishing a task force. At management (BCM), establish a business continuity plan the same time, the Risk Management Committee strives to (BCP), and implement training based on that plan. This is to identify the causes of the problem and propose and implement assure that, when one of these risks materializes, not only do solutions. Additionally, for critical risks, the committee also we continue operating our critical businesses and meeting our reports as appropriate to the Management Council and the social responsibilities as a corporation, but that we also continue Board of Directors. stable supply of the high-performance high-quality products and The Risk Management Committee continuously confirms services our customers need. the implementation status of these processes and works to We also work to promote business continuity in our whole make improvements. supply chain. In addition to business continuity in the Fujitsu Group internal distribution and production supply chain, we also support Handling risks our business partners’ BCM promotion efforts (see pages 83 to 84). •Identify risks that threaten Assessment •Analyze and evaluate When the Great East Japan Earthquake occurred, we activated •Rapid escalation our BCP to restore operation of our critical businesses and we •Rapid response by also performed a variety of business continuity operations, such • Study and implement multiple divisions, measures to eliminate, minimize influence as temporarily moving PC production to an alternative site, prevent or reduce risks •Propose and Countermeasures •Consider transferring or implement restoring supply of services and products to our customers, and retaining risks and act measures to prevent supporting social functions (see pages 7 to 10). accordingly recurrence Measures Against the New Strain of Influenza Monitoring, reviewing and continuously improving We have taken steps against the new strain of influenza based on a three-fold influenza policy; to safeguard lives, to stop the spread of infection and to ensure business continuity. We Group-Wide Disaster Prevention created a “Basic Action Plan for Measures Against the New Strain We have organized a Group-wide disaster prevention network for of Influenza” that stipulates preventive measures in everyday the event of a major disaster. To minimize harm to persons and operations and the response process to be used if an outbreak property we perform frequent disaster prevention inspections occurs. We work to disseminate these to all employees through and simulation exercises at all our business locations. e-learning and by distributing pamphlets. Since 1995, we have carried out in Japan nation-wide disaster Also, to contribute to the continuity of social infrastructure prevention drills in conjunction with Japan’s Disaster Prevention businesses and the continuity of our customers’ businesses Day, assuming an earthquake with its epicenter under the capital should an epidemic occur or a particularly virulent new strain or off the Tokai coast. In FY 2010, we carried out initial response of influenza arise, we have established, and carry out training disaster drills for verifying the amount of damage at each Fujitsu based on, a “Business Continuity Action Plan for Measures site and verifying the safety of Fujitsu employees in the western Against the New Strain of Influenza”. Kanto and Tokai areas assuming a Tokai area earthquake with a seismic intensity of seven on the seven-point Japanese scale. At Risk Management Education the same time, we also carried out drills for restoring ICT systems We have implemented a systematic educational curriculum belong to customers who were affected by the earthquake that aims at preventing risks from materializing in advance and following the business continuity plan (BCP). implementing risk reduction measures across the whole Group. It After the Great East Japan Earthquake, we put our also aims at minimizing the spread or growth of damage should a company-wide disaster prevention training experience to work. risk materialize and preventing the same problem from reoccurring. Immediately after the earthquake occurred, we set up a Central Through this education, we inform our employees of our basic Disaster Response Headquarters with the president of Fujitsu as approach to risk management and the rules to be followed, and Chief of Operations, and, while coordinating with the response cite concrete examples to strengthen our employees’ awareness groups in each division, verified conditions at our customers’ sites of risk management and their ability to deal with risks. We also and at Fujitsu Group sites to assist with our customers’ recovery hold education and training programs as appropriate on issues activities and with recovery and business continuity activities at such as information security, environmental problems, and our business sites (see pages 7 to 10). natural disasters. 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 92 Compliance We are ensuring thorough compliance in line with the Code of Conduct of the Fujitsu Way. Compliance Promotion Structure Compliance line for suppliers The Fujitsu Compliance Committee includes an independent In August 2009 the existing helpline system was extended by lawyer as an observer and promotes the thorough diffusion a compliance line for suppliers to handle reports and inquiries and implementation of internal company rules, nurturing a directly from the employees of companies that supply Fujitsu corporate culture to comply with the Code of Conduct, and with products, services or software, etc. constructing the necessary systems and structures. The system forbids any and all sanctions against employees Furthermore, in cooperation with Legal Division for and suppliers for making such reports, and meticulous care is taken Corporate Affairs, the Compliance Office (as the administrative in handling the information so as to preserve their anonymity. office of the Compliance Committee) carries out activities aimed at instilling an awareness of compliance. Information Security Code of Conduct WEB Our Basic Approach to Information Security http://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/profile/philosophy/codeofconduct/ Within the Fujitsu Group, the commitment to information security is seen as an expression of the Corporate Values of the Activities Promoting Compliance Fujitsu Way, which says that we seek to become our customers’ The Fujitsu Group engages in various activities to ensure valued and trusted partner, and to build mutually beneficial widespread awareness of the need for compliance. relationships with our business partners. This commitment also We update our “Understanding and Following the Code of leads to the practice of maintaining confidentiality, which is Conduct” guidebook as appropriate so that the code of conduct included in the Code of Conduct. We see it as a vital aspect of is implemented at the workplace and in business, and provide our social responsibility. it over the Fujitsu intranet along with introduction of concrete In line with this approach, we have established the Fujitsu examples of Anti-Monopoly Law or bribery problems. An internal Group Information Security Policy, consistent throughout the world, system to handle reports and inquiries from employees on antiand we are promoting information security in accordance with it. monopoly issues has also been established. Fujitsu Group Information Security Policy (in Japanese) WEB http://jp.fujitsu.com/about/csr/management/security/policy/ In FY 2010, we implemented an educational activity for all Fujitsu employees in the form of a questionnaire in which employees could, through the questions and answers, deepen their understanding of the code of conduct and learn about Our Framework of Information Security Rules methods for implementing it. This aimed at moving up to the Each Group company codifies related rules in accordance with next level; a phase in which every employee can practice the the Fujitsu Group Information Security Policy, and implements code of conduct with deeper understanding. information security measures. In FY 2011 we plan to implement an e-learning program based on the responses to the questionnaire carried out in FY 2010. Fujitsu Group Information Security Policy Japanese Group Companies Overseas Group Companies Compliance Education Information ICT Security To ensure strict compliance, the Group invites external lawyers Management Information Systems •Rules for Management •Rules for Information as lecturers on compliance to educate executives of Fujitsu and of Confidential Information System Security Security Policy, etc. •Rules for Management of •Rules for the Use of Codifying specific Japanese Group companies. Third Parties' and Customers' Fujitsu PKI* company rules, policy, etc. Confidential Information The heads of sales divisions and branches are also given •Rules for Management of Personal Data in-house training in anti-monopoly and other legal issues. Procedures Procedures Furthermore, newly appointed managers are given regular instruction by in-house lecturers on the Code of Conduct, and * PKI: Short for Public Key Infrastructure. Rules governing authentication of the vital importance of compliance, with typical examples individuals, encryption, etc. where legal decisions may be difficult. Strengthening Information Security at the Business Group Level Operating an Internal Reporting System To assure the strongest possible information security Helpline management, we are working to implement a security Since September 2004, we have been operating an internal management structure. helpline system to handle reports and provide consultations for The Group operates in a wide variety of industries and all Group employees (including seconded, contracted, part-time is promoting individual businesses by organizing them into or other short-term employees as well as temporary staff). business groups. Information security measures are implemented Each of the Group companies in Japan has also established to reflect the individual characteristics of each business. and operates its own internal reporting system. A number of business units at Fujitsu and some domestic 93 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Group companies have acquired ISMS (Information Security intellectual property in October 1995. This rule specifies what Management System) certification and are working to provide all employees should do to acquire and use intellectual property thorough management of confidential information including rights and directs them to respect those of other companies. customers’ information. Respecting Intellectual Property Teaching and Promoting Awareness of Information Security The Group regards any infringement of intellectual property rights Starting in FY 2008, using a common slogan which translates by its products and services as a serious defect. To avoid infringing as “Declaration for complete information management! other companies’ patents, we conduct thorough searches of their Information management is the lifeline of the Fujitsu Group,” patents at the initial stages of research and development and prior Fujitsu and domestic Group companies displayed posters to putting the products or services onto a market. at each of their business locations, and we also affixed We protect our business by dealing resolutely and swiftly information security awareness stickers to all the business PCs with any and all infringements of Fujitsu’s rights, and at the used by employees. We introduced a remote data deletion same time we respect others’ rights, as mentioned above. solution (CLEARSURE) and a mail checker (SHieldMailChecker) Intellectual Property Report tool to prevent e-mail being sent outside the company in error, WEB http://jp.fujitsu.com/about/ip/ipreport/ and in parallel with promoting the use of ICT we increased the awareness of information security among all employees. E-learning courses are held for all employees including How Intellectual Property Rights Can executives every year. TOPICS Contribute to Environmental Preservation Personal Data Protection Initiatives Example 1 Smart Wall Power Socket We have stipulated a Personal Data Protection Policy and Rules In addition to rendering visible the power consumption of for Management of Personal Data in accordance with Japan’s plugged–in equipment from the first watt used, this power Act on the Protection of Personal Information. Based on these socket can also measure the standby mode power. rules, we give education on how private information should Since this socket can grasp any waste or variation in power be handled and carry out surveys in an ongoing effort to used by individuals and electrical devices, it can promote strengthen the protection given. energy savings without interfering with In August 2007, we acquired company-wide PrivacyMark office productivity. Fujitsu has already applied for some 20 patents concerning certification and renew this certification every two years. this technology. Domestic Group companies are also acquiring PrivacyMark certification individually as necessary, and promoting thoroughgoing Example 2 Quantum Dot Laser management of personal data. Overseas This quantum dot laser achieves high temperature stability and Group companies are also publishing high temperature tolerance compared to conventional privacy policies that meet their various semiconductor lasers and was developed in a joint effort national legal and social requirements between QD Laser, Inc. and the University of Tokyo. This device This mark bears text that can suppress the increasing power consumption associated on their main public Internet websites. translates as “protecting with the rapidly growing use of the internet and the increasing your PRIVACY.” performance of ICT equipment. Fujitsu has already applied for Information Security Report WEB about 30 patents concerning Electrode http://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/responsibility/management/ security/reports/ this technology, of which 20 have already been granted. In October 2010, the Protecting Intellectual Property Ministry of Economy, Trade and n-type GaAs*1 substrate Optical output Industry awarded us the Our Basic Approach Towards Intellectual Property InAs*2quantum dot Cross sectional Surface Minister’s Award for the structure structure “We protect and respect intellectual property” is a basic tenet of category of Savings in IT-related the Code of Conduct of the Fujitsu Way. Energy Consumption as part of In line with this statement, all Fujitsu Group employees the Green IT Awards 2010*. recognize intellectual property as an important business asset that *1 GaAs: Gallium arsenide *2 InAs: Indium arsenide supports Group activities and gives our customers a sense of safety * Green IT Awards: These awards recognize contributions to the and trust in the Group as their partner, so employees are required development, promotion, or application of IT equipment, services, or solutions that reduce the amount of energy used by society. (Sponsor: to keep this constantly in mind as they perform their duties. Green IT Promotion Council, with support from the Ministry of Under the above code of conduct, we established an Economy, Trade and Industry) internal rule in order to encourage the proper handling of 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 94 Fujitsu Group Profile Parent Company Fujitsu Limited Sales Consolidated: ¥4,528.4 billion (FY 2010) Capital ¥324.6 billion (as of the end of March 2011) Addresses •Kawasaki Main Office Total Assets ¥3,024,097 million (as of the end of March 2011) 4-1-1 Kamikodanaka, Nakahara-ku, Kawasaki-shi, (Liabilities: ¥2,070,318 million; net assets: ¥953,779 Kanagawa211-8588, Japan million) •Headquarters Fiscal Year-end March 31 Shiodome City Center1-5-2 Higashi-Shimbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-7123, Japan Employees Consolidated: 172,336 (as of the end of March 2011) Unconsolidated: 24,969 (as of the end of March 2011) President Masami Yamamoto Consolidated 535 companies Established June 20, 1935 Subsidiaries Main Business Manufacture and sale of communications systems, Equity-method 15 companies Activities information processing systems, and electronic devices, Affiliates and the provision of services related to those products Stock Exchange Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya, London Listings Consolidated Net Sales Consolidated Operating Income/Net Income (Loss) (billion yen) Operating Income Net Income (Loss) 6,000 (billion yen) 200 204.9 5,330.8 182.0 5,100.1 4,692.9 4,679.5 4,528.4 132.5 4,000 100 102.4 94.3 93.0 68.7 48.1 55.0 0 2,000 -100 -112.3 0 -200 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Research and Development Expenditures/Capital Expenditures Trends in the Numbers and Ages of Employees Research and Development Expenditures Capital Expenditures No. of Employees No. of Employees Average Age (consolidated) (unconsolidated) (unconsolidated) (billion yen) (people) (age) 300 305.2 180,000 60 167,374 172,438 172,336 160,977 165,612 254.0 258.7 249.9 249.0 236.2 224.9 40.3 40.7 41.1 41.4 41.7 200 120,000 40 167.6 126.4 130.2 100 60,000 20 36,561 27,310 25,899 25,134 24,969 0 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Sales Ratios by Region Employees by Region APAC & China APAC & China 9.3% 28,000 (16.3%) The Americas 7.1% The Americas 8,000 (4.7%) EMEA Consolidated Consolidated net Japan Japan (Europe, Middle 64.9% total no. of 106,000 (61.6%) East, and Africa) sales for FY 2010: EMEA (Europe, Middle employees 18.7% 4,528.4 for FY 2010: East, and Africa) billion yen 30,000 (17.4%) 172,336 95 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Regarding Our Business Segments FY 2010 Consolidated Net Sales by Business Segment The Fujitsu Group provides a wide range of services and products Others 1.7% with the advanced technology, high performance and high quality Device Solutions 13.0% essential for the future of the ICT sector, and operates an integrated Technology Solutions 62.1% total solutions business, from the development, manufacturing and Ubiquitous Solutions sales of those products and electronic devices to the provision of 23.2% maintenance services. Technology Solutions Services: System integration/consulting/front-end technologies (ATM and POS Main consolidated subsidiaries systems, etc.)/outsourcing services/network services/system support Fujitsu Frontech Limited services/security solutions Fujitsu Telecom Networks Limited System Platforms: Full range of servers/storage systems/various types of Fujitsu IT Products Ltd. software/network management systems/optical transmission systems/mobile phone Fujitsu Broad Solution & Consulting Inc. base stations Fujitsu Marketing Limited Fujitsu System Solutions Limited Fujitsu FIP Corporation NIFTY Corporation Fujitsu FSAS Inc. PFU Limited Fujitsu Network Communications, Inc. Tower Server – PRIMERGY TX120 S3 The Integrated Control Room Fujitsu Services Holdings PLC of Tatebayashi System Center Fujitsu America, Inc. Fujitsu Australia Limited Fujitsu Technology Solutions (Holding) B.V., others Ubiquitous Solutions PCs, mobile phones Main consolidated subsidiaries Shimane Fujitsu Limited Fujitsu Isotec Limited Fujitsu Mobile-phone Products Limited Fujitsu Toshiba Mobile Communications Limited Fujitsu Peripherals Limited Fujitsu TEN Limited FMV LIFEBOOK SH SERIES au by KDDI Fujitsu Personal System Limited REGZA Phone IS04 Fujitsu Technology Solutions (Holding) B.V., others Device Solutions Logic LSIs/memory LSIs/semiconductor packages/optical transceiver Main consolidated subsidiaries modules/mechanical components (relays, connectors, etc.) Fujitsu Semiconductor Limited Shinko Electric Industries Co., Ltd. FDK Corporation Fujitsu Component Limited Fujitsu Electronics Inc., others FM3 Family of 32-bit The SPARC64™ VIIIfx wafer, RISC microcontrollers the world’s fastest processor Global Business System EMEA 165 Japan The Americas companies 198 46 companies companies APAC & China 126 companies 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 96 Editorial Policy Reporting According to Fujitsu Group CSR Priority Issues ■Significant Changes in Coverage The 2011 Fujitsu Group Sustainability Report reports in accordance In association with our acquisition of all shares in FDK TWICELL Co., with the five CSR priority issues stipulated by the Fujitsu Group in Ltd. and FDK Tottori Co., Ltd., these companies are also covered in December 2010, and includes typical examples of specific content this report. relating to those issues. Furthermore, given the enormous effect on society of the Great ■Guidelines Referenced East Japan Earthquake that occurred in March 2011, it also sums up •GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Version 3.1 (G3.1) the Fujitsu Group’s responses to that disaster. http://www.globalreporting.org/ ■This Report Focuses on Items Seen as Important • ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility Of the various responses we have made to these priority issues, this • Ministry of the Environment: Environmental Reporting report focuses on those items seen to be of prime importance. Items Guidelines (2007 edition) that could not be covered here are reported on the Fujitsu website. http://www.env.go.jp/policy/report/h19-02/full.pdf (Japanese) Our basic editorial policy is to consider issues from two • Ministry of the Environment: Environmental Accounting standpoints: the importance to society and stakeholders and the Guidelines (2005 edition) importance to the Fujitsu Group. In particular, we consider directions http://www.env.go.jp/policy/kaikei/guide2005.html (Japanese) for this report based on opinions we receive from third parties, general readers, and stakeholders. We also continue to report on items featured in previous reports that each department considers to ■Reporting System be still of prime importance to the Group. •Detailed and new information not included in this report is reported Furthermore, we consider GRI guideline compliance and the extensively on the Fujitsu website. This report itself is also provided comprehensiveness of the report from the standpoint of the ISO on the Fujitsu website, where it can be downloaded in PDF format. 26000 social responsibility standard. WEB Our Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility http://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/responsibility/ ■Target Readership This report is written for the following readership: all Fujitsu •We report on our financial status in detail in our annual report. stakeholders including customers, employees, stockholders and WEB Annual Report investors, suppliers and business partners, international society and http://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/ir/library/annualrep/ local communities, public institutions, and governments and specialists such as CSR survey institutions. Importance for stakeholders Reporting important ■Reporting Period CSR information Important This report focuses on activities in FY 2010, from April 1, 2010 to reporting 2011 FUJITSU GROUP March 31, 2011, and the data presented is actual performance data SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (printed version, PDF) from that period. Content from times outside that period, however, is also presented. More detailed reporting ■Organizations Covered Comprehensive Importance for Fujitsu CSR reporting While the whole of the Fujitsu Group is the object of this report, The Fujitsu homepage when it is necessary to indicate the range of applicability, we will Our Approach to specify Fujitsu Group (to indicate the Group as a whole) or Fujitsu (to Corporate Social Responsibility indicate Fujitsu, Ltd. as an independent entity). Note that for environmental reporting, the object is Fujitsu itself Our main financial report plus a total of 130 companies (including companies outside Japan) Annual Report centering on consolidated subsidiaries that build environmental management systems. Also, environmental burden data reporting covers Fujitsu itself, Fujitsu Laboratories, Ltd. (17 locations), and 27 main manufacturing subsidiaries (of which 24 are in Japan and three are overseas). Environmental accounting data covers Fujitsu itself and 30 main subsidiaries (of which 26 are in Japan and four are overseas). A Note Concerning Future Projections, Forecasts and Plans The organizations that are covered in environmental activities This report not only describes past and present facts related to the Fujitsu Group but also reporting are listed on the following website. includes future projections, forecasts and plans. Such projections, forecasts and plans are based on data available when the report was prepared, and therefore involve a degree of http://jp.fujitsu.com/about/csr/eco/communication/report/2011/ (Japanese) uncertainty. Accordingly, future results of operating activities and other new developments may differ from the projections, forecasts and plans included in this report. We ask our readers’ understanding of the fact that the Fujitsu Group cannot be responsible for such eventualities. Publisher Published: November 2011 (The next report will be published in October 2012 and the previous report was published in September 2010.) Authority for Publication: Masami Yamamoto President and Representative Director This report is the English version of the Japanese report which was published in August 2011, and the information provided here (page 1 to 98) is based Copying, duplicating or reprinting part or all of the 2011 Fujitsu Group Sustainability Report without on the Japanese report. permission is a copyright infringement, except in cases authorized by law. All Rights Reserved, Copyright ©2011 FUJITSU LIMITED 97 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Independent Assurance Report Ensuring the Reliability of Information Disclosure The Japanese Association of The 2011 Fujitsu Group Sustainability Report has been Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information reviewed by an independent body, Ernst & Young (in Japanese) This report corresponds to GRI Application Level B+. ShinNihon Sustainability Institute Co., Ltd., whose http://www.j-sus.org/index.htm independent assurance report is appended. Furthermore, this report has been duly granted the sustainability report audit and registration mark stipulated by The Japanese A GRI guideline comparison table can be found on the Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability following website. Sustainability report audit and http://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/ Information, which assures that the reliability of the registration mark communication/report/2011/ information presented here meets its standards. 2011 FUJITSU GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 98 For inquiries about this report, please contact: Legibility Considerations CSR Department, Public Relations Unit We have reviewed this report using our Shiodome City Center 1-5-2 Higashi-Shimbashi, ColorSelector tool to choose a highly Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-7123, Japan accessible color combination so that Tel: +81-3-6252-2187 Fax: +81-3-6252-2787 the text and figures will be as legible as possible to the widest range of FUJITSU Way Unit readers. 1-1 Kamikodanaka 4-chome, Nakahara-ku, Kawasaki, Kanagawa 211-8588, Japan Consideration for the Environment Tel: +81-44-874-2439 Fax: +81-44-754-8716 This Corporate profile uses FSC®-certified Paper, VOC-free ink, and Corporate Environmental Strategy Unit a waterless printing process that 1-1 Kamikodanaka 4-chome, Nakahara-ku, Kawasaki, generates no harmful liquids. The Fujitsu Group Sustainability report Environmental audit and registration Kanagawa 211-8588, Japan Emblem mark Tel: +81-44-754-3413 Fax: +81-44-754-3326 All brand names and product names are trademarks or registered You can also contact us via the Fujitsu trademarks of their respective holders. “Environmental Activities” website. ©2011 Fujitsu Limited All rights http://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/ reserved. Printed in Japan contact.html AL0061-1-Nov. 2011 AP
