Communication on Progress 2010-2011 United Nations Global Compact Statement of continued support Dear readers, Hendal continues to support ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We recognize 10 principles as core values and are committed to incorporate them as a part of both strategy plan and our day to day business activities. As a socially responsible company in 2007 Hendal joined United Nations Global Compact Initiative. Being aware that succes is not measurable by financial indicators only, we're continuously working on improvement of the social and personal spheres as well. Briefly, our committment to the principles of the Global Compact is reflected not only in our dedication to them, but their constant application. Ines Došen, CEO Hendal d.o.o. Company profile I. About Hendal HENDAL is one of the leading ad hoc research agencies in Croatia with long experience on Croatian market, which follows continuously world trends in research industry. Since its foundation in 1993, high quality has been of great importance. HENDAL was the first research agency that implemented ISO 20252:2006 quality standard. In order to achieve highest research standards HENDAL became member of the ESOMAR, which is world market research organization, and also Croatian CROMAR. Hendal’s vision is: to become the most highly regarded research partner in region by providing innovative and value-added marketing solutions! Hendal also covers research in the Adriatic region, through offices in Zagreb and Belgrade. As a member of the Global Market Research Group HENDAL has easy access to markets in 40 world countries. Hendal is also co-founder of KUP Association for promotion of business culture. Main goal is to offer a higher added value to the clients through the proactive approach and developing the service that accompanies their needs. HENDAL`s advantage is tailor made approach and the ability to adapt to client specific needs. From the beginning, agency has worked and was declared from the clients as the most innovative agency on the market. With the continuous development of the new products, HENDAL is continuously among top leading agencies for market research in Croatia, according to the number of registered new products, some of them are mentioned below: o AdVisor® Copy test & Campaign tracker o Brand Performance® o Consumer HrCatibus® o B2B HrCatibus® o HIO® (Citizens index of optimism) o HLIPO® (Business index of optimism) o Hendal 3D Segmentation® o NIS® (National happiness index) o Industry dynamics® o HrPOS® Activator HENDAL`s quality is recognized by its clients because of the competence of its employees, ethic business and preparedness to respond market challenge. II. Credentials Ever since founding in 1993, quality is of great importance for Hendal. This is proven by our membership in ESOMAR, as well as Croatian CROMAR. Hendal is the first agency in Croatia that introduced ISO 9001:2000 and the first in the region that was certified by ISO 20252:2006 standards in 2007. Since 2010 Hendal is recertified with 9001:2008 and 20252:2006 standards. III. Fieldwork quality control and data reliability guarantee Quality certificate according to ISO standards guarantees high quality in all phases of research project from project set up, briefing, interviewers education, fieldwork quality control, data entry and processing control to delivery of the data. IV. Hendal’s managerial and technical capabilities Human resources: At this time Hendal has 25 full time employees that consists of:  Psychologists  Sociologists  Economists  Data processing specialists  Fieldwork managers  Network of 400 interviewers that cover the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia with 4 regional coordinators and 70 highly trained telephone interviewers. Technical resources: As the part of the continuous development, Hendal was the pioneer on the Croatian market in the new interviewing’s techniques implementation: in year 2000 we have implemented the CATI and in the year 2004 the CAPI face to face research method. V. Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Hendal adopted ten principles originating from Universal Declaration of Human Rights, International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and United Nations Convention against Corruption. Hendal as ESOMAR member applies International Code on Market and Social Research including following articles: basic principles, honesty, professional responsibility, transparency, ownership, recording and observation techniques, dana protection and privacy, children and young people, shared interviews, subcontracting, publishing findings, responsibility, effect of subsequent redress for contravention and implementation. Hendal policy is based on legal obligations to employees, corporate culture, ethics and social responsibility, and is acting accordingly to legal frames in order to prevent any possible discrimination based on gender, race, age, nationality, political or religious beliefs and physical handicaps. Hendal considers employees as a long-term investment, therefore is focused on various activities for working environment improvements. Having satisfied employees is our priority, thus we make surveys on employees satisfaction once a year. Hendal continuously makes contributions to associations or individuals in need. Hendal also conducts following researches on a monthly basis: NIS – National index of happiness HLIPO – index of business optimism HIO – citizens index of optimism VI. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation With respect to EU guidelines and legal regulations in Croatia, all our employees are ensured the right to be protected and the right to health. Our activities are set to provide development, satisfaction, recruitment, motivation and success to employees. Hendal is continuously providing education and training for all employees, creating a pleasant work environment, and helping our employess to fulfill their professional goals. Future plans for our employees include: More workshops for employees education Continuous evaluations on employees effectiveness Ablility to change working hours (due to a large number of young female employees) Employees protection is regulated by Hendal guidebook given to every employee when signing a contract. Hendal employees also receive benefits such as travel expenses and meal. VII. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Hendal continues to promote environmentally acceptable business conduct. Specifically, we're doing our best to reduce paper consumption by printing on both sides of paper, and whole waste paper is gathered separately and collected by a contracted company that recycles it. Other hazardous waste is also sorted separately and collected by a contracted company handling such waste according to legal regulations. All our business operations are conducted in compliance with environmental prosperity. Interviewing using CATI (computer assisted telephone interviewing) and CAPI ( computer assisted paper interviewing) methods contributes to paper waste reduction. VIII. Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery We're committed to conduct our business in compliance with both national and international anti-corruption legal regulations. Any kind of extortion or bribery is not tolerated, and transparency is a must. In last year, Hendal participated on two anti-corruption projects focused on corruption perception and anti-corruption measures. Hendal is a co-founder of KUP – Association for promotion of business culture. Main objective of KUP is to promote importance of responsible business relations, in order to have satisfied individuals (as employee or product/service consumer), sucessful company and competitive country.
