NeuroSearch Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 2010 CEO Statement In December 2009, NeuroSearch decided to join Compact, but NeuroSearch has taken a step further and the UN Global Compact network and thereby is assigning a very high priority to animal welfare, which agrees to observe the ten principles defined by the plays an important role in our core business and in our CSR UN. approach. For NeuroSearch staff and management, joining I hope you will be inspired by our CSR strategy, which the network reflected more than ever a decision contains clear policies and innovative activities implemented to systematise and document our corporate social by NeuroSearch staff in 2010. I look forward to many responsibility values and activities. In some cases, exciting CSR challenges in the future. it meant that we had to define our policies and, in others, that we had to describe what we had always done. What is most important to all of us Patrik Dahlen at NeuroSearch is that we, as an organisation, are CEO socially responsible in all respects. For this reason, we are very pleased to support the Global Compact and all the CSR initiatives we have embarked upon since 2009. Through our core business and our CSR strategy, we wish to motivate our employees and attract new colleagues. We want to make a positive impression on the world around us through more dialogue and by creating innovation through the strategic alliances with our collaborative partners and stakeholders. We support the ten principles of the Global Description of policies and goals In 2010, NeuroSearch set up a CSR steering group In the following, the company’s policies will be described consisting of representatives from the following as they relate to the Global Compact principles. In addition departments: Finance, Legal, Corporate Affairs, Animal to these policies, NeuroSearch is currently drafting a Care, Property Services, Purchasing, and Occupational code of conduct designed to promote the Global Compact Health and Safety. principles and encourage supplier partnerships. The task of the steering group was to develop and To ensure that this is anchored throughout the implement a CSR strategy for NeuroSearch. The organisation, the steering group initiated a plan to make steering group elected to work with existing initiatives employees aware of CSR initiatives at NeuroSearch. but also identified certain business areas – such as The plan includes anchoring of initiatives such as animal welfare – which the steering group felt should be the “Advertisement Billboard”, where advertisements given special focus and be included in company’s CSR addressed to NeuroSearch are gathered and posted in the strategy. reception area for a month, and employees were given the opportunity to say no to advertising mail. This campaign ran in November 2010, and NeuroSearch collected 55 kilos The following areas of priority were selected: of unsolicited advertising material during that time. 1. Occupational health and safety and employee NeuroSearch has planned a number of activities for 2011 relations that focus on selected CSR areas of priority, i.e. anti2. Supplier management corruption, the environment, animal welfare, occupational 3. Environmental impact health and safety, and supplier management. 4. Anti-corruption, including pharma ethics 5. Animal welfare NeuroSearch also wants to tell its stakeholders about the 6. Local community CSR principles it observes. To this end, we are currently 7. Philanthropy, including sponsorships restructuring our website and annual report so that our external communications platform includes information on our corporate social responsibility. The main weight will be on anti-corruption, environmental impact, occupational health and safety, supplier management and animal welfare. As a pharmaceutical company, NeuroSearch already has many procedures in place, so it was decided to establish three levels of policy development: Level 1: NeuroSearch policies Level 2: The NeuroSearch manual Level 3: NeuroSearch procedures Occupational health and safety The Global Compact principles on human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour standards 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. NeuroSearch will constantly work to ensure a safe and and externally, with a culture based on job satisfaction, healthy work environment for its employees and ensure innovation, openness and confidence in each employee that these considerations are not disregarded for the showing responsibility towards his or her colleagues and the purpose of financial and research gain. The organisation company as a whole. NeuroSearch wants its employees to complies and will continue to comply with current law in the be satisfied with their jobs and makes every effort to prevent field of occupational health and safety and environment. illness and help staff on sick leave keep their job. We are working determinedly to promote a good physical and psychological work environment through visible NeuroSearch is making targeted and systematic efforts to management support, local anchoring of occupational constantly improve relevant areas in the field of occupational health and safety activities in the company’s departments, health and safety. We have set ambitious goals, and work and a day-to-day focus on health and safety. We focus environment considerations form part of our corporate on significant health and safety issues and increase our strategy. We use a health and safety management and preventive efforts in the field by optimising our procedures, documentation system that enables us to constantly check e.g. in connection with handling chemicals and waste from and improve our efforts in this field. our daily operations. It is the responsibility of each employee to always make NeuroSearch employees are one of the company’s his or her best effort for NeuroSearch (“it’s more than just strongest assets. For this reason, NeuroSearch intends to a job”), to feel responsibility for his or her work (“it’s our continually aim for a strong corporate profile, both in house company”) and to contribute to a dynamic and pleasant working environment (“work should be fun”). Goals for 2011 Implement an occupational health and safety management system Prepare a SWOT analysis in connection with future implementation of OHSAS 18001 certification Karina Borup Daily Work Environment Manager Procurement policy The purpose of our procurement policy is to ensure that We also intend to use our procurement policy to ensure that all necessary goods and services are purchased in the our suppliers are aware that we have signed onto the ten most efficient and financially most favourable way for principles of the UN Global Compact. In our procurement NeuroSearch and to ensure that the purchases comply with policy, we will strive to reduce our consumption of resources applicable working environment standards and have a high and help minimise our environmental impact. NeuroSearch standard in the field of environmental impact and energy. will act according to the principle “best product for the right purpose at the lowest price”. Goals for 2011 Communicate the corporate code of conduct and procurement policy internally and externally to all NeuroSearch stakeholders Follow-up on/audit our code of conduct and identify ten supplier partnerships Environmental and climate policy The Global Compact principles on the environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies NeuroSearch will work strategically with the environment NeuroSearch began an analysis project in 2011 regarding and climate by further developing our existing working our climate and CO2 footprint, and we will use the results of methods and incorporating innovation in the way we the project to define our goals, plans and strategies for 2012. consume CO2. Our climate efforts must be documented systematically, and we will use the ISO 14001 standard as a guideline for optimising and increasing our efficiency with respect to environmental and climate impact. Goals for 2011 Map our emissions of greenhouse gases and total climate impact, and set targets for our reduction of CO2 emissions by the end of 2011 Review our infrastructure and optimise our data centre, including a review of our server ventilation systems and implementation of power management at individual workplaces Animal welfare policy In recent years, the use of laboratory animals has attracted Since 2009, we have only imported animals from increasing focus among companies working with animals internationally recognised suppliers. NeuroSearch requires as well as in the population in general. In Denmark, there documentation from its suppliers of valid accreditation to ISO is currently a broad understanding that animal life should 9001 or the US Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory not stand in the way of achieving better therapies for lifeAnimal Care International (AAALAC). threatening and disabling diseases in humans. At NeuroSearch we have a need to establish clarity with respect to our handling of laboratory animals in order to be able to meet the outside world with transparency and dialogue in the future. This requires us to map and describe our animal ethics policies and to create a full overview of how we handle our laboratory animals today. This process began in 2010, and we expect to complete it in 2011. Goals for 2011 Incorporate the Ministry of Justice RRR definition in the company’s animal welfare policy and in our day-to-day handling of experimental animals Replacement: Replace living, conscious and more highly developed animals possessing the ability to perceive external impact with materials without the ability to perceive such impact Reduction : Reduce the number of animals used to achieve a certain amount of knowledge with the necessary precision Refinement : Every and any possible reduction in the number of or level of severity of inhumane procedures carried out on the animals which are still considered necessary The use of zebra fish in animal trials seems to be a promising way to identify drug candidates in the future. Fish belong to the same animal phylum as the mammals. They have a spinal column and their central nervous system have many similarities with those of the mammals, including human beings. The fish larvae have a number of anatomic and physiological characteristics, which can be used to generate knowledge of how potential drugs are expected to have an impact on a full and coherent organism. Besides, fish and fish larvae are primitive animal species and may therefore advantageously be used in screening assays to identify the effect of several test substances in a short time. These properties make zebra fish and their larvae an efficient drug discovery selection tool and at the same time ensure that the number of mammals used in animal trials can be kept at an absolute minimum. Anti-corruption policy The Global Compact principle on anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Transparency is the most important means to fight To achieve our goal: corruption. Openness and transparency are those of our core values that ensure that we show social responsibility NeuroSearch will constantly meet corruption with zero in all parts of our business. At NeuroSearch we disapprove tolerance as of corruption, and it is essential that NeuroSearch not be involved in any kind of corruption, including extortion and • NeuroSearch does not accept and or receive any kind of bribery. bribe • NeuroSearch does not accept any kind of extortion or Our basis for operating our business is integrity, reliability, blackmail honesty and transparency. Thus employees at all levels • Due to our openness and honest communication and must ensure that their financial and personal interests do not information, our employees are particularly good at affect or cannot be suspected of affecting their work-related resisting possible corruption situations in their interaction arrangements and decisions or come into conflict with the with the outside world company’s interests. • NeuroSearch continually makes risk assessments of the areas of our organisation where corruption could occur. We comply with the UN conventions against corruption and • In the potential areas of risk, NeuroSearch pays will strive to maintain high ethical standards and protect particular attention to and communicates its corporate our reputation. NeuroSearch has defined guidelines for zero tolerance corruption policy sponsorships to ensure that its interactions with health • Gifts received or given by NeuroSearch are not authorities, physicians, patient associations and other permitted to exceed local triviality thresholds stakeholders are ethically unassailable and are perceived as • Our “Guidelines on sponsorships” form an integral part such by its surroundings. of our organisation Our goal is to work towards a world free of corruption. Goals for 2011 To work towards a world free of corruption To create a zero tolerance initiative in business areas that are particularly exposed to corruption through increased communication and anchoring initiatives aimed at ensuring that the company’s anti-corruption policy is understood
