Our Heritage: our future | Section title here United Nations Global Compact UN Global Compact’s 10 principles and PB’s responsive initiatives Principles Responsive initiatives Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect Corporate Responsibility program based on the protection of internationally proclaimed Millennium Development Goals (MDGs); Organisation human rights. for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) guidelines; representation on UN Global Compact working group on business and human rights Principle 2 Businesses should make sure they are Ethics training, hotline and framework not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Human resources (HR) policy association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of Procurement policy all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective Not an identified problem within the business abolition of child labour. Principle 6 Business should uphold the elimination of Women’s Network; Reconciliation Action Plan; discrimination in respect of employment signatory to the United Nations Development Fund for and occupation. Women (UNIFEM) empowerment principles Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary In 2009 PB amended its environment policy to approach to environmental challenges. include the precautionary approach Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to Climate change policy, green teams, fly-free week, promote greater environmental responsibility. support for Earth Hour; Environment week initiatives; Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the Investment in research and development development and diffusion of environmentally including geopolymers and wind turbine project friendly technologies at Adelaide University Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in Ethics training, hotline and framework all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Parsons Brinckerhoff | Sustainability Report 2010 36 UN Women’s Empowerment Principles The Women’s Empowerment Principles provide PB with a framework to ensure a holistic and values-based strategy towards gender diversity. The principles challenge the company to broaden its thinking. The Women’s Empowerment Principles are a result of collaboration between the UN Women, the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (formerly UNIFEM) and the UN Global Compact. 1. E stablish high-level 3. Ensure the health, safety 5. Implement enterprise corporate leadership and well-being of all development, supply chain for gender equality. women and men workers. and marketing practices yy CEO’s Statement for yy Whole of Life strategy and that empower women. Support of the Women’s program enabling flexible yy Corporate responsibility Empowerment Principles working arrangements and partnerships with National Breast yy Women’s Network and strategy employment conditions Cancer Foundation invests in creating an inclusive yy Increased maternity allowance yy Sponsorship of International culture by valuing and promoting of 16 weeks pay for permanent Conference for Women’s women in our business female employees Engineers and Scientists yy Managing director and directorate yy Accreditation from the yy Considerations in the involvement in understanding Australian Breastfeeding development and implementation why women leave PB. This is an Association in the provision of employee value proposition initiative of the Women’s Network of breast-feeding facilities in and recruitment campaigns. yy Recruiting female leaders — our main capital city offices a Women’s Network initiative yy Zero-harm approach to 6. Promote equality through yy Non-executive director of multiple occupational health and safety. community initiatives Australian companies involved in and advocacy. Women’s Network committee. 4. Promote education, yy Supply chain procedures training and professional updated to include human rights 2. T reat all women and men development for women. and labour practices. fairly at work — respect yy Female role models and mentors and support human rights — a Women’s Network initiative 7. Measure and publicly and non-discrimination. yy Strengthening female networks report on progress to achieve yy Supporting carer responsibilities — a Women’s Network initiative gender equality. — a Women’s Network initiative yy Focus on realising women’s yy Setting gender leadership targets yy Enabling successful leadership potential as part of — a Women’s Network initiative part-time managers — the Accelerated Development yy Annual Equal Opportunity a Women’s Network initiative Program (ADP) for Women in the Workplace yy Corporate code of ethics yy Talent management strategy Agency reporting. and conduct including Success Profiles for yy Corporate values each capability and role type within the organisation yy Corporate policies for harassment, bullying yy Coaching clinic to encourage and discrimination. a coaching approach to leading and managing people yy Adaptive Leadership program. Parsons Brinckerhoff | Sustainability Report 2010 37
