Sustainability Report 2010 Contents Message from the CEO 3 – Human resource development 23 Corporate responsibility at Orkla 2010 4 – Anti-corruption efforts 23 – Corporate responsibility 4 – Reorganisation and organisational development 23 – Important sustainability trends for Orkla 4 Customers and consumers 24 – Main activities in 2010 5 – Dialogue with customers 25 Orkla’s operations 6 – Product liability 25 – The Orkla Group 7 – Health and nutrition 25 – Orkla’s decentralised organisational structure 7 – Responsible marketing 26 – Shareholders 7 Suppliers 28 – Business areas 7 – Risk assessment 29 Dialogue with stakeholders 9 – Supplier follow-up 29 – Public affairs in 2010 9 – Cooperation partners and international solutions 30 – External recognition 11 – Skills-building and internal procedures 30 Shareholders and governance procedures 12 – Food safety in purchasing 31 – The Board of Directors’ and executive – Case: Sustainable cocoa production 32 management’s corporate responsibility work 12 Orkla and society 33 – The Group’s governance and control procedures 12 – Positive economic ripple effects 34 Environment, health and safety 14 – Involvement in good causes 34 – Occupational health and safety 15 – Collaboration with schools 34 – The environment 15 – Research of public benefit 35 – Sustainable product development 17 – Case: Being a good neighbour 37 Employees 19 The Global Compact 38 – The corporate culture and the working environment 20 The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 38 – Employee opinion survey 20 Information about this report 39 – Diversity 21 Contact information 39 – Corporate democracy 22 Orkla is sponsor of: Main Sponsor of: Sponsor of: Copyright notice The content of this report is copyright protected material. The content may be freely distributed, reproduced and electronically stored. This consent is given on the condition that the source of the material is correctly cited. © 2010 Orkla ASA Message from the CEO ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 3 Making a Positive Impact Industrial development at Orkla is about building brick by brick. We have adopted the same approach in exercising our corporate responsibility. Through responsible operations, continuous improvement and focus on the areas in which our efforts have the greatest effect, Orkla’s activities seek to make a positive impact. “Orkla seeks to actively develop and support the companies by exploiting the Group’s industrial Bjørn M. Wiggen, experience and President and CEO financial flexibility.” Orkla ASA Operating in a responsible manner Today, Orkla consists of a substantial bility for further developing the busiwith respect for people and the number of companies of varying sizes, nesses through acquisitions, organic environment is a deeply ingrained located in 40 countries. Many of the growth and investments in innovation, element of Orkla’s corporate culture. companies have a long history and technology and human resource develNevertheless, in the past few years, hold a strong position in their local opment. The structural change adopted we have given the issue of corporate markets. Orkla seeks to actively develop in 2010 was a natural consequence responsibility greater prominence on and support these companies by of Orkla’s desire to be a responsible our agenda. In practice, this means that exploiting the Group’s industrial owner. the Group is continuing to pursue its experience and financial flexibility. systematic efforts in the field of the The basis for growth in the Orkla In 2010, Orkla acquired 14 new comenvironment, health and safety with a companies will be laid by a continuous panies in its core areas of brands and view to achieving its vision of zero focus on good operations in every part aluminium solutions. Several of the harm. At the same time, it means that of the value chain. In this way, Orkla new companies are located in the we are redoubling our efforts in areas makes lasting, positive impacts on Baltics, Eastern Europe and Asia. Orkla that present new challenges. Reducing companies and local communities all emphasises the importance of incorpogreenhouse gas emissions and actively over the world. rating new companies into the Group’s influencing our suppliers to ensure value base and operating models. that the working conditions in their In 2010, Orkla’s Board of Directors An introduction to Orkla’s Code of businesses are satisfactory are examdecided to concentrate the Group’s Conduct is a pivotal part of this inteples of areas in which the Group has future efforts on a smaller number gration process, and the Group is intensified its efforts in recent years. of business areas, thereby focusing currently intensifying its efforts in Still, Orkla’s most important contriburesources and capital on the businesses this field. This will not only strengthen tion to society is what we are doing to in which Orkla has the greatest potenoperations, but will also help Orkla to ensure that the companies in the tial for success. At the start of 2011, make a positive impact on the local Group are strengthening their longthe Group was reorganised into three communities of which its businesses term competitiveness. Long-term main areas: brands, aluminium soluare a part. profitability creates positive ripple tions and investments. The sale of effects in the form of secure jobs, Borregaard Skoger in 2010, and the contracts for suppliers and tax sale of Elkem at the beginning of 2011, revenues for the public sector. have provided greater financial flexiPhoto: Guri Dahl, tinagent.no 4 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT ORKLA ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 Corporate Responsibility at Orkla in 2010 Corporate responsibility at Orkla means operating responsibly and vigilantly with respect to society’s needs. In 2010, the Group continued its efforts to identify potential challenges related to the companies’ operations, and to strengthen the development and improvement work being carried out in every part of the value chain. Corporate responsibility the OECD Guidelines for Multinational their local communities and a source Orkla defines corporate responsibility Enterprises. Orkla participates in the of contracts for other local businesses. as achieving commercial profitability United Nations Global Compact. The ripple effects generated by the in a way that is consistent with fundacompanies within their local commumental ethical values and with respect The large number of Orkla companies nities are therefore another important for individuals, the environment and and their wide-ranging production issue for the Group. In view of Orkla’s society. Orkla’s Code of Conduct sets operations make efficient, safe operainternational presence and growing out the Group’s obligations in relation tion pivotal to the Group’s corporate purchasing volumes outside the to such key responsibility issues as responsibility work. The environment, Nordic region, the Group has intensi­ human rights, the environment, health health and safety, product safety, corfied its efforts to combat corruption and and safety, and anti-corruption efforts. porate democracy, human resource monitor suppliers in the past few years. These obligations are based on the development and non-discrimination Universal Declaration of Human are all high-priority issues. Many Orkla As a consequence of Orkla’s decentralRights, the ILO Core Conventions and companies are important employers in ised organisational structure, each company has an independent responsibility for identifying relevant responsibility issues and addressing them in accordance with the Group’s general guidelines and national rules and regulations. In these efforts, account must be taken of the interests of both Orkla’s stakeholders and Orkla itself. Measures must be prioritised on the basis of compliance with regulatory frameworks and an assessment of commercial relevance. The Group monitors the work of the various companies by means of relevant governance procedures. Important sustainability trends for Orkla Climate change, environmental protection and nature conservation are sustainability issues that affect Orkla companies in several ways. Energy accounts for a significant share of the production costs of Orkla’s industrial companies. At the same time, the Orkla’s Corporate Responsibility Council was established in 2010. Photo: Marianne Otterdahl-Jensen Group has a responsibility to contri­ CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 5 Photo: Sapa Sapa develops aluminium profiles for the solar cell industry. bute towards reducing greenhouse Fresh water is becoming a scarce health efforts in 2010. An important gas emissions, ensuring sustainable resource in many places in the world, aspect of this improvement work is resource utilisation and protecting the and water costs are expected to rise understanding which factors promote environment. Orkla companies are in the coming years. Reducing water work attendance and a good psychoengaged in active efforts to improve consumption will therefore be an social working environment. The energy efficiency and control emisimportant issue for the Orkla compastatus of the work being done by the sions, and have achieved substantial nies in the years ahead. companies will be reviewed at a improvements in the past five years. conference in February 2011, at which Several of the companies focus Orkla’s food businesses are both affected leadership and interaction will be imsystematically on life cycle analyses, by and have a responsibility as regards portant topics. switching from fossil to renewable consumer trends related to health and energy sources, recycling and other nutrition. The companies in the Group Orkla works systematically to develop measures to reduce their environmental develop products that can promote a expertise and build a strong corporate impacts throughout the value chain. healthier diet in market segments where culture. In 2010, an employee opinion this is natural and possible. The comsurvey was carried out in the majority The need for more energy-efficient, panies focus particularly on reducing of the Group companies to ascertain environmentally friendly buildings the content of salt and saturated fat. how employees perceive their work situand means of transport offers imporFurthermore, the companies emphaation, and the results will be used in the tant market opportunities for Sapa sise good consumer guidance, consumer companies’ internal improvement work. and Borregaard. Sapa’s businesses service and responsible marketing. develop a wide range of aluminium Orkla is committed to developing a products and solutions that help to Main activities in 2010 strong anti-corruption culture, and in reduce energy consumption in buildIn-house efforts to raise awareness of 2009 drew up a new anti-corruption ings and means of transport, and corporate responsibility and provide manual containing detailed guidelines supply, among other things, profile training for management and employees for desired practices in this field. solutions to the solar cell industry. continued in 2010. The Orkla Corp­Around 1,600 management staff and Borregaard’s development and producorate Responsibility Council was estabother key personnel completed webtion of second-generation bioethanol lished to serve as an advisory body on based training in the use of the new and Elkem’s focus on super-pure siliissues related to ethics and corporate manual in 2010. Anti-corruption was con for the solar cell industry are also responsibility. In 2010, the Group also also a topic addressed at a number of a result of the global need for more began work on reviewing and further management meetings. climate-friendly energy. Investments strengthening the internal procedures in renewable energy entail a high level for following up on businesses’ Efforts to strengthen procedures for of risk, and the Group is committed to corporate responsibility activities. systematic risk identification and ensuring that predictable frameworks This work will continue in 2011. monitoring of suppliers with regard to are established for energy production human rights, working conditions, the and that incentives are developed for Health-promoting workplaces and environment and corruption continthe production of renewable, climatelong-term employee health were a ued in 2010. friendly energy. main focus of the Group’s preventive 6 ORKLA’S OPERATIONS ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 Orkla’s Operations Orkla is an international group of companies operating in the branded consumer goods, aluminium solutions, renewable energy, materials and financial investment sectors. In 2010, the Group had total sales of NOK 57 billion and approximately 30,000 employees. • Foods Nordic • Sapa Profiles • Share Portfolio • Brands Nordic • Heat Transfer • Hydro Power • Brands International • Building System • Food Ingredients Operating revenues (NOK million) 23,627 Operating revenues (NOK million) 27,684 EBITA1 (NOK million): 2,967 EBITA1 (NOK million): 744 Number of man-years: 13,918 Number of man-years: 14,239 ¹ Operating profit before amortisation and other income and expenses. key Figures1 20104 2009 2008 2007 2006 Operating revenues (NOK million) 57,338 56,228 65,579 63,867 52,683 EBITA2 (NOK million) 3,944 2,448 4,240 5,112 5,084 EBITA margin (%) 2 6.9 4.4 6.5 8.0 9.7 Ordinary profit before tax (NOK million) 20 1,071 -2,015 10,059 8,525 Diluted earnings per share (NOK) -0.9 2.5 -2.8 8.1 10.9 Return on capital employed, from industrial activities3 (%) 10.5 5.2 9.4 11.5 13.0 Return on Share Portfolio (%) 31.8 39.0 -45.3 16.2 27.4 Equity ratio (%) 53.6 51.7 47.7 58.3 60.4 1 Figures as reported in 2006-2009. 2 Operating profit before amortisation and other income and expenses. 3 See definition on page 90. 4 Figures for 2010 do not include Elkem ORKLA’S OPERATIONS ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 7 The Orkla Group has independent profit responsibility. Shareholders Orkla ASA is listed on the Oslo Stock All of the companies in the Group As of 31 December 2010, there were Exchange and its head office is in Oslo, share the following characteristics: a total of 47,135 shareholders in Orkla, Norway. The Group’s activities are 39 percent of whom were foreign diversified, but comprise two core Local management and value chain shareholders. The largest shareholdareas: branded consumer goods and Independent legal responsibility ings outside Norway were located concept solutions for the consumer, Independent profit responsibility in the USA (18 percent), the UK out-of-home and bakery markets, and Sales organisations with good (8 percent), Luxembourg (3 percent), aluminium-based solutions for the customer relationships Ireland (2 percent), Sweden (1 percent) building, construction, transport and Knowledge of local markets, consumer and Finland (1 percent). other industries. A third area of and customer understanding Orkla activity is industrial and finanNo. 1 or no. 2 positions (primarily) Business areas cial investments. This area comprises in their markets ownership interests in Borregaard, AS Orkla Brands Saudefaldene, REC and Jotun, as well as The Group has established general Orkla Brands is a leading developer, investments in shares and real estate. guidelines in areas where this is immarketer and supplier of strong proportant in order to promote commerprietary brands and concept solutions, In 2010, the Orkla Group had total cial interests, comply with external and holds no. 1 and no. 2 positions in sales of NOK 57,3381 million, and requirements and exercise the Group’s most of the categories in which its employed approximately 32,0002 corporate responsibility, and follows companies operate. Examples of persons (approx. 30,000 employees up on Group companies by means of important product categories for Orkla in continuing operations). Orkla has internal reporting systems, internal auBrands are: operations in 40 countries in the dits, risk management procedures and Nordic region, Western Europe, the internal board structure. Further inFrozen pizza Central and Eastern Europe, Asia and formation on Orkla’s governance proceJams and marmalade America and other regions. dures may be found at www.orkla.com. Tinned vegetables Orkla’s decentralised organisaThe five largest shareholders as at 31 December 2010 tional structure The Orkla Group comprises a total of Shareholders as at 31.12.2010* No. of shares Share of equity around 100 companies in a wide range of product areas. The Group has cho1. Canica Group 238,342,000 23.16 % sen a decentralised organisational 2. Folketrygdfondet 105,298,631 10.23 % structure, where responsibility for strategy and value creation lies with 3. Franklin Templeton 60,807,642 5.91 % each individual company. This struc4. T aube Hodson Stonex Partners 26,557,063 2.58 % ture is designed to ensure that decisions are made by senior executives 5. Black Rock 22,523,281 2.19 % who are close to their markets and *Except from the list of shareholders provided by RD:IR and VPS through the Nominee ID service. The data was obtained through have an insight into local problems the analysis of beneficial ownership and fund manager information provided in replies to disclosure of ownership notices issued to all custodians on the Orkla share register. Whilst every reasonable effort is made to verify all data, neither RD:IR nor VPS can guarand needs. Each company is legally antee the completeness of the information. For a list of the 20 largest shareholders as at 31.12.2010 from the official VPS list, see responsible for its own operations and Note 28 in Orkla’s Annual Report. Sales revenues, by Capital employed, geographical area by geographical area America and Central and Eastern Europe 7 % Asia 6% Asia 3% Central and rest of world 19 % Rest of Western Eastern Europe 9 % America and Europe 9 % rest of world 11 % Rest of Nordic region, Husk punktum i Husk punktum i excluding Norway Western Europe Norway 19 % 27 % y-aksen! y-aksen! 26 % Norway 43 % Nordic region, excluding Norway 21 % Gul, Brands Total capital employed (capitalised) Gul, Brands excluding Elkem NOK 44,626 million Total sales revenues excluding Elkem NOK 56,051 million Orange, finans invest Orange, finans 1 Sales in continuing operations, excluding Elkem. 2 As of 31 December 2010. Rød, Jotun REC Rød, Jotun REC Mørkrød, Alumin.solu Mørkrød, Alum 8 ORKLA’S OPERATIONS ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 Ketchup Orkla Investments Jotun Confectionery As of 1 January 2011, Orkla’s industrial Orkla owns 42.53 percent of Jotun, Biscuits investments, energy and real estate Norway’s leading paint and powder Snacks activities and Share Portfolio are coatings company in selected segTextiles organised under Orkla Investments. ments. Jotun holds leading positions Dietary supplements and health in a large number of its market segproducts Borregaard ments, both in Europe and on a global Cleaning products Borregaard is the world’s most advanced basis. The company has approximately Personal care products biorefinery, and a wholly-owned sub7,0003 employees, and has a presence in sidiary of Orkla. Based on the use of more than 80 countries through either The business area’s main markets are natural, sustainable raw materials its own companies or its distributors. the grocery and out-of-home sectors in from forests, the company manufacthe Nordic region. Orkla Brands also tures advanced, environmentally The Share Portfolio and Orkla holds strong positions in Russia and friendly biochemicals, biomaterials Eiendom (real estate) India, and is an important supplier to and bioethanol that can replace oilOrkla manages one of Norway’s largest the European bakery market. Orkla based products. Borregaard also holds share portfolios, which chiefly comBrands consists of four business units: strong positions in the ingredients, prises investments in the Nordic Orkla Foods Nordic, Orkla Brands fine chemicals and energy markets. region. Orkla Eiendom invests in and Nordic, Orkla Brands International Borregaard has approximately 1,2003 develops real estate. and Orkla Food Ingredients. Orkla employees who work in factories and Brands comprises a total of 763 compasales offices in 20 countries in Europe, Elkem4 nies in 24 countries, and has around the USA, Asia and Africa. In 2010, Elkem consisted of the 13,800 employees. The companies’ following business areas: manufacturing operations largely take AS Saudefaldene Hydro Power Elkem Solar place at their own factories. Orkla owns 85 percent of AS Saude­ Elkem Silicon Materials faldene Hydro Power. The company Elkem Foundry Products Sapa ope­rates seven hydropower plants in Elkem Carbon Sapa consists of three business units: Sauda with an effect of 356 MW and a Elkem Energi Sapa Profiles total annual mean production of 1,850 Sapa Building System GWh. The company has 333 employees. The company is one of the world’s Sapa Heat Transfer foremost manufacturers of materials REC within the product areas solar grade Sapa is the world’s largest aluminium Orkla owns 39.73 percent of REC silicon, silicon, ferrosilicon, carbon and profiles company, the world’s leading (Renewable Energy Corporation). The energy. Elkem has operations in several manufacturer of heat exchanger solucompany is a global leader in solar countries other than Norway, includtions based on strip for the automotive grade silicon, and one of the world’s ing Iceland, Canada, Brazil, South industry, and one of the three largest leading manufacturers of multicrystalAfrica and China. The company has a suppliers of profile-based building sysline silicon wafers. The company also total of about 2,5003 employees, 1,500 tems in Europe. Sapa has production conducts extensive downstream activiof whom work in Norway. plants in 21 countries, and approxities. REC has approximately 4,2003 emmately 14,3003 employees in total. ployees, and operates in Norway, the USA and Singapore. Number of employees, Number of employees, Sales revenues, by geographical area by business by business Asia 7% America and rest Orkla Financial Investments 1 % Central and Eastern Sapa 48 % of world 12 % Other 6 % Borregaard Chemicals 7 % Europe 25 % Sapa 49 % Hydro Power 1 % Husk punktum i Husk punktum i Norway 15 % y-aksen! y-aksen! Rest of Western Europe 20 % Orkla Brands 46 % Orkla Brands 42 % Nordic region, excluding Norway 21 % Number of employees excluding Gul, Brands Gul, Brands Total sales revenues excluding Elkem Elkem 30,233 NK 56,051 million Number of employees excluding Elkem 30,233 Orange, finans invest Orange, finans invest 3 As of 31.12.2010. 4 A binding agreement on the sale of Elkem to China National Bluestar was concluded in January 2011. Rød, Jotun REC Rød, Jotun REC Mørkrød, Alumin.solu Mørkrød, Alumin.solu Lysgrønn, Materials, Lysgrønn, Materials, DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 9 Dialogue with Stakeholders A good dialogue with stakeholders is crucial to creating trust and to enabling companies to exercise their corporate responsibility. The most important stakeholder groups with which Orkla interacts are employees, customers, shareholders, suppliers, public authorities and the local communities in which the Orkla companies operate. The dialogue with these groups is carried as an integral part of the companies’ business activities, and covers every aspect from employee performance assessment interviews and customer service functions to contact with public authorities and participation in external networks. Each company in the Group is responAlliance, and the Estonian chocolate Sarpsborg. In May, Norwegian Petro­ sible for identifying the potential manufacturer Kalev was visited by the leum and Energy Minister Terje Riisimpacts of its activities on its local Estonian president’s wife, Evelin Ilves. Johansen visited Elkem Solar for a community, people and the environA number of prominent politicians briefing on Elkem’s production of ment, and for integrating the interests visited Borregaard in 2010. Among solar grade silicon. At the same time, of rele­vant stakeholder groups into its other things, in December, Norwegian the company presented its views on routine operations. To support the Minister of Trade and Industry Trond the framework conditions for the companies’ efforts, the Group devised Giske opened Borregaard’s new operametal and materials industry. a tool in 2010 for analysing important tions centre, a high-technology control issues relating to the interaction centre for the overall management of Few matters related to the companies’ between the company and its stakeBorregaard’s production plant in operations had a negative impact on holders. The procedures for dialogue with and involvement of stakeholders are described on www.orkla.com. DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS – RESULTS AND OBJECTIVES Public affairs in 2010 AREA RESULTS 2010 OBJECTIVES 2011/2012 The primary public affairs issues Public affairs Designed a tool for analysing Establish an active, professional addressed by Orkla in 2010 were stakeholder needs. dialogue with key stakeholder framework conditions, the environgroups. ment and corporate responsibility. The Group companies also engaged in a dialogue on issues raised by politicians and local communities. Employees Society • EHS Dialogue on the • Worker rights Suppliers • Climate and environ• Corporate democracy • Business ethics companies’ operations mental impact • Contribution to the • Diversity • Monitoring EHS and • Competence social conditions In 2010, several of the Orkla compadevelopment of the local community development • Natural resource management nies received visits from politicians • Contribution to the • Environmental impact development of of transport and heads of state who were given society at large • Anti-corruption guided tours and information about the companies’ operations. This type of contact provides an opportunity to create greater understanding of the companies’ goals, plans and needs. In ORKLA Customers/ Shareholders consumers connection with the Norwegian state • Product safety • Profitability visit to Slovakia in October, the Norwe• Reporting • Product information • Consumer health • Corporate gian royal couple and Slovakian Presigovernance • Marketing ethics • Competition law dent Ivan Gasparovic and his wife • Goals & Values visited Sapa Profiles Slovakia. In the autumn of 2010, Göteborgs Kex was paid a visit by Swedish Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt and the other leaders Orkla uses a stakeholder model to of the Swedish political coalition, the analyse corporate responsibility issues 10 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 local communities in 2010. Abba SeaIndustry and a number of organisaregime. Borregaard joined the food announced plans in the autumn tions in connection with the preparaForum early in 2011. of 2010 to close its shrimp factory tion of an annual report on the way in Kungshamn, and engaged in a diaframework conditions affect Orkla’s In 2010, Elkem received grants logue with the local community in that Norwegian companies. The report is totalling NOK 39 million from the regard. Borregaard held information based on an analysis of the competiNorwegian organisation Enova for a meetings in 2010 for the population in tiveness of the Norwegian food indusnew energy recovery plant at Elkem the vicinity of its production plant to try which is prepared every year by Thamshavn. The investment, which discuss odour problems. Elkem particithe Norwegian Agricultural Economics will total NOK 215 million, will increase pated in a dialogue with local authoriResearch Institute (NILF) on assignannual energy recovery to up to 180 ties and the local population in Salten ment for Orkla Brands and Stabburet. GWh, and will consolidate the plant’s concerning plans to explore the possiposition as the world’s most energybility of extracting quartz from Nasa Orkla keeps a close eye on developefficient, environmentally friendly Mountain. The Group had no issues ments in the EU’s food-related work silicon smelting plant. in 2010 relating to the rights of indigewith a view to registering changes in nous peoples5. legislation as early as possible and Hafslund has received support from finding good solutions for implementEnova for the construction of a new Dialogue concerning ing new laws and regulations in the waste incineration plant that was framework conditions Group companies. opened on Borregaard’s site in March Elkem engages in dialogues to ensure 2010. The plant supplies only steam competitive framework conditions for Dialogue on the development of to Borregaard, generating an effect Norwegian energy-intensive industry. environmentally friendly technology equivalent to a 50 percent reduction in In 2010 Elkem was involved in discusThe development of renewable energy, Borregaard’s consumption of heavy oil. sions related to the implementation of sustainable biofuel and more environthe EU’s Emission Trading System (the mentally friendly, energy-efficient In 2010, Borregaard received a total EU ETS Directive) on the allocation of production processes often requires of NOK 11 million in funding for its quotas for CO2 emissions. Elkem is substantial amounts of capital and research projects from the Research also involved in the Norwegian Minisentails a high level of risk. Orkla Council of Norway. The company also try of the Environment’s follow-up of therefore focuses on fostering framereceived a grant of EUR 4 million, or the Climate and Pollution Agency’s work conditions that encourage the around NOK 35 million, in research report on Norwegian climate policy, development of desired technology. In funding from the European CommuniClimate Cure 2020. 2010, Borregaard and Elkem discussed ty’s Seventh Framework Programme this issue with key politicians. Elkem for research and development. This In 2010, Orkla Brands Corporate Afalso participated in the Norwegian funding is part of EU support for the fairs met with representatives of the Forum for Environmental Technology’s development of renewable fuels and Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry work on preparing proposals for the chemicals that can reduce greenhouse of Finance, the Ministry of Trade and Norwegian environmental technology gases and make society less dependent Photo: Göteborgs Kex Swedish Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt and the other party leaders in the Swedish 5 Alliance coalition visited Göteborgs Kex in 2010. B  ased on annual internal reports from the business areas to the Group on disputes, legal proceedings, supervision cases and similar matters. DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 11 Photo: Jarl M. Andersen Norwegian Minister of Trade and Industry Trond Giske opened Borregaard’s new operations centre in autumn 2010. on oil and gas in the future. The grant about the possibility of establishing efforts to promote the use of the Swan covers two projects for the construca collaborative project between food label on its products and its efforts to tion of demonstration and pilot facilicompanies, the Norwegian, Swedish, meet the environmental programme’s ties relating to new technology for Danish and Finnish authorities and increasingly stringent criteria. extracting ethanol and other products the authorities in the Republic of Côte Pôltsamaa Felix placed 12th in a from biomass. In 2010, Borregaard d’Ivoire aimed at developing the national ranking of Estonia’s foremost was also granted NOK 58 million in country’s cocoa communities. Work companies in the field of corporate support from Innovation Norway’s on the project has come to a temporesponsibility. The Russian chocolate environmental technology programme rary halt pending a solution to the company Sladco was presented with for the construction of a pilot plant political conflict that arose in Côte an award by the Sverdlovsk region for the production of second-generad’Ivoire following the presidential for its charity work, and the Russian tion bioethanol from agricultural and elections in November 2010. chocolate company Krupskaya received forestry waste. The pilot plant is a prize from the St. Petersburg’s City estimated to cost NOK 130 million, As a contribution to the work carried Committee of Food Industry Trade and construction is scheduled to begin out by KOMpakt, the Norwegian Unions for its efforts and results in the in the first half of 2011. Government’s forum for corporate social arena. Elkem Thamshavn was responsibility, Orkla is chairing a awarded the Federation of Norwegian Orkla companies have received a total working group tasked with revising Industries’ Safety Prize for 2009, in of NOK 28 million in public funding KOMpakt’s terms of reference. recognition of Elkem’s preventive for research, improvement projects The activities of the working group efforts in the EHS field. Sapa Heat and other matters related to operabegan in the autumn of 2010, and Transfer Shanghai was designated a tions in 2010. are scheduled to be completed in the “Green Enterprise” by the Shanghai winter of 2011. Environment Bureau in acknowledgeDialogue on corporate responsibility ment of the company’s environmental Orkla’s then President and CEO, Dag J. External recognition and energy efficiency work. Elkem Opedal, met Russian President Dimitrij Several Orkla companies won recognireceived the Ideal Employer award for Medvedev in connection with the tion in 2010 for their environmental 2010. This prize is awarded by the Russian head-of-state’s visit to Norway and corporate responsibility work. employer branding company Univerin April. Mr. Opedal took advantage Abba Seafood was awarded the E-Prize sum on the basis of a survey conducted of the opportunity to underscore the energy efficiency prize for its many among around 6,500 students. In 2010, importance of Russia’s efforts to years of efforts to promote efficient Borregaard was commended, particustrengthen its economy, combat energy use. The award is presented larly in the management category, corruption and become a member of jointly each year by the energy comfollowing a reputation survey among the World Trade Organisation (WTO). pany E.ON and the Swedish business company executives in Østfold, southjournal Veckans Affärer, and 100 eastern Norway. In 2010, Orkla, the UN Development companies were nominated in 2010. Programme (UNDP) and the NorweIn connection with the 20th anniversary gian Association of Chocolate Manuof the Nordic Swan ecolabel, Lilleborg facturers jointly initiated dialogue received two awards for its long-term 12 SHAREHOLDERS ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 Governance Procedures Orkla’s principles for good corporate governance aim to lay the foundation for long-term value creation, to the benefit of shareholders, employees and society at large. Good governance procedures with regard to corporate responsibility will help to ensure that activities in every part of the Group are carried out in accordance with fundamental ethical values, and with respect for people, society and the environment. In line with Orkla’s decentralised rate responsibility work were a topic with regard to the corporate responsiorganisational model, each company of Board discussion in connection with bility work of company boards. This has an independent responsibility for a review of Orkla’s internal governhas been a collaborative project involvits operations. This also includes the ance structure. A general review of ing eight Norwegian companies under exercise of the company’s corporate the corporate responsibility work of the auspices of consultancy SIGLA as, responsibility. This work takes place Orkla’s Board of Directors is planned and the results of the study will be within the framework of the Group’s in 2011, and will include a revision of used in the further development of values and general guidelines, and is the Group’s Code of Conduct. Orkla’s internal governance procefollowed up through internal reportdures. Representatives of Orkla’s ing, internal audits, risk management In 2010, the Group Executive Board Board of Directors and executive procedures and the Group’s internal was given a quarterly briefing on the management staff were interviewed governance structure. status of the Group’s EHS work, which as part of the project. included a report on any serious inciThe Board of Directors and dents. A more comprehensive review The Group’s governance executive management’s of planned EHS activities was provided and control procedures corporate responsibility work in the first quarter of 2010. The Group sets standards for its comOrkla’s Board of Directors wishes to panies’ efforts to exercise corporate review the status of efforts related to The status of Orkla’s corporate responresponsibility by establishing general the Group’s corporate responsibility on sibility work was reviewed by the guidelines for corporate responsibility an annual basis. No such review was Group Executive Board in 2010. Orkla and ethics, and by providing more carried out in 2010, but the governalso took part in an external project to detailed guidelines on certain topics, ance procedures for the Group’s corpoidentify existing practices and trends such as anti-corruption efforts and GOVERNANCE PROCEDURES – RESULTS AND OBJECTIVES AREA RESULTS 2010 OBJECTIVES 2011/2012 Dialogue with Orkla’s Board Regular reports submitted on • Continue to provide regular of Directors EHS activities. reports on EHS activities. • Review the status of the corporate responsibility work of Orkla’s Board of Directors. Governance procedures • Establishment of Orkla’s • Revise Orkla’s Code of Corporate Responsibility Conduct. Council. • Review the Group’s corporate • Revision of rules of proceresponsibility governance dure for internal company procedures. boards. SHAREHOLDERS ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 13 ”In 2010, Orkla’s Corporate Responsibility Council was established to advise and support the Group Executive Board with regard to matters relating to ethics and corporate responsibility.” competition law. Corporate responsibility is also a topic covered in Orkla’s rules of procedure for internal company boards, which were revised in 2010. The Group has established general principles for the identification and monitoring of the risk of supplier breaches of Orkla’s ethical standards. The Orkla companies have a duty to report to the Group any matters related to possible breaches of official regulations. Issues related to ethics and corporate responsibility form part of the due diligence assessments that are carried out in connection with maOrkla’s Corporate Responsibility Council Photo: Marianne Otterdahl-Jensen jor investments. They are also included in internal audits. In 2010, Orkla’s Corporate Responsibility Council was established to advise and support the Group Executive Board with regard to matters relating to ethics and corporate responsibility. The Council has replaced the former Corporate Responsibility Forum, and consists of representatives of the management of the various business areas and key staff functions. In 2010, the Group also began work on the process of reviewing and further improving the internal procedures for monitoring companies’ corporate responsibility performance. This work will continue in 2011. Orkla’s principles for good corporate governance are described in greater In 2010, Orkla participated in an external study of the Photo: Rachel I. Mathisen detail in Orkla’s Annual Report for corporate responsibility work of company boards. 2010 and on Orkla’s website. 14 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Photo: Sapa ”The development of new technology and sustainable products is important for securing future production and for the environment.” Zero Harm Vision Orkla’s vision of zero harm to individuals, the environment and society lies at the core of the Group’s EHS work. The general criteria with which the companies must comply are defined in Orkla’s EHS policy. EHS is the responsibility of each individual company, but the guidelines are intended to ensure control and continuous improvement over time. Operational efficiency based on compliance with EHS requirements is regarded as an important value driver at Orkla, as laid down in Orkla’s “Goals and Values”. This means that EHS must be an integral part of all of Orkla’s business activities. ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 15 Occupational health and safety driving overturned and he was follow-up to a conference on the topic crushed by the trailer. These incidents held in late 2009. In practice, this objecInjury prevention efforts show that all parts of the organisation tive means ensuring that individual Behaviour-related safety measures are must give their full attention to injury businesses put in place good processes a key aspect of Orkla’s EHS work, and prevention efforts. in which management and employees are designed to enable each employee participate actively in establishing to perform his or her job correctly and An important aspect of the improvemeasures tailored to their workplace. safely from day one. Achieving this ment process is recording and followobjective requires the development of ing up on all types of injuries and Sickness absence in the Orkla Group best practice standards, the effective undesired events. Sickness absence was 3.6 percent in 2010 (the correadaptation of technological solutions, and injury trends are monitored sponding rate for continuing operaand comprehensive training for and regularly by the companies’ boards tions, excluding Elkem, was also 3.6 coaching of employees at the workand management teams. Orkla percent), while the corresponding rate place. achieved a Lost Work Day Rate for 2009 was 4.3 percent. The rules (LWDR)6 of 4.3 (4.5 for continuing for registering sickness absence and To ensure that Group companies adopt operations, excluding Elkem) in 2010, follow-up of employees on sick leave a coherent approach to their risk piccompared with 4.5 in 2009. The Total vary from one country to another. ture, all the companies carry out reguRecordable Rate (TRR)7 was 13.3 in lar risk analyses. These analyses form 2010, compared with 12.8 in 2009. In Norway, Orkla complies with the the basis for ordering priorities within This increase is ascribable to the fact principles of inclusive working life, the EHS activities of the individual that several Orkla companies have which entail active follow-up of absencompanies. established procedures for recording tees and cooperation with the company and following up on injuries that did health service. Similar principles also Health and safety are important issues not lead to absence in 2010. apply to Orkla’s operations in other in the collaboration between manageparts of the world. Sickness absence ment and employee representatives in Although injury rates for Orkla as a for the Norwegian companies was 5.3 Orkla companies. In the Scandinavian whole have not changed significantly, percent in 2010, which represents a countries, halth and safety committees many of the companies have seen a significant reduction from 6.6 percent have been established in all factories positive trend in 2010. This shows that in 2009. Sickness absence excluding in compliance with local legislation. key EHS principles, such as good order Elkem’s Norwegian companies was and cleanliness, engagement, exper5.5 percent. Despite the efforts to prevent occupatise-building and a willingness to learn tional accidents, two fatal accidents from others, are crucial to achieving The environment tragically occurred in connection with improvement. There must be focus Orkla operates in many different areas, Orkla’s operations in 2010. At Elkem’s and emphasis on these important prinand its businesses impact the environplant on Iceland, a male employee ciples throughout the organisation. ment to differing degrees. The Group died from burn injuries caused by a wants its companies to set ambitious, blow-out of hot material and gas from Health-promoting workplaces but realistic, environmental targets. the smelting furnace. At Elkem’s Erdos In 2010, efforts were focused on the The companies focus strongly on JV plant in China, a contract driver topic of “Health-promoting workplaces reducing any negative environmental was killed when the tractor he was and long-term employee health” as a impacts arising from their processes Trends in LWDR1 at Orkla* Trends in Sickness Absence for Orkla in Norway* 12 8 7 10 6 8 5 6 4 3 4 Grønn 2 2 1 LWDR % 6 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 Number of injuries leading to absence per million hours worked. 7 * Figures as reported in 2006–2009.  umber of injuries leading to absence, need for medical treatN * Figures as reported in 2006–2009. ment or restricted work per million hours worked. ¹ Number of injuries leading to absence per million hours worked. 16 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 and products. Any emissions are registive. These accounts are also reported ment projects aimed at reducing energy tered and dealt with in compliance to the Carbon Disclosure Project consumption and using renewable with national and local requirements. (CDP), an independent organisation energy to the greatest possible extent. that provides investors all over the These projects are among Orkla’s most At AS Saudefaldene’s closed power world with a basis for assessing how important environmental initiatives in plant in Hellandsbygd, Norway, oil was the world’s largest companies are the short term. discharged into Storlivatn Lake as a addressing climate challenges. result of frost damage to a transformer In the past few years, Borregaard has cooler that had not been drained after In 2010, global greenhouse gas emissignificantly reduced its emissions of the power station was shut down. sions from Orkla’s own operations greenhouse gases. As a result of the Because the lake was frozen and the totalled 2.15 million tonnes of CO2 company’s environmental strategy, oil was quickly cleaned up, the negaequivalents, compared with 1.85 milmore than 80 percent of its energy tive environmental impacts of the lion tonnes of CO2 equivalents in supply is now based on renewable discharge were negligible. A minor 2009. Including emissions from pursources and energy recovery from discharge of detergent from the Kolding chased energy, emissions totalled 3.08 waste. In 2010, a new waste incineraSalater factory in Denmark led to a million tonnes of CO2 equivalents. tion plant was opened on the Borresanction from the local authorities. The increase in emissions in 2010 is gaard site which halved the company’s The discharge had no impact on the primarily due to the fact that Elkem’s consumption of heavy oil. environment. smelting plant is again operating at a high level of production. Greenhouse REACH Orkla’s environmental impacts are gas emissions excluding Elkem REACH is the EEA’s set of regulations primarily related to greenhouse gas amounted to 640,000 tonnes of CO2 governing the registration, evaluation, emissions in connection with energy equivalents from Orkla’s own operarestriction and authorisation of the consumption and processing emistions and 1.15 million tonnes of CO2 sale of chemical substances. All Orkla sions from Elkem’s smelting plant, as equivalents including emissions from companies to which these regulations well as waste management and noise purchased energy. The emissions from apply have established procedures to from factories. The use of materials Sapa, Borregaard Chemicals’ factories ensure compliance with future REACH and natural resources, including water, and Orkla’s other operations are prirequirements. In 2010, Lilleborg, are also important environmental issues. marily related to the production of Borregaard and Elkem carried out the thermal energy from fossil fuels. necessary registration of substances Focusing on continuous improvement Huskthatpunktum i are manufactured and/or imported means putting in place control proceEnergy consumption in 2010 totalled y-akse! in volumes exceeding 1000 tonnes dures and reducing emissions. Im9.6 TWh, compared with 8.2 TWh in per year. This ensures that the compaprovement activities are based on the 2009. Approximately 6 TWh of this nies will be permitted to continue “best available technology”, i.e.Total CO2-emissions the focus was electricity. The increase was largely to import and/or manufacture the for Orkla 2005-10 Gul,inBrands is on the right choice of raw materials, due to higher production at Elkem’s substances question. process improvements and attainable plants. Excluding Elkem’s 5,000,000 plants, conemission and discharge levels. sumption totalled 5.4 TWh. ApproxiIn the case of microsilica (Silica mately 2 TWh of energy was produced Fume), Elkem Orange,has finans beeninvest assigned the 4,000,000 Energy and climate accounts by Orkla’s own hydropower plants. role of lead registrant in Norway for Orkla prepares energy and climate the chemical safety report (CSR) on accounts based on the international The Orkla companies 3,000,000 work continuRød, Jotun which REACH REC registration of the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Initiaously on energy-saving and investsubstance is based. Elkem is also lead Husk punktum i Mørkrød, Alumin.solu 2,000,000 y-akse! 1,000,000 Lysgrønn, Materials, Total CO2-emissions Allocation of CO2-emissions Consumption Borregaard, of Energy Elkem for Orkla 2005-10 for Orkla 0 Gul, Tonnes 2010 CO2 Brands 06 07 08 09 10 15,000 5,000,000 Emissions from process Electricity 29.5% 80 % sort District heating Fuel (vehicles) 0.3% 12,500 Electricity District Orange, finans invest Fuel (vehicles) 11.5% Natural Gas heating 0.7% 4,000,000 Propane Fuel (vehicles) Propane 1.0% 30 % sort, strokeHusk punktum 10,000 i Oil Rød, Jotun REC Oil 5.0% y-aksen! 3,000,000 Heavy Oil 7,500 Heavy Oil 1.5% Coke 20 % sort, fill EmissionsMørkrød, Alumin.solu 2,000,000 5,000 from process 50.5% Gul, Brands 2,500 1,000,000 Lysgrønn, Materials, Mørk grønn Borregaard, Elkem GWh 0 05 06 07 08 09 10Orange, finans inves Tonnes 0 CO2 06 07 08 09 10 Electricity Emissions from process 80 % sort Heat District heating Grønn Electricity Rød, Jotun REC Natural Gas Propane 30 % sort, stroke Fuel (vehicles) Mørkrød, Alumin.sol Oil Heavy Oil ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 17 registrant for the compound substance Si/FeSi silicates. Borregaard registered 14 substances in 2010, and was lead registrant for two of them. The compa”Sapa Building Systems nies are now beginning work on prepfocuses on developing arations for the next phase, in which all chemicals manufactured in or sustainable solutions imported to the EEA in a quantity exceeding 100 tonnes per year are to tailored to customer be registered by July 2013. needs, and advises its Sustainable product development customers on environThe development of new technology mentally friendly, energyand sustainable products is important efficient design.” for securing future production and for the environment. Photo: Kyrre Lien Energy-efficient buildings Sapa Solar BIPV is Sapa’s system for exploiting solar energy. The system is built up of solar cells which are incorporated into double or triple glazing units, alternatively into filling panels as opaque single panes. A wide range of shapes, colours and optical structures in the solar cells can be combined with glass and extrusions to create energy-efficient, innovative and environmentally friendly building solutions. Sapa Building Systems focuses on developing sustainable solutions tailored to customer needs, and advises its customers on environmentally friendly, energy-efficient design. Videum Vaxjo and Skanska’s head office in Sweden, Utrecht Train Station in the Netherlands, Van De Putte in Belgium, the Inspiria Science Center Østfold and Marienlyst School in Norway are all examples of buildings in which energy-friendly solutions Marienlyst School in Drammen, which was inaugurated in August 2010, is Norway’s first passive house school provided by Sapa were used in 2010. building. The doors and windows were supplied by Sapa Building Systems. med for miljøets skyld OMO var det første vaskemiddelmerket i Norge som ble svanemerket fordi det tilfredstiller Svanens strenge krav til effektivitet og nedbrytbare virkestoffer. OMO er et av de mest konsentrerte tøyvaskepulverne i Norge. Dette betyr mer effektiv emballasjeutnyttelse og mindre transport. Siden OMO pulver er så effektivt at det vasker rent selv ved lave temperaturer, kan du spare energi ved oppvarming av vannet. Og hver gang du sparer energi, gjør du et lite klimatiltak hjemme hos deg selv, og du bidrar til å redusere den totale miljøbelastningen. Nå kommer OMO i tillegg på nye resirkulerbare esker. De nye NYHET OMO-eskene er laget av 80% resirkulert papir og kan leveres til gjenvinning sammen med vanlig papiravfall. For mer informasjon se www.omo.no Bra for miljøet – bra for deg Lilleborg has worked systematically with the optimization of packaging for many years. 18 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 Borregaard produces environmentally friendly biochemicals, Photo: Kyrre Lien biomaterials and bioethanol that can replace oil-based products. Orkla wishes to provide information on its environmental, health and safety efforts in EHS-Report an open, trustworthy 2010 manner, and to engage in an active dialogue with important stake­ holders. A number of internal and external activities were carried out in the course of 2010. These activities are described in Orkla’s EHS Report 2010, www.orkla.com/ehs2010 Abba Seafood is actively engaged Photo: Abba Seafood AB in sustainable fish management. Recycled aluminium sustainable alternatives to oil-based Several patent applications have been Sapa Heat Transfer has designed its products. Innovation is key to the submitted in connection with these product development model so as to company’s operations, and around 25 projects. take account of the product’s environpercent of Borregaard’s sales currently mental impacts throughout its life come from products launched in the Sustainable fishing cycle. In 2010, Sapa Heat Transfer in course of the past five years. Life cycle Abba Seafood is aggressively committed Finspång and Shanghai carried out a analyses confirm that the biorefinery to the sustainable management of joint project to increase the percentage concept ensures good climate and fishery resources. The company’s policy of recycled aluminium in production. environmental accounts. for these efforts is called Go Blue. Recycling aluminium takes only five Abba Seafood’s Fish Matrix is the tool percent of the energy that is required In 2010, Borregaard made major used by the company to implement its to produce new aluminium from ore. advances in the development of new policy. In 2010, Abba worked closely technology for the manufacture of with the Marine Stewardship Council World’s most advanced biorefinery biochemicals and second-generation to increase consumer awareness of Borregaard uses the entire log of biofuel based on various biomasses. sustainable fish management. timber to create products and energy An exciting project is currently underin the company’s production of bioway that is focused on the use of modichemicals, biomaterials and bioethanol, fied cellulose fibre in a variety of appliwhich are environmentally friendly, cations with good EHS properties. employees ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 19 EMPLOYEES Photo: Kyrre Lien ”Responsible operations are contingent on the ability of management and employees to exercise good judgement.” Developing People – Creating Value Constructive interaction between management and employees is crucial to achieving long-term, profitable growth. In order to realise Orkla’s primary goal of developing people and creating value, the Group emphasises the importance of the development of a sound working environment, good leadership, a well-functioning corporate democracy, human resource development and a healthy corporate culture. 20 employees ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 The corporate culture and grammes. The Group’s corporate ment and to ascertain employees’ the working environment responsibility staff assist companies views on matters relating to the comOrkla companies must respect human with training and guidance on this pany and their workplace, to secure a and labour rights, and promote a good topic, and in 2010 held meetings for basis for a dialogue on improvement working environment that is characaround 140 management staff and key measures. The overall response rate terised by trust, involvement and a personnel. The Group also provides was close to 75 percent, which is confocus on improvement. All of the comguidance on and training in competisidered very good for this type of surpanies in the Group have established tion law and anti-corruption work. vey. The Group has initiated a process formal hiring procedures and working to break down and discuss the survey conditions that protect employee Employee opinion survey results within the various companies, rights in accordance with local legislaIn 2010, Orkla conducted a Groupwith emphasis on ensuring that the tion and Orkla guidelines. Among wide employee opinion survey, in process takes the form of a dialogue other things, the Group does not tolerwhich Orkla Brands, Sapa, Borregaard between management and employees. ate child labour or forced labour, and and Orkla’s central corporate functions has put in place effective procedures participated. The purpose of the surThe results show that employee satisto ensure that they do not occur in the vey was to gauge employee engagefaction in every part of the Group is Group’s operations. The performance of all Group management staff is monitored in relation to employee development and promotion of a collaborative climate. Around 73 percent8 of the Group’s employees are covered by the companies’ procedures for annual employee performance assessment interviews. Responsible operations are contingent on the ability of management and employees to exercise good judgement. Raising awareness of the manager’s overall responsibility is therefore a key aspect of Orkla’s management training, and efforts to promote a sound corporate culture and values have high priority. Each company is responsible for implementing the Group’s Code of Conduct in an effective way. Training in ethics is normally provided as part of the companies’ introductory programmes for new employees, and in the Group’s management training proPhoto: Kyrre Lien Employees, by function ”The Group requires that a R&D 2 % Finance 3 % minimum of one woman Quality 4 % Other admin. functions 19 % must be nominated when Sales and marketing 14 % recruiting Husk punktum i candidates for Logistics 6 % y-aksen! management team positions at company or Production and maintenance 52 % business Gul, Brands area level, and Source: Orkla employee opinion survey women are given priority for participation Orange, finans invest in Orkla’s management develop8 Estimate based on current procedures. ment Rød, programme.” Jotun REC Mørkrød, Alumin.solu ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 employees 21 generally high. For the Group as a years on helping young people of across companies within the same whole, 86 percent of respondents stated minority origin gain easier access to business area and country. that they enjoy their work, 75 percent the labour market, and in 2010 hosted said they look forward to going to a network conference organised by For several years, Orkla has worked work, and 77 percent stated that they the foundation. In 2010, the Group systematically to promote a better are proud to work for their company. also established cooperation with gender balance in the Group’s manageThese are positive results compared Ambisjoner.no, a career and education ment. The Group requires that a with external norm data. The survey web portal. The issue of non-discrimiminimum of one woman must be was conducted with expert guidance nation is included in the companies’ nominated when recruiting candidates from the Norwegian School of general working environment trainfor management team positions at Management (BI) in Oslo, and the ing. For instance, at Sapa Profiles company or business area level, and anonymised data will be used in BI’s North America’s businesses in the women are given priority for particiresearch. USA, every employee undergoes annual pation in Orkla’s management develtraining in the prevention of discrimiopment programme. The Group has Diversity nation and harassment in the workhad a mentoring programme and a Diversity in the form of employees place. network for women managers for with a wide range of experience and of several years. Several of the companies different ages and sexes is an imporIn the employee opinion survey conalso implement their own measures tant objective for Orkla companies in ducted in 2010, 73 percent of the to increase the proportion of women order to ensure the broadest possible respondents stated that, in their expemanagers. For instance, Procordia basis for recruitment and to create rience, the company they work for carried out the fourth round of its attractive workplaces. Moreover, such offers equal opportunities for success strategic network for women managers diversity is a strength in connection to people with every kind of backin 2010, which this time also included with product and process developground, while 10 percent felt that this participants from Abba Seafood and ment, as it can contribute to better was not the case. This result is more Axellus. market understanding and broader positive than comparable external perspectives. Respect, tolerance and figures. Nevertheless, Orkla wishes to In 2010, 33.7 percent of Orkla employequality are key elements of Orkla’s create a greater awareness among the ees were women (34.1 percent in concorporate culture. Principles for the companies’ management staff of the tinuing operations). The percentage of equal treatment of employees regardvalue of diversity and the need for women in the Group’s management less of sex or origin are laid down in equal treatment and non-discrimination. teams is stable at approximately 14 both the Group’s Code of Conduct and percent9. The overall percentage of the guidelines for recruitment and Orkla has operations and employees in women managers at all levels of the wage-setting. Orkla has signed the 40 countries. In line with the Group’s Group’s operations10 was 25.5 percent Norwegian agreement on Inclusive decentralised business model, Orkla (26 percent for continuing operations). Working Life, thereby committing the attaches importance to employing In 2010, 35.3 percent of Orkla Brands’ Group to promoting an inclusive workmanagers with relevant business and managers were women, while the coring environment, which includes imcultural insight. Almost all the memresponding figure was 16 percent at plementing measures to retain older bers of companies’ management teams Sapa and 18 percent at Borregaard. employees. Orkla has collaborated are recruited locally, and there is an The number of women managers at with the Alarga foundation for several active focus on career development Orkla is considered to be too low, and EMPLOYEES – RESULTS AND OBJECTIVES AREA RESULTS 2010 OBJECTIVES 2011/2012 Gender equality • The proportion of woman • Increase the proportion of and diversity managers was 25.5% in total. woman managers. • The proportion of woman • S trengthen the dialogue with participants in Orkla’s Senior Orkla’s business areas on Management Programme was diversity. 14%, and the proportion of participants with a non-Norwegian background was 57%. Human resource 1,821 employees have completed Develop skills-building programdevelopment key courses provided by Orkla or mes in accordance with needs the business areas. and strategies. 9 O  rkla defines a senior executive as a member of a management team at Group, business area or company level. This Anti-corruption 1,639 managers and employees Strengthen the Group’s internal group comprises about 300 managers, and constitutes around 10 percent of the total number of managers. efforts have completed anti-corruption control routines. 10 For reporting purposes, managers are defined as employees training. with formal personnel responsibilities. This definition does not cover technical managers or other management positions without personnel responsibilities. 22 employees ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 action to remedy this situation will America have increased their focus on In 2010, in the companies in Norway, continue. this issue, and work has begun at the Sweden and Denmark, employee repfactories on the preparation of equal resentatives were elected to the comAny breaches of rules relating to genopportunity action plans. pany boards and to the Board of Direcder equality and discrimination in the tors and Corporate Assembly of Orkla companies are reported to the Group’s In 2010, an internal working group ASA. The annual meeting of the Orkla Legal Affairs Department. Orkla has reviewed the status of Orkla’s diversity European Works Council was also also established an internal whistlework and identified areas for improveheld, at which 30 representatives of blowing service. There were two cases ment. This work will be followed up in companies in 14 different European in 2010 related to regulatory require2011 through a dialogue between the countries came together to discuss ments regarding gender equality and Group and the business areas. In conmatters of common importance to non-discrimination11. One of Sapa’s nection with the revision of Orkla’s employees. companies in France was ordered by a Code of Conduct in 2011, the Group’s court of first instance to pay damages internal requirements with regard to Cooperation between the Group to a former employee on account of diversity and non-discrimination will Executive Board and the employee discrimination in connection with be further elaborated. representatives in 2010 was focused dismissal. The company has appealed primarily on the ongoing reorganisaagainst the judgment. The US Office of Corporate democracy tion processes. There was also an Federal Contract Compliance ProOrkla recognises the value of a wellactive dialogue regarding vocational grams (OFCCP), which monitors that functioning corporate democracy, and training and collaboration with vocasuppliers to public companies comply it is estimated that in the Nordic countional training institutions, primarily with public procurement requirements tries some 75 percent of all production through a network for employee reprerelating to equal opportunity, has caremployees in the Group are organised sentatives and HR managers in Orkla’s ried out an audit of the employment in trade unions. The percentage of Norwegian companies. In all the comprocedures of Sapa Extrusions Inc. union members is significantly lower panies where reorganisation processes in the USA. The OFCCP criticised the among white-collar employees. Active have been carried out, efforts have employment procedures at one of the systems of corporate democracy have been made to engage in a dialogue company’s factories, and in 2010 been established in all Orkla compawith employee representatives and to Sapa Extrusions Inc. agreed to pay an nies. Employees are represented in the involve the employees. infringement penalty of USD 450,000 Group’s governing bodies. Information to the OFCCP. In the past few years, on Orkla’s corporate democracy sysSapa Profiles’ businesses in North tems may be found at www.orkla.com. Photo: Marianne Otterdahl-Jensen 11 Based on annual internal reports from the business areas to the Group on disputes, legal proceedings, supervision cases In 2010, Orkla organised a network gathering for women managers in the Group, which was attended by around 100 women. The main topic and similar matters. of the gathering was how the Group can ensure a higher percentage of women at top management level. ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 employees 23 In 2010, Borregaard established a new operations centre at its facilities in Sarpsborg Photo: Kyrre Lien Human resource development for desired practices in this field. A upgrading of expertise. In connection Orkla considers on-the-job training to total of 1,639 managers and employees with acquisitions, the Group carries be pivotal to developing employee in exposed positions12 completed webout due diligence processes that include expertise. This training is supplemented based training in the use of the new assessment of EHS performance, by various types of courses and formal manual in 2010. This represents 5 employment contracts and other training provided by the companies, percent of all employees. Anti-corrupworking conditions. Any necessary imthe business areas and Orkla. Among tion efforts were also a topic addressed provements are included in the plans other things, the companies hold proat a number of management meetings. for the integration process. There is an tection and safety courses for managOrkla’s attitudes towards corruption emphasis on the smooth integration of ers and key employees in the producare described on Orkla’s website. new companies through direct followtion force, introductory courses for up, skills-building programmes and new employees and function-specific No matters involving breaches of antithe use of general guidelines. training. Orkla runs its own training corruption or competition regulations programmes in key areas of expertise, were reported in 201013. Several efficiency improvement procand courses in management developesses were carried out in 2010 which ment and business systems are provided Reorganisation and organisaentailed workforce reduction and reorcentrally in the business areas. An tional development ganisation. Two businesses were sold overview of these skills-building proOrkla is continuously engaged in in the course of the year, and 14 new grammes may be found under Orkla’s efficiency improvement and organisacompanies were acquired. Further sustainability reporting at www.orkla. tional development work with a view information on these measures is com. Approximately 6 percent of to ensuring the Group’s long-term provided in Orkla’s sustainability Orkla employees took part in a central competitiveness. Both individual reporting for 2010 at www.orkla.com skills-building programme in 2010. process improvement projects and continuous improvement efforts are Anti-corruption efforts carried out in accordance with a Orkla is committed to developing a philosophy of lean management. 12  raining provided for all senior executives and managers T strong anti-corruption culture, and in There is close cooperation between and employees at lower levels of Orkla companies who are considered to hold positions that may be exposed to risk. 2009 drew up a new anti-corruption management and union representa13 Based on annual internal reports from the business areas to the Group on disputes, legal proceedings, supervision cases manual containing detailed guidelines tives on both reorganisation and the and similar matters, and on the Group’s internal audits. 24 CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS Photo: Kyrre Lien ”The Orkla companies hold leading positions in their market segments, and put great emphasis on customer satisfaction.” Being Reliable Orkla is a global enterprise, and has operations in 40 countries. Regardless of geography or market, Orkla’s products and services must always be reliable as regards quality, origin and impacts on human health and the environment. Orkla companies work systematically on product safety issues to ensure that the Group achieves this aim. CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 25 Dialogue with customers Sætre and KiMs were voted the five Group companies that produce food Contact with customers and consumers best suppliers to the Norwegian and beverages are required to satisfy is a key element of the product develgrocery trade, out of a total of 55 the requirements of the OFSS, and are opment work of all Orkla companies. companies, in a customer satisfaction monitored by means of regular audits. The companies utilise customer satissurvey carried out by the consultancy In 2010, 67 OFSS audits were perfaction surveys, consumer research Remark in 2010. The companies were formed, compared with 50 in 2009. and direct customer contact to gain assessed in relation to cooperation Moreover, a permanent food safety insight into the needs and desires ability, sales apparatus, product range, training course was established in of customers. Borregaard and Sapa ininnovation and innovative thinking, lo2010 for quality managers and other volve their customers in development gistics and product supply, in-store key personnel involved in food proprojects in order to tailor solutions to marketing and sales management. duction. The course comprises two individual customer needs. Sapa’s Promodules, each lasting three days. file Academy offers customers training Product liability At the end of 2010, 20 persons had in the use, design and development The different Orkla companies serve completed the new training proof aluminium profiles. Sapa has also different types of customer, ranging gramme. In recent years, Orkla’s food established innovation centres, at from children who buy sweets on a safety efforts have secured a signifiwhich the company and customers Saturday to industrial customers like cant reduction in the number of jointly develop profitable, environmencar manufacturers and construction undesirable product quality incidents. tally friendly product solutions. contractors. Product liability issues therefore vary greatly from company In 2010, the Group has not been inCustomer satisfaction to company. However, production in volved in legal disputes concerning The Orkla companies hold leading poall Orkla companies must meet conbreaches of product liability or cussitions in their market segments, and sistently high standards of product tomer health and safety regulations14. put great emphasis on customer satisquality and safety. The overall responfaction. In 2010, several companies sibility for product safety lies with the Health and nutrition received awards from their customers. managing director of each individual Orkla continuously develops its Elkem Foundry Products in India was company. products with regard to nutrition and crowned best supplier to the company health. Several Orkla Brands compaby Indo Shell Cast Private Ltd., while Borregaard, Sapa and Orkla all made nies are cooperating with Lund Sapa Heat Transfer in Shanghai further improvements to their internal University in Sweden to ensure an received an award from the Denso quality assurance routines in 2010. even higher level of expertise in these Corporation in Japan for its contribuefforts. In 2010, a cross-company tion to the company’s development in The Orkla Food Safety Standard cooperation project was launched by various regions. The Norwegian Orkla (OFSS) sums up Orkla Brands’s interthe Orkla Brands companies, with the companies Stabburet, Lilleborg, Nidar, nal food safety requirements. All objective of reducing the salt content CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS – RESULTS AND OBJECTIVES AREAS RESULTS 2010 OBJECTIVES 2011/2012 Health and • Established Orkla Brands’ project •P  repare target figures for salt nutrition to reduce salt content in foods. content by product category. • Improved the nutritional profiles • Increase the companies’ of a range of foods. knowledge about salt. • Participate in external research relating to salt reduction. • Continue work on reducing the saturated fat content of foods. Food safety Completed 67 internal Continue conducting internal audits food safety audits. based on OFSS to ensure a high, uniform standard at Orkla Brands factories. Customer Initiated the development of a joint Establish a joint system for dialogue system for complaints reporting complaints reporting within Orkla 14  ased on annual internal reports from the business areas B within Orkla Brands. Brands. to the Group on disputes, legal proceedings, supervision cases and similar matters. 26 CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 Photo: Procordia of relevant product groups without improve health. As serious suppliers of affecting shelf life or taste. Corredietary supplements, Orkla companies sponding efforts have been initiated impose strict requirements on their by the companies to reduce the use own marketing of products that promise ”None of Orkla’s of additives like flavour enhancers, health benefits. Orkla Brands has products contain colourings and flavouring agents. For drawn up internal guidelines that example, in 2009–2010, Procordia provide individual companies with genetically modified systematically evaluated the possibilities for reducing the levels of additives information about how marketing measures that target children and raw materials.” in all of its foodstuffs, and several young people should be designed. products are now entirely additive-free. In 2010, KiMs, Nidar and Stabburet Orkla’s policy on genetically received an enquiry from the Norwegian modified raw materials Consumer Ombudsman concerning Orkla’s Board of Directors decided as the companies’ use of promotional early as 2001 that Group companies gifts in certain marketing campaigns. should adopt a wait-and-see approach The companies set out their views in with regard to the use of genetically letters and meetings with the Ombudsmodified raw materials. The Group man, and have amended their practicgives great emphasis to building confies in some respects. At the same time, dence in its products. All products the companies support the Consumer must therefore be based on safe raw Ombudsman’s planned preparation of materials, and be manufactured using clearer guidelines on the interpretamethods that customers and consumers tion of the Marketing Control Act in accept. None of Orkla’s products relation to promotional gifts, so that contain genetically modified raw industry participants have a clearer materials. picture of the possibilities and limitations under the Act. Responsible marketing The marketing of Orkla’s products The Orkla Brands companies have must help to strengthen the relationgood procedures in place for ensuring ship of trust between consumers, the that personal information collected in brands and the Orkla companies. connection with marketing activities is Responsible marketing practices are treated in accordance with the applicaparticularly important in the marketing ble regulations. In 2010, the Group has of food and beverages intended for not been involved in legal disputes children and young people, and in the concerning breaches of data protection marketing of products that promise to or data storage regulations15. 15 B  ased on annual internal reports from the business areas to the Group of disputes and legal proceedings. CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 27 Health More information about efforts in the area of health and nutrition can be found at www.orklabrands.com. and Nutrition Health and nutrition are an important aspect of the developDenomega, a part of Borregaard Ingredients, has developed a new production method for ment of foods by the many food companies within Orkla fish oil that ensures good taste and is highly Brands, and around 25 percent of Orkla Brands’s sales come effective in removing undesirable substances. The company has also developed customised from foods and dietary supplements with health benefits omega-3 oils for the bakery and dairy sectors. that are communicated to consumers. Some of the most important improvements made in 2010 were: Reduction of sugar content in drinks, yoghurts and ketchup. 70 percent reduction in saturated fat in certain snack products. Products with high energy content, specially developed Photo: Procordia for older people suffering from malnutrition. Bread with high fibre content. Reduction of salt and fat content in ready meals, including in keyhole-labelled pizza. 28 suppliers ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 SUPPLIERS Photo: Procordia ”Suppliers who do not satisfy the Orkla companies’ requirements must demonstrate willingness to comply with the requirements by documenting gradual improvement.” Responsible Sourcing Orkla seeks to set clear requirements for its suppliers in relation to quality and product safety, human rights, working conditions, environmental management and anti-corruption efforts. Orkla’s suppliers are important cooperation partners, and the Group wants to promote improvements actively through its companies. suppliers ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 29 In accordance with Orkla’s decentralassessments, in which certain counimprovement. In the event of gross ised organisational structure, purchases tries, production methods and product breaches of Orkla’s requirements or are made by the individual Group categories are given a special risk the absence of improvements over companies, although purchasing is weighting. time, the supplier relationship is coordinated within business areas terminated. wherever appropriate. The companies Supplier follow-up make a significant proportion of their Encouraging continuous improvement The Orkla companies have many suppurchases from suppliers in the counis an important basic principle for suppliers, and the follow-up of Orkla’s try or region in which they are located. plier follow-up. Orkla’s responsible Supplier Code of Conduct is therefore sourcing principles require at-risk a time-consuming task. Moreover, the Risk assessment suppliers to be followed up through Group’s diversified structure means The Orkla Supplier Code of Conduct inspections, dialogue and, if relevant, that the companies use suppliers in describes the ethical standards the orders to make improvements. For very different sectors and countries, Orkla companies set for their suppliers example, Orkla companies may and different follow-up and improvein relation to business practices, workdemand access to the premises of proment measures are thus required. ing conditions and environmental ducers who supply goods to them, to Orkla’s suppliers take three main management. The requirements are permit inspections to be made. Such forms: contract manufacturers, direct based on UN and ILO conventions and inspections may be carried out by the suppliers of raw materials and inputs, Orkla’s basic values. Orkla wishes to companies’ own employees or by and complex supply chains in which ensure that production in all parts of external auditors. Supplier inspections social challenges may lie with supplithe supply chain complies with these must always be followed by an imers several links further up the supply requirements. provement plan, which should contain chain. a schedule for the implementation of The large number of suppliers to the improvement measures. Contract manufacturers and direct Orkla companies makes it important suppliers can be followed up directly. to give priority to the follow-up of the Suppliers who do not satisfy the Orkla Companies have less influence in the suppliers deemed most at risk. To companies’ requirements must demoncase of product categories with more identify these, the Group encourages strate willingness to comply with the complex supply chains, and follow-up companies to carry out systematic risk requirements by documenting gradual can often be difficult. Cocoa and palm suppliers – RESULTS AND OBJECTIVES AREA RESULTS 2010 OBJECTIVES 2011/2012 Procedures Roll-out of common procedures for responsiAll Orkla Brands and Sapa companies are to ble sourcing has begun at Orkla Brands, Elkem implement procedures to ensure compliance and Borregaard. with Orkla’s Supplier Code of Conduct. Supplier follow-up General risk assessment carried out of suppliIdentify the risk of breaches of Orkla’s Supplier ers which in total account for more than 35 Code of Conduct in respect of every supplier17. percent16 of the Group’s purchasing volume. Training Sixty percent of the Group’s purchasing manaAll purchasing managers must have received gers have received training in Orkla’s general training in responsible sourcing procedures. principles for responsible sourcing. Food safety in purchasing • Implementation of the Orkla Food Safety Ensure a consistently high level of food safety Standard in Purchasing initiated. in purchasing through full implementation of • Forty-seven internal food safety auditors the Orkla Food Safety Standard in Purchasing. qualified. • IT system for supplier approval adopted by the majority of the Orkla Brands companies. 16 Estimate based on current procedures. 17  risk assessment is carried out in respect of suppliers A where the value of annual purchasing contracts exceeds NOK 250,000. 30 suppliers ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 Photo: Procordia Procordia focuses on local produce. A significant proportion of the raw materials the company uses are produced in Sweden. The majority of the vegetables used in production, such as potatoes, cucumbers and beetroots, are supplied by local vegetable cultivators tant in relation to both complex supis an initiative of the European Brands ply chains and supplier follow-up in Association and its US sister organisageneral, in order to raise standards tion, the Grocery Manufacturers Assolinked to working conditions, the enviciation, and comprises 24 global conronment and ethical considerations. sumer goods companies. Among other things, AIM PROGRESS provides Cooperation partners and training to the supply chain on issues international solutions linked to responsible production conInternational cooperation and harmoditions. nised systems for risk assessment and supplier audits are important means Skills-building and internal of reducing the workload imposed on procedures suppliers in connection with such folThe Group’s requirements and general low-up, and of ensuring that efforts responsible purchasing principles have a broad effect. The organisation were formulated in 2009, and are Sedex offers a shared web-based syscurrently being implemented. Orkla’s tem for collecting and sharing infordecentralised Group structure means mation about working conditions in that each company is independently supply chains. Orkla Brands’s memresponsible for establishing risk asbership of Sedex gives Group compasessment procedures and following up nies access to a standardised risk on suppliers. At Sapa Heat Transfer in Shanghai, developing longassessment that enjoys broad internaterm collaboration with suppliers is a priority. The tional acceptance, and ensures uniIn 2010, around 200 managers and company requires all its suppliers to comply with form supplier follow-up for a large purchasing staff completed internal applicable regulations, and evaluates the suppliers’ environmental performance. Where possible, local number of companies across different training on Orkla’s strategic responsisuppliers are preferred, and sustainability is one of sectors. By using the supplier audits of ble purchasing principles. Orkla the assessment criteria for choosing suppliers. Sedex and third parties, the Orkla Brands has also established a network Photo: Sapa Brands companies are able to conduct of responsible sourcing officers in locally adapted, efficient follow-up of 2010, covering 20 companies. The their most at-risk suppliers in a manpurpose of the network is to exchange oil are examples of product groups ner that also benefits the suppliers, as experiences and promote cooperation. which require special follow-up measthe work can be more easily shared Network participants have completed ures. This is the reason for Orkla’s iniwith other customers. two days of training under the Orkla tiative focused on cocoa production in Brands responsible sourcing prothe Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, which is Orkla Brands participates in AIM gramme and participated in web-based described on page 32. Industry cooperPROGRESS, an open industry cooperameetings to share experiences and ation and the harmonisation of standtion project intended to ensure coordireceive guidance. Moreover, Orkla ards and follow-up tools across sectors nated, efficient improvement efforts in Brands has established a support funcand geographical locations are imporglobal supply chains. AIM PROGRESS tion which is to guide companies in suppliers ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 31 the implementation of the Orkla more than 10 of Sapa’s purchasing out on suppliers to Orkla Brands comBrands responsible sourcing promanagers participated in courses panies. The results of the audits gramme, the use of tools like Sedex, under Orkla’s responsible sourcing showed that more than 80 percent of and efforts to strengthen the general programme offered by the Orkla the audited suppliers achieved a satisunderstanding and management of Purchasing Academy. factory food safety standard, while the risk. remaining suppliers had to implement Food safety in purchasing improvement measures in order to Borregaard revised its procedures for Consistently high levels of product continue supplying Orkla Brands comthe approval of new suppliers in 2010, quality and food safety are crucial for panies. During 2010, more than 600 improving them with regard to the the Orkla companies. The food safety suppliers were asked to complete a follow-up of the company’s ethical efforts of Orkla Brands’s foods compaself-evaluation of their ability to comply supplier requirements. Borregaard has nies have been further strengthened in with the requirements of Orkla also begun working with Sedex, and recent years through the implementaBrands. These evaluations, along with has started to use Sedex’s tools for suption of a system for approving and folother parameters like inherent risk plier risk assessment. All employees in lowing up on suppliers. This system and the companies’ experiences of a Borregaard’s purchasing department was developed in 2008, and has been given supplier, will serve as the basis have completed training on Orkla’s implemented in the period 2008–2010. for assessing which suppliers are to be strategic responsible sourcing princiIn total, 47 Orkla Brands employees audited in 2011. The initial roll-out of ples, and other relevant training meashave qualified as food safety auditors Orkla Brands’s supplier approval proures have also been implemented. during this period. The training concedures to the Indian and Russian Risk assessment and supplier followsists of a two-day seminar, followed by companies is also planned for 2011. up will continue in 2011. training audits carried out with trained auditors. In 2010, Elkem completed a risk assessment of approximately 120 supFollowing a successful pilot project in pliers. The company routinely informs 2009, the IT system for food safety-reall suppliers of the Orkla Supplier lated supplier approval was rolled out Code of Conduct in connection with to the Orkla Brands companies in ”International coope­ visits. Elkem carried out audits of four Chinese suppliers in 2010, in addition Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland, the Baltics, Austria, Poland, Portugal, ration and harmonised to arranging five internal workshops Slovakia and the Czech Republic in systems for risk assesson responsible purchasing for purchas2010. More than 70 employees of ing staff and plant managers. these companies have completed ment and supplier training in the use of the new system. audits are important Sapa will begin introducing systematic supplier follow-up in 2012, one year Also in 2010, based on a risk assessmeans of reducing the later than originally planned. In 2010, ment, food safety audits were carried workload imposed on suppliers in connection with such follow-up, and of ensuring that efforts have a broad effect.” Photo: Procordia 32 suppliers ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainable Cocoa Production Nidar gives priority to skills-building and cooperation when tackling the most difficult challenges in the chocolate industry – the conditions faced by cocoa farmers in the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire. The mayor of Trondheim and almost learned to clean the crop more efficocoa communities in order to secure 50 Nidar employees comprised the ciently. I see that the crop is healthier, a broad, permanent improvement in welcoming committee when the very and also save money because I use living conditions. Accordingly, in 2010, first tanker carrying certified cocoa fewer pesticides,” explains Marculio Nidar and the Norwegian Association from Côte d’Ivoire arrived at the factory Kpiby, a participant in Utz’s four-year of Chocolate Manufacturers, along on 15 November 2010. training programme. with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), launched the idea The aim is for all Nidar chocolate to be Important for the employees of an international cooperation project produced from certified cocoa by 2015. “The focus on child labour and the aimed at promoting sustainable cocoa The percentage of certified cocoa will poor conditions faced by cocoa production in Côte d’Ivoire. The objecbe increased year by year, depending farmers in Côte d’Ivoire has made an tive is to establish long-term cooperaon the supply of certified cocoa from impression on Nidar’s employees for tion between chocolate manufacturers, Côte d’Ivoire. many years. Our announcement last authorities and expert organisations summer that we were going to switch regarding measures to strengthen Utz Certified to certified cocoa therefore generated cocoa communities and increase the Nidar has selected the certification considerable joy within the company. welfare of cocoa farmers. The project standard Utz Certified. Utz ensures Our employees are genuinely conwas presented in a concept form to that the cocoa is cultivated under suscerned to ensure that Nidar takes companies and authorities in Norway, tainable conditions, and provides the responsibility for this part of the value Sweden, Denmark and Finland in cocoa farmers with agricultural trainchain,” says Nidar’s managing director, 2010, and is currently at the design ing. This helps to secure higher inInger Johanne Solhaug. stage. However, the political conflict comes and better living standards for that arose in Côte d’Ivoire following the cocoa farmers of Côte d’Ivoire. International cooperation the presidential election in November Cocoa is the most important raw 2010 has necessitated a temporary sus“Ever since the first course, I have seen material and export product of Côte pension of the project pending the resimprovements in my cocoa field. I d’Ivoire, the world’s largest cocoa olution of the situation. Several other know how to remove the poor cocoa producer. With more than 1.5 million Orkla companies, Panda, Göteborgs Kex, fruits and take care of the good ones. small cocoa farms, a high illiteracy rate Sætre, Stabburet and Bæcks Conditori, This gives me a healthier crop. I can and poor infrastructure, there is a are considering becoming involved in prevent disease and rot, and have need for a holistic development of the project in addition to Nidar. Photo: Nidar Photo: Nidar The certification standard UTZ CERTIFIED covers agricultural training. Inger Johanne Solhaug, Managing Director of Nidar ORKLA and society ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 33 ORKLA AND SOCIETY Illustration: Inspira ScienceCenter ”The Orkla companies’ contributions in areas such as research, education, culture, sport and charitable work benefit both Orkla and society at large.” Positive Interaction Many Orkla companies hold strong positions in their markets and local communities, and generate positive economic and social ripple effects. Interaction with the authorities and society for the common good is necessary for future value creation within Orkla. 34 ORKLA and society ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 Positive economic ripple effects SOS Children’s Villages currently being constructed in Østfold. The value creation of the Group flows Orkla has been the main cooperation The ScienceCenter will be an imporback into local societies in a number partner of SOS Children’s Villages tant means of increasing understandof ways. Employee pay, taxes and since 2000. Orkla’s contributions for ing of and interest in the natural scicharges, and payments to suppliers are the period 2009–2013 have been earences in society in general, and in the all examples of the positive ripple marked for the construction of a chilschool system in particular. The Group effects of Orkla’s profitable business dren’s village in Pleiku in Vietnam. is involved in the ScienceCenter’s operations. The Orkla companies’ The project was a natural choice given work in the areas of health, the envicontributions in areas such as research, the Group’s increased focus on Asia. ronment and energy. Sapa has supeducation, culture, sport and charitable plied materials for the building, which work benefit both Orkla and society at The Norwegian National will be among the largest of its kind in large. The part of created value that is Opera & Ballet Scandinavia. not distributed in the form of diviOrkla is a cooperation partner of the dends to Orkla’s many shareholders is Norwegian National Opera & Ballet. In Collaboration with schools reinvested as equity capital, thus addition to providing employees and Orkla’s many industrial companies strengthening the Group’s ability to business partners with the opportunity are dependent on access to employees develop further and ensure long-term to experience outstanding cultural with the right qualifications for proprofitability. events, Orkla’s box is used for meetduction and research-related positions. ings and other activities. Orkla companies therefore support Involvement in good causes measures aimed at increasing young Many Orkla companies are cornerThe Nobel Peace Center people’s interest in scientific and stone businesses in their local commuOrkla is one of the main sponsors of industrial subjects, not least through nities. By cooperating with and lendthe Nobel Peace Center in Oslo. The collaboration with primary and ing support to organisations active in Peace Center works to inform people secondary schools, university colleges sport, education, culture and charitable about the Nobel Peace Prize, the Peace and universities. work, the Orkla companies help in Prize winners and their work, and to various ways to strengthen the local generate debate about and engagecommunities of which they are a part. ment in matters such as war, peace Such cooperation ranges from pure and conflict resolution. The Oslo monetary donations to cooperation Center for Peace and Human Rights. on events, informational measures, ”Orkla’s many industrial and trainee and exchange schemes. Orkla’s support for the Oslo Center The Orkla companies describe their for Peace and Human Rights will end companies are depeninvolvement on their respective websites. in 2011, following a four-year cooperation period during which Orkla condent on access to tributed NOK 5 million in total. employees with the At Group level, Orkla’s sponsorship and support projects amounted to The Inspiria ScienceCenter right qualifications for NOK 11 million in 2010. The most important of these include: Orkla ASA, in cooperation with Borregaard, is one of the main sponsors of production and researchthe Inspiria ScienceCenter, which is related positions.” Photo: SOS Childrens Villages Value Creation at Orkla 12,000 1: Employee wages (payroll expenses) 10,000 2: To society in the form 8,000 of taxes (tax charge) 6,000 2: To Orkla shareholders in the form of dividends 4,000 and buyback/sale of treasury shares 2,000 2009 0 2010 NOK million 1 2 3 The figures do not include Elkem Orkla is financing the construction of a new children’s village in Vietnam. ORKLA and society ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 35 Photo: Sapa Sapa employees and managers are working together on a project to build seven houses for earthquake victims in Haiti Employees from Sapa Profiler AB in Among other things, Procordia has Two projects that were partly financed Vetlanda, Sweden, lectured at 34 unideveloped successful cooperation with using funds from the donation were versities and university colleges in the Skåne Food Innovation Network. initiated in 2010. The Institute for 2010. Sapa Heat Transfer in Finspång, This involves the company participatResearch in Economics and Business Sweden, is a part-owner of the local ing in teaching and running a workAdministration (SNF) launched a school Curt Nicolin, where company experience scheme for students. project that is intended to improve the staff teach courses designed to stimuknow­ledge base for the formulation of late students’ interest in technology Research of public benefit public competition policy. The project and engineering subjects. Similarly, Research and development are imporhas been awarded NOK 5 million by Borregaard has provided extensive tant for Orkla, at both Group and comthe Research Council of Norway. The support for school activities and measpany level. Much of the research that Norwegian Veterinary Institute in Oslo ures aimed at increasing interest in Orkla supports, or carries out itself, is initiated a project which aims to develop and understanding of the sciences related to important social issues such tools for routine controls and risk through youth business establishment as the effective utilisation of resources, identification connected to pathogenic programmes, mentoring schemes and increased use of renewable raw matenematodes and allergens in fish and joint projects with the Østfold school rials, energy conservation and new seafood. NOK 7 million has been administration. In two major projects, forms of energy. Research on health allocated to this project. a new teaching programme in general and nutrition is also pivotal for Orkla. technical studies and a chemistry proBorregaard gramme at Østfold University College The Group Borregaard employs around 60 people were established. In 2004, Orkla and Elkem donated in the area of research and developNOK 45 million to the Research Council ment, and almost a quarter of its inFour young employees of various of Norway in connection with Orkla’s dustrial turnover is generated by newly Elkem companies serve as role models 350th anniversary and Elkem’s 100th developed products launched within in a government initiative to encouranniversary. The funds are being used the last five years. The company has a age young people to choose scientific to finance long-term, independent separate unit dedicated to business subjects, www.rollemodell.no. In 2010, research in areas of interest to the and technological development in conElkem won recognition in the form of business sector. Funding recipients nection with its biorefinery concept. a “yellow jersey” awarded by the Coninclude projects within the food proIn the past two years, Borregaard has federation of Norwegian Enterprise for gramme of the Research Council of received widespread acclaim for its its effective efforts to find industrial Norway, which aims to promote research work, and been granted apprenticeships for young people. Norwegian food research. The donaresearch support by the EU, the Retion from Orkla and Elkem triggered a search Council of Norway and InnovaMany of the Orkla Brands companies 25 percent increase in State grant tion Norway (See page 10). work closely with local schools on funding. Along with interest received vocational training, and have well-eson the funds, this has made it possible Following the identification of Borretablished apprenticeship programmes. to provide support totalling NOK 64 gaard’s plant as a possible source of Several companies also collaborate million to 13 research projects. the outbreaks of Legionnaires’ disease with relevant university colleges. in Sarpsborg in 2005 and 2008, Borre36 ORKLA and society ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 gaard has initiated and contributed to silicon content for use in stators. A In cooperation with Kvadraturen several research studies intended to inproject for the extrusion of complex Skolesenter (Kvadraturen school crease knowledge about Legionnaires’ light metals has received funding of centre) and the University of Agder, disease. The research supplements the EUR 2 million, or around NOK 16 milElkem Solar is comparing the efficiency damage limitation and preventative lion, from the EU’s research fund. of the product Elkem Solar Silicon® measures implemented by the compain Norway and Kenya. In 2010, the test ny. In cooperation with the Norwegian Orkla Brands station on the roof of Kvadraturen Defence Research Establishment and Orkla Brands companies are among Skolesenter in Kristiansand was offiinternational experts, the company has the supporters of research conducted cially opened. Two doctoral students undertaken extensive studies and surby Lund University in Sweden into the from the University of Agder are monveys of various factors related to the effect of various foods that are claimed itoring the project, which will run for growth and spread of Legionnaires’ to have “anti-inflammatory” impacts three years. The project is also intended disease, not least in connection with on healthy people. Diets with a high to increase interest in the natural biological treatment plants. These content of anti-oxidants and wholesciences at the school, and to boost activities have provided Borregaard grain products have been found to Elkem’s recruitment efforts. with a wide range of measures that reduce cholesterol by up to 33 percent, combine good purification measures to reduce blood pressure and to reduce Professor Otto Lohne of the Departwith Legionnaires’ disease-proof operathe risk of blood clots. Orkla Brands is ment of Materials Science and Engitions. The research has given the comalso working with the Antidiabetic neering at the Norwegian University pany, the industry in general and the Food Centre on research into overof Science and Technology (NTNU) authorities new, cutting-edge knowlweight and diabetes. A cooperation was awarded the Elkem Research edge that strengthens their ability to project with Sintef is focusing on the Fund Innovation Prize for 2010. implement measures in future to reduction of the salt content of fish Through his work at NTNU and for reduce the risk of outbreaks. and meat products. SINTEF, Otto Lohne has built up a considerable volume of research and Sapa Elkem teaching activity in the area of solar Sapa is increasingly focusing on soluAround 80 people at Elkem work on cell materials. Elkem is also supporting tions that are tailored to specific cusresearch and development. The results a Master’s thesis in the area of materitomer needs, as a result of the compaof their development efforts include a als science and engineering, and a ny’s “Towards Solutions” strategy. new, energy-saving metallurgical procdoctoral research fellow focusing on Sapa’s Innovation Centres play a key ess for producing silicon for the solar metallurgy. role by enabling customers to take cell industry. The solar factory in Krispart in the product development proctiansand produces solar grade silicon ess along with Sapa’s highly qualified using one quarter of the energy conpersonnel. In view of high energy and sumed by comparable plants that raw material prices, durability, recyemploy traditional technology. cling possibilities and energy-saving solutions are in demand in the market. An example from 2010 is the new Illustration: Sapa train station in Utrecht, the Netherlands, where Sapa Building System is designing and manufacturing an innovative roof and facade structure based on the use of glass and semi-transparent modules with integrated solar panels. Aluminium is an attractive construction material for cars, because its low weight helps to reduce fuel consumption. In 2010, within its AA6000 range, Sapa Profiler developed and applied for a patent for a new alloy of aluminium, magnesium and silicon that has special collision properties. Since the late 1990s, Sapa Profiler in Slovakia has worked closely with the Institute of Materials and Machine Mechanics of the Slovak Academy of Science on pilot and full-scale testing of promising research ideas. This collaboration has resulted in the development of an extrusion process for adSapa Building Systems is developing a profile solution with integrated solar panels for the train station in vanced aluminium alloys with a high Utrecht, the Netherlands. ORKLA and society ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 37 Being a Good Neighbour The Orkla-owned company Borregaard Young people and Sport and culture is an enterprise rich in history. Its first the natural sciences Borregaard supports the cultural sector industrial plants were founded in the Orkla and Borregaard are among the in Sarpsborg, and has provided a plot 1600s, while the modern industrial oplargest contributors to the Inspiria of land for the potential construction eration really took off in 1889. Today, ScienceCenter in Sarpsborg, Scandinaof a new cultural centre in the city. Borregaard is an international company via’s biggest institution of its kind. Borregaard has supported football in with operations in 20 countries in Their support has also included the Sarpsborg for almost 100 years, but Europe, the USA, Asia and Africa. financing of a chemistry laboratory also helps to ensure that those interested Borregaard owns one of the world’s and the use of Borregaard’s staff in other sports, like ice hockey, handmost advanced, sustainable biorefineries. resources. Further cooperation is ball, cross-country skiing and golf, are Using Norway spruce, the company planned, which will take place at the able to pursue their hobbies. produces advanced, environmentally ScienceCenter. Borregaard has assisted friendly biomaterials, biochemicals and in the introduction of natural science bioethanol that can replace oil-based studies at a local upper secondary PHoto: Kyrre Lien products. Borregaard also holds strong school, and is participating in the positions in the ingredients, fine chem“Lektor-II” scheme, which involves, icals and energy sectors. Borregaard’s among other things, Borregaard represence has significant positive ripple searchers teaching chemistry at upper effects on the local community. secondary level. Borregaard provides a Borregaard’s head office is located in number of work experience and apSarpsborg, Norway, which is also home prenticeship positions for upper secto Borregaard’s largest manufacturing ondary students. It is also engaged in plant and the company’s research and cooperation with Østfold University development department. Borregaard College, which includes offering work Sarpsborg has 750 employees and sales experience positions to chemistry stuof NOK 2.5 billion, and is thus an imdents at the university college. portant institution and cornerstone business in Sarpsborg. In order to attract and retain well-qualified staff, the comPhoto: Kyrre Lien pany is reliant on the Sarpsborg region being an attractive place to live and work. As a major employer of engineers and science graduates, Borre­gaard attaches great importance to generating interest in the natural sciences among children and young people. Borregaard’s sponsorship and donations strategy is based on this principle, and the company is also engaged in a number of educational measures. In order to make the region more attractive, Borregaard has become involved in various regional and city development initiatives, such as city planning, the opening of Rygge airport, the establishment of a marketing and tourism office, and the trade association Vekst i Sarpsborg (Growth in Sarpsborg). Borregaard also supports measures focused on the school system and cultural and sporting initiatives. Each year, Borregaard donates approximately NOK 2 million to various measures in the Østfold region. Borregaard is a major employer in Sarpsborg. 38 commitments ORKLA Sustainability Report 2010 The Global Compact Orkla joined the UN Global Compact in 2005, and is now one of more than 8,000 companies and organisations that promote the ten core principles of the initiative in connection with human and workers’ rights, the environment and anti-corruption efforts. Participation in the Global Compact obliges Orkla to make annual status reports. Orkla uses the Sustainability Report and EHS Report to document the Group’s efforts in these areas. A summary of where information may be found about Orkla’s efforts with regard to each of the ten Global Compact principles is provided in the Group’s sustainability reports; see www.orkla.com. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is an institution run by various stakeholders, who collaborate on the development of global guidelines and standards for sustainability reporting. Both Orkla’s corporate responsibility efforts and its Sustainability Report for 2010 are based on recommendations found in the GRI’s guidelines (G3). Orkla reports on GRI indicators relating to topics of responsibility that are important to the Group as a whole. Given Orkla’s diversified and decentralised organisational structure, the choice of reporting indicators is also based on an assessment of appropriateness from a resource-use perspective. Orkla has therefore chosen to implement partial reporting in respect of certain indicators. GRI defines 10 reporting principles and, in Orkla’s view, the Group’s reporting practices comply with these in all material respects. We have self-assessed our reporting to be GRI Application Level B. A summary of where information may be found about the GRI indicators is provided in Orkla’s sustainability reporting; see www.orkla.com Information About this Report This report presents Orkla’s corporate the report structure in 2010 compared the report and feedback on the Group’s responsibility work in 2010. Orkla’s to Orkla’s 2009 Sustainability Report. A work may be sent to info@orkla.com. Sustainability Report is published annually, new chapter on Orkla’s business has been at the same time as Orkla’s Annual Report included to provide a better overview The thematic approach and the treatment and EHS Report. In 2011, all reports were of the Group’s structure and operations. and selection of information are based on published on 24 March, while the 2009 Information about internal EHS efforts and the GRI principles for good reporting reports were published on 25 March 2010. efforts relating to external environmental practice. In its corporate responsibility Older reports are available at www.orkla. issues has been collated into a dedicated work, Orkla attaches importance to com. This report relates to the financial EHS chapter in order to highlight the identifying the material and relevant year 2010. Unless otherwise specified, Group’s EHS work. Information about challenges that the Group faces, and key figures are quoted as at 31 December the Group’s procedures for responsible concentrates its efforts on areas in which 2010, and for the Orkla Group as whole, investment has been removed from the Group has great influence. The including Group companies. Data from the report, but is available on the Group precautionary principle and the life-cycle previous years which are referred to in this website. Content summaries for 2010 in principle must permeate both the Group’s year’s report have not been recalculated accordance with the GRI and the Global decisions and its activities, and information in relation to earlier reports. In order to Compact’s 10 principles are also available about the results of Orkla’s corporate facilitate comparison with figures in next solely on the website. responsibility efforts must be provided in year’s reports, key figures for 2010, both an open and confidence-building manner. for the Group as a whole and for continuThe information in the report is based The report has not been verified by an ing operations, have been quoted exclusive on input from many different units and external third party. of Elkem, which was sold in January 2011. sources of data. Great emphasis has been given to ensuring that the information is Editorial assistance: The report should be read in conjunction correct. The report presents the main Stakeholder as with other information available in Orkla’s themes of the Group’s corporate responsiAnnual Report and EHS Report, and on its bility efforts and related results and Design: website. While the Sustainability Report measures. However, the report does not Cox Design, Oslo provides a general description of the aim to cover all the detailed matters that Group’s efforts in 2010, more detailed may be important for individual local Web production: descriptions of the measures implemented businesses, activities or products. Orkla ODIN MEDIA AS by individual companies and of the Group’s values external views on its efforts to procedures are published on www.orkla. develop and improve the Group’s corporate Print: com. Some changes have been made to responsibility performance. Comments on TS Trykk Orkla Annual Report 2010 Orkla ASA Tel: +47 22 54 40 00 P.O. Box 423 Skøyen Fax: +47 22 54 44 90 NO-0213 Oslo, Norway Enterprise number: NO 910 747 711 Office address: www.orkla.com Karenslyst allé 6 info@orkla.com NO-0278 Oslo, Norway EHS-Report Annual Report 2010 2010 Orkla_aars10_eng_omslag_6mmrygg_ORG.indd 1 08.03.11 10.11 Contact Information Orkla ASA Orkla Brands Sapa AB Borregaard Ellen Behrens Håkon Mageli Erika Ahlqvist Dag Arthur Aasbø Pb. 423 Skøyen Pb. 711 Humlegårdsgatan 17 Pb. 162 NO-0213 Oslo NO-1411 Kolbotn Box 5505 NO-1701 Sarpsborg Tel: + 47 22 54 40 00 Tel: + 47 66 81 61 00 SE -114 85 Stockholm Tel: + 47 69 11 80 00 Fax: + 47 22 54 45 90 Fax: + 47 66 80 63 78 SWEDEN Fax: + 47 69 11 88 01 E-mail: E-mail: Tel: +46 84 59 59 00 E-mail: dag.arthur.aasbo@ ellen.behrens@orkla.no hakon.mageli@ Fax: +46 84 59 59 50 borregaard.com orklabrands.no Mobil: +46-70-9530853 E-mail: erika.ahlqvist@ sapagroup.com Design og produksjon: Cox Design, Oslo | Foto: Guri Dahl/tinagent.no | Trykk: TS Trykk AS Orkla ASA Tel: +47 22 54 40 00 P.O. Box 423 Skøyen Fax: +47 22 54 44 90 NO-0213 Oslo, Norway Enterprise number: NO 910 747 711 Office address: www.orkla.com Karenslyst allé 6 info@orkla.com NO-0278 Oslo, Norway In addition to the Sustainability Report, Orkla also publishes an Annual Report and EHS Report
