New Gold Inc. 2009 Sustainability Report about this report In June 2009, New Gold successfully completed a In the following pages, we report on our demonstrated commitment to sustainable mining under the headings Our People, Our Communities and Our Environment. We business combination with Western Goldfields Inc., conclude with Our Future – a tabulation of objectives and targets by which we can measure our progress in continuous continuing our growth as an intermediate gold mining improvement over time. company with three operating mines– Mesquite in the In early 2009, we adopted our corporate Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability Policy (www.newgold.com/ United States, Peak in Australia, and Cerro San Pedro in Social Responsibilities/default.aspx). We became a member of Canadian Business for Social Responsibility, joining a multi-sector membership of companies that seek to distinguish Mexico, and two development projects – wholly-owned themselves by their initiatives in the area of corporate social responsibility. We committed to the principles of the United New Afton in Canada and 30% owned El Morro in Chile. Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The Amapari Mine in Brazil was placed on care and Looking forward, we see our evolution very much linked maintenance status in January 2009. This second annual to demonstrating our performance by measurable indicators and recognized international guidelines. In this report, we have referenced the performance criteria of the Global sustainability report describes the accomplishments Reporting Initiative and have applied the carbon dioxide emissions protocols of the World Resources Institute and of our three active operations, the Amapari Mine and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. New Afton development project to December 31, 2009. Information regarding the El Morro project and its sustainability programs is available at the project website (www.mineraelmorro.cl). COVER PHOTOGRAPH: San Pedro Apóstol Church, Cerro de San Pedro, Mexico message from the president and ceo 2 our Commitment 4 our people 8 our communities 12 our environment 18 our future 26 New Afton Canada Mesquite united states Cerro San Pedro Mexico Amapari Brazil El Morro Chile Peak Australia New Gold Inc. | sustainability report 2009 message from the president and ceo 2 The theme of connection underlies this report, which • The New Afton mine rescue team participated in the BC documents our performance in the areas of health and safety, Provincial mine rescue competition in June and won the fair labour practices, the environment and sustainable prestigious “Best in Obstacle & Recovery” award for an community building. Reflecting our commitment to underground team. transparency, this report records both our achievements and challenges, and the areas where we see need for improvement. Community We have made significant progress since our last report in New Gold believes that our success is inextricably linked to providing metrics that allow comparison with our peers, fostering long-term prosperity in the communities where we notably in measuring the effectiveness of our efforts to work and live. This connection starts with our employees enhance energy efficiency and reduce our carbon footprint. who make their homes in nearby towns, and extends to the We intend to make further progress in providing comparable members of the community at large, with whom we engage in metrics in the years ahead, guided by the respected meaningful communication about our plans and activities, as international standards of the Global Reporting Initiative. well as their educational, social, cultural, health and employment needs and aspirations. On a wider scale, we 2009 Results invest time and resources in community organizations and development programs that aim to create sustainable Robert Gallagher, President and CEO Health and Safety development in local regions that can continue after mining At New Gold, a focus on workplace health and safety connects activities cease. us in a company culture that encourages responsibility for our Connected personal welfare as well as that of our co-workers. While our Highlights of 2009 include: New Gold’s approach to the many facets of corporate social overall injury frequency rate improved from 2008, we responsibility can be summed up in a single word: connected. nevertheless experienced an increase in lost-time injuries from • CSP contributed substantially to social responsibility Building a successful mining company is a joint enterprise that six in 2008 to eight in 2009. Together, we will continue to take programs, which included initiatives to improve education, starts with our shareholders and extends to our other external responsibility for implementing a safety-committed culture that infrastructure and health services for local communities. stakeholders, including host communities, governments, and includes everyone, from head office to site employees, non-governmental organizations. We are connected in our suppliers and contractors, to achieve our target of zero harm. • Mesquite encouraged and facilitated open lines of common aspirations to promote the welfare of our communication with its stakeholders. Their doors were employees, whether through healthy, injury-free workplaces, Our sites continued their track record of winning safety opened on several occasions to welcome the community, staff development programs, or fair employment and hiring recognition awards: officials, families and friends and to give them tours of practices. We are connected in our efforts to create the operation. sustainable development in the regions where we operate, • Cerro San Pedro (CSP) in Mexico received the “Casco de so that economic prosperity lasts long after mining operations Plata” (Silver Hardhat) safety award of the Mexican Chamber • Peak Gold Mines (Peak) was honoured during the year to cease. And we are connected in our care for the environment of Mines for the second consecutive year for the best safety be a finalist in the New South Wales Minerals Council to minimize the impact of mining activities today, and restore performance in an open pit mine operation of its size. Community and Sustainability Awards for the introduction disturbed land for tomorrow’s citizens. of Enterprise Facilitation to the town of Cobar. Enterprise • Our Mesquite Mine in California won a respected American Facilitation seeks to create sustainable communities by Red Cross “Real Heroes” Award, giving regional recognition assisting individuals with entrepreneurial aspirations to to its safety training initiatives. achieve their goals. message from the president and ceo • New Afton continued to work with First Nations to build • Our recognition for good environmental practices Looking Forward 3 upon the Participation Agreement that was signed in 2008. continued at CSP, where its environmental management Since beginning the integration of the four companies that While still in development, the project has already begun to system was recertified by the International Organization now comprise New Gold, we have made rapid strides in provide jobs for aboriginals and has commenced a for Standardization (ISO) as fully compliant with ISO implementing a company-wide commitment to corporate scholarship program for aboriginal students. 14001:2004. responsibility. We thank all our employees for their success in improving our performance in 2009. Promoting good relations with community members is an • Peak’s achievements in environmental stewardship ongoing endeavour. In terms of dispute resolution, complaints were acknowledged by a community award for water In the future, our efforts will continue to be guided by our during 2009 pertained to noise, dust and vibration levels. We conservation and the rehabilitation of a tailings Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability (HSES) took all complaints seriously and took appropriate actions to storage facility. Committee of the Board of Directors. Our aim is to achieve address them, while ensuring that we remain compliant with high internationally-recognized standards. To that end, in relevant permits and regulations. • Our operations reclaimed or revegetated nearly 2009, New Gold became a business partner of the United 100 hectares of land in 2009, including land disturbed Nations Global Compact, which sets high standards across an Our greatest challenge in 2009 was at Cerro San Pedro. by historic mining activities where we have taken over array of human rights, environmental and labour practices. We While the operation enjoys the overwhelming support of local responsibility for rehabilitation. will continue our support for the Global Compact and its communities and their residents, it has encountered opposition principles. New Gold is also a member of Canadian Business to mining activities from a mainly non-resident faction. There • Recycling has become a major activity at our sites, for Social Responsibility, the non-profit, member-led and was a court-ordered partial suspension of mining activities with everything from scrap metal and used oil to sundry globally recognized organization for corporate social at CSP in mid-November, related to alleged technical cardboard and plastic items diverted from landfill. Water responsibility in Canada. To increase the impact of social and deficiencies in its Environmental Impact Statement. This recycling is maximized in an effort to conserve water. economic development efforts, New Gold also supports the suspension was subsequently lifted by an injunction we Clinton Giustra Sustainable Growth Initiative. obtained in December. CSP is operating and producing gold • On-site nurseries cultivated many thousands of plant and silver while New Gold works diligently with local and seedlings and planted them on reclaimed land to We have set our sights high, both for improving our federal governmental groups in an effort to establish a promote biodiversity, or donated them to communities performance and in measuring it. We welcome your feedback long-term solution that allows the company to continuously for the same purpose. on our progress. operate Cerro San Pedro, and thus provide ongoing economic benefits to the local people and communities. There were two reportable incidents at our operations in 2009. Sincerely, At New Afton, site personnel discovered, then moved quickly Environment to remediate, a small leak of oil from a redundant transformer At New Gold, environmental stewardship is integral to the left near a pump booster station by previous owners. The site way we think and work. Among the highlights of 2009: was completely rehabilitated. At Mesquite, five small birds of a non-endangered species died in a single incident. Mesquite’s Robert Gallagher, President and CEO • Our sites were in compliance with environmental permits training programs and operating procedures have been New Gold Inc. and regulations and undertook initiatives to enhance their modified to prevent such occurrences in the future. performance, including programs to improve their energy efficiency and reduce their carbon footprint. New Gold Inc. | sustainability report 2009 our 4 Commitment Computer classroom, Portezuelo, Cerro de San Pedro our Commitment “My students especially enjoy Wherever New Gold operates, we are committed to the principles adopted in our Health, Safety, Environment and To achieve these objectives New Gold will: 5 the media classroom, which is Sustainability Policy. This policy gives guidance to our sites as they implement programs and procedures to achieve these • apply a proactive risk management approach using best practices appropriate to the local conditions and needs that fully equipped with computers principles in a manner that is most appropriate to their location, will meet our legal obligations as a minimum; environment and local culture. and a satellite connection. • identify and engage with our stakeholders and work to take New Gold is also committed to the principles of the United their views, customs and culture into account throughout the Learning computer skills will Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, life cycle of our operations; environment and anti-corruption. Our values and our equip them for the future – and practices incorporate these principles and they are reflected • maintain a responsible mine closure plan that considers the in our management procedures and operational activities. With future needs of the local communities; they are having fun too.” our commitment to the Global Compact, we will communicate our progress in fulfilling its principles and broader • continuously improve the health, safety and environmental Professor Oralia Correa, development goals. systems, by establishing and reviewing its objectives and Director of Valentin Gomez targets, through evaluation, auditing and development of Farias High School, Portezuelo, Municipality of Cerro de San Pedro Health, Safety, Environment and performance improvement plans; Sustainability Policy New Gold is committed to excellence in the management of • educate and train our employees and contractors, and inform health, safety, environment and sustainability and considers surrounding communities to promote the application of this to be a key driver to achieving a productive and profitable Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability principles; business that contributes to sustainable development for present and future generations. • seek and adopt sustainable practices in the use of natural resources taking into consideration the protection of the local New Gold’s objectives are to: and regional biodiversity where we operate; • ensure the health and safety of employees, contractors • maximize the reuse of materials and recycling of waste, and and visitors in the workplace; minimize the use of consumables and raw materials; and • prevent pollution; • promote economic prosperity in our surrounding communities, both during and post mining operations by • minimize impact that its mining operations may cause to fostering local entrepreneurship. the environment; New Gold will report openly to its stakeholders on its progress • demonstrate its commitment to fostering sustainable to achieve the objectives of this policy. communities; • practice the progressive rehabilitation of areas impacted by its activities. New Gold Inc. | sustainability report 2009 6 NURSERY AT Cerro San pedro our Commitment (continued) United Nations Global Compact 7 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption: Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. New Gold Inc. | sustainability report 2009 our 8 people underground at NEW AFTON our people “With the safety skills like CPR that Luis has received at the mine site, 9 our whole family benefits from having this additional safety knowledge at home. I think we are more mindful of doing things the safe way.” Martha Plancarte, wife of Mesquite employee Luis Plancarte 2009 2008 At New Gold, we believe that every worker should go home Lost-Time Injuries 8 6 injury-free every day. A focus on safety starts as a sense of responsibility for one’s own welfare and extends to that of one’s Fatalities 0 0 workmates, creating a team spirit that has multiple benefits. Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate 0.47 0.37 Experience has also shown that improved safety practices go All Injuries Frequency Rate 3.07 3.73 hand-in-hand with enhanced productivity. New Gold has made Employees and Contractors 1,281 1,293 considerable progress in instilling a safety-committed culture at our operations but recognizes the continuing effort needed Turnover (%) 12 15 to achieve our target of zero harm. While our company’s all injuries frequency rate declined from 2008, we experienced Our Policy: To ensure the health and safety an increase in lost-time injuries. of employees, contractors and visitors in the Together, we will continue to take responsibility for implementing workplace. a safety-committed culture that includes everyone, from corporate office to site employees, suppliers and contractors. We are connected in this common endeavour, which requires each of us to do our part. At the corporate level, we provide leadership with the New Gold Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability Policy. Just as important, our employees demonstrate personal leadership and commitment to workplace health and safety at the site level, and safety and health teams seek to instill these values that guide employees in everything they do. In keeping with the principles of the UN Global Compact to which we subscribe, New Gold’s policies and programs for promoting the welfare of employees extend beyond safety to embrace good labour practices, education and training, diversity and equity. New Gold Inc. | sustainability report 2009 10 mine rescue training at New Afton Health and Safety At New Gold operations, health and safety managers the severity rate measured in work-days lost continued to At CSP, emergency response teams engage in a reinforce the importance of safety in numerous ways, lessen. A strong focus on all safety issues is aimed at improving continuous training process. New members continue to including training programs, safe work procedures, site upon this positive trend. be integrated into the teams to ensure that all areas of the housekeeping, emergency response drills, training in operations are covered in an appropriate manner. The teams’ hazardous material handling, and participation in safety New Afton continued to build and maintain its dedicated competencies include hazardous materials management, competitions with other mines. Health, Safety & Training Team to provide advice, services hot area (refinery) emergencies, spill management and the and support across the operation. To complement a safe handling of personal injuries. Our Mesquite Mine has developed and implemented start-up, many safety initiatives were implemented and the safety, health and wellness programs that surpass both team began formulating the groundwork for the site health In May 2009, the site’s emergency teams participated in regulatory requirements and industry norms. Observation, and safety programs. These include safe operating procedures, the first national meeting of mine rescue brigades, organized inspection and auditing systems to ensure compliance and safe work instructions, hazard assessments and the site Health by the Mexican Chamber of Mines (CAMIMEX). This event continuing improvement have allowed Mesquite to establish and Safety Manual. Two lost-time injuries resulted from jumps provided an evaluation of the knowledge, skill and ability an enviable safety record. At December 31, 2009, Mesquite to uneven ground and reinforced the focus on safety awareness of the participants and provided the participants with their had completed nearly 500 days without a lost-time injury. and practice. performance results. The CSP team was recognized for its commitment and knowledge of the principles of search In 2009, CSP continued with the development of its At Amapari, the Occupational Health and Safety policy and rescue. accident prevention activities. Site health and safety promoted safe work practices and sought at all times to exceed requirements are embodied in the mine’s Integrated national and international occupational safety requirements. Peak continued to build its emergency response capability Management Policy, together with the same procedures, rules Safety actions developed included daily talks on occupational during 2009 with 11 team members completing their Mine and regulations that have allowed the operation to remain health and safety, in-house accident and disease prevention Emergency Response Certificate 3 training. Among other among the safest mines in Mexico. During 2009, the mine campaigns and occupational medical exams. In early 2010, we advanced skills, the program includes rescue team lead, received the “Casco de Plata” safety award from the Mexican announced an agreement to sell Amapari to Beadell Resources underground search, underground fire control, hazardous Chamber of Mines (CAMIMEX) for the second consecutive Inc., an Australian miner with interests in Brazil. atmospheres and breathing equipment use, and vertical and year, recognizing it for the best safety performance indicators confined space rescue. in an open pit mine operation of its size. At December 31, Emergency Response 2009, employees completed 1,116 days without lost-time or The Mesquite Mine Emergency Rescue Team (MERT) At New Afton, with the change from contractor to owner disabling accidents. is given specialized training during full-day sessions every mining, new mine rescue team members were trained and month. All members are certified Emergency Responders, emergency procedures enhanced for the continuation of Peak initiated a focus on proactive safety measures in 2009, with 12 certified Emergency Responder Instructors. The underground development. The New Afton mine rescue team including hazard reporting, safe act observations, corrective MERT has received additional training in emergency participated in the BC Provincial mine rescue competition in action completions, and training audits. Peak maintains a vehicle, first aid equipment, fire fighting and extrication June and won the prestigious “Best in Obstacle & Recovery” dedicated Health, Safety & Training Department that provides techniques. In addition, the entire workforce has been trained award for an underground team. advice, services and support across the operation. Despite five in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and automatic external lost-time injuries, an increase of one from the previous year, defibrillation (CPR/AED). our people (continued) ASSAY LABORATORY AT Cerro San Pedro SAFETY TRAINING AT Mesquite 11 Labour Practices employment practices are well reflected in its culturally and Workplace Diversity, Non-discrimination and Equity New Gold is a business partner participant in the United ethnically diverse workforce. Mesquite’s location, in a primarily New Gold’s policy is not to discriminate on the basis of race, Nations Global Compact, effective June 30, 2009, and as agricultural region, has necessitated the implementation of religion, ethnicity, national origin, colour, gender, age, sexual such has committed to its principles on human rights, labour varied and comprehensive training programs. These programs, orientation, citizenship, veteran’s status, marital status or disstandards, the environment and anti-corruption. developed both in-house, and by outside vendors, are ability. It is also committed to prohibiting harassment (includdesigned to develop the full potential of the diverse workforce. ing sexual, physical and verbal). New Gold complements this Our Whistleblower Policy allows all employees to communicate approach with site-specific policies, including: a concern or complaint without retribution regarding their At CSP, which has 635 full-time employees and contractors, work and welfare, or broader concerns regarding the a team of mine-operations training specialists aligns training • The preferential hiring of persons with special needs at Cerro environment and community, and to expect a timely response. programs with the needs of both employees and contractors. San Pedro, which has received recognition as an inclusive These programs include personnel induction, driver training, company from the state government of San Luis Potosi; An important way to promote a safe, healthy and equitable protective equipment use, industrial safety, hazardous material workplace is to engage a spectrum of employees in decisionhandling, fire extinguisher use, emergency response teams, • The Joint Participation Agreement between New Afton and making processes. For example, at Cerro San Pedro, the work and waste handling, among others. the First Nations that will provide support in education, jobs of the Environmental and Safety Monitoring Committee is and contracting opportunities, as well as ongoing revenue integrated with a design team comprised of staff from different Peak maintained a full-time workforce of 288, including sharing during active production. areas and with different levels of responsibility. This synergistic contractors, during 2009. Development of Peak’s people approach has proved successful in achieving continuous includes active participation in biannual Performance improvement in safety, health and training. Effectiveness Reviews, which involve career development plans, provision of education assistance and succession Similarly, Peak engages employees through a consultation planning to recognize and promote employees from within our committee nominated by the workforce to review and advise operations. To cater to the specific needs of each department, management on key policy changes that affect the workforce. the Health, Safety & Training Department coordinates all training programs across Peak’s operations. Another important practice at New Gold’s operations is the hiring of local community members, where possible. For At New Afton, the Safety and Training Team serves all New example, Amapari’s recruitment policy is to employ as many Afton departments, coordinating all training programs on workers from the local community as possible and qualified site. These include site safety and departmental orientations, local inhabitants are given first preference for jobs with fall arrest, fire extinguishers, lock out, equipment-specific the company. training, as well as annual refresher training in the Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System (WHMIS) and mine Staff Development survival. The Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee Mesquite Mine retains approximately 240 full-time employees, also provides training for its members. and utilizes the services of approximately ten contracted employees on a regular basis. Mesquite’s equal-opportunity New Gold Inc. | sustainability report 2009 our 12 communities COBAR COMMUNITY NEAR PEAK our communities “Business start-ups like mine, 2009 2008 Community Engagement 13 Expenditure (%) Effective community engagement is a priority at New Gold which provide farm stay holidays Local 17 22 operations, which begins at the development stage of new projects, such as New Afton, and continues through the mining Regional 47 44 and accommodation for miners, External Complaints 20 16 life cycle. We proactively sponsor community meetings with local civic leaders and residents to learn their development are going to be crucial for longpriorities and identify their concerns, which facilitates resolution to any existing or potential disputes. term economic development Our Policy: To demonstrate our commitment to fostering sustainable communities. Our Mesquite Mine is proud to be an active member of here in Cobar. Giving people a the Desert Southwest Communities and has a Community At New Gold, we recognize that our success is linked to that Outreach Plan to promote engagement and communication. reason to spend more time in the of our host communities and we seek to become a full partner Over the last year, staff continued to participate and be in fostering their long-term sustainability. proactive in several community organizations, including the district and to see it as a tourist Yuma Boys & Girls Club, the Brawley Chamber of Commerce, This essential connection starts with building open Brawley and El Centro Chambers Governmental Affairs destination is an important source communication with local residents and civic leaders that Committee, the Veteran Affairs Committee, and the advisory enables us to understand their development plans and boards of both the Arizona Western College and Imperial of new business for the Cobar economic, educational and healthcare needs. With these Valley College of Applied Sciences. region. That’s why the work of priorities in mind, we are able to make meaningful investments in community development that will be sustainable after Mesquite demonstrates an open-door policy to encourage the Cobar Enterprise Facilitator, mining operations cease. and facilitate communication with local communities. In 2009, it provided several tours for elected officials, Federal and State who provides us with business regulators, as well as regional mining and mineral enthusiast groups and community-based organizations. In December 2009, assistance and contacts, is so Mesquite held its first Employee and Family Day Open House. important to our future”. During 2009, CSP continued to maintain a direct and close relationship with the inhabitants of the village of Cerro de Anita Burcher, Four Corners Farm Stay, Nymagee San Pedro and the other nine communities that make up the municipality, as well as the ejido communal landholders where the mine is situated. Through a variety of meetings and events, CSP maintained continuous communications with residents to hear their views and respond to any concerns about the company. New Gold Inc. | sustainability report 2009 14 TK’EMLÚPS BAND OFFICES NEAR NEW AFTON CSP worked diligently through 2009 and by early in 2010 had Peak is very proud of its community service and its leadership indigenous employees represented in the mining industry. achieved its accreditation by the non-profit Mexican Centre in the community of Cobar. In 2009, its employees continued As part of the program, Peak has developed a new seedling for Philanthropy (CEMEFI) as a Socially Responsible Company. to be active in the various boards, committees, associations nursery that has created employment opportunities. This important recognition is achieved by meeting specified and emergency services whose role is to improve the quality criteria in four principal areas of corporate social responsibility: of life in Cobar. New Afton continued to work with First Nations to build upon the Participation Agreement that was signed in 2008. The • Life quality in the workplace (health and safety, training, While still in the development stage, New Afton has already Agreement’s Joint Implementation Committee met on a regular diversity, work and family balance, human resources initiated efforts to build positive relationships with neighbouring basis to discuss ongoing opportunities to improve our partnership management); communities. The aim is to provide for open feedback and with the Tk’emlúps and Skeetchestn Bands. Some contracting communication, and to look for the partnering opportunities opportunities arose during 2009 and other opportunities are • Links with the community (CSR dissemination, civic that may result. To this end, there have been visits and forums expected in the future. responsibility, social investment, social balance); provided to various groups, including First Nations groups and the Kamloops Chamber of Commerce. New Afton supported three local First Nations students with • Care and preservation of the environment (policy, post-secondary education scholarships. On a wider scale, investment,training, communications, resources Indigenous Communities New Afton is a member of the British Columbia Aboriginal management, transport, impact mitigation); and When there are indigenous communities in the region of our Mine Training Association, a consortium of mining companies, operations, we endeavour to understand, and demonstrate First Nations groups and educational institutions that has made • Business ethics (human rights and dignity, corporate respect for, their traditional values, customs and culture. We a commitment to create 130 jobs over a three-year period for governance, stakeholder engagement, ethical commitment, also take action to meet their development priorities through First Nations people. fairness and inclusiveness, transparency, strategic partnership agreements aimed at creating jobs, training and alignment, combat of corruption, responsible publicity lasting socio-economic benefits. Community Development and communication). Working with its communities and other stakeholders, New Mesquite is reaching out to better understand the Gold seeks opportunities to foster local entrepreneurship that Peak is committed to active engagement with the Cobar development goals of the neighbouring Desert Cahuilla, can promote diversified and sustainable economic prosperity community in discussions regarding the operation’s progress Chemehuevi, Cocopah, Kumeyaay, and Quechan people. in the communities that surround our operations. and plans for the future. Its annual community meeting held in Mesquite’s objective is to identify opportunities of mutual April 2009 was well attended by about 40 people representing interest. These may include workforce development and While only in its second year of full production, the Mesquite a diversity of local businesses, government, community assistance with the economic and educational needs of the Mine provides much-needed regional economic stimulus organizations and individuals. Participants discussed issues tribal-based school districts, as well as other school districts through taxes and employment. The mine has approximately relating to activities at Peak and the feedback was very in the area. 240 full-time employees and uses the services of about ten encouraging. This event was followed in October with an contracted employees on a regular basis. Total payroll “Open Day,” when employees were on hand to answer any During 2009, Peak continued to support the Job Compact signed expenditures in 2009 were about US$14.5 million. questions from the 300 visitors to the mine. in 2008 by industry, government and aboriginal community representatives. This is intended to increase the number of our communities (continued) PEAK, COBAR PONY CLUB MEMBERS SPEED SKATING CLUB SPONSORED BY NEW AFTON KAMLOOPS FIRE RESCUE TEAM SPONSORED BY NEW AFTON 15 Mesquite is located in California’s Imperial Valley, an area with a • In coordination with the Municipal Government, paving of which seeks to create sustainable communities by assisting population of about 180,000 people, 72 percent of whom have the main access road to Cerro de San Pedro as well as other individuals with entrepreneurial aspirations to achieve their Hispanic roots. While agriculture is the major economic driver roads was completed in 2009. Work to rehabilitate the historic goals. In 2009, it helped to establish four new businesses for the county, a significant push for economic development is St. Peter the Apostle Church was also initiated in the town and assisted two others. underway. Mesquite staff participate in the region’s economic of Cerro de San Pedro. welfare through representation in such organizations as Imperial New Afton endeavours to use local suppliers and contractors Valley’s Small Business Development Center, the Imperial • Free medical consultations were provided in ten communities for goods and services wherever possible. During 2009, Valley’s Economic Development Corporation, and the State of including Cerro de San Pedro. Two doctors regularly visited New Afton’s total capitalized operating expenditure was California’s Employer Advisory Council. the communities and also gave talks on disease prevention US$56.5 million, including salaries of US$10.1 million. The and family planning. In total, some 1,200 consultations majority of this was spent within British Columbia. As well, CSP invests directly in community development through an were provided. New Afton provided over US$40,000 in funding for various annual donation to the Municipality of Cerro de San Pedro. In sporting, health and community groups. 2009, CSP donated 100 ounces of gold and 5,000 ounces of • Other activities supported by the CSP mine through silver (approximately US$130,000 or 15 percent of the the Foundation included sponsoring artists’ exhibitions, Amapari has built and solidified a strong relationship municipal budget). This contribution is used for the theatrical productions, fiestas and recreational events, with the communities of Serra do Navio and Pedra Branca development of the current Municipal Development Plan, all to promote local culture and traditions. through supporting local projects that promote self-sustainable and triggers, in turn,receipt of federal and state funds by the socio-economic growth. During 2009, Amapari continued to Municipality. CSP employee payroll expenditures in 2009 Peak recognizes the importance of ensuring the town of provide community development funds as well as financial were about US$6.5 million. Cobar continues as a sustainable community when mining and administrative assistance to support over 200 families ultimately ceases in the area. Peak believes that while mining involved in micro-enterprise and cooperative initiatives. These The operation contributed approximately US$430,000 to social will ensure prosperity in the short to medium term, it is the include a bakery, fish farm, poultry farms, cassava and açai palm responsibility programs in 2009. The mine channels support responsibility of all the major stakeholders in Cobar to plantations and processing mills. Amapari has also supported for community development programs through the Foundation establish the necessary culture and infrastructure to ensure the Social Fund to sponsor government initiatives to improve for Preservation of the Village of Cerro de San Pedro AC, the long-term viability of the town. the local infrastructure of both communities. These various which administers the funds to meet the area’s most pressing community development expenditures totalled US$420,000 needs and finance small and promising businesses. Funding The operation endeavours to use local suppliers and in 2009. programs of the Foundation in 2009 included: contractors for goods and services wherever possible. During 2009, Peak’s total operating expenditure was US$106.7 • Free transportation for the school children living in remote million, including salaries of US$32.4 million and royalties of communities to allow them to attend school. Computer US$4.4 million. equipment and a satellite connection were provided and presently, four fully functional media classrooms have been Peak was a finalist for the New South Wales Minerals Council provided for the benefit of more than 600 students. Community and Sustainability Awards for the introduction of Enterprise Facilitation to the town of Cobar. The operation now provides support to Cobar Enterprise Facilitation Inc., New Gold Inc. | sustainability report 2009 16 OPEN HOUSE AT MESQUITE our communities (continued) Peak, Cobar HERITAGE CENTRE Student TOUR Cerro DE San Pedro 17 Dispute Resolution New Gold recognizes that a fundamental requirement for Peak acts proactively to prevent small issues from operating in harmony with our host communities is the becoming larger issues. Every effort is made to achieve a identification and equitable resolution of disputes. Open mutually-acceptable outcome with a complainant. Complaints dialogue and interactive engagement are fundamental to are received via the Complaints Hotline, which is advertised respectful relationships with our neighbours, and allow us in the local newspaper and operated on a 24-hour basis. Peak to earn and keep the social license to operate. received 17 complaints from a nearby resident concerning vibration, noise and dust during 2009. In response to the At Mesquite, every effort is made to resolve a complaint to a complaints, additional vibration monitoring was set up and mutually-beneficial outcome or to ensure that the complainant dust-suppression compound is being regularly applied at its is satisfied with the result of the corresponding investigation. New Cobar operation. A total of three external complaints were received during 2009. These complaints were dust related, and were due to our close New Afton received no complaints regarding operations proximity to a state highway. Procedures have been reviewed during 2009. New Afton seeks to maintain open dialogue with and measures have been taken to ensure an acceptable high neighbours, First Nations bands and other interested parties in standard of dust management. the area to allow concerns to be aired in a constructive way. At CSP, a program of continuous engagement has been in A settler community residing downstream of the Amapari place since the development of the mine and a community mine and another iron ore mine has pursued a legal complaint relations department is established for this purpose. An against the two mine operators. This has been joined by a public independent review of this program was completed in civil action initiated by the Amapá state prosecutor. Amapari November 2009. Recommendations were made to improve defended itself with its demonstrable record of environmental the effectiveness of this program and an action plan is compliance with no adverse impact upon this community. currently being developed to achieve this. While CSP enjoys the overwhelming support of local community members, opposition to the mining operation by a group of mainly non-resident individuals became a judicial matter in 2009. New Gold continues to work diligently with local and federal groups in an effort to establish a long-term solution that allows the company to continuously operate the mine. New Gold’s management believes the mine has been operating in full compliance with required permits and government authorizations. (Details are available at www.newgold.com.) New Gold Inc. | sustainability report 2009 our 18 environment our environment “Safeguarding of the environment and particularly water is an Our Policy: To prevent pollution; minimize 19 impact mining operations may have on the important aspect of our Participation Agreement with New Afton. environment; and practice the progressive Along with our part in the licensing process, we have provided input rehabilitation of areas impacted by our activities. into the rigorous monitoring regime that New Afton has undertaken. At New Gold, our operations share a commitment to good We have adopted an advisory role with New Afton as we work environmental stewardship that connects us in a common cause with our host communities and other stakeholders. Our together toward common environmental goals.” approach is to apply best practices in environmental management at every stage of the mining life cycle, from before operations John Jules, Director of Operations for the Stk’emlupsemc Te Secwepemc Nation begin until after mining activities are complete. Our sites monitor performance to ensure that we minimize our impact on the environment and restore land to a productive state similar to that existing prior to mining activities. From the earliest stage of project investigation, we carry out environmental studies that establish baselines for flora and fauna, land, air, and water. These guide our environmental protection measures and rehabilitation activities. We take into account the concerns of our stakeholders and ensure that our activities give them appropriate priority. Placing a priority on the environment also entails minimizing our energy consumption. We are increasingly cognizant of the need to maximize our energy efficiency and to reduce our carbon footprint. Similarly, we are committed to reducing our material consumption through efficient use, reuse and recycling practices. New Gold Inc. | sustainability report 2009 20 RED FOX AT New Afton Regulatory Compliance Water At CSP, the process operates as a closed circuit without Reportable Incidents: 2009 2008 Water Consumption 2009 2008 discharge. Domestic wastewater is presently transported 2 2 Process (m 3) 2,045,615 1,321,583 to an authorized firm. Meanwhile, testing is being completed At New Gold, we take a proactive risk-management approach At all of New Gold’s operations, priority is placed on responsible for a site treatment plant for sanitary wastewater that would to safeguarding the environment, with high international and water use and resource management. This is achieved through supply treated water to be used for nursery and green area national standards as our guide. We work together with the such measures as efficient use, recycling, treatment and irrigation. With its implementation, CSP will be able to reuse relevant agencies of government as we plan our activities in conservation. 100 percent of the water recovered. order to meet or exceed their requirements. Our commitment is to report incidents promptly, should they occur, and take In 2009, water consumption increased with Mesquite’s integration At Peak, water supply restrictions associated with a regional remediatory measures to prevent or minimize any impact on as a New Gold operation. Water is primarily consumed at our drought were lifted in early 2008. However, water recycling the environment. During 2009, all New Gold sites operated operations for dust control, particularly near mine haul roads, and conservation measures have continued. All mine water in compliance with environmental permits and regulations. and to replace evaporative loss during mineral processing. is recycled at Peak and at its New Cobar operation. The only Additional water is used for drinking and other daily activities losses from the recycled water circuit are from evaporation or Relevant authorities were notified of two incidents: at the sites. Rigorous efforts are underway at all New Gold’s entrainment within the tailings deposit. operations to reduce water consumption through more (i) At New Afton, where environmental permitting is efficient practices and recycling. In 2009, raw water demand rose about one percent as proceeding, site personnel discovered, then moved dewatering activities associated with the Chesney mine quickly to remediate, a small leak of oil from a redundant Mesquite keeps evaporative losses in the process stage to a development declined,reducing the amount of water available transformer left near a pump booster station by previous minimum through careful monitoring of solution application for process purposes. owners. After discovery of the leak, crews removed the rates and constant recycling of process solutions. Mesquite transformer, associated infrastructure and contaminated recycled more than 19.8 million cubic metres of process In a semi-arid climate such as at New Afton, it is essential that soil from the site and transferred them to an approved waste solution in 2009, representing more than 85 percent of its water is managed appropriately and conserved wherever facility for treatment. Samples taken from the removal site water demand. Approximately 70 percent of the ground water possible. New Afton adopts a policy of recycling water for confirmed there was no PCB oil contamination and that the extracted by Mesquite is used for dust control. In the area’s any activities that do not require fresh lake water. The water site had been completely rehabilitated. arid environment, routine water application is necessary to management plan at New Afton ensures that the drawing of adequately control dust. Mesquite balances this objective water from Kamloops Lake is minimized and precludes a water (ii) A  t Mesquite, five sparrows died in a single incident. with the need to conserve water as a precious resource by discharge from the site. Mesquite reported these mortalities to the Bureau of Land applying dust control palliatives on a quarterly basis. Management as required by permit stipulations. Training At Amapari, fresh water demand was limited to 7,200 cubic programs and operating procedures have been modified Cerro San Pedro continues to research opportunities to reduce metres drawn from Tapereba Creek for potable use at the to prevent such occurrences in the future. the water volume withdrawn from the aquifer. The pond normally accommodation camp and offices. There was no fresh water used for leach solution storage and surge capacity was adapted requirement for the processing circuit due to the sufficient We approach our monitoring programs proactively to ensure to capture rainwater runoff. During 2009, some 8,000 cubic availability of rainwater from heavy precipitation and the the quality of air, soil and water in the vicinity of our operations, metres were collected. processing plant shutdown from April 2009. and to identify and protect native wildlife and plant species. our Environment (continued) NEAR PEAK RAVEN AT NEW AFTON iguana NEAR MESQUITE 21 Monitoring water quality is another important feature of our is to improve our measurement capabilities and database for New Afton joined the Powersmart Program run by BC environmental practices. Monitoring programs are designed to these and other sources of GHGs, with a view to identifying Hydro. This program seeks to identify areas where energy measure the quality of surface and ground water, on and offviable energy alternatives and offsets that can enable a savings improvements can be made within the business. site, and to provide an alert should this quality vary from the reduction in our carbon footprint. During 2009, our energy norm. Water monitoring results at New Gold’s operations have consumption and GHG emissions were influenced by remained consistent with baseline quality. Mesquite’s integration as a New Gold operation and the suspension of Amapari operations. Improving Energy Efficiency and Reducing Our Carbon Footprint Our sites took major initiatives in 2009 to increase energy efficiency and to enhance their ability to measure and reduce Direct Energy 2009 2008 GHGs. For its part, Mesquite underwent a comprehensive audit Diesel Consumption (000s litres) 32,989 21,279 of its energy consumption, which also included a qualitative Gasoline Consumption (000s litres) 215 211 calculation of its GHG emissions. This audit also identified opportunities for innovative energy-saving projects. Indirect Energy Power Purchased (MWh): 107,241 108,313 At CSP, a solar cell-powered lamp replacement program was initiated in the leaching area that will continue to expand to include other process areas, the office area and the water Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2009 2008 treatment plant. Other energy saving alternatives are being Diesel (as tonnes of CO2 ) 83,021 57,057 investigated in collaboration with local researchers and will include an experimental wind generation system. Gasoline (as tonnes of CO2 ) 497 480 Power (as tonnes of CO2 ) 71,922 55,818 In 2009, Peak adopted a Climate Change and Energy Policy that will guide its decision making on the issues of greenhouse gas New Gold believes more efficient energy use links good emissions and energy use. Peak operations already have a strong environmental stewardship with sound business sense. track record in both areas. During 2009, Peak achieved lower Improving the energy efficiency of our operations benefits unit energy costs per tonne of milled ore than in 2008. Peak the environment and brings inherent cost advantages. also implemented an Energy Savings Action Plan across site, and reported greenhouse gas emissions under the National New Gold also recognizes that its activities result in the Greenhouse Energy Reporting Scheme. emission of greenhouse gases (GHGs). They are released, for example, from the mobile equipment required for mine New Afton is taking a forward-looking approach to operations. Another principal, although indirect, source is the minimizing GHG emissions while the site is still in development. generation of electric energy by thermal plants that supply Equipment-procurement decisions are being made with some of our operations with purchased power. Our objective energy efficiency and emission levels in mind. In addition, New Gold Inc. | sustainability report 2009 22 LANDSCAPE NEAR Peak Other Air Emissions Waste Management To ensure air quality, New Gold operations maintain Process Waste 2009 2008 At CSP, hazardous waste such as used oil and oil-impregnated air-monitoring stations, which monitor dust levels and solids (rags, trash, filters, soil) are placed in temporary storage their composition. Waste Rock (000s tonnes) 40,408 14,517 for hazardous industrial waste that is properly packaged and Leach Piles – to reclaim (tonnes) 0 0 labelled according to Mexican regulations. An approved firm Mesquite, for example, carries out dust monitoring on a collects the waste once a week, and is responsible for sending Tailings (000s tonnes) 794 769 monthly basis and reports the results on a quarterly basis. it to treatment and recycling as appropriate. CSP also recycled Dust monitoring during 2009 demonstrated that its operations plastic, polyethylene, cardboard, aluminum and metal scrap were within the accepted permit limits. Despite its best efforts, Non-Process Waste Recycled 2009 2008 during the year in significant quantities. The site achieved a 50 Mesquite received three complaints related to dust generation. percent reduction in municipal solid waste generation compared Paper, Plastic, Metals (tonnes) 686.7 483 to the 2007-2008 period. At CSP, monitoring conducted in 2009 showed that Oil & Lubricants (000s litres) 563.1 245.8 the air quality conditions in the mine area were consistent Peak undertook further recycling initiatives in 2009. In with historical observations. Elevated values recorded in the Mining and mineral extraction generates process waste. conjunction with another mine, Peak contracted a local firm first quarter of the year were associated with adverse dry At New Gold operations, the mine operations generate to supply bins and a recycling service. Early results have been weather conditions. waste rock that must be removed in order to extract the very satisfying, with nearly 4.5 tonnes of waste, representing ore for processing. Process waste consists of either the over 25 percent of Peak’s total waste, being diverted from During 2009, Peak commenced monthly dust monitoring to broken rock piles after leach extraction has ended or, in landfill in just three months. Peak also recycled its scrap improve its database and the understanding of seasonal dust the case of Peak, the tailings after mineral concentrate has steel during the year and continued its practice of donating patterns on and around the mine site. This exceeds the license been obtained. Closure planning commences with the aluminum cans to a community centre. requirement for quarterly monitoring. Peak also commenced design process to ensure that the physical and chemical routine use of a natural dust suppressant, magnesium chloride, stability of these deposits is addressed to facilitate their New Afton is committed to recycling waste where possible for more effective dust control and water conservation. Peak sustainable rehabilitation after operations terminate. to reduce landfill, GHG generation and resource exploitation. received one complaint relating to dust generation from its During 2009, office paper, cardboard, aluminum, plastics and New Cobar operation during 2009. Recycling of non-process waste is an essential part of good batteries were separated from general waste streams and environmental management at all New Gold’s sites. Typically, recycled at a local service provider. One of the targets for 2010 At New Afton, monitoring was conducted to establish its recycled materials include scrap metal, used oil, plastics, is the expansion of current recycling practices to the wider site. pre-operational database by which the effects of the future aluminum, cardboard, batteries, as well as wastewater. operation can be demonstrated by ongoing monitoring of air At Amapari during 2009, efforts were directed toward quality parameters. During 2009, dust generation by mine During 2009, Mesquite initiated a Waste Management Plan housekeeping activities and recycling metal scrap and used traffic was identified as an area that required improvement and that will be finalized during 2010. The site recycles scrap metal, oil products. a water truck was purchased for use in areas of high dust risk. as well as calibration check gas cylinders, toner cartridges and batteries. Other recycled items include antifreeze, used oil, and drained oil filters. our Environment (continued) KANGAROO NEAR Peak NURSERY AT Cerro San Pedro SUNRISE AT NEW AFTON 23 Cyanide Management While cyanide has inherent toxic properties, its safe transport, Duster which is considered sensitive and is protected under the baseline fauna studies found no threatened or vulnerable plant handling, use and destruction are well understood and California Native Plant Protection Act. Within the active operating species in the project area. Similarly, during baseline fauna manageable. New Gold mine operations use cyanide as areas, it is salvaged and transplanted into reclaimed areas. surveys, only two at-risk species were found – the Western Toad part of the process of extracting gold from ore using strictly and the Great Basin Spadefoot. New Afton has obtained all controlled procedures for the safety of personnel and the Local fauna includes the desert tortoise which is a federallyapprovals for relocation and removal of these animals from environment alike. The International Cyanide Management Code listed threatened and endangered species. The entire property areas that may put these animals at risk. To encourage wildlife (ICMC) provides an excellent international reference standard for is protected by specially designed tortoise fencing. Since 1985, back into areas that have been degraded by previous mining transporting, storing and using cyanide. The ICMC is renowned approximately 108 tortoises have been relocated from the disturbance, bird and bat habitats have been established. as the international benchmark for cyanide management. For mine site. Surveys are conducted prior to new disturbance of more information go to www.cyanidecode.org/cyanide_use.php. additional areas. However, since 2007, no more tortoises have Amapari provided funding, in 2009, to the Amapá Environmental been encountered within the fenced project area. State Agency (SEMA) to be applied in new conservation New Gold operations, while not yet official signatories to the units in the surrounding areas of Serra do Navio and Pedra ICMC, have adopted its principles and procedures as the litmus As part of the biodiversity programs at CSP, the native flora Branca communities. test for excellence in cyanide management. During 2009, Peak and fauna are monitored to verify, among other parameters, and Cerro San Pedro undertook gap analyses to determine the the survival of transplanted plants, the relocation of slowtasks required to achieve ICMC certification. A similar review moving animal species, plant production and reforestation, is planned at Mesquite in 2010. and the potential effects of change of land use due to the mine’s activities. During the operating period to date, 90 Wildlife mortalities from 2009 2008 percent of all rescued plants have survived. cyanide exposure Peak has established a Land Management Plan that incorporates Birds (non-endangered species) 5 3 weed control, erosion control, bushfire prevention and Mammals (non-endangered species) 0 4 management of feral animals. As part of the Land Management Amphibians (non-endangered species) 0 8 Plan, Peak has carried out flora and fauna surveys in an effort to confirm the presence or absence of significant species. During 2009, Peak undertook an integrated pest control Biodiversity program. This included weed control for biodiversity and Environmental stewardship means environmental conservation control of feral animal habitats. on those lands that remain undisturbed at New Gold sites. Where lands have been disturbed, restoration practices can New Afton has undertaken various baseline surveys to ensure be applied to create a habitat conducive to natural biodiversity. that the area is able to maintain the existing level of species Mesquite is sensitive to the flora and fauna of its desert richness throughout all stages of development, mining and environment. Local flora includes a native species called Fairy eventual closure. An initial Environmental Assessment during New Gold Inc. | sustainability report 2009 24 CACTUS GARDEN NEAR CERRO SAN PEDRO our Environment (continued) LANDSCAPE NEAR CERRO SAN PEDRO FROG NEAR PEAK 25 Reclamation Habitat Restored (hectares) 2009 2008 93.2 112.7 At all our operations, forward planning anticipates the inevitable Amapari is very careful in minimizing environmental impacts closure of operations. Reclamation of disturbed areas begins in the Amazon Forest. As part of its reclamation program, in even as operations continue elsewhere on site. The aim is to 2009, 77.7 hectares of disturbed land were revegetated with return the land used during mining to a productive state similar hydro seeding on mine slopes, final mine pits, waste dump to that existing prior to mining. deposits and along the margins of mine access and main roads. In the nursery, 10,713 seedlings of native trees were produced At Mesquite, due to an active mining footprint, very little for the rehabilitation program and 5,011 were planted. A disturbed area was restored during 2009. As areas of the mine portion of the seedlings was donated to the community. become inactive, Mesquite plans to actively re-slope and recontour them to improve the visual aesthetics of the operation. As responsible mining operators, several of New Gold’s During 2009, Mesquite continued to monitor the success sites, including Peak and New Afton, are also undertaking the of earlier rehabilitation of the waste rock dumps. Mesquite assessment and rehabilitation of land disturbed by historic also undertook a review of its closure plan and associated mining in their project areas. As well, at Cerro San Pedro, costs. The plan and costs will continue to be reviewed as baseline surveys of soil and sediment samples prior to mining they progress from the conceptual phase to a more detailed activities established the presence of heavy metals as a result and definitive strategy, to maintain compliance with the three of historic mining activities. CSP’s Environmental Management reclamation and conditional use permits, which incorporate System is designed to differentiate between the existing weed control, erosion control, and revegetation. baseline conditions and any that could result from the activities of the current mining operation. At CSP, recovery of topsoil for restoration activities totalled 39,167 cubic metres to yield a cumulative total of 350,193 cubic metres. In 2009, the nursery cultivated 77,000 plants and reforested 5.4 hectares of land. At Peak, four hectares of disturbed area were rehabilitated. As well, rehabilitation of the tailings dam is underway to determine the most efficient and sustainable cover system to be employed. Work during 2009 included planting deep-rooted native perennial plants to form the cover system. New Gold Inc. | sustainability report 2009 our 26 future EXPLORATION DRILL CORE AT PEAK our Future Our Policy: New Gold will report openly to its stakeholders on its progress in achieving its Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability Policy objectives. With this second annual sustainability report, New Gold has demonstrated once again its commitment to reporting openly on its HSES performance. We view transparency as the prerequisite for 27 maintaining trust with our various stakeholders and as an essential component of our reputation as a good corporate citizen. In the table below, we have set out our performance objectives and our near-term targets to achieve them. In future reports, we intend to document our success in meeting these targets and in surmounting the challenges that we foresee. Our targets will naturally evolve, based upon our experience and feedback from stakeholders. We are cognizant of the many emerging issues that must be taken into account, including the increasing expectations of communities and regulatory authorities with respect to local employment, health and safety and environmental protection. We are also dedicated to continuing to conform with increasingly robust international standards for responsible corporate behaviour, as exemplified by our membership in the United Nations Global Compact, which commits us to aligning our operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Measuring Our Progress Corporate Strategy Our Target 2009 Our Performance 2009 Our Target 2010 Economic Build the company through external and Business merger with Western Goldfields Inc., Responsible organic growth with the potential for organic growth. added Mesquite Mine to our portfolio of assets. acquisitions that are accretive to shareholder value. Policy Adopt and implement HSES Policy. Adopted March 2009. Demonstrable progress in implementation. Metrics Adopt Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) key Partially achieved with all sites reporting To report on 20 or more GRI performance indicators. performance indicators at all operations. ten or more performance indicators. Standards & Guidelines Systematically identify and adopt appropriate Partially achieved. Continued commitment to the principles of the international benchmark guidelines and UN Global Compact principles adopted. UN Global Compact. Progressive adoption of standards. Gap analysis with International Cyanide international guidelines such as the International Management Code in progress at sites. Cyanide Management Code. Our People Our Target 2009 Our Performance 2009 Our Target 2010 Health & Safety Strive for zero harm. Zero harm not achieved. Strive for zero harm. Adopt health and safety management standards. Health and safety management standards Implement health and safety management recommended for adoption at all sites. standards at all sites. Employment Attract, develop and retain a highly Progressive employment policy and development Continuing commitment to be a recognized qualified workforce. programs in place. employer of choice in all regions. Teamwork Achieve a high-performance culture. Team-building programs achieved improved Continuing commitment to training and feedback productivity and safety performance. to reinforce teamwork, safety and productivity. New Gold Inc. | sustainability report 2009 28 Our Communities Our Target 2009 Our Performance 2009 Our Target 2010 Economic Diversification Promote local prosperity and entrepreneurship. Partially achieved. Expand upon Enterprise Facilitation and local Enterprise Facilitation at Cobar, New South Wales entrepreneurship initiatives. demonstrated success. Engagement Transparent and proactive communication with Assessed engagement practices with Continue to assess programs and to implement all stakeholders. commitment to continuing improvement. improvement opportunities. Complaints Implement appropriate procedures to address Partially achieved to address local culture Work with local communities to improve concerns of the local communities. and needs. Further improvements identified. systems’ effectiveness. Our Environment Our Target 2009 Our Performance 2009 Our Target 2010 Incidents Establish incident reduction targets and enhance Partially achieved with enhanced training and Ongoing environmental awareness and emergency emergency response capability. emergency response capability. response training. Water Improve management systems to yield measurable Water conservation achieved with enhanced dust Continuing commitment to water efficiency water savings. control methods, water treatment and recycling. investigation and conservation practices. Energy Improve management systems to yield measurable Partially achieved with energy efficiency audits in Continuing energy efficiency assessment and energy savings. progress at all operations. implementation of conservation initiatives. Greenhouse Gases Establish a carbon management strategy. Partially achieved with site policy development Encourage innovative carbon reduction strategies in progress. and research at all sites. Waste Management Maximize our raw resource efficiency through Significant recycling gains made and 3Rs Strive for 100% recycling for recyclable reduction, recycling and reuse (3Rs). awareness building for further improvement. waste streams. Reclamation Restore all disturbed work areas to a high standard, In progress with 93.2 hectares restored. Continue progressive reclamation where disturbed consistent with the surrounding environment. land becomes available. Our Company About Us Awards and Recognition Our Memberships and Supported Initiatives New Gold Inc. is an intermediate gold producer with a • M esquite mine recognized with a respected American Red complementary portfolio of global assets in the United States, Cross “Real Heroes” Award for its safety training initiatives. Mexico, Australia, Canada, Brazil and Chile. • Cerro San Pedro in Mexico received the “Casco de Plata” New Gold will focus on the following objectives to achieve its safety award of the Mexican Chamber of Mines for the growth strategy: second consecutive year for the best safety performance in an open pit mine operation of its size. • Delivering on operational targets (safety, cost, production, environment, and social responsibility); • T he New Afton mine rescue team won the prestigious “Best in Obstacle & Recovery” award at the BC Provincial • Maintaining a strong financial position; mine rescue competition. • Internal growth through project development and • Peak recognized as a NSW Minerals Council Community continuous improvement of our existing operations; and and Sustainability Awards finalist for its local introduction of Enterprise Facilitation. • External growth through additional value enhancing merger and acquisition opportunities. New Gold is working toward maximizing shareholder value through diversified production, maintaining a reduced risk profile and enhancing growth potential. The board of directors, management and the employees of New Gold Inc. are committed to achieving this in a socially responsible and sustainable manner. This report was printed by the first carbon neutral printing company in Canada. We have been guided by the Global Reporting Initiative G3 Guidelines in the preparation of this report. A reference table to locate the GRI Standard Disclosures accompanies the report that can be found on our website. New Gold Inc. Park Place, 3110-666 Burrard Street, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada V6C 2X8 T +1 888 315 9715 F +1 604 696 4110 www.newgold.com
