Sustainable seaf00The Marined Harvest way Will there be enough seafood for my grandchildren? How will fish be farmed in the future? How does Marine Harvest reduce environmental impacts? How is profitability and environmental responsibility linked? the global market leader Number 1 farmed salmon producer striving for improvement in everything we do 21 c0untries with about 4,800 employees the most comprehensive supply chain in aquaculture 4m meals as salmon portions per day Contents Will there Why are What does be enough people eating seafood quality 01 Introduction by Alf-Helge Aarskog seafood for my more seafood? mean? grandchildren? 02 Our world 04 Seafood sustainability 10 Seafood market 16 Product quality page 04 page 10 page 16 22 Fish management 26 Environmental responsibility What are How does How do you conditions like Marine Harvest look after your 34 People for farmed fish? reduce people? 38 Profit environmental 42 The future impacts? page 22 page 26 page 34 How is How will fish profitability and be farmed in environmental the future? responsibility linked? page 38 page 42 INTRODUCTION Why we care A strong business case for sustainability 01 The seafood industry must be socially and environmentally sustainable to be profitable over the long term. A deep understanding of this elementary truth and its implications, by all stakeholders, is a prerequisite for environmentally responsible conduct as well as the successful development and profitable growth of our industry. The world needs more seafood, and aquaculture must This governance system drives development and grow its production to meet demand. This growth implementation of global best practices, to secure must however be sustainable from all perspectives: sustainable development. environmental, social and economic. History teaches that However, in the seafood industry, no single stakeholder there are structural and economic traits of fisheries and defines sustainability, and regardless of size or resources, the fish farming industry that must be addressed to avoid one company alone cannot solve all sustainability unsustainable business practices. Where fish farming challenges. This is why communication must play a key and wild catch industries are fragmented the need for role in the sustainable development of our industry. collective action may become manifest. The incentive Sustainability communications should take place to achieve short-range, high profitability can override the globally, involve multiple stakeholders and proper consideration of longer-term consequences. At promote open and honest dialogue. At Marine the same time, competition for open access resources Harvest we seek out healthy exchanges with the can easily cause conflicts with other stakeholders. The scientific community to understand and develop seafood industry has experienced all these consequences, fresh solutions. With politicians and regulatory in the form of depletion of wild fish stocks, regional bodies, close and open dialogue can bring a biological collapses in fish farming and entrenched continuous improvement of regulatory conflicts with stakeholders. The negative consequences mechanisms. In addition, the involvement of not only affect the environment and confidence of local non-governmental organisations can help reach communities, but also reduce profitability and limit a common understanding of environmentally growth opportunities over the longer term. and socially responsible practices, motivate The present Marine Harvest Group is a result of four change and improvements. decades of consolidation in our industry. The management Our ambition for this document is that it and owners of Marine Harvest have continuously worked improves and informs our dialogues, and so to build a larger and more co-ordinated company with can contribute to a sustainable development the financial strength and resources necessary to take of the seafood industry, and ensure that a leading role in the sustainable development of our we take good care of the environment. industry. We believe this strategy will prove to be highly There is only one earth, and we have a moral profitable going forward. Our long-term approach is obligation to take care of it. Please read our rooted in four guiding principles, implemented through Update on Progress report for updated data our global quality system and followed up on all and further details on our progress. management levels through business reviews of key performance indicators. Alf-Helge Aarskog Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way OUR WORLD 02 Our w0rld At Marine Harvest, sustainability principles are embedded in every Canadian aspect of our business and are salmon farming gradually becoming a strong exports worth part of our corporate culture. Marine Harvest is the world’s 528m Can$ creating value in rural areas leading seafood company and largest producer of farmed salmon, with a presence in 21 countries and customers in over 50 countries. The company is headquartered in Norway, and is listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange. Around the world we employ about 4,800 employees. Chile produces over 16% of global Atlantic Salmon Seafood supports the livelihoods of 540m people Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way Seafood is the most traded food commodity worth Norway produces over $102bn 36% in 2008 03 of world salmon production East Asia seafood consumption increased by Europe 170% 1961–2008 51% 0f EU salmon production sold to retailers UN FAO An average human eats 17.1kg of seafood per year UN FAO expects fish farming production to grow by 85% from 2004 to 2030 Marine Harvest’s largest product line is fresh superior salmon, head on, gutted. As consumer demand for high value-added seafood products has increased, available, such as ready made meals and appetisers. Retailers are by far the most important channel, but Marine Harvest is primarily a private label filleting and processing capacity supplier, sometimes through has come on-line to deliver the secondary distributors wide range of options now and processors. See page 15 for more information Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way seafood sustainability 04 Will there be en0ugh seaf00d f0r my grandchildren? According to the UN’s Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO), by 2050 the world’s population will grow to 9 billion people. This growth will be accompanied by an increase in standards of living, with more people eating more protein-rich foods such as meat, eggs, milk and seafood. In combination this is likely to result in a doubling of global demand for food by 2050. Fish farming will need to grow to meet the increasing demand in seafood. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way Seafood supplies over Fish farming accounted for over 3bn people with at least 45% 15% of their average of the world’s food fish animal protein production in 2008 05 What are the key H0w can salm0n Carb0n challenges in gl0bal farming help? f00tprint f00d pr0ducti0n? Salmon is an efficient converter of feed, leaves a relatively light carbon footprint and does not put Measured as kg CO2e/kg edible part at slaughter extra strain on limited freshwater resources. The key challenges are the availability of production 2.9 areas, freshwater and energy. These are all limited Efficient food production resources. The need to increase production of animal Salmon farming is among the most efficient ways of proteins, from meat, fish, eggs and milk, brings an producing meat due to its feed conversion and protein 5.9 additional challenge. retention ratios, which are significantly better than those found in other animals. To produce 1kg of salmon, People have a nutritional requirement for protein-rich it takes around 1.2kg of feed. Although not directly foods. Therefore, basic foods such as cereals and comparable, due to differences between feeds, it takes vegetables, which could be used as human foods, must be diverted along with other resources into secondary around two, three and eight kilos of feed to produce a kilo of chicken, pork or beef respectively. This is because 30 food production. There is also an urgent need to reduce salmon are cold-blooded and therefore use hardly any the emissions of climate gases associated with food energy to maintain body temperature. Also in an aquatic production. The bottom line is not only must we environment less energy goes into physically supporting produce more food, we need more nutritious food the animal than on land. produced from a limited amount of natural resources. A better use of a limited resource At the same time as this we also need to reduce the Fishmeal and fish oil from wild industrial fisheries emissions of climate gases. has been an established commercial raw material for decades. Fish oil, which historically has been used for Fish use (million tonnes) technical purposes like fuel and hardening of margarine, Population (billions) and food supply (kg/capita) has today been superseded with most fish oil used as 120 20 feeds in fish farming. Here their richness in protein and omega-3 is rightly prized as part of the human food 90 15 chain and is a better use of a limited natural resource. 60 10 The global production of fishmeal has been stable as 30 5 salmon farming has grown significantly over the last four 0 0 decades. Fishmeal, which was previously used in feed for less efficient land animals, is now used in salmon -30 -5 farming and farming of other species. -60 -10 See page 8 for more information 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2008 • Food fish supply from aquaculture • Food fish supply from capture fisheries •••• Population (billions) • Per capita food fish supply (kg) • Non food uses (source UNFAO) Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way seafood sustainability What d0 y0u What d0 y0ur H0w d0 y0u H0w d0 y0u supply d0 t0 keep fish salm0n eat? care f0r empl0yee seaf00d ar0und healthy? safety? the w0rld? The salm0n cycle 06 The production cycle takes a total By-products of 24–36 months, plus 1–6 days fresh Guts, heads and to the consumer’s plate. trimming from primary processing used to produce fish oil and Harvesting fishmeal. Some Secondary processing Humane slaughter by-products are also Using gutted fish we produce followed by rapid sold unprocessed fillets, steaks and portions. At gutting and initial to producers of soups our value-added product (VAP) packing. and sauces. plants we also prepare a diverse range of seafood dishes. On-growing 5 .5kg 4.5– Growing to 4.5–5.5kg S TH ON after 14–22 months 2 M (depending on seawater –2 14 temperature). Transport Slaughter Gutting and Value-added to packing station. filleting processes On-growing in seawater Other seafood Around 10% of the volume commercialised Transfer is cod, halibut, shrimp, to seawater Broodstock Transfer tuna, saithe pangasius sites and exotic fish species. to seawater pen while ensuring fish welfare. Broodstock Bred on selected Smolt Spawning characteristics, e.g. and growth, disease resistance, maturation fertilisation and colour. O 6M Fry/Parr –1 Egg 10 NT HS hatching 60 – 10 Smolts 0g ram The natural changes of smoltification prepare the fry for salt seawater life. Spawning and fertilisation Eggs stripped from females and mixed Fry/Parr with milt. After 25–30 Feeding begins. days eggs show ‘eyes’. Growing in freshwater Alevins Small (<2.5cm). Yolk to 60–100g. sack provides first Vaccination and stage nutrition. grading important. When absorbed, the fish start feeding. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way What’s new Atlantic salmon Marine Harvest Atlantic in seaf00d? production salmon typically contains 1.32m 1860mg tonnes in 2009 (HOG) EPA and DHA per 100g 07 Our products are sold in over 50 markets from our bases in 21 countries. Our customers are retailers, seafood processors, food service companies and distributors. Packing and transport Delivering fresh products like seafood around the world in the shortest possible time means robust packaging that protects the physical, nutrient and microbiological characteristics of product in transit. Retailers are by far the most important distribution channel for us. We are primarily Seafood processors, food service companies and a private label supplier. secondary distributors are important channels. Packing Transport Customer We market locally recognised brands of Our largest product line is fresh superior value-added products including smoked salmon, head on, gutted. We supply Label salmon, coated fish, frozen and fresh portions Rouge salmon from Scotland and Norway, and increasingly, ready meals sold in modified and organic salmon from Ireland. atmosphere packaging. The size of our operations means we are able to respond quickly to changes in demand and supply. Supply security is also reinforced by our large, global distribution network. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way seafood sustainability 08 We have c0ncluded H0w much wild Increasing global salmon production without increased fishmeal production that fish farming is fish d0 y0u use t0 1600 8000 a far m0re efficient 1400 7000 Atlantic salmon: Tonnes wfe in 1000 1200 6000 f00d pr0ducti0n Fishmeal: Tonnes in 1000 meth0d than wild pr0duce salm0n? 1000 800 600 5000 4000 3000 salm0n fisheries. There has been considerable debate about the 400 200 2000 1000 sustainability of using wild fish to feed farmed 0 1976 1978 1980 1982 1984 1986 1988 0 fish. In co-operation with our feed suppliers, we 1990 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 have thoroughly investigated this issue and have ■ Global fishmeal production (source IFFO) greatly improved the efficiency of our use of wild ■ Global production Atlantic salmon (source Kontali) fish resources. Historically, fish oil was a by-product of fishmeal cdf W0uld it n0t be processing that went into industrial products such as fuel and hardenings. Our utilisation of this valuable resource for feed is a huge improvement in resource better t0 eat wild utilisation, but has resulted in a dependency on fish oil. Our calculations show that to produce 1kg of salmon in our largest business unit in Norway, we depend on around 180g of fish oil. To extract 180g of fish oil, we need 2.5kg of wild industrial fish. Between one-fifth and one-quarter of this raw material comes from cuttings and trimmings from wild fish processing. From this 2.5kg, we also get approximately 560g of fishmeal, of industrial fish? which only 180g goes into the fish feed. To put it simply: we rely on 2.5kg of industrial wild fish According to the UN’s Food and Agricultural to produce 1kg of healthy and nutritious Organisation (FAO), 90% of the wild industrial fish salmon, but we do not use 2.5kg of wild used for fishmeal and oil is presently unmarketable fish. In addition to oil we get around in large quantities as human food. 380g of fishmeal, more than we need for 1kg salmon, from the 2.5kg of wild The reasons for this are that some of the species are fish. In comparison, wild salmon need unpalatable, too small, bony or turn rancid too quickly to eat approximately 10kg of wild fish for economic storage and subsequent processing. to grow 1kg. Although the FAO encourages using more fish directly as human food, they believe it is more efficient, in a The use of marine raw material in salmon protein-hungry world, to feed the unmarketable species feeds brings additional nutritional efficiencies. As to animals, subsequently eaten by man, than to not much as 90% of wild fish used in fishmeal is unsuitable harvest the fish at all. The wild fisheries industry would for human consumption. Even with human food fish, the of course prefer selling fish for human consumption, edible portion may be as low as 40–60% with the rest as the price is higher than for fishmeal production. going to waste. In salmon farming little goes to waste If this is not possible, using the wild fish for fishmeal as cut-offs and trimmings are used, for example for is a good alternative. production of salmon meal and salmon oil used in agricultural feeds and as nutritional supplements. See page 27-28 for more information Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way Wild salmon need to eat According to the UN FAO approximately 90% 10kg of the wild industrial fish used in fishmeal and oil is unmarketable of wild fish to grow 1kg in large quantities to humans Our appr0ach t0 09 H0w d0 y0u make wild fisheries must be sure the seaf00d br0ad. In fish farming we w0rk t0 reduce 0ur y0u buy in is dependency 0f marine What can y0u d0 sustainable? raw materials in feed, and push f0r t0 preserve wild We produce top quality sustainable seafood thanks impr0ved management fish st0cks? to our own global fish farming activities and a worldwide sourcing network. Increasingly our products include bought-in seafood and we are investing in the sustainable supply of species such 0f wild fisheries. as Icelandic whitefish, flatfish, pangasius, tilapia Marine Harvest is engaged in both fish farming and tuna. and the processing and marketing of wild fish. We have developed different sustainability programmes Our wild fish business depends on the sustainable with our dedicated suppliers to improve sourcing management of wild fish stocks. As a fish farmer we sustainability. These start with an ‘SCA sustainability’ depend on marine raw materials for feed. If wild fish assessment executed by independent marine scientists stocks are depleted we will run out of feed. which lead on to action plans developed in conjunction Our approach to wild fisheries is broad. On the one with our suppliers. The programmes focus on hand we are pushing for the improved management sustainable fishing methods, installing ecological of wild fisheries to avoid depletion of fish stocks. On the farming methods, maintaining the marine biodiversity, other hand we are reducing our dependency of marine enhancing social programmes like training and raw materials in feed. The proportion of fishmeal in the infrastructure improvements. They also feature fish feeds in our largest farming region has declined obtaining various quality certificates such as from from around 60% in 1990 to 15 to 20% today, without the BRC, IFS, ISO, GlobalGAP and MSC. More on our compromising quality or fish health and welfare. sustainable tuna programme can be found on page 12, Furthermore, due to an increasing proportion of feeds while our quality certificates table is on page 21. being derived from trimmings from other food fisheries, Marine Harvest actively contributes to the definition of the volumes of fishmeal in our feed coming from wild wild-caught seafood sustainability labels. One way we fish in industrial fisheries is declining. We are also support these initiatives is through purchasing Marine working with our feed manufacturers, retailers and the Stewardship Council (MSC) certified Alaska pollock, hoki International Fishmeal and Fish Oil Organisation (IFFO) and Hastings dover sole. The MSC certification is based to ensure that the fish used in fishmeal and fish oil on a healthy fish stock level, sustainable fishing methods production is responsibly sourced. Certification to the and a professional fisheries management system. We IFFO standard requires that fisheries used for fishmeal have also invested in a ‘sustainable Iceland concept’ and fish oil comply with the main principles of the FAO for white fish species. The concept assures ‘sustainable Code of Responsible Fishing (1996), which is the only seafood products’ of a superior quality and supports internationally recognised reference for sustainable the ‘certification approach’ of the Icelandic Government. fishing. We do not use feed with ingredients from illegal, unreported or unregulated fisheries. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way Seafood market 10 Why are pe0ple eating m0re seaf00d? Seafood has for centuries been an important part of most food cultures. In recent years, increases in seafood consumption have followed global population growth, improved living standards and the desire for more healthy food. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way Finland USA Salmon consumption Salmon consumption per person per person 4.6kg per year 0.98kg per year 11 Why are pe0ple What is 0mega-3? The Organic Salmon Company eating m0re salm0n? Omega-3 is a group of nutrients essential for human health. They are unsaturated fatty acids and are found in long(EPA and DHA) and short-chain (ALA) versions. The long-chain versions have been found to Our commitment to providing Salmon is the most versatile seafood for the consumer; be the most significant for health benefits. However, great organic salmon products to the combination of its colour, texture, taste and humans are not able to produce them in the amounts our customers has allowed us to price makes it an affordable and convenient treat become the world’s leading supplier necessary for good health and we need to obtain them of organic salmon. Our organic both every day and for special occasions. from food. salmon farm lies four miles off the west coast of Ireland. The Atlantic Off the shelf it’s convenient, has few bones, is easy waters in this remote location are Research into the positive role of omega-3 on human classed by the European Union to cook and fits well with local habits, dishes and health shows recommended dietary levels can benefit as 1A in quality – the best there tastes. The characteristics of salmon also make it an people with circulatory problems such as varicose is. Our salmon are fed special ideal raw material to process into convenient products, veins, coronary heart disease, some forms of stroke and diets that contain only organic, supported by its all-year fresh availability. Furthermore, cancer (particularly breast, colon and prostate). There’s natural ingredients while stocking the nutritional profile of Atlantic salmon makes it a also research suggesting positive effects on depression densities are less than half that of perceived staple food among the increasing proportion conventional farms. This natural, and anxiety, immune function and infant brain of consumers in mature economies concerned about healthy environment and low development. Salmon and other oily fish are rich population density allows the fish healthy eating. sources of marine omega-3, with a content far above to develop good muscle and body most other food. shape. The Organic Salmon Co. See page 28 for more information fish are raised in line with organic Salmon facts standards certified by the German, Swiss and EU organic authorities. ional e nutrit Averag er 100g: p values l/766 kJ 183 kca 19.9 g Energy 0g Protein drates 1 0.9g o h y Carb Fat 2.2g h: of whic d fat 3.9g ra te satu s a tu ra ted fat 2.7g n polyu LC ome ga-3 0.6g w h ic h of 1.3g EPA 0g DHA re mg r y fi b 5 9 Dieta Sodium (source USDA) Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way Seafood market Our ambiti0n is t0 be 0ur cust0mers’ preferred supplier based 0n pr0duct kn0wledge and supply chain expertise. 12 Isn’t 0mega-3 in Salm0n RDA Sustainable tuna As a leading seafood supplier we source and supply tuna products to some of our largest customers, 0ther f00ds t00 ? although as a proportion of our Salmon provides a wide nutrient package total volumes this is less than Percentage of daily values for these essential 0.5%. The sustainability of tuna nutrients provided by one portion (100g) catch fisheries is widely debated. of salmon (source USDA). However, we believe we can play a positive role in ensuring our supplies continue to be responsibly Omega-3 is found in many foods including oily sourced. We obtain supplies from a fisheries consultancy (Blueyou) and fish, meat, and vegetable oils. However, the health a WWF-promoted yellow fin tuna benefits of omega-3 depend on its source and its project based in the Philippines. The balance to omega-6. project focuses on the support and development of sustainable and small hand-line fishing. Our role is In vegetable sources, omega-3 is present mainly as to indirectly support the project by ALA, a short chained fatty acid that has inferior health guaranteeing a volume and a price benefits over the long-chain omega-3 fatty acids, EPA which helps increase the incomes and DHA. Beef, lamb and chicken also contain low of the local community. The Marine levels of short-chain omega-3s. However, in these meats Stewardship Council (MSC) standard 59% Selenium 40% Vitamin B3 (Niacin) the positive effect is outweighed by the higher levels is a guiding principle for the project 25% Phosphorus 23% Vitamin B1 (Thiamin) and MSC status is the final objective of omega-6, another group of fatty acids. Although 8% Magnesium 15% Vitamin B5 of the project. omega-6 is also essential to human health, a too high 11% Potassium (Panathenic acid) intake relative to omega-3 reduces the body’s abilities 47% Vitamin B12 8% Vitamin B9 (Folate) to convert ALA to the vital EPA and DHA forms of 32% Vitamin B6 6% Vitamin C omega-3. Oily fish, like salmon, provide a balanced ratio of omega-3 to omega-6 and contains pre-formed EPA and DHA. From analysis of our farmed Atlantic salmon To protect the nutritional value of our fish we have we know that, on average, eating one salmon meal introduced an omega-3 group operating standard. provides the equivalent of one week’s recommended This means that our salmon will always contain at least intake of EPA and DHA (European standards). By 1.4 grams of EPA and DHA per 100 grams. On average substituting a meat-based meal, rich in omega-6 fatty our salmon contains well above this figure. This guarantee acids, with a weekly salmon meal, consumers not only is backed up by our quality management system, benefit from the omega-3, they obtain a whole range of Qmarine and its regular product analysis programmes. healthy nutrients. The full nutritional package See page 28 for more information There’s more to salmon and seafood than omega-3. Salmon is a good source of protein and is low in fat and saturated fatty acids. It contains key micronutrients including iron, magnesium, zinc, iodine and selenium as well as being a healthy source of vitamins A, B and D. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way Ducktrap River of Maine offer a range of smoked salmon Healthy eating options include our own brand Fish ’n Grains that includes gravadlax and pastrami style as well as with its wheat and broken-wheat coatings. pepper and garlic. 13 H0w d0 y0u Secondary processed foods such as fillets, portions, 100g of salmon provides steaks and kebabs are available in modified atmosphere packaging (MAP), trays and other retail packaging such as bags, show boxes, vacuum skin pack trays and flow packs. 59% expand the market In addition, we offer a vast range of value-added foods from our specialist plants in Belgium, France, Japan, the Netherlands and the USA. Selenium RDA f0r seaf00d? We can deliver products in the following categories: • • Breaded 100g of salmon provides Pre-fried With a very strong underlying demand for seafood, our focus is on increasing the absolute availability of • • Dusted Marinated 47% seafood. We are doing this, not just by broadening • Grilled Vitamin B12 RDA the range of ready-made foods we offer, but by • Battered strengthening our global logistics operations to • Topped increase availability. • Filled with sauce • Delicatessen product Our products • Fresh fish ready meals Our largest product line is fresh superior salmon, head on, gutted. However, we supply a wide variety • Smoked fish of seafood types and products. As consumer demand Improving logistics for our high value-added products increases, so does In order to grow the accessible market for salmon, we our filleting capacity and range of options now also work to improve our global logistics operation. available, such as smoked and cured fish. In 2009 we opened two new processing facilities in The typical options available from our primary and the US (Miami and Los Angeles) where fresh salmon secondary processing plants are: fillets can be processed before local distribution. A similar facility was opened close to the Narita Airport • Whole gutted salmon, head on or head off, including in Japan in 2010. In combination with increases in Label Rouge salmon from Scotland and Norway, and filleting capacity in Norway, these new facilities have organic salmon from Ireland increased the availability of fresh salmon fillets in two • Salmon fillets in trim types A to E. important markets. See www.marineharvest.com for more details Our new salmon logistics hub close to the Oslo Airport, • Salmon steaks, cutlets, portions, loins, kebabs, has also increased logistics efficiency and flexibility for steak combos (steaks plus tail fillets) transport via truck, rail and air freight. • Other white fish or other seafood To expand the market in south-eastern Europe, a new terminal was opened in the Czech Republic in 2010. • Other options as agreed with the customer. Fully packed trucks use this terminal for efficient These are available fresh and frozen. transport to this part of Europe, and for increasing the geographical range of our logistics chain. See page 15 for more information Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way Seafood market On average we will eat 55% m0re meat in 2030 than in 1980 14 What’s new As we are primarily a private label supplier much of our output reaches consumers under retailer-branded packaging. in seaf00d? Our new product development teams work within a structured foods development process that includes inputs from our marketing function and customers. The trend towards pro-actively developed new foods continues with most of our European new products produced in this way. By using co-innovation techniques with our customers we have identified and satisfied market trends in foods. Some important trends we have addressed are: • Sustainable sourcing from reliable, certified seafood suppliers • Healthier ‘light’ products with enhanced pack product information • Convenience offering such as appetisers and ready meals • Attractive consumer pricing while retaining an appealing margin • Great tasting products without sacrificing health and convenience Our close customer relationship has been the key driver behind many successful consumer-focused launches, such as for the following products which emphasise salmon’s convenience: • Seafood appetisers • Salmon burgers • Boneless salmon steaks Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way 15 H0w d0 y0u supply Qmarine We deliver food products with high technical and nutritional quality to seaf00d r0und the w0rld? meet customer requirements and consumer expectations. For technical quality our products conform to agreed specifications. For nutritional quality we ensure our fish and fish products provide excellent protein with important minerals, vitamins Our products are sold in over 50 markets from our network based on chilled airfreight, trucking, rail and omega-3 fatty acids. Please see bases in 21 countries. Our customers are retailers, and frozen sea transport reinforces this supply security. page 40 for more on Qmarine. seafood processors, food service companies and With farming in six countries on three continents, distributors. Retailers are by far the most important and a global sales and logistics organisation, we channel to us, but even in this channel we are have the most flexible global supply capability primarily a private label supplier, sometimes in our industry, ensuring our ability to meet through secondary distributors and processors. customers’ requirements. The close relationships between our sales and supply Our ambition is to be our customers’ preferred chain management allows for more precise forecasts supplier based on product knowledge and supply based on harvesting and biology. For customers this chain expertise. Our collaborations with customers means better control of cost related parameters like primarily cover supply chain, product adjustments yield, size stability and reduced production downtime. and innovations, but also include larger collaborations Put simply, these elements mean a predictable, reliable which anticipate future challenges related to quality supply chain for customers. and sustainability. Our R&D people are involved in We are not solely a private label supplier. We market projects aimed at improving the quality of our salmon locally recognised brands like Kritsen, Rolmer, Kendall along the entire value chain from salmon hatchery, Brook Salmon, Ducktrap, Delifish, the Organic Salmon through to dietary and health benefits of seafood Co, Donegal Silver Salmon, La Couronne, Pieters, consumption for end consumers. Sterling White Halibut and in Japan, Sterling Salmon. The size and global spread of our operations allows In addition, we also market Xalar salmon oil, a refined us to respond to changes in demand and supply, for salmon oil based on by-products from harvesting and example by quickly switching supply and processing processing, which is produced in our Marine Harvest between countries. Our large global distribution Ingredients unit. Secondary processed products such as fillets, portions, steaks and kebabs are available in modified atmosphere packaging (MAP) trays and other retail packaging such as bags, show boxes, vacuum skin pack trays and flow packs. We have increased our We offer a vast range of Collaboration with customers Due to the size of our filleting capacity to meet the value-added seafood primarily covers supply chain operations we are able to growing global demand for products from our and product adjustments but respond quickly to changes fillet in trim types A to E. specialist plants in Belgium, also includes joint working in demand and supply. Netherlands, France, Japan which anticipates future and the USA. challenges. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way product QUALITY 16 What d0es seaf00d quality mean? Our objective is to meet customer requirements for seafood with high technical and nutritional quality, that exceeds consumers’ expectations. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way Marine Harvest supply On average we will eat 4m meals as salmon 55% more meat in 2030 than portions daily in 1980 As a pr0ducer and 17 What are the In what ways can pr0cess0r, we have c0mp0nents 0f f00d be unsafe? a piv0tal part in this chain 0f quality? Potential food contaminants such as chemicals, bacteria and viruses are naturally found all around resp0nsibility. us, all the time. To combat any risk caused by these Technical quality means the food conforms to customer potential contaminants building up and making food specifications, for instance on grade, trim, fat content, unsafe, everyone from the producer through to the pigment and packaging. It also covers microbiological final consumer has a role. quality which determines the shelf life, particularly for fresh foods. Nutritional quality relates to the role of As a producer and processor, we have a pivotal part in our fish and fish products as natural healthy food in this chain of responsibility. We only buy certified feeds consumer diets. from reputable feed suppliers operating under licences and control from competent authorities, and operate All aspects of quality are covered by our total quality our farms and facilities to exacting food safety standards management system, Qmarine and its standard which minimise food risks to below authorised public operating procedures (SOPs). Together, these control our health levels. Backed up by national and international production practices and processes, and so ensure we food safety monitoring, an individual’s risk from unsafe meet our customers’ specifications and comply with food is very small. regulatory requirements. . See page 21 for more information Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way product QUALITY 18 Our r0le in ensuring g00d quality f00d H0w d0 y0u pr0tect High levels of food quality result Personal responsibility seaf00d safety? from the overlaying of many Customer different factors specification Our undisputed objective is to produce and supply documented safe seafood. Voluntary certifications At the core of our quality process lies our Qmarine Marine Harvest standards quality management system, which controls and and practices co-ordinates our three main overlapping product assurance approaches: Legislation 1. Control of undesirable substances 2. Control of food-borne pathogens 3. Tracking and tracing Food safety risks can accumulate from feed and We give listeria c0ntr0l special attenti0n, water during farming, from additives or ingredients in value-added products and through contact with operators, equipment and packaging materials b0th t0 assure the safety 0f 0ur ready-t0-eat during processing. Control of undesirable substances pr0ducts and t0 assure l0w risk level f0r Our feeds are produced in strictly controlled environments regulated by the authorities to assure that potentially harmful contaminants are not transferred cust0mers pr0cessing 0ur pr0ducts f0r readyfrom raw materials into feeds. The main risks for feed contamination are environmental pollutants like PCBs, dioxins and heavy metals which can be found as trace t0-eat f00ds. amounts in most food and feed. Controlling the safety of feeds is an effective way of ensuring the welfare and health of our fish and minimising any eventual risk for consumers. Legislative requirements, internal controls and monitoring programmes by our feed suppliers all mean our feeds are documented as safe and within the statutory limits before they are transferred to our fish farms. During our production stages, water quality is regularly monitored to further minimise the risk of chemical contaminants affecting our production. We occasionally use medicines to treat fish diseases under the control of certified fish health professionals. We strictly observe the specified medicine withdrawal periods and fish are checked for any residues before harvest. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way North African seafood Marine Harvest is the consumption increased by 260% N0.1 salmon producer in 1961–2008 the UK 19 Microbiology, food-borne pathogens and temperature control Bacteria and viruses form a natural part of our lives, and are present everywhere, including on fish farms and in processing facilities. Some may be harmful for consumers and may cause product deterioration if uncontrolled. Luckily bacteria that can cause sickness in humans like salmonella, campylobacter, yersinia or E. coli are rarely found in seafood. Contamination can still potentially occur through polluted waters, poor processing hygiene and cross contamination during handling. To combat these we have detailed systems to assure excellent processing hygiene, including good temperature control from harvest through to customer delivery. This first defence is supported by group-wide microbiological monitoring of all classes of fish and products to ensure levels present are below legal limits both in the countries of production and in the markets where we sell our products. The methods of analysis, notification and response are all laid down in our standard operating procedures (SOPs). Marine Harvest’s quality Listeria monocytogenes is a potential food-borne bacteria that can grow at low temperatures and potentially cause disease if present in food products assurance appr0ach that are eaten without heat treatment. Since salmon Our Qmarine quality management system can be eaten uncooked, we give listeria control special controls and co-ordinates our three main attention, both to assure the safety of our ready-to-eat overlapping product assurance approaches. products and to assure low risk level for customers processing our products for ready-to-eat foods. A group-wide best practice manual for listeria control has been developed and is used in addition to our Control of other monitoring and control programmes. undesirable substances Tracking and tracing On the rare occasion that an adverse incident occurs, tracking and tracing is an important tool to identify affected products, in order to trace the origin of the problem and to understand how we can avoid the Control of Tracking same circumstances in the future. All our production food-borne and tracing and processing facilities keep records of all deliveries, pathogens from fish eggs and feed, to ingredients for value-added processing and packaging material. Every production step is recorded. This means it is possible to trace back any product to its origins. Every box or package of fish delivered from our processing plants has a batch number on the label. This is the key for tracing. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way product QUALITY 100% South East Asia seafood consumption increased by of Marine Harvest’s Scottish salmon is Freedom Food assured 134% 1961–2008 20 Our perf0rmance against regulat0ry baselines, internati0nal and industry standards, b0th general and sustainabilityrelated, are the yardsticks that all0w us t0 H0w d0 external Many of our activities, particularly animal welfare, fish health and food safety are controlled by local, national assure c0nsumers. and international regulators. In our largest markets, 0rganisati0ns Europe and the USA, the EFSA and FDA set the basis for food safety and quality, whereas the WHO and UN FAO contribute global scientific advice. While our group-wide standards take all relevant organisations’ help keep seaf00d regulations as a compliance baseline, our company standards frequently exceed their requirements. We monitor and evaluate EFSA and FDA food safety advice quality high? and contribute to proposals and hearings either individually or via trade bodies. In line with customer requirements, we hold a variety of voluntary quality certifications which often emphasise welfare and sustainability concerns. Verification of these quality marques such as Label Rouge, Freedom Food A reputation for reliably high-quality seafood is vital and GlobalGAP is by third party auditors who ensure our to our continuing success. As well as our processes processes are in line with the marques’ specifications. we maintain high quality by responding to and Conclusions drawn from these audits play a significant engaging with a range of external organisations. The part in our improvement processes. The range of requirements and specifications our customers ask voluntary quality certifications attained by our business for is central to this. Beyond these, our performance units is shown on page 21. against regulatory baselines, international and industry standards, both general and sustainabilityrelated, are the yardsticks that allow us to assure consumers and secure our reputation. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way 21 Quality and related certificates held by Marine Harvest operations in 2010. Business Unit Activity Certification % of plants certified to each scheme Ireland Broodstock and juveniles ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, GlobalGAP, Naturland Organic, BioSuisse 100% Organic, EU Organic Aquaculture On-growing ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, Naturland Organic, BioSuisse Organic, ISO 9001 = 100%; ISO 14001 = 100%; IOHSAS 18001 = 100%; EU Organic Aquaculture EU Organic Aquaculture = 60%; Naturland Organic = 60%; IOFGA Organic = 60%; BioSuisse Organic = 60%. Primary processing ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, BRC, Naturland Organic, BioSuisse 100% Organic, EU Organic Aquaculture Sterling White Broodstock and juveniles ISO 9001, ISO 14001 100% Halibut On-growing ISO 9001, ISO 14001 100% Primary processing ISO 9001, ISO 14001 100% Chile SalmonGAP/GlobalGAP pending. 100% Norway Broodstock and juveniles ISO 22000, ISO 9001, ISO14001 and GlobalGAP 100% Label Rouge, one site in south On-growing ISO 22000, ISO 9001, ISO 14001, GlobalGAP 100% Label Rouge, few sites Primary processing ISO 22000, ISO 9001, ISO 14001, GlobalGAP 100% Label Rouge, one site in south Canada Broodstock and juveniles ISO 14001 100% On-growing ISO 14001 100% Scotland Juveniles Label Rouge, ISO 9001, ISO14001, GlobalGAP, Product Certification Scheme 100% for salmon smolt, PGI, Freedom Food, COGP On-growing Label Rouge, ISO 9001, ISO 14001, GlobalGAP, PGI, Freedom Food, COGP 100% Primary processing BRC, ISO 9001, ISO 14001, GlobalGAP, PGI, Freedom Food, Label Rouge, COGP 100% Faroes Broodstock and juveniles GlobalGAP 100% On-growing GlobalGAP 100% Primary processing GlobalGAP 100% VAP Europe Secondary processing IFS, BRC, BIO, GlobalGAP, ISO 22000, ETI Pieters: BRC, GlobalGAP, BIO, MSC -100% Boulogne: IFS, GlobalGAP, BIO Kritsen: IFS, ISO 19001, Label Rouge, MSC -100% Boulogne: IFS, GlobalGAP, BIO Sterk: BRC Grade A, IFS High level, MSC, ETI Rolmer: IFS -100% Rennes: IFS, BIO, Label Rouge -100% Lorient: IFS -100% Poland: IFS, BRC, GlobalGAP Qmarine We are committed to providing safe and documented food products. Our farming, processing and logistics operations are organised to create and protect safe food and we continuously monitor the safety of our products. We update our practices, based on the latest science and best practices and ensure we are in line with current legislation in our markets. Please see page 40 for more on Qmarine. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way Fish management 22 What are c0nditi0ns like f0r farmed fish? Fish produced using good, stressfree farming practices are healthier and show better growth. This sustainable approach means our fish are kept under conditions that, as much as possible, naturally satisfy their needs for food, clean water, space and habitat. By providing good conditions we aim to minimise distress, injury and disease and lessen the need to intervene. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way At maximum stocking densities our fish have In the EU 97% of pen space to move 61% of salmon is sold fresh around freely 23 We c0ntinually Can fish What d0 y0u d0 t0 check water quality, bec0me sick? keep them healthy? temperature, salinity and 0xygen c0ntent Just like other animals, wild and farmed fish occasionally suffer from disease. In these We use sound farming practices, proven policy principles and keep our fish in good conditions that t0 supp0rt 0ptimal circumstances, our co-ordinated fish health management and veterinary health plans come satisfy their biological needs for food, clean water, space and habitat. Our fish health management rearing c0nditi0ns, into play. These have been designed with an emphasis on disease prevention and reducing focus is on disease prevention and builds on control approaches, supervisions by our fish health including during the exposure of healthy fish to infections so we can limit any potential spread. Frequent health monitoring by health professionals is also an professionals and a continuous quest for new knowledge and in-depth understanding. transp0rt. important line of disease defence. Feed and environment Our feeds are carefully balanced to provide the Our experience tells us to pay particular attention to necessary nutrients. They are delivered through efficient the occurrence and treatment of pancreas disease and feed management technologies which feed the fish infectious salmon anaemia, two diseases found naturally when they need it, without overfeeding. We strive to in salmon in several geographical regions. Occasionally ensure a good living environment for our fish to thrive. individual fish die without suffering from a disease, for We continually check water quality, temperature, salinity instance from natural causes. We check for and remove and oxygen content to support optimal rearing fish remains on a frequent basis and all mortalities conditions, including during transport. are handled in a way that minimises the risk of any disease spreading. Fish health management at Marine Harvest 1 Monitoring surveillance and reporting 2 Local fish health plans 3 Marine Harvest standards 4 National legislation 5 International legislation 1 2 3 4 5 Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way Fish management Our salmon will always Our fish occupy less than contain at least 3% of the available pen 1.4g of marine EPA and DHA volume per 100 grams 24 Ballan wrasse farming Stocking densities Antibiotics grams per tonne Our fish are kept at densities that reduce the risk (liveweight) production 2007-2010 of diseases spreading and balance welfare with 200 performance. Even at maximum stocking densities our fish occupy less than 3% of the available pen volume. This means they have more than 97% of the space to g/tonne production (liveweight) 150 move around freely and express normal behaviour. Fallowing and co-ordinated approaches 100 Leaving a site empty between production cycles – The ballan wrasse is a small fish known as fallowing – is an important component which naturally grazes on the parasites of other fish. The wrasse of good farming practice. It allows for the resting 50 has proven to be an efficient tool to or restoration of the local environment and reduces reduce the number of lice on farmed the risk of diseases. We work within the industry salmon. However, it is uncertain how to co-ordinate fallowing areas to allow the natural 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 many wrasse can be caught from the environment to rest on a larger scale. wild without negatively affecting their populations. In addition, Vaccination the access to ballan wrasse varies The vaccination of young fish is now widely available H0w d0 y0u treat depending on the time of the year for the majority of bacterial diseases of the salmon and location. An obvious solution to family. The use of vaccines has reduced the need allow wider use of wrasse on farms was to start up the ballan wrasse for antibiotics to a minimal level in most salmon farming regions. In our largest farming unit, we only fish if they bec0me farming project in 2009. The plan is to continue to invest in the project needed 0.003 grams of antibiotics per tonne produced in the coming years. in 2010. Monitoring All our fish farms receive both routine and unscheduled monitoring visits by fish health professionals who consider fish behaviour, appetite, site hygiene controls and mortality. In the event of suspected disease or sick? increased mortality, a health professional will keep a close eye on the fish until restored, decide on mitigation If our fish become sick we use effective infection and, if appropriate, prescribe relevant medicines. control methods that are safe for the fish and the environment. We only ever use approved veterinary medicines prescribed and supervised by authorised veterinarians or officially certified fish health professionals, under the strict control of relevant authorities. To guarantee there is no negative impact on the quality of our products we make sure that appropriate medicine withdrawal periods and verification procedures are in place, so that pharmaceutical residue levels are below the statutory safety limits both in the production country and the markets for the fish. We never use antibiotics preventively or to promote growth. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way T0 c0ntr0l sea lice 0ur current standards include b0th medicinal and n0n-medicinal r0utes, whereas 0ur strategy is t0 further devel0p bi0l0gical and n0n-medical t00ls. 25 Medicines are an important tool against sea lice and even the best managed farms may have to use licensed Qmarine medicines following veterinarian advice. The structured Fish welfare is based on good and systematic use of various veterinary medicines health management and sound farming practices. We rear fish under is fundamental to avoid treatment resistance. By conditions that suit their biological synchronised delousing in all farms in the same area, needs and minimise stress, aggression we minimise sea lice levels during the out-migration and injury. We monitor frequently of wild salmon in the spring. As well as our use the health status of our fish and act of delousing medicines, prior checking of drug rapidly if it is compromised. Please sensitivity and thorough evaluation of drug efficacy see page 40 for more on Qmarine. post-treatment, form a fundamental part of our sea lice management. We are also looking to decrease the amount of D0 fish get lice? delousing medicines by diversifying the methods we use. First and foremost this strategy is supported by the use of wild caught wrasse which graze harmlessly on the salmon. We have successfully collaborated in increasing the use of hydrogen peroxide treatments. Hydrogen peroxide converts into simple water and As with humans and animals, fish also get lice. Sea oxygen which is natural to the environment. In addition lice are marine parasites, which feed on the mucus to this we support a range of R&D projects targeting and skin of farmed and wild salmon, as well as related improved sea lice management. We also put great species. They are harmless to humans, however they effort into the farming of cleaner-fish (different types can damage the skin of the host fish, which can then of wrasse), in order to ensure stable supply and avoid become vulnerable to other infections. Sea lice can depleting local wild stocks (see page 24). also stress the fish, affect growth and generally reduce the fish quality. We regularly monitor the occurrence of Aquaculture’s experience with sea lice in Chile during sea lice on our fish, checking that numbers are below 2006 to 2008 and in Norway from 2008 onwards, implies the statutory level that triggers mandatory control. that sea lice mitigation efforts in the industry have been Trigger levels vary depending on the type of lice, time too weak. Starting in 2009, we significantly increased of year and local differences in lice species as well as our effort through a series of broad-ranging and wild fish species. long-lasting initiatives. These include: a call for stricter regulations with zone management, closer industry co-operation, development of new non-medical To control sea lice we have tried and tested operational approaches and far-reaching research efforts in addition standards in place. Experience tells us that the most to farming of cleaner fish. Our long-term goal is to effective approaches integrate both medicinal and ensure that sea lice from salmon farms do not have a non-medicinal routes. Non-medicinal methods include significant negative impact on wild salmon stocks. use of wrasse and food supplements, as well as good production management such as synchronised See page 33 for more information fallowing, attention to clean nets and adjusting stocking densities. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way Environmental responsibility H0w d0es Marine 26 Harvest reduce envir0nmental impacts? As with most other human activity, and all other food production, fish farming affects the environment. Our focus is on environmental responsibility, ensuring an acceptable level of environmental impacts. Salmon farming depends on a sound ocean environment and viable coastal communities to be profitable in the long run. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way Milligrams of EPA and Around 24% DHA guaranteed in 100g of salmon by Marine Harvest 1400mg of the marine raw materials in feed derived from processing cut-offs and trimmings 27 What d0 y0ur Raw materials in typical salmon feeds 100 Land animal salm0n eat? ingredients 90 Vegetable ingredients 80 Vegetable oil 70 In the early days of salmon farming, the fish were fed Fish oil almost entirely on marine raw materials like off-cuts, 60 trimmings and wild fish. With the introduction of Percent Fish meal feed pellets technology, focus shifted from the raw 50 material in feed to nutritional requirements which can be met by a range of raw materials. We now feed 40 our fish scientifically formulated pellets that provide all the necessary nutrients for growth and good fish 30 health, as well as ensuring high nutritional content in our products. Our fish feeds comprise a combination 20 of marine raw materials, like fishmeal, fish oil, and vegetable meal and oil, made mainly from sunflower, 10 soy and rapeseed. 0 Norway Scotland Ireland Chile Canada Reduced use of wild fish organic feed By 1990, around 60% of feeds were composed of fishmeal made from wild fish. Today, following extensive research into nutrition, our feeds still provide all that a fish needs but often contain as little as 15% fishmeal. Further research conducted with our suppliers confirms that These efficiencies come from several directions. Compared to the agricultural animals that previously ate Since 2004, additional reductions in fishmeal content is possible, meaning that farmed salmon can become net producers this resource, salmon are cold blooded and live in water. This means they do not use energy to maintain body salm0n farming of marine protein. Levels of fish oil in feeds have also declined – replaced by vegetable oils. The move away from marine raw materials has not negatively affected temperature or stand upright and so are better at converting fishmeal to meat. Salmon also have far better protein retention than land animals. These advantages has gr0wn while fish growth, fish health or product quality. mean salmon farming companies are prepared to pay higher prices for fishmeal than agriculture. As a result at the same time Better utilisation of a scarce resource The decreasing level of marine-sourced ingredients in feeds has added to the efficiency of wild fish use. fishmeal resources have switched to the more lucrative fish farm market. reduced its use Since 2004, salmon farming has grown while at the same time reduced its use of fishmeal in absolute terms. See page 9 for more information 0f fishmeal in In addition, about 24% of the marine raw materials in feed is derived from processing cut-offs and trimmings, so reducing the proportion of fishmeal from wild abs0lute terms. sources. This trend is expected to continue. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way Environmental responsibility 28 We depend 0n wild industrial H0w much fish f0r 0ur feed. 0mega-3 sh0uld This is why we w0rk actively salm0n c0ntain? t0 ensure that wild fish st0cks Salmon is an excellent vehicle for increasing omega-3 in the human diet. Our group-wide omega-3 used f0r fishmeal minimum standard guarantees that one dinner portion provides the daily requirement of marine pr0ducti0n are omega-3 (EPA and DHA) for one week (European standards). In addition the standard surpasses current Can y0u gr0w sustainably European Union and United States dietary advice. managed. The primary source of omega-3 in our fish is fish oil in feed. Fish oil is a valuable and limited resource. During the last few years the high availability and depressed price y0ur pr0ducti0n? of fish oil means feed oil content, and correspondingly omega-3 levels, have been far above our minimum standard. Going forward we expect a reduction in fish oil We depend on wild industrial fish for our feed. This is availability and consequently an increase in fish oil prices. why we work actively to ensure that wild fish stocks used for fishmeal production are sustainably managed. It is possible to reduce the content of fish oil, and as a Sustainable management of wild fish stocks implies result the level of marine omega-3 in salmon, to well that fishmeal and fish oil are limited resources. below our minimum standard. These levels will, in the long term, be decided by consumer preferences. For our part, we are committed to meeting the demands set by To be able to grow over the long term, salmon farming the market for omega-3 in our salmon. and other aquaculture industries need to reduce the inclusion of fishmeal and fish oil in feed, and continue Current European food labelling regulations requires to increase the use of cut-offs and trimmings from the that foods labelled ‘Source of Omega-3 fatty acids’ wild fish industry. Our experience in these areas so far must contain 40mg EPA and DHA per 100 grams. Those indicates a good potential for growth. It is still possible labelled ‘High Omega-3 fatty acids’ must contain 80mg to significantly reduce the use of fish oil and fishmeal per 100 grams. The current omega-3 content (EPA and in salmon feed, without compromising fish health, food DHA) of Marine Harvest farmed salmon from Norway is quality or nutritional requirements for our products. 2,000mg per 100 grams. See pages 11–12 for more information In addition to this, we are researching the potential for using marine omega-3 from sources other than wild fish and the potential for our salmon to convert short-chain omega-3 (ALA) from vegetable sources into long-chain marine omega-3 fatty acids (EPA and DHA). Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way Percentage of global soy Percentage of global soy crop GM 1997 crop GM 2009 7% 77% 29 Reducing carbon What will the long-term development of fish farming and increase by better processes the pressure to use marine raw materials. Some of the fish oil and fishmeal used in Europe is transported from farmed fish eat South America. Substituting some of this raw material with land animal protein could potentially reduce the emissions of climate gases in our value chain. Marine Harvest will always work in close co-operation in the future? with our customers and respect customer requirements and opinions relating to the selection of feed ingredients. We are keen to establish close dialogues with European customers on the acceptability of including GM-sourced One way we are reducing our environmental impacts is by ingredients and land animal by-products in European redesigning our production salmon feeds. processes. At our Sterk processing We take great care to ensure that the high-quality fish feeds we use meet customer requirements, for plant in the Netherlands we produce coated frozen fillets and example by meeting organic criteria and, in Europe H0w can y0u similar products. To do this we only, excluding genetically modified (GM) crops. It rapidly defrost the fillet surface, is becoming increasingly difficult to source non-GM coat it and then immediately raw material (especially soy meal) and it may only refreeze it. Our engineers have pr0duce f00d continue to be possible for a limited period of time. developed a more efficient, After all, around 80% of land animal feeds in Europe rapid defrost process based on warm water. With no reduction contain GM crops so excluding them from salmon in food safety, the new process feeds can be hard to justify in the longer term. and pr0tect the has improved production output, increased quality as well as cutting our energy costs and carbon Land animal by-products are highly nutritious, safe footprint. and well-balanced alternatives to marine and vegetable feed raw materials. They are valuable both from a sustainability point of view and a marine raw material dependency point of view, as well as from a fish nutrition perspective. Land animal by-products such as envir0nment? blood meal and oil have been used in salmon diets in North and South America for several years, although We are determined to ensure acceptable they are not currently used in Europe. We believe environmental impacts of our activities. limiting the use of land animal by-products will curb Percentage of global soy crop that The most significant impacts from global food is genetically modified production come from the composition of feeds, the carbon dioxide released through operations and the 80 freshwater used. In addition to these common global 70 challenges, all types of food production have their g/tonne production (liveweight) 60 own specific challenges which need consideration. Through being aware of the environmental risks of our 50 activities, we have incorporated specific environmental 40 management and monitoring requirements in our 30 Qmarine global quality programme. 20 To better understand our operations’ potential effects 10 on the environment we have produced the overview shown on the next page. This materiality tool is based 0 on our experience, existing regulations, available science 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 and dialogues with a range of stakeholders. It is an (source ISAAA) essential element of our work to improve our operations and address sustainability issues. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way Environmental responsibility F0r us, climate change management is n0t just ab0ut the am0unt 0f n0n-renewable energy we use but als0 the ch0ices we make, f0r example in 0ur packaging. 30 H0w are fishing, The potential environmental impacts of fish farming How we manage these issues is fish farming and Activity Potential environmental impact shown on page... Fish farming Use of fishmeal and fish oil in feed produced from fisheries classified 5, 8 as non-sustainable Impact on the seabed from waste feed, faeces, medicines and anti-foulant 31, 32, 35 climate linked? treatment of nets Interaction with marine mammals and birds 32–33 Reduction in biodiversity around fish farms 32, 35 Spread of diseases and parasites from farmed to wild fish 33 Possible genetic impact on wild fish from escaped farmed fish 33 Contamination of seabed and water from oral and bath therapeutics 24, 25 Farming fish in unspoilt coastal water makes us Use of non-renewable fuel sources for heat, light, power and oxygenation UoP particularly aware of the importance of treading Potential lowering of lake and water table levels in freshwater farming UoP lightly on the earth. For us, climate change Contamination of coastline/beaches by waste products UoP management is not just about the amount (plastic, polystyrene, ropes, etc) of non-renewable energy we use but also about Pollution from accidental fuel spills UoP the choices we make, for example in our packaging. Fish Pollution from water discharged into municipal sewage system or into land UoP processing drainage, or into surface and sea waters To better understand our carbon footprint, we have Consumption of energy derived from fossil fuels, with associated generation of 29, 31, UoP investigated how much energy is used in different greenhouse gases stages of salmon farming. The study concluded that Pollution of ground water from landfill of organic and inorganic wastes UoP by far the most energy (90%) is used in the production Use of fossil fuels in packaging – EPS 31 of our fish feeds. With our suppliers we are looking at Noise and vibration from processing activities UoP how this stage can become more energy efficient. One Air emissions from rendering of solid organic waste UoP challenge here is to balance the different amount of energy required to produce the vegetables, cereals, oils Depletion of freshwater aquifer UoP and wild fish in our feeds. Fishing for wild fish has the Odour pollution from waste treatment UoP lowest energy inputs of our ingredients, while arable Distribution Consumption of fossil fuels and generation of greenhouse gases by transport 13 crops tilled by tractors and industrially processed for and in production of packaging their oils are more energy intensive. The dilemma for Pollution of the environment by waste packaging UoP us is that the proportion of feed coming from wild fish Further information on our environmental performance is included in our annual Update on Progress (UoP). is decreasing compared to the more energy intensive vegetables and oils. Overall this means our feeds are requiring more energy to produce. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way 31 Improving packaging Moulded polystyrene (EPS) boxes provide a lightweight, waterresistant and hygienic solution for the transportation of fillets D0es fish farming Despite the energy used in our feed, salmon is still an and harvested fish. We have been working on a simplified uniform energy efficient form of animal protein with a relatively box that reduces our energy use. light carbon footprint. This is due to the individual The new EPS box is stronger with affect water salmon needing less energy to maintain itself, as its a plastic film that has replaced the body temperature is always similar to its surroundings, lid. This allows for higher stacking normally between 6-16C. Fish processing stages do and its uniform size allows more efficient pallet and lorry loading, quality? require important energy inputs especially for automation, which will cut the number of transport, cooking, freezing and super-chilling of our journeys and the fuel needed products to create product varieties and maintain while at the same time improving shelf life. product integrity. As a global supplier of seafood, reliable and energy efficient transport is vital in ensuring our products reach customers well within their shelf life. We are looking at Clean, fresh and well oxygenated water is an essential improving the efficiency of our transport in four ways: element in successful fish farming, and we constantly monitor water quality around our sites to ensure • Reducing the distances we transport low value the health and welfare of our fish and the marine products like by-products, by increasing the share environment. of fish which is filleted at the harvest station • Ensuring transport capacity is used efficiently We are especially interested in understanding the health • Transporting less water and ice, for example by using of the seabed underneath our farms where fish faeces super-chilled approaches rather than transportation of and uneaten food can accumulate, causing problems fish on ice, and transporting fillets instead of whole fish for bottom dwelling animals. We are aware of this potential problem and have acted to better control • Using more efficient transport methods and feeding systems so that less food goes uneaten. To packaging, eg EPS boxes increase the dispersal of faeces we have moved several See page 5 for more information fish farms into stronger water currents where the faeces are flushed away and quickly dispersed. We regularly test seafloor conditions and report the results to the authorities. Our sites are fallowed in between production cycles to ensure the seafloor can return to normal conditions before new production is started. In some areas we have started larger monitoring programmes to evaluate the ecological carrying capacity in the area. See page 35 for more information Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way Environmental responsibility We are als0 c0llab0rating with equipment suppliers in new techn0l0gies and impr0ved specificati0ns in netting material. 32 Group salmon harvest 2010 296,000 tonnes HOG Return on Capital – ROACE – 2010 19.9% What happens if The potential impacts of escaped fish on wild salmon are still not sufficiently understood, and vary between different countries and regions. Crucial to the debate is farmed fish escape? the understanding that farmed Atlantic salmon and wild Atlantic salmon are virtually identical genetically; however, their behaviours are different. Wild salmon are predatory animals while the farmed fish are used to being fed. This is a disadvantage for escaped farmed fish that often stay around the pens looking for food. They are also Many of our farms are located in areas that are well susceptible to seals that are attracted to our farms. known for their wildlife. Farming in these areas However, some farmed salmon do adapt to the wild presents several sustainability challenges. We believe spending time at sea before migrating to the rivers to that any stock losses – for instance by being eaten by spawn. If an escaped salmon succeeds in spawning and sea mammals and birds or escaping from our pens – its offspring survive to complete another spawning cycle means an unnecessary cost and a waste of resources. (the only way in which their genes can be introduced into For these reasons, in addition to wanting to avoid the population) then, effectively, the fish are fit to survive potential damage to wild salmon stocks, we have a in the wild. zero escapes target. This is backed up by a rigorous Farmed salmon may nonetheless have a negative impact programme to develop methods and equipment to on local salmon stocks, as their behaviour in breeding minimise or eliminate escapes, which is having results. grounds may potentially impact wild salmon breeding, We ensure nets are always in good condition and are and local stocks have special local traits (size, colour etc) tagged showing net maker and year of manufacture. which may be diluted through interbreeding. This is why Nets are usually replaced after four to five years we have chosen a zero tolerance for escapes. of use. In a rolling programme pen moorings are Marine Harvest is participating in an EU project looking renewed on a regular basis and pens are regularly at farming sterile fish through triploidity (non-transgenic inspected for wear and tear. We are also collaborating method). This method would eliminate any issues related with equipment suppliers in new technologies and to possible genetic mixing of farmed and wild stock. improved specifications in netting material and pen, net and mooring design. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way 33 H0w d0 y0u st0p D0 sea lice fr0m Qmarine We will minimise the environmental impact of our activities and operate predat0rs eating farmed fish harm in harmony with the environment, neither depleting resources beyond their capacity, nor introducing materials or substances that cause the farmed fish? wild fish? lasting harm. See page 40 for more on Qmarine. There is an abundance of wildlife in and around fish Sea lice are naturally occurring external parasites farms, including seals and birds such as heron, shags that feed on the mucus, skin and blood of marine fish. and cormorants, which naturally try to prey on our A large number of different species exist, some fish. We avoid predation as far as possible, by using of which feed on salmon in particular. a range of accepted and approved preventative measures, such as anti-predator tensioned nets, They were first scientifically identified on salmon in 1910 which achieve a high rate of success with minimal and they are common on wild salmon in all indigenous damage to wildlife. salmon regions. Severe sea lice infections and mass mortalities have been documented on wild fish since Seal predation remains a serious problem. When seals 1940. A moderate number of sea lice on wild caught attack they not only consume salmon, they injure others salmon used to be welcomed by anglers as being and stress the whole pen, while their damage to the net synonymous with good quality and freshly run fish. allows fish to escape into the wild. It is therefore our Farmed salmon smolts are lice-free when they are duty to protect the welfare of the animals in our care introduced to seawater but lice larvae from wild or other as much as we can while respecting wildlife. On rare farmed fish then attach themselves. If unmanaged the occasions a particularly aggressive and persistent seal lice will grow, mature, produce new larvae and increase in may penetrate our nets and will be undaunted by our number which can potentially lead to a sea lice infestation electronic seal scarers, where they are used, which emit on wild fish. The potential impacts on wild fish are still not a noise deterrent. In these circumstances shooting may sufficiently understood, and differ with region, type of be the only option, although this is only ever carried out sea lice, fish species, salinity levels in local water, water as a last resort and in accordance with relevant local temperature and hydrological characteristics. regulations, where necessary obtaining a specific permit. In our view there is sufficient scientific evidence of potential negative impacts of sea lice from fish farms, if not properly managed, on the wild salmon, to take a precautionary stance on this issue. We know that too many mature egg-producing female sea lice on our farms, in the wrong geographical area at the wrong time of the year, can potentially lead to an increase in sea lice levels on some types of wild fish, even if the number of sea lice per farmed fish is low. Limiting the number of lice on farmed fish reduces the potential for sea lice spreading from farmed fish to wild fish. These limits, which are based on local conditions, are set by fish farmers and authorities and are well below the limit necessary to maintain good fish health. Our sea lice monitoring and control system combines biological, medicinal and husbandry practices. More on these can be found in the section on fish management on page 25. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way People H0w d0 y0u l00k after y0ur 34 pe0ple? Our success relies on the hard work of our people and the positive relationships they develop with our customers, suppliers and the communities in which we operate. We aim to provide safe and meaningful jobs, which our people can rightly take pride in wherever they work. Apart from our small central headquarters, staff are employed through a devolved structure with each of our Business Units operating their own HR department. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way Seaf00d supp0rts the livelih00d 0f 540m pe0ple w0rldwide. 35 H0w d0 y0u First Nations in Canada Protecting and strengthening wild salmon stocks Wild salmon stocks are important to us. Not only are they the basis for the market for our fish; our employees live and work in areas where the wild salmon has long w0rk with l0cal been a part of society. Our farmed salmon are also bred from the careful selection of wild salmon stocks. It is natural and important for us to support enhancement c0mmunities? In Canada our fish farms operate within the traditional territories of projects and co-operate with local communities to protect wild salmon stocks. In areas where the stocks have been weakened or where local communities are concerned about the potential negative impacts of many First Nation peoples. For more salmon farming on already weakened stocks, we work than ten years we have been working with local communities to improve breeding grounds Our success depends on viable local communities and together with the Kitasoo/Xai’xais and river conditions and offer our skills to assist in the support of the communities where we operate. Very bands of Klemtu, British Columbia, restocking wild smolt. In areas where local communities often, our facilities are located near towns, villages or growing and processing high-quality farm-raised salmon. More than 50 are concerned about the negative impacts of fish scattered settlements where many of our employees farming on wild salmon, we open up for dialogue, band members are employed on and their families live. farm sites and at the processing enter into area management plans and co-operate plant sending 5,000 tonnes of fresh on measuring our impacts. salmon to the market every year. By working together with the community to support Measuring ecological carrying capacity Similar agreements bring benefits what matters most to them, we are able to strengthen to the Kwakiutl, Quatsino and Fish farming increases the nutrient load in fjords and our already close ties. If concerns regarding our Gwa’sala ‘Nakwaxda’xw First coastal areas and some local communities may be operations are expressed, we encourage dialogue. This Nations. In addition we use local concerned about local impacts. As explained on page may include site tours, presentations or stakeholder First Nation owned businesses, 31, the environmental carrying capacity normally far meetings to try to find mutually acceptable solutions. such as Qwe’Qwa’Sot’Em Faith exceeds the nutrient load from farms. We have found We engage with communities by sponsoring, or Aquaculture Ltd and James Walkus Fishing Company for that an effective means of ensuring that we do not participating in, various local initiatives, such as exceed the area’s ecological carrying capacity is to many support functions. infrastructure projects, fish enhancement societies, co-operate with other stakeholders to collect data environmental stewardship programmes, sporting on the nutrient load from fish farming. Our first large events or charitable organisations. scale project on this theme started in Rogaland, western Norway in 2010. We intend to use Rogaland as a template for how we approach these issues in other areas. See page 31 for more information Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way People 36 H0w d0 y0u care f0r Farmed Atlantic salmon Our safety network is an important way for the Business accounted for Units to work together on safety issues, for instance communicating and making real our 12-point safety 46% total global supply of empl0yee safety? management principles. This offers straightforward ways to safer working. Marine Harvest’s 12 Safety Management Principles: all salmon species 2009 – Kontali 1. All sites shall establish annual safety targets with action plans (what, who, when). 32% We aim to provide a safe working environment for all 2. All sites shall have high standards of housekeeping. employees at all times. Safety management at Marine Harvest is a shared responsibility between individual 3. All managers shall carry out safety walks. of the world’s fish stocks employees, specialist professionals in all business 4. All employees shall participate in safety meetings may be over-exploited, units and the group’s health services. All three are on a regular basis. depleted or recovering dedicated to continuously enhancing the working – UN FAO 5. The use of personal protective equipment and environment, improving safety management and developing safety competences. lifejackets shall be specified for employees, contractors and visitors. Our objectives 6. A risk assessment with respect to safety shall be To achieve this we operate an integrated safety made for all jobs, equipment, and potentially management system where each business unit has hazardous materials, with an annual review made health and safety targets, goals and improvement of those considered most critical. plans. To remain up-to-date with legislation and new 7. A work permit system shall be in place, to include workplace challenges, Business Units regularly review lock-out, tag-out procedures and to safeguard work their safety management system, follow up on incidents in confined spaces. and revise procedures as needed. Regular employee safety training emphasises a safe operating environment 8. An approval system for contractors shall be in place. and the understanding of good management 9. All accidents and near misses shall be reported and procedures. We are reinvigorating training by our investigated, to include root-cause analysis, and with commitment to undertake a major new initiative, the subsequent implementation of corrective focusing on individual attitude and responsibility for actions within the planned time. safety. To help motivate our people to develop safer attitudes we are increasing the links between good 10. An emergency response plan shall be in place and safety performance and personal incentives. tested at least once every year. 11. All Business Units shall have a safety committee, to include site managers and other members so as to reflect a safety focus throughout the organisation. 12. A programme for systematic and regular safety training shall be in place. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way T 0 help m0tivate 0ur pe0ple t0 devel0p safer attitudes we are increasing the links between g00d safety perf0rmance and pers0nal incentives. 37 H0w d0 y0u Qmarine We provide a working environment free from harassment where employees are respected as individuals and feel proud of their work. This is the basis Protecting the safety, health and human rights of our employees of our belief that all employees have a right to work ensure y0u treat is a core value for us. We operate without discrimination, whether on the basis of race, in a responsible manner towards ethnicity, national or other origin, disability, age, gender, society at local, national and sexual orientation, language, religion, or any other international levels. As a world pe0ple fairly? characteristic where a person is not treated as an leading aquaculture and seafood individual. All our operations have local equal opportunity company we accept a responsibility policies in place according to local laws and regulations. to lead aquaculture towards increasing sustainability. On the rare occasions when these issues come to Please see page 40 for more prominence we will treat them with discretion, care and on Qmarine. support as many of these issues have a highly personal At Marine Harvest we aim to be an open, positive aspect. All our employees contribute to our success. The working community which shows respect and diversity of our employees is an asset to the company. support for individuals and the diverse cultures Details on the composition of our workforce, senior where we operate and from where our employees management team and Board are available in our are drawn. Update on Progress and Annual Report and Accounts. Our Code of Conduct is our principal guide for how we Lost time incidents 2008–2010 treat each other. We believe all our workers have the 500 right to freely form and join groups for the promotion and defence of their occupational interests, including the right to engage in collective bargaining by joining a 375 Number of incidents trade union. We support and comply with all applicable laws and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 250 and require a similar commitment from participants in our supply chain. An important prerequisite of compliance is the awareness of the potential risk 125 of human rights violations – whether due to local conditions, custom, practices or otherwise. As with any 0 potential contravention of our Code of Conduct, risky 2008 2009 2010 situations or allegations of human rights violations are investigated and followed up. Our operations in Ireland, Scotland, Asia, Norway, VAP Europe and Canada have local whistleblower protection programmes in place. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way profit 38 H0w is pr0fitability and envir0nmental resp0nsibility linked? We believe healthy profits come from providing customer value from healthy, tasty and nutritious seafood, farmed both cost-effectively and in an environmentally responsible way that maintains a good aquatic environment and respects the needs of wider society. This is a view we share with many of our investors who welcome this long-term approach to delivering solid returns. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way Marine Harvest is the world’s Salmon accounts for N0. 1 salmon farmer 12% of global seafood by value 39 What principles d0 y0u f0ll0w t0 ensure sustainable devel0pment? In the seafood business and specifically in aquaculture, there are no real long-term conflicts between environmental and social responsibility and economic profitability. To ensure the sustainable development of our company, we have developed four guiding principles (our 4-Ps). Our guiding principles Profit People Attractive financial results Safe and meaningful jobs Our profits depend on our ability to provide customer Neither employee safety, nor our employees’ value from healthy, tasty and nutritious seafood, farmed self-respect and personal pride in their work can be both cost-effectively and in an environmentally compromised if we are to succeed as a company with sustainable way that maintains a good aquatic good relationships with our communities. Taking a environment and respects the needs of wider society. leading role in the area of sustainability improves our Attractive financial results are, in turn, necessary to attractiveness for potential employees, and we need the provide the financial resources that facilitate our best available talent to continue to develop sustainably. investment in sustainability. These investments include: employee competences, R&D efforts to improve Planet environmental performance, equipment we need to Sustainable and environmentally operate with good employee safety, good fish health responsible development and acceptable environmental impacts. All our operations and our long-term profitability ultimately depend on sustainable and environmentally Product responsible interactions with the natural environment. Tasty and healthy seafood providing customer value To maintain fish health, avoid escapes and minimise We will not compromise on our ability to continually the environmental impact of our operations, we need deliver assuredly healthy, tasty and responsibly produced financial strength and the best skilled people. seafood to our customers. Attractive financial results are a precondition for product and market development. We need the best available talents to ensure good food quality and product development. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way profit 40 What systems d0 South East Asia seafood Our group management team consists of four people. The consumption increased by CEO has overall responsibility for the day-to-day operations 134% and is also responsible for ensuring good corporate y0u use t0 0versee governance. The CEO reports to the Board of Directors. 1961–2008 y0ur business? What 0ther Marine Harvest supply management 4m meal portions of For each of our guiding principles we have a set of ambitions and key performance indicators (KPIs). The principles and ambitions are used in our planning pr0cesses d0 y0u use? salmon daily and budgeting process. All business units report on the KPIs at monthly and quarterly business review meetings with group management. This structure is important, but not sufficient alone to control and develop our business. We have supplemented our guiding principles with a Code of Conduct and a global quality system called Qmarine. At the core of management is our total quality system called Qmarine. Our 44-page Code of Conduct was launched in 2010. Printed in seven languages and available via our intranet, Qmarine holds our global, standard operating procedures the Code sets out and builds on seven basic rules. For (SOPs) which enable us to apply the same high standards each rule it explains what all employees should do, wherever we operate. In many instances the standards and what everyone should take extra care to watch out required by Qmarine exceed, and are never less than, for. Marine Harvest employees must make a personal individual national requirements. It guides our actions commitment to follow the Code and to raise questions and decisions in the strategic areas of food safety, food and concerns about possible violations. We have quality, fish welfare, environmental responsibility and followed up on the launch with e-learning, workshops, social responsibility. All SOPs are held in a central presentations and discussions at a local level. database, or MQM, which controls individual local quality management systems and their procedure For employees involved in sales, marketing, purchasing, implementation. Qmarine is very much a living system customer relations and head office functions we have and is continually updated from developing best practice. several supplementary ethical documents. These offer It is used on the one hand for compliance, for instance advice and dos and don’ts on competition, compliance, site with regulatory requirements and, on the other hand, investigations and communications with business partners. driving knowledge, from identifying and sharing best Marine Harvest Group is listed on the Oslo stock practices and outcome of internal or external R&D, exchange and follows the regulations established by throughout the company. the Norwegian Corporate Governance Board (NUES). Open dialogue with investors and the stock market is important to us. An overview of important dates, latest quarterly financial presentations, webcasts by our CEO and CFO and our investor relations contacts can be found on our website. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way Qmarine 41 Our global quality management programme, aligned to the Group’s guiding principles (see page 39). Food Safety Food Quality Fish Welfare Environmental Social Responsibility Quality Assurance Responsibility Standard Operating Procedures developed, implemented and maintained through a specific global database. Marine Harvest operations thereafter implement these procedures in their local quality management systems. Norway Scotland Ireland VAP Canada Chile Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way the future 42 H0w will fish Past, present, future? The proportion of the salmon life-cycle in closed containment is likely be farmed in to increase, requiring new facilities to be built. the future? Modern wellboats allow greater ease and better fish welfare when transferring fish. Our research and development teams work with academics, suppliers, NGOs and other players in the industry to improve the way we manage our fish, fish health and welfare, and product quality as well as reducing our environmental impacts. The size of farms and individual pens has increased considerably in the last 40 years. Meeting the challenge of fish health will continue in the future with an emphasis on tackling viral diseases and parasites. Our diverse toolbox of promising alternatives to sea lice chemical treatment includes biological, mechanical and physical tools, sea lice gene sequencing, breeding and potentially a vaccine. We are also gaining a better understanding of natural processes, such as harnessing wrasse and other cleaner fish. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way 134% Fish farming is over Estimated global aquaculture growth 2000–2050 – UN FAO 45% of the world’s fish food production In its early 43 H0w has salm0n H0w will y0ur days – in the farming changed? industry change in 1970s – salm0n farming was an In its early days – in the 1970s – salmon farming was an unco-ordinated cottage industry. Today, salmon the next decade? unc0-0rdinated farming has matured into an efficient business sector with high standards and a sustainable outlook. Early With the tremendous changes seen in salmon c0ttage industry. fish farms reared comparatively small numbers of farming and the seafood industry over the last salmon that were densely packed into small 30m decades, caution in predicting future development circumference cages constructed of wood. Hand is wise. However, some development trends are clear feeding allowed spillage of feed pellets resulting enough to give an indication of what to expect. in unacceptable impacts to the seabed. Early pen design was also less resilient. Fewer secondary safety features meant that during bad weather stock could We expect farming technology to change, but exactly escape and working conditions were risky. how it will change remains to be seen. The trend towards larger farms, located further off the coast, will continue. One potential development is the use Today, following industry consolidation, more of submersible net-pens, which reduce exposure to professional fish farming approaches and better parasites and harsh weather conditions. The proportion technology have reduced the time to fish maturity from of the salmon life cycle spent in closed containment is 30 to 18 months. Modern pens can have a circumference also likely to increase. Several business units are already of up to 160m. They have remotely controlled automatic planning new sites for rearing post smolts (up to feeding systems linked directly to feed barges, so that 1kg fish) in closed tanks on land, and are looking into overfeeding, feed spills and the associated seafloor technology for floating closed containment for fish build-ups are minimised. Pen materials and structures up to 1kg. Full cycle to harvest in closed containment are now substantially more robust and are easier to appears impractical at present as the required energy clean, reducing the need for chemical defoulers. input to currently available recirculating technology Feed composition has moved on from fish trimmings to would be in conflict with our corporate sustainability high-technology feed pellets with significantly reduced objectives. We will continue to monitor and evaluate marine ingredients. Parasite control has moved on from this and all new advances in rearing technology. putting onions in the water to a complex combination of biological, medical, technical and husbandry The trend towards reduced dependency on wild fish techniques. Fish health interventions have advanced material for feed is also expected to continue, and we from a reliance of antibiotics to widely used vaccines will see debates on the use of genetically modified for the most common diseases. feeds, and land animal protein for feeds in fish farming, in the same way as we have seen in agriculture. With new genetic technology, breeding towards specific traits is made possible. Salmon will be bred not only for growth and general health conditions but also for disease resistance. New vaccine technology is expected to lead to effective vaccines against viral diseases. Fish welfare is also an area where improvements are expected. Harvest methods are already undergoing changes, to avoid stress and enhance welfare. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way the future Our ambiti0n is t0 44 H0w will these Genetic modification Genetic modification and transgenic organisms enable 0ur industry are now not uncommon in crops, vegetables and impr0vements micro-organisms, for the production of feed, feed t0 increase the ingredients, food, food ingredients and pharmaceutical products. Advances in the development of a genetically supply 0f nutriti0us affect me? modified, transgenic salmon in the USA have seen an Atlantic salmon put forward to FDA approval for seaf00d t0 the production and sale in the USA. Genetic material from chinook salmon and ocean pout has been introduced w0rld’s p0pulati0n into it to promote – it is claimed – more rapid growth. For Marine Harvest, our yardstick for the fish’s In the early years of salmon farming, the R&D focus while impr0ving was on making it possible to farm salmon. In the next development phase, reducing costs, improving fish acceptability is first whether it satisfies our Qmarine quality management system. Specifically: 0ur techn0l0gy health while ensuring growth capacity was the main focus. • Whether the fish is documented safe to eat. • Is the fish reared in conditions that are well suited and reducing 0ur Over the last few years, risk reduction and environmental to their needs, minimising diseases and disorders, ensuring appropriate nutrition and with the freedom envir0nmental impacts took centre stage, following an acknowledgment that biological and environmental risks are closely to express their natural behaviour? f00tprint. linked to long-term value creation, and that we have an obligation for environmental responsibility. The • Does the fish fulfil agreed customer specifications and consumers’ expectations? decade to come should bring further industrialisation • Environmental impacts should be minimised with and professionalisation in our industry to reduce no lasting effects. environmental impacts, minimise associated risks and Before transgenic salmon can be of interest to Marine then implicitly to improve quality while reducing costs. Harvest, all these requirements would have to be In summary, our ambition is to enable our industry to satisfied. In addition to this, the use of GM salmon must increase the supply of nutritious seafood to the world’s be legally authorised, evaluated as ethically acceptable, population while reducing our environmental footprint. and lastly the food must be in demand. Sustainable seafood The Marine Harvest way Edited, designed and produced by Salterbaxter. Printed by Fulmar. www.marineharvest.com Marine Harvest ASA PO Box 1086 Sentrum 0104 Oslo Norway Telephone: +47 21 56 20 00 Email: corporate@marineharvest.com
