Chairman´s Report to Stakeholders 2011 Table of contents page 1. Chairman´s Report to Stakeholders 2011 page 2. Table of contents page 3. Chairman´s Statement for continued support (1) page 4. Chariman´s Statement for continued support (2) page 5. Chairman´s Statement for continued support (3) page 6. Human Rights Aspects page 7. Labour Standards page 8. Environmental Aspects page 9. Anti-Corruptional Aspects page 10. FAI – a Global Employer page 11. FAI´s service – Revenues 2010 by Division page 12. FAI´s Ambulance Division page 13. Performance Specifications page 14. Patient Transport in Distances (2010) page 15. FAI´s Public Services page 16. FAI´s Revenue 2007 – 2011 by Type of Service (graphic) page 17. FAI´s Stakeholders 2 Chairman´s Statement for continued support (1) Opening of our new Hangar 6 at Nuremberg International Airport Looking back to the last year, we are deeply grateful to all our clientele, business partners and our employees for all their advise and assistance. Having had this support of each and every one of us we were able to do grand strides towards future which means setting new, huge milestones. In April 2011, we could open our new Hangar 6 in Nuremberg International Airport. In close collaboration with constructional and architectural Experts, we could create a new officeand functional building considering exploitation of land and on economical and natural resources. We met the challenge to implement renewable energy technology as it is solar energy, which can supply much more than the required power which is necessary to secure the daily operations while installing a 100 kwp roof top solar power plant, ensuring a carbon-neutral running. We are proud having accomplished this kind of project as the first one´s on a German Airport. Through this exceptional project, we could preserve jobs on more than a temporary basis – on local employment market as well as in our internal structure. 3 Chairman´s Statement for continued support (2) Opening of FAI Clinic Médina Chérif 20,000 residents of Médina Chérif in Senegal can sigh with relief: if they are in need of medical aid, they do not have to head for the long way to the 80 km far apart Kolda any more. In April this year, me and my wife Ingeborg, accompanied by Ute-Henriette Ohoven – Special-Ambassador of the UNESCO Foundation – Education for Children in Need could finally open up the clinic which groundbraking took place in 2010 . The Investment was locally supervised by the Austrian Relief-Organization Hope ´87. The new clinic safeguards first medical care for pregnant women, infants or any other patients who are in need of medical help. For many years we put ourselves out for social projects but this was one of our most important ones so far. 4 Chairman´s Statement for continued support (3) Over the intervening years we attend to Global Compact´s Initiative, there is continouos advancement which affects notably and sustainable our business. We recognize and demonstrate our committment to the 10 principles as we pursue imploringly the concepts since we joined the Global Compact in year 2005. Siegfried Axtmann Chairman 5 Human Rights Aspects To respect the dignity of each human being Principle 1 and to create the rule of law and within the company, Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed which can develop their human rights are not only human rights and basic ethical precepts, but also conditions for sustained political stability and economic and social development in the world. Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. This principle is very important for us. As globalization gains that task more and more practical relevance, it becomes clear that the protection of fundamental freedom, respect the rule of procedure, the political and social equality are the basis of state stability in the interest of multinational corporations and therefore in our interest. 6 Labour Standards For our colleagues we Principle 3 want the best so we put Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition much emphasise on light of the right to collective bargaining. suffused workplaces and lounges to recreate, what has been successfully Principle 4 implemented in our new Green Hangar recently. The elemination of all forms of forced and Ccmpulsory labour. For the prosperity of our personnel we provide work clothes for all weather-situations, to prevent Principle 5 diseases we offer vaccinations for everybody voluntarily The effective abolition of child labour. and free of charge. To offer a maximum contribution to a balanced Principle 6 nutrition we work together with a local partner who The elimination of discrimination in respect offers a considerable choice of hot meals, most of them of employment and occupation. base on biological food. 7 Environmental Aspects Our major goal this year was to cast a covetous Principle 7 eye on the numerous display work stations. Businesses should support a precautionary To prevent our employees from any health approach to environmental challenges. detriment, we installed almost exclusively on all our desks monitors with LED background illumination. Principle 8 The usage of these particular screens conserves Undertake initiatives to promote greater energy up to 37.2 kilowatt-hours and additional environmental responsibility. reduces CO2 emission of about 23.6 kg. The implementation of virtual servers enables an Principle 9 exploitation of existing resources at a minimum Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. application of hardware. We are always mindful in being delivered with packaging material consisting of a minimum of 80 % corrugated paper what results in another reduce of CO2 emission consequently. 8 Anti-Corruptional Aspects Corruption is inherently wrong. It is a misuse of Principle 10 power and position and has a disproportionate Businesses should work against all forms impact on the poor and disadvantaged. of corruption, including extortion and We fight against corruption in all its forms bribery. as it is the most important thing for us to do. One of our major goals is to fight against all forms of corruption. Based on our experience for many years, it Always has been our endeavour to meet high ethical standards as we are not willing to take any risks – neither legal nor reputational. 9 FAI – a Global Employer FAI rent-a-jet is operating globally for more than 20 years, employing more than 140 people from 20 different countries. AUSTRIA DENMARK CZEECH REPUBLIC FINLAND GERMANY GHANA GREECE HUNGARY ICELAND IVORY COAST KENYA RUSSIA SENEGAL SERBIA SOLVENIA SWEDEN SWITZERLAND TURKEY UGANDA SOUTH AFRICA 10 FAI´s service – Revenues 2010 by Division One Company Powerful Divisions 45 % Air Ambulance worldwide 5 % Aircraft Maintenance 30 % Public Service 20 % Executive Jet Charter and Aircraft Management In the year of 2010 FAI´s consolidated revenues were exceeding EUR 42 m which refelcts an increase of above 20 % versus 2009. For the fiscal year FAI estimates consolidated revenues of EUR 50 m, what again would reflect an increase of around 20 % versus 2010. 11 FAI´s Ambulance Division FAI has been intensively focusing on the Ambulance Market since 2001 and meanwhile is generating 45 % of its revenues withAmbulance Missions. With its own in house Medical Department and 35 „Flying Doctors“ and 25 „Flight Nurses“, FAI has been awarded 2007 the first time with EURAMI´s (European Aero-Medical Institute) Certificate „Critical Care“, which is the highest certification EURAMI is issuing to Air Ambulance Operators. Recertification-Audit was passed in June 2010. 12 Performance Specifications Special Equipment for medical Flexible operation for transportation time-critical missions (e. g. wing(e. g. IABP, PECLA, to-wing missions) Incubator and so on) State-of-the-art equipment for intensive-caremedicine Counselling and support in aviation medicine Organization of Worldwide service – Bed-to-bed service ground ambulances even in war risk and helicopterworldwide areas transportation 13 Patient Transport in Distances (2010) S Short Range (up to 800 nm = 1300 km M Medium Range (up to 1700 nm = 3150 km) L Long Range (up to 3000 nm = 5400 km) XL Ultra Long Range (more than 3000 nm/5400 km) 14 FAI´s Public Services • Support of UN Peace Keeping Missions since 2004 • Up to five UN-Missions on the African Continent same time • One additional Ambulance Jet in service after earthquake in Haiti, based on call in Dominican Republic • Spectrum of duties: – Medevac – Safety Evactuations – Liaison Missions / VIP-Transport – Staff and Equipment Transport – Casevac 15 FAI´s Revenue 2007 – 2011 by Type of Service (graphic) Mio € 25 20 15 10 5 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011* F/W Ambulance F/W Non-Ambulance incl. A/C-Mgmt. F/W Public Services Others * Forecast 16 FAI´s Stakeholders as per January 1, 2011 In December 2008 the Axtmann-Family sold a 49,9 % stake in FAI to MIG Aviation Holdings Ltd., Nicosia, Cyprus, a 100 % subsidiary of MIG Marfin Investment Group S. A., Athens, Greece, which is the biggest Greek Investment Group and one of the largest of Eastern Europe. MIG numbers in excess of 50,000 employees and associates and has a presence spanning over 40 countries. MIG is headquartered in Greece and listed on the Athens Exchange. 58 % of its share capital is held directly or indirectly by Greek strategic, institutional and retail investors and 24 % is held by international institutional investors. In June 2010, MIG rised its interest to 51 %, after exercising a call-option. 17
