0 PRANDA The Global Compact Report (English) Message from Chairman of Pranda 1 Group of Companies Throughout 38 years in business , Pranda Group of Companies has developed a solid foundation until today when the Company is one of the forefront operator of comprehensive jewelry products which covers not only product design but also own brand development through design and product development center and eight production bases in five countries including Thailand, Vietnam, China, Indonesia, Germany, as well as nine international distribution networks in nine countries, namely Thailand, the United States, England, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Vietnam, and China. Incessant development has cemented the Company's confidence in mission to achieve the business goal to become ``the World Class Jewelry Brand Company.'' In the meantime, Pranda Group has strictly adhered to business ethics, good governance, and social responsibility for all stakeholders, environment care which reflects in business administration with social responsibility in all facets of departments and all positions of employees who are always instilled with senses of social and environmental responsibility and care on a sincere and concrete basis. The Company has in particular run business on the US Global Compact, the principles about equitable practices on human rights, labor standard, environmental and natural resource protection and anti-corruption. The Company is committed to running business on the Global Compact on continuous basis and taking it as the corporate mission in the future. The Company believes business is inseparable from society. Business could no longer operate merely for the sake of profit-making at the expense of community, as business's performance will definitely be subject to regression if society is in trouble. Prida Tiasuwan Chairman of Pranda Group of Companies 2 GENERAL Information Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited (PRANDA) was founded in 1973 initially as Pranda Design Company Limited which was later officially renamed to Pranda Jewelry Limited on April 27, 1984. It listed its ordinary shares on the Stock Exchange of Thailand on July 6, 1990 and converted into a Public Company Limited on June 3, 1994. Currently, Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited has registered capital of 410 million baht with 398.16 million baht paid up. Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited headquarters are located at No. 28 Soi Bangna Trad 28, Bangna District, Bangkok 10260. The Company is a manufacturer and distributor of genuine jewelry products and today becomes one of Thailand’s leading jewelry exporters with a customer base spanning key regions of the world from North America, to Europe and Asia Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited has set a vision to become the “World Class Jewelry Brand Company” To achieve that end, the Company has established solid foundations to accommodate such vision as evident by the Company’s balanced management structure which contains details as follows: 1) Production The Company’s jewelry production achieves economies of scale, enabling the Company to have the best production cost well appropriate to product quality. The Company has also well diversified production risks to cover almost all ranges of the product prices, and currently expanded production base to cover eight manufacturing factories in five countries as follows: Thailand. Pranda Jewelry Plc (Bangkok and Nakhon Ratchasima) Crystaline Co., Ltd. (Bangkok and Nakhon Ratchasima) Indonesia. P.T. Pranda SCL Indonesia Vietnam Pranda Vietnam Co., Ltd. China. Guangzhou Pangda Zhubao Shoushi Youxian Gongsi. Germany. Pranda & Kroll GmbH Co. KG With adequate number of production facilities to handle production orders, the Company has currently production capacity of over eight million pieces of jewelry products a year. 2) Distribution As part of marketing risk diversification and market base expansion, the Company has currently operated distribution through its own distribution subsidiaries and sales representatives both in Thailand and foreign countries. These distribution bases are strategically located in the key regions of the world including the United States, England, Germany, France, Italy, 3 Spain, Indonesia, Japan, China, Vietnam, India and Thailand. The Company’s distribution channels also include wholesaling to giant distributors. Today, the Company has six subsidiaries which function as the Company’s distribution base, namely The Untied States Pranda North America, Inc. France H. Gringoire s.a.r.l. England Pranda UK Ltd. Germany Pranda & Kroll GmbH Co. KG India Pranda Jewelry Pvt. Ltd. Indonesia P. T. Pranda SCL Indonesia 3) Retail The Company has subsidiaries which are versatile in retail management both for own retail outlets and distribution through franchise system, enabling the Company to get direct access to consumers. Currently, the Company has operated retail business mainly through four subsidiaries as follows: Thailand Primagold International China Guangzhou Pangda Zhubao Shoushi Youxian Gongsi Vietnam Pranda Vietnam Co., Ltd. Indonesia P.T. Pranda SCL Indonesia 4) Brand Management The Company has currently managed not only its own brand and subsidiaries’ brands but also licensed brands the Company and subsidiaries obtain distribution rights in a bid to develop and create values to the brand portfolio of the Group. The brand management has been currently administered largely by two companies as follows: Thailand Pranda Jewelry Plc. Germany Pranda & Kroll GmbH Co. KG 4 5 6 7 PRANDA’s Direction Our vision is to be the “World Class Jewelry Brand Company” of which we can accomplish through the business strategy with long-term focusing on Own Brand Manufacturing (OBM) to reach international level and on maintaining relationship with trading partners who have their own brands Original Design Manufacturing (ODM) OWN BRAND MANUFACTURING: OBM PRANDA’s Own Brand Manufacturing (OBM) consists of two groups: Precious Product and Lifestyle Product. Important developments in 2010 are as follows: o Precious Product Prima Gold, a 99.9% absolute pure gold jewelry, currently distributed through PRANDA’s Own Flagship Shop & Counters, Independent Retailer, and overseas Franchises, has covered main markets in Thailand, Indonesia, Dubai, Oman, Egypt, Philippines, Malaysia, and India. The markets in Indonesia and India are the potential markets for growth. Prima Art, a 99.9% gold sheet handcrafted art piece which is distributed through PRANDA’s counters in leading department stores in Thailand and independent retailers in India, has expanded to cover more than 2,000 points of sales in India. H. Gringoire, a European styled 18K gold jewelry set with color stones which is distributed to medium-high independent retailers in France, has revamp its brand image to be more modern and distinguished. o Lifestyle Product Caï, a fashioned silver jewelry brand which is distributed through independent retailers and chain stores in Europe, has received well response for the recent launch of men collection. Currently Caï has more than 400 points of sales in Europe. Merii, a fashioned silver jewelry which is distributed through independent retailers and chain stores in Germany and the Netherlands. The Germany’s market has shown good potential for growth. Currently Merii has more than 450 points of sales in Europe. 8 Esse, a silver jewelry with marcasite which is distributed through PRANDA’s own flagship shops and counters in leading department stores in China, has expanded to cover 13 points of sales in Shenzhen. In 2011, PRANDA plans to focus more on its own brands, particularly in China, India, and Europe. The Prima Gold brand has a plan to start more marketing activities in India in the form of wholesales through independent retailers and franchises. The Esse brand will expand its branches in Shenzhen and Beijing. The Caï brand will focus more on the Germany and Europe in the form of the distribution through independent retailers and chain stores. ORIGINAL DESIGN MANUFACTURING: ODM PRANDA also maintains its existing customer base and continuously opens new markets in terms of manufacturing and designing with its customers through Original Design Manufacturing (ODM) of which consists of customers in many countries, namely, Germany, Australia, UK, France, Spain, Italy, US, and Japan through various distribution channels consisting of television, department store, chain store, and mail order/ catalogues. For the year 2011, PRANDA’s policy still aims to maintain its potential growth customers from the markets in the US and the European Union, as well as to open new markets i.e. Russia which shows potential growth. The Company is confident that the market risk diversification among important regions in the World, namely, the US, the European Union, and Asia, can preserve the long-term stability of growth to the Company. 9 BRIEF History and Honorary Rewards of Pranda Group 2010 • The Company's employees won the “Jury’s Choice Prize” has participated in “GIT Gem and Jewelry Design award 2010” under the topic of “ The force of nature –The Impressionable Design for change” held by the Gems and Jewelry Institute of Thailand. 2009 • Pranda Jewelry Plc., received a shield of honor at International Day of Persons with Disabilities for the private ventures which support occupational opportunities for the disabled from Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva who has also presided over the event. • Scoring ``Excellent'' (four stars) rating for Annual General Shareholders Meeting (AGM) Assessment Program for two years in a row in 2008 and 2009. The assessment program has been held by the Office of Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Thai Investors Association, and Thai Listed Companies Association. The AGM is one of many components reflecting listed companies' awareness of good corporate governance implementation. • Scoring ``Very Good'' (four stars) rating in the Corporate Governance Report of Thai Listed Companies 2009 prepared by the Thai Institute of Directors Association (IOD), which evaluates the good corporate governance practices of the listed companies. • Having been nominated among one of the four listed companies in the Stock Exchange of Thailand with market capitalization of not over 10,000 million baht (Group 2) in contest for Corporate Social Responsibility Awards 2009. • Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co, the Company's subsidiary has entered into a license agreement with Baldessarini GmbH, the leader in men's jewelry and accessories from Germany under Baldessarini brand. 2008 • Received a trophy from Deputy Prime Minister Sanan Kachornprasart on occasion that the Company has been acclaimed by the Department of Labor Protection and Welfare as the establishment which complies with the government's policy in promoting labor welfare by establishing standardized child care centre at the enterprise on continuous basis. The trophy given aims to set a good example to other corporations. • Received certificates and a shield of honor at ``68 years of Thai vocational education going forward to the future'' event from Deputy Education Minister Narisara Chawaltanpipat on 10 occasion that the Company has been chosen as the establishment which offers good cooperation with authorities from the Office of Vocational Education Commission in preparing educational and occupational training. • The annual general meeting of shareholders had approved the issuance of Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOP) in amount of 14,251,410 units which would be contributed for free to Directors and employees of the Company and/or subsidiaries. The warrants carry five year terms from the issue date with the exercise ratio equivalent to 1 warrant to 1 common share. The exercise price is three baht per share. • The company has set up the savings co-operatives for employees in Pranda group as a way to provide various financial services and promote savings among employees. • Crystaline Co., Ltd. has obtained the copyright of V&A jewelry brand from England-based Victoria & Albert Museum (V&A), tthe world's largest museum of decorative arts, design and jewelry products. • The company has raised investment in Guangzhou Pangda Zhubao Shoushi Yiuxian Gongsi for US$1.5 million, increasing China's subsidiarys registered capital to US$2.35 million, representing 100% ownership. 2007 • The Company was awarded the first runner-up award from participating in the work performance competition under the Philosophy of Sufficiency Economy for large-scale enterprises which run their business according to the Sufficiency Economy Philosophy which has been organized by the Office of the Royal Development Projects Board under the Prime Minister's Office. • Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited won Thai Labor Standard award (TLS 8001-2003), Completion Level from the Department of Labor Protection and Welfare, the Ministry of Labor. • The Company increased its in vestment in Primagold International Company Limited by 100 million baht, raising Primagold Internationals registered and paid-up capital to 200 million baht. Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited controls 100% in Primagold International. • The Company raised the investment in Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG Limited by 2.4 million euros or about 116 million baht, raising Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG's registered and paidup capital to 5.34 million euros. Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited holds 51% in the venture. 11 • Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG has taken over KSV Brand GmbH, which operates the distribution of jewelry products under Christ, Cai, Merri, and Michael Schumacher brands. • Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited has formed a joint venture with Gunjan Jewels Pvt. Ltd., to set up Pranda Jewelry Pvt. Ltd. in India to distribute the gold and silver jewelry under its own brand in India. Pranda Jewelry Public Company Ltd. holds 51% of the shares. • Primagold International Company Limited, the distributor of pure gold jewelry products under PRIMA GOLD brand won the Hot 2007 Award at the 38th Bangkok Gems & Jewelry Fair. 2006 • The Company has been acclaimed by the Stock Exchange of Thailand as the company with the best operating results in 2005 under the title ``Congratulate PRANDA as a Nominee for Best Performance-Consumer Products'' • Primagold International Company Limited, the distributor of pure gold jewelry products under PRIMA GOLD brand won the Hot 2007 Award at the 38th Bangkok Gems & Jewelry Fair. • Primagold International launched Siam Pannarai designer Collections and received The Hot Design Award at the 37th Bangkok Gems & Jewelry Fair. • Pranda & Kroll (Germany) launched a new brand ``Cai'', at the Inhorgenta Fair, Munich, Germany. • Pranda Jewelry Plc. has been selected as one of the four Thai Companies meeting the Sufficiency Economy standards in running business in compliance with the Sufficiency Economy Philosophy of His Majesty the King held by the Office of the National Economic and Social Development Board. • PRANDA SCL (Indonesia) expanded capacity in response to increased overseas demand from 450 workers to 700 workers. 2005 • Received a shield of honor as outstanding establishment on labor welfare from the Department of Labor Protection and Welfare, the Ministry of Labor. • Raised its investment in Crystaline Co., Ltd. Bangkok by 50 million baht to 100 million baht. The company holds 96% stake in Crystaline. • Primagold International Co., Ltd. signed a joint venture deal with Tomei Gold & Jewelry Holding to distribute PRIMA GOLD products in Malaysia. • Primagold International Co., Ltd. operates 48 retail outlets in Thailand and 35 outlets in international markets. In total the company operates 83 distribution outlets. 12 • Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited signed a joint venture agreement with Gregor Kroll of Kroll GmbH in a ratio of 51:49 to set up Pranda & Kroll GmbH & Co. KG in Germany to distribute gold and silver jewelry products in Germany and Europe. 2004 • Received special Export Honorary Recognition award from the Department of Export Promotion, Commerce Ministry as the Thai exporter with the most robust growth for 10 consecutive years and as the Thai company which was used to win Best Exporter award before. • Received standard certificate for 96.5% gold jewelry under ``Century Gold'' brand from the Office of the Customer Protection Board. • Primagold International Co., Ltd. launched gold jewelry with 96.5% purity under ``Century Gold'' brand with the first retail outlet opened at the Mall Department Store, Bangkhae and expanded to seven branches within the same year. 2003 • Received a shield of honor from the Department of Labor Protection and Welfare, the Ministry of Labor as the private establishment which implements activities which support and benefit female workers. • Established a new production base in China under Pranda Guangzhou • Increased investment in Primagold International Company Limited by 50 million baht raising the registered capital to 100 million baht in which the company holds 100% stake. 2002 • Received a certificate of approval and emblem from the Office of Consumer Protection Board as the establishment which ``protects the consumers' rights on labels, advertisements, and contracts.'' • Chosen as the workplace which is ``clean, safe, pollution-free and dynamic'' and received testimonial from the Health Department of Bangkok Metropolitan Administration. • Selected to become a member of Bangna canalside community under ``We love canal'' project from Bangna district office. The Company also received certificate for attending the training program on food sanitation for restaurant operators after the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration has issued regulations on ``place where meals are sole and place where foodstuff is stored 2007'' 13 • The company offered 200,000,000 units of the five-year warrants (2 May, 2002 to 2007) to existing shareholders. 2001 • The Company's employees received bronze medal on jewelry designer from 36th World Skills Completion held at Seoul, South Korea. • Pranda Jewelry Plc received ``white factory'' (anti-drug entrepreneur project) certificate from Department of Labor Protection and Welfare, the Ministry of Labor • The Company's showroom received ISO 9001:2000 quality management standard certification for jewelry distribution and services from BM TRADA Certification, a leading multi-sector certification body accredited by UKAS (United Kingdom Accreditation Service). The Company's Nakhon Ratchasima branch also received ISO 9001:2000 quality management standard certification for jewelry production in part of factory from an independent certification body BVQI. 2000 • The Company received the Gold Card exporter award from the Customs Department, Finance Ministry which offers fast track benefits on imported raw materials. The award represents the company's creditability and financial stability. • The Company's employees won the gold and silver medal on jewelry designer from the 18th national skills competition held by Department Of Skill Development under Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare. • Crystaline Co., Ltd., received Prime Minister's Export Award for the Best Own Design Exporter held by the Export Promotion Department. • The Company was awarded ``clean place to dine'' as the establishment which meets sanitary standards for food outlets (physical facet) held by food sanitation division, environmental sanitation division under Bangkok Metropolitan Administration. • The Company was awarded the Gold Card exporter from the Customs Department, Finance Ministry with “track” benefits on imported raw materials. 1999 • The Company and two subsidiaries Prima Gold and Crystaline Co., Ltd., have been endorsed by he Export Promotion Department, Commerce Ministry, to use Thailand's Brand, as standard product manufacturer and exporter. 14 • Received certificate from the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare as the export establishment which complies with female and child labor protection standards using proactive approach • The Company's employees won bronze medal from 35th World Skills Competition held at Montreal in Canada on jewelry designer. 1998 • Received the Best Marketing of New Gold Product and Best Gold Visual Merchandising awards from World Gold Council 1996 • Prima Gold Co., Ltd., the Company's subsidiary, received Prime Minister's Export Award for the Best Own Design Exporter from the Thai government and won the contest for ``Golden Design Award'' at Vicenza Oro Fair held by World Gold Council, while ``Prima Gold'' designs from Indonesia won two awards the Best International Award of Indonesia and ``The Best Outstanding International Award'' from five countries in the Far East Asia. • Expanded the foreign market for Prima Gold International and co-invested in LG Pranda (now operated under the name of KZ Pranda) to import and distribute silver and gold products. 1995 • Received Prime Minister’s Export Award or P.M. Award which is presented every year by the Thai government to exporters who have outstanding performance as Best Exporter • Established foreign production bases through Pranda Vietnam and Pranda SCL (Indonesia) • Set up Pranda Singapore Pte. Limited to invest in Malaysia and Indonesia • Invested in establishing Pranda Lodging Co., Ltd., to provide accommodation services to the company’s employees 1994 • Established a new production base in Nakhon Ratchasima (Korat) and established a new international distribution base in the United Kingdom under Pranda UK Ltd. 1993 • Established product and brand development center under PRIMA GOLD and launched domestic distribution 1992 • Expanded business by establishing its own distribution bases in overseas markets under Pranda North America, Inc., Crystaline North America, Inc. and H. Gringoire s.a.r.l. 15 1990 • Pranda registered and traded on the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) under trading symbol Pranda • Invested in setting up production base under Crystaline Co., Ltd. 1984 • Expanded business by establishing production base and changed company name to ‘’Pranda Jewelry’’ 1973 • Commenced export trading operations under Pranda Design 16 GOOD Corporate Governance Report The Company determines to operate its business on the Good Corporate Governance principles with the education of working awareness and morality to its employees as well as places an importance upon business operation with the fair realization of all shareholders and stakeholders. The Company has established a written Good Corporate Governance policy since 2000 as a scope of operation for the Board of Directors, Executives, and all employees to routinely apply the Company’s Good Corporate Governance principles with all level of management of the business till the principles become good corporate culture which lead to the mutual value for practices such as providing fair treatment to all stakeholders, full capacity of operation for the Company’s benefits with integrity, transparency, and can be examined. In 2007, the Company’s Good Corporate Governance Policy was enhanced to be Corporate Governance Manual (CG Manual) by adding important policies of the Company to be in accordance with the Good Corporate Governance Principles for Listed Companies 2006 of the Stock Exchange of Thailand as well as following the OECD Principles of Corporate Governance. In 2008, the Board of Directors had considered the 2nd improvement of the context of the Company’s CG Manual, with appropriate rearrangement with additional complete details following the Securities and Exchange Act (No. 4) B.E. 2551, the Chapter 3/1 “Governance of Publicly Traded Company”, which was distributed on December 9, 2008 to the Board, Executives, and employees for acknowledgement and practice, as well as disseminated to all related parties through the Company’s website. With such a determination, the Company received the 4 stars from the Corporate Governance Report of Thai Listed Companies 2010: Very Good from the survey of Corporate Governance Report of Thai Listed Companies by the Thai Institute of Directors (IOD). The Company was one of 179 listed companies which received “Very Good” from the total of 480 listed companies. In addition, the Company was one of 479 listed companies which received “Very Good” from the quality assessment of the 2010 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders by the Thai Investors Association which assessed 479 listed companies. The results indicate that the Company has continuously placed and importance Good Corporate Governance development with determination which the important factor is reflecting the efficient corporate administration to long-term create value added to the shareholders. The Company still maintains its compliance to the Good Corporate Governance policy which the Company has stipulated, as well as provides improvement and guidelines development by annually disclosing the compliance result. For the year 2009, the Board of Directors supervised the strict compliance of the Good Corporate Governance policy of the Directors, Executives, and 17 employees. Thus, there was no incidence in which non-compliance against the Company’s Good Corporate Governance policy was occurred and the results of the compliance are as follows: Good Corporate Governance Policy The Board of Directors of the Company had established a written Good Corporate Governance policy as a principle of operation for the Directors, Executives, and all employees. The policy received the improvement twice to be the Corporate Governance Manual of CG Manual. The Corporate Governance principles of the Company are in accordance with His Majesty the King’s economic sufficiency philosophy with the royal remark for sustainable development. The philosophy focuses on the balance and readiness to quick changes which places an importance upon knowledge usage with carefulness and morality which are the same as the Company’s 8 basic principles, namely: 1. Accountability – To be responsible for the decision and action of oneself and to explain the decision making; 2. Responsibility – To be responsible for the operation of the duty with sufficient capability and efficiency; 3. Integrity 4. Equitable treatment to stakeholders 5. Transparency in the operation which can be examined and of the information disclosure to related parties; 6. Business Ethics 7. Vision to Create Long Term Value to the Company; 8. Corporate Social Responsibility The Company also follows the guidelines of the Good Corporate Governance as promoted by the Stock Exchange of Thailand with the determination for the Company’s Board and Management to enhance the Corporate Governance to reach the international standard for the benefit of the Company and the competitiveness and growth of the Thai Capital market, as well as to support Thailand’s economic sustainable growth. 18 The Rights of Stakeholders The Company respects the rights of all groups of stakeholders and has a policy to fully provide the rights to the groups, namely the internal stakeholders such as employees and Executives of the Company and its subsidiaries, and the external stakeholders such as shareholders, customers, trading partners, creditors, and competitors, including the public and the society. The treatment toward the stakeholders can be summarized as follows: • Shareholders : The Company determines to be a good representative of the shareholders by performing business with transparency and creating the utmost benefit to the shareholders with the realization of the long-term growth of the Company with satisfactory and continuous return. In each year the Company pays the dividend as the stipulated policy of the Company i.e. to pay the dividend of no more than 60% of the net profit. In the past 5 years, the Company had paid the dividend at 52.75% 59.97% of the net profit of each year. Moreover, there was no action which prohibited or derogated the rights of the shareholders. In 2010, there were no complaints of disrespect of the basic rights of the shareholders or any wrong doings of the Directors of Executives concerning the access to the internal information. • Employees : The Company has realized the importance of the employees who are the main driver of the Company’s growth. Thus, the Company’s treatment to all employees of every level with equality in terms of providing continuous knowledge and capability development with consistency and appropriate fringe benefits and remuneration, including good working environment with safety. With the Company’s receiving the Thai Labor-Standard (TLS. 8001 – 2546) Certificate Completion Level, Initiative Phase from the Department of Labour Protection, the Ministry of Labour, it is the safety guarantee of the employees. Also, the Company is considered to the organization to response to the government’s policy to promote labour welfare since it has a standardized nursery within the Company which has been continuously in operation. The 19 Company received the Honorable Mention Award from Major General Sanan Kachornprasart, Deputy Prime Minister. The Company has set up the Provident Fund for the employees to have stable future guarantee and the Saving Cooperative for the employees of the group of companies of PRANDA Jewelry Co., Ltd. to promote saving habit of the employees. In 2010, there was no dispute case between the Company and the employees. • Customers : The Company has efficiently expanded its new customer base and still maintained its existing customers with products’ quality at international level with appropriate price and impressive services. • Trading Partners and Creditors : The Company’s stipulated policy of procurement aims to appropriately perform business with the trading partners with fairness and efficiency by following an agreement with the trading partners and creditors to provide complete and actual financial information and to create good relationship which lead to the consistent confidence of the trading partners and creditors concerning the Company’s financial status. • Competitors : The Company’s policy and treatment of the competitors are included in the manual of the Corporate Governance under the section of “Ethic” by accordingly treating the competitors with the international standard under the legal scope concerning the trading competition practices without violating or knowing the trading secret of the competitors through deceptive methods, of which the Company has strictly followed. In 2010, the Company had no disputes with the trading competitors. • Society and Environment : The Company places an importance upon the conservation of limited natural resources with the utmost utilization for the sustainable abundance. Moreover, the Board of Directors has established the Share Value Committee to supervise and support social and environmental activities such as dual 20 education system/ the education and career support to the disabled project/ the share and provide benefit to the society project/ relationship enhancement with the surrounded communities of which the details are indicated in the section of “Responsibility of the Board of Directors” under the subject Leadership and Vision. In addition, the Company has continuously organized activities for the public’s benefits with the objective to create awareness of social and environmental responsibility among all level of employees. The details of the activities in 2010 are included in the subject “Responsible for the society and environment.” With its continuous compliance to the Good Corporate Governance principles in terms of society and environment, the Company was 1 of the 4 listed companies in the SET with market capitalization of not exceeding than Baht 10,000 million (Group 2) to be nominated for the Corporate Social Responsibility Awards 2009 (the award for the listed companies with the excellent business operation of social responsibility.) Core Value The 4/2009 meeting of the Board of Directors held on March 9, 2009 has resolved to appoint the Core Value Committee whose key components include one chairman and six directors with an aim to promote and support the core value creation within the group. To achieve this effort, it needs to promote the sense of participation of employees throughout the entire organization, standardize participatory activities, organize activities on a continuous basis, as well as apply activities and programs into real working practices and daily life according to the core values jointly adopted. Terms of the Core Value Promotion Committee are two years. The working committee whose terms expire may be re-appointed. Name of the Core Value Promotion Committee is as follows:1. Mrs. Panidda Tiasuwan Chairman 2. Mr. Somsak Srirueangmon Director 21 3. Mr. Chartchai Teekaveerakit Director 4. Ms. Rungnapa Ngowngamratana Director 5. Mrs. Natthaporn jarukornvasin Director 6. Mrs. Sasisopa Wattakeecharoen Director 7. Ms. Suporn Rungpitayatorn Director Name of advisors to the Core Value Promotion Committee 1. Mr. Prida Tiasuwan 2. Mr. Pramote Tiasuwan 3. Mr. Chainarong Jitmetta 4. Mrs. Somradee Kittimethee 5. Mr. Somchai Jarukornvasin Scope of Authorities and Duties of the Core Value Promotion Committee 1. To integrate the organization's vision into actual practices under the core value development framework on the concrete and appropriate basis. 2. To promote and support the core value creation throughout the entire organization. 3. To promote the systemization, administration, appraisal and development, activities or programs which respond to the core value on the systematic basis as well as support the application as appropriate. 4. To promote communication and collaboration within the organization as a way to develop the cooperation among employees to ensure all act in the same direction whereby promoting better understanding in the corporate policies and convincing them to share the same vision in the best attempt to achieve the company's goals. 5. To promote good working environments in order to stimulate learning among employees and their morale throughout the entire organization. The Board of Directors has appointed the Share Value Promotion Committee to promote Share Value among the group of companies. The employees have to thoroughly take part and systematically improve share activities with continual, including harmoniously apply the project activities with way of operation and way of life following the mutual share value. The scopes of work of the Share Value Committee’s promotion are as follows: 22 1. Employee Saving Cooperative of PRANDA Jewelry Co., Ltd. It was established in 2008 with more than present 2,000 members. The objective of the establishment is to encourage saving members to save their income for stability of wealth and appropriate benefit as well as to promote self assistant and mutual members assistant through financial service to the members and to support the members’ learning and quality of life development. In 2010, there were 51 scholarship worth Baht 72,000 provided to children of the Company’s employees. 2. Education and Career Project for the Disabled The Company, in cooperation with the Royal Goldsmith, School for the Deaf, and Ratchasuda College, Mahidol University, accepted the students with hearing problem, following the royal initiation of Her Royal Highness Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn, including Nakhorn Luang Polytechnic College, for the internship and employment. At present, there are 25 students accepted. As a result, the Company received the P.M. Award, under the category of Thai-Owned Brand to provide professional support to the disabled, from Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva. 3. CSR Project The Company had organized many activities for the society such as being invited to be a guest speaker of “CSR Thailand 2011 – Let’s Go for It” held by the CSR Club of the Thai Investors Association under the subject of “How to do CSR to corporate create value added?” In addition, the Company has joined the blood donation with the Thai Red Cross in every three months since 1991. 4. Dual System Education It is the project between the Royal Goldsmith and the Bangkok Arts and Crafts College to organize the “Dual System” of vocational education in cooperation with the Office of the Non-Formal and Informal Education to expand the vocational education opportunity to the disadvantaged students to study in the Dual System at the vocational certificate level of gems and jewelry. The project has been organized for 10 consecutive years with the total 23 graduated students of 555 students, and 238 studying students. Thus, the Company received an honorable plague from Narisara Chavaltanpipat, Deputy Minister of Education, as the Company provided a good support to vocational education on occasion of 68th Anniversary of Thai Vocational Education. 5. Nursery Center The Company has operated Nursery Center for more than 25 years. It is to help taking care of children of the Company’s employees. Till today, the Nursery has taken care of more than 927 children. It is a social enhancement under PRANDA’s umbrella following the Company’s policy to create PRANDA as a second home. 6. Self-learning Center The Company’s library has been in operation for 4 years which aims to promote the employees’ knowledge, capability, and useful spare time spending, reading with internet service for searching information and various kinds of books such as books for knowledge or general magazines of more than 2,000 books. It is opened from Monday to Saturday, and is expanded to Sunday for the employees to have quality time with their families during the holidays. At present, the employees receive the service at the average of 300 times per month. 7. Community Support The Company provids stationary and presents to children on the National Children Day from Wat Pong Ploy Anusorn School, Child Development Center at Wat Pong Ploy Anusorn, Bang Na District Office, Bang Na Police Station, and the Training Center for Boys Baan Ubekha, which is held every year to create good relationship between the organizations and the community. 24 Pranda jointly supports activities in National Children Day January 8, 2010, Mr. Pichet Suppatkul, Human Resources Division Manager and Ms. Ratchanee Khwansri, Chief of Public Relations Section, have represented Pranda Jewelry Plc., to offer gifts in the National Children Day festival to Pongploy-anusorn School, Wat Pongploy-anusorn’s child development center, Sri Iam Anusorn School, Bangna District Office, Bangna police station, and adjacent communities on occasion of National Children Day. The event aims to help society and create good relationship between schools and adjacent communities and develop Thai children into the country’s good and quality citizen in the future. 8. Share Value Activity The activity aims to create share value among the group of Companies with thorough mutual share of the employees, continuous systematic activity improvement, as well as accordingly applying activities and projects with the operation method and way of life with harmony following the mutual share value. The “Share Value” which everyone from the PRANDA’s group of companies has mutually stipulated consists of: • Teamwork Definition: Cooperative effort to enhance motivation which leads to mutual cooperation of all level of employees to achieve the Company’s goal • Continuous Improvement 25 Definition: To build up opportunity and see the importance of improvement, continuous improvement which always lead to better thing in terms of the level of personnel, units, and the Company following customers’ needs and ever changing environment. • Stakeholder Focus Definition: Attention, fairness, transparency must be performed during the operation by focusing on the benefit of stakeholders, namely, shareholders, employees, customers, trading partners, creditors, competitors, communities, and the society. The aforementioned principles clearly indicate the Company’s mutual abiding motto, “Harmony, Seek Development, Create Value, and Maintain Morality”. Operational procedures of Share Values are as follows: 1. Communication to create understanding 2. Encouragement, practice, and response of Share Value with activities to continuously respond to 7 projects as follows: 2.1 Environmental conservation project: Improvement of classrooms’ blinders, announcement board, and making of straw health pillow; 2.2 Debt reduction project: To organize presentation of knowledge on credit card, training on expenditures, and debt composition project with the cooperation with the Islamic Bank of Thailand; 2.3 Travelling reduction project: Buses are offered to pick up staff within the range of 5 kilometers and car owners are encouraged to register the car pool project. 2.4 Health promotion project: Activities of exercises such as Aerobics, Yoga, Futsal, weight lose training, cervix cancer and breast cancer check up, and health news dissemination. 2.5 Innovation creativity promotion project: The activity is for employees to take part in increasing productivity by proposing idea for development and the improvement of machinery, production equipment, production method, or production process to increase productivity as targeted. There were 45 works submitted to join the project; 2.6 Knowledge Development Project: The activities are organized to promote additional knowledge among employees, consisting of mobile library, in-house program “Easy Dharma” on every Buddha Day, storytelling activity at the nursery, and saving skill 26 activity for employees’ children, to encourage reading habit among employees and increase knowledge and take forth the knowledge for better life development. Charity to Haiti earthquake victims February 4, 2010, Mrs. Prapee Sorakraikitikul, Chairman, together with Mr. Thatchanan Bhuddhaprasart, Marketing Manager of Primagold International Co., Ltd. has jointly donated money to help the victims who are hardest hit by the catastrophic earthquake in Republic of Haiti who disparately need urgent assistances. The donation is made via the Thai Red Cross received by Mr. Phaen Wannamethi, secretary-general of the Thai Red Cross at Terd Prakiat building of the Thai Red Cross. This charity program is a part of the Company’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) that stresses upon sharing and benefit allocation to society. Offering money to the Foundation for Children Recently, Mrs. Sunanta Tiasuwan, Corporate Finance Chairman of Pranda Jewelry Plc,, has offered money in amount of 500,000 baht to the Foundation for Children where Mr.Pipop Thongchai, Foundation's Director, has received it. Money donated would be used mainly to help needy and abandoned children. The foundation plays a vital role in the child development with an aim to restore and perfect their physical and mental strength, enabling them to live a better life and grow to become the country's good citizens. Pranda Nakhon Ratchasima Branch offers articles January 27, 2010, members of executives of Pranda Jewelry Plc., Nakhon Ratchasima branch, has represented management and employees to bring dessert, milk, and educational equipment to join the merit-making with the Company which will later take those items to offer to nearby schools. The activity aims mainly to underline good relationship between the Company and schools in the adjacent areas. 27 Pranda and summer training program Mr.Pramote Tiasuwan, Senior Vice President, Mrs. Panidda Tiasuwan Vice President of Pranda Jewelry Plc, have presided over “summer training program for 2010” to open an opportunity for students from provincial areas to participate in the program initiated through cooperation with Rajaprajanugroh 33, Lopburi, Rajaprajanugroh 27, Nong Khai, and other schools. Over 47 students have participated in the program aiming to generate income for children during school breaks and stimulate them to make the best use of their leisure time as well as train the children to learn and better understand the way of working. The program is held at Human Resource Development Room at the Club Building of Pranda Jewelry Plc on Saturday, March 13, 2010.
