CEMENT ABILITY  Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES INTRODUCTION 04 Our presence contents 05 Message from the CEO 06 Values and Governance 08 Sustainability Management 10 Sustainability Ambitions 12 Stakeholder Dialog REPORTING 15 Understanding our business 18 Health and safety 20 Our people 22 In the community 24 Environment key issues and management 25 Climate change 28 Managing emissions 30 Water footprint 31 Waste and recycling 32 Biodiversity at our sites 34 Customers 36 Our suppliers HOW WE REPORT 38 Report methodology 40 GRI corresponding tables If there is anything you wish to discuss in this report, LAFARGE GROUP please contact us at: giannarosc@lafarge.gr 48 Lafarge Group progress OUR PRESENCE Heracles General Cement Company, a member of Lafarge, is Greece’s largest cement producer, bringing to the market differentiated, innovative products to meet customer and end-user needs. The company operates three cement production plants, in Volos, Halkis and Milaki in Evoia, as well as six cement distribution Our terminals, which sustain its commercial presence throughout Greece. Its affiliate company LAVA, operates three quarries, of pumice stone on Yali island, pyrite on Milos island and gypsum in Altsi Crete. activities Kavala Thessaloniki Igoumenitsa Volos Halkis Aliveri Rio Drapetsona Milos Yali Plant Terminal Quarry Altsi Heraclion SHAREHOLDERS EMPLOYEES 350.8SALES 2010 (IN MILLION EUROS) DISTRIBUTION As of 31 December 010 Lafarge Group owned 88.99 % of the shares in Heracles.  Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES Introduction from the Chief Executive Officer I am pleased to be introducing the Heracles Sustainability Report for 2010. One of our commitments to our stakeholders is to provide comprehensive and regular information on how we are addressing sustainability issues. The fact that this is our third annual sustainability report is a demonstration of that commitment. 2010 has been a difficult year for Greece and for our business; although we have made progress with our sustainability performance it cannot be isolated from the economic situation. But difficult times encourage us to look especially carefully at the fundamentals of our business and our vision for the future. Here, I remain positive. First, the crisis has reinforced my view that in striving to be a more sustainable business we will also become stronger and more resilient. Second, the crisis requires us all in Greece to consider our responsibilities and our vision for the future. I am even more determined that Heracles will play its part as a responsible corporate citizen and contribute to a sustainable future for Greece. I would like to highlight some particular points. On health and safety, it is good to report excellent progress, but I remind all our stakeholders that we have a long way to go to reach our goal to be a zero-incident business. With this in mind, our intense effort continues, and in particular, all contracted work for Heracles is now covered by our Contractor Safety Management standard. I am very pleased that the preparations for the first stakeholder consultation committee in Milaki resulted in a successful meeting; this is a model we intend to roll-out to our other plants. I regret that we did not sustain the outstanding progress of 2009 in reducing CO2 emissions. We understand the reasons; market demand affects our ability to sell low-CO2 products. Since energy efficiency in our plants is improving and since we have new plans for innovative products to meet customers’ needs in 2011, I am confident we will resume the path to lower CO2. I also note with satisfaction the 2010 results for other air emissions; we are now outperforming our targets for dust, SO2 and NOx. Finally, on environmental management, we have extended our environmental auditing to our distribution centers, and developed the basis for a biodiversity program with a leading Greek university, which will raise our standards further. Overall, I can report that we are ahead of schedule with the majority of our Sustainability Ambitions for 2012, on track with the rest and also working on new ambitions for the period to 2020. Making Heracles a more sustainable business is an ongoing commitment and a long-term vision comprising many short and medium-term steps. We welcome comment from all our stakeholders on those steps to date and those we should plan to take in future. Pierre Deleplanque CEO Heracles HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report  VALUES AND GOVERNANCE The values that underlie our business have been explicitly defined and we are giving our people support and training to ensure they can Explicit deliver those values in practice. The corporate governance of Heracles has been established throughout the company’s life. This year we have further improved transparency and accountability. and transparent Our values Governance As a member of the Lafarge Group, we are guided The board by the Lafarge “Principles of Action” which deﬁne We have an eight-member Board, including one the values that are to be adopted by all Lafarge emexecutive member – the Managing Director. ployees, everywhere and all the time. Our Code of Business Conduct supports and acCorporate governance companies the Principles. It is consistent with the Corporate governance in Heracles reﬂects the comglobal code of the Lafarge Group but reﬂects the cirpany’s 100-year history and has always been wellcumstances and legal requirements that apply to established. The decision of the Greek government our business in Greece. to enact EU legislation on corporate governance prompted the Capital Markets Committee to ask all Embedding those values Greek-listed companies to demonstrate compliance; We set out in 2009 to ensure that the Principles and this meant that all companies should have, and the Code were not just understood but fully emmake public, proper corporate governance stanbedded in the ways that we do business. We started dards. This was an opportunity for us to deﬁne our a bespoke training program for this purpose and approach very explicitly, to make it completely tranthis continued in 2010 with 540 senior, middle and sparent and to hold it up as an example for other bulower managers, supervisors and foremen taking part. Typically, each session lasted one full day, and example involved groups of about 15 people working faceINTERNAL CONTROL to-face to identify, discuss and resolve real-life COORDINATORS examples of the Code in practice. This training will continue in 2011 and 2012, emOur internal control mechanism bracing a further 200-300 people each year. We will includes the Internal Audit team also introduce, in the future, e-learning facilities to and the internal control coordinators or “champions”. The “Champions” have been se“ lected for their mix of business 540 people trained knowledge and understanding of in the Code of risks. They occupy varied posts in the business including accoBusiness Conduct unting, credit control, capex ” control and inventory management. Their role is to bring to light internal control issues provide refresher courses and updates on the Code. which require either redesign of We have also extended the reach of the Code. We the process or development of require our consultants and business advisers to reaction plans. They are trained spect the principles and clauses contained in it and and supported by the Internal our logistics department require the same of our Audit team, and report to them contracted truck drivers (see page 36). for internal control matters, but otherwise maintain their usual Upholding values, combating fraud operational roles and reporting Our internal control coordinators are a valuable part lines. of our internal control mechanism and in 2011 we This approach gives momentum will be extending their training and their remit to adto our control function, ensures dress control of fraud. This is an additional way of that it is embedded within the ensuring that our values are widely reﬂected and organization and improves the reinforced at all levels and within all parts of the links with managers responsible company. for processes.  Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES sinesses in Greece. This process began in 2010 and Responsibility and accountability has since (in March 2011) resulted in the Board apWe have a structured and detailed approach to enproving and publishing the Heracles Code of Corposure that the principles of governance are cascarate Governance. We believe that our Code, as well ded throughout our operations. Our Corporate as complying with the new national legislation, reInternal Regulation assigns responsibilities to the presents a very high standard of corporate goverExecutive Committee and sets out a scheme for denance globally. legation of duties throughout the organization. Every year, members of the Board, the executive Risk and audit committee, and the Operational Committee sign letThe Audit Committee meets every 4 months, and ters conﬁrming their compliance with the Code of has oversight of the control and ﬁnancial risk asConduct and with that part of the Code of Business sessment procedures of the company. Conduct dealing with corruption and conﬂict of inA risk assessment process, facilitated by the interterest. nal audit manager and involving the senior managers in the company, takes place annually; it Sustainability identiﬁes basic business risks, including environOverall leadership on sustainability is provided by mental and legal risks, and level of exposure. The the Executive Committee, led by the Managing Diinternal audit manager presents the results to the rector, with the full support and backing of the main Executive Committee who then validates the action shareholder, Lafarge, and the rest of the Board. The plans and the responsibilities for monitoring. Committee determines overall policy on sustainability and individual members provide visible leaderShareholder’s meeting ship and personal commitment. This includes an EU legislation enacted by the Greek government annual review of sustainability performance. Our has also altered the law on arrangements for comstructured approach to delegation and accountabipany annual general meetings (AGMs). We have lity includes sustainability and environmental matcompletely revised our approach; investors and ters; these arrangements are described in the other stakeholders can now see and access a great following section. deal of material relevant to our AGM on the internet. This includes detailed recommendations from Competition compliance our Board on the topics to be discussed at the Training on our Competition Compliance policy took AGM. It is an approach which we believe sets an place in 2009; this year we have backed this up by example for other companies in Greece. printing and distributing copies of the policy to all employees. Executive oversight and management We have a seven-member Executive Committee which, chaired by the Managing Director, is reexample sponsible for the company on a day-to-day basis. It CONTENTS OF THE comprises the General Managers of ﬁnance, human HERACLES CODE OF resources, legal and real estate, sales and markeCORPORATE GOVERNANCE ting, supply chain, and the industrial General Manager. Two members are female, ﬁve are male. Article 1: General Provisions, Objective and Scope of Application Article 2: Code Execution and Effect Article 3: Basic Principles Article 4: Board of Directors Article 5: Audit Committee Article 6: Internal Audit Article 7: Remuneration System Article 8: Internal Regulation of Operation Article 9: General Meetings of Shareholders Article 10: Approval HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report  SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Our Sustainability Ambitions and our business objectives define our sustainability program. Management responsibility is embedded throughout the organization with the Executive Progress Committee providing leadership and oversight. We have made good progress with Sustainability Ambitions 2012 and look forward to developing our plans for the period to 2020. on sustainability How our program is shaped Business objectives Each year we pursue a sustainability program that The four objectives for 2010 were Health & Safety, is shaped by our Sustainability Ambitions and the sustainability, performance and cost reduction, and business objectives deﬁned for that year. In combipeople development. We were particularly seeking nation, these ensure that we address the approthe improvements and performance excellence that priate medium and long-term goals, and that the would ensure the viability of our business in 2011. program evolves in response to circumstances without disrupting our transition to a more sustainable How our program is managed business. Overall responsibility for the sustainability program The management structure that delivers the prolies with the Heracles Executive Committee chaired gram is also designed to be robust; responsibilities by the Managing Director. The Committee determiare embedded throughout the organization and renes policy and provides visible leadership to the rest ﬂected in personal objectives. of the organization. Day-to-day lead on sustainability matters is the reSustainability Ambitions sponsibility of the Industrial General Manager, who Our Sustainability Ambitions 2012 are the objectiis a member of the Executive Committee. ves and targets that we set in 2009 and that we inSustainability Ambitions and annual business obtend to complete by the end of 2012. They cover all jectives feature in all the elements that make up the aspects of sustainability, management, society and Heracles management framework; these elements the environment, and are aligned with the global include the capital expenditure decision-making Sustainability Ambitions of the Lafarge Group. Proprocess, the three-year reviews, setting and monigress to date and plans for the future are summaritoring of individual objectives and monitoring of Key zed on pages 10-11. Performance Indicators (KPIs). example PERSONAL OBjECTIVES AND SUSTAINABILITy Performance appraisal is linked to the achievement of personal objectives. For the Industrial General Manager, 20% of these objectives concern sustainability. Of these, half are speciﬁc to the company achieving its Sustainability Ambitions 2012. Typically, 20% of a plant manager’s personal objectives will be linked to sustainability. 8 Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES Responsibility for each Sustainability Ambition is asExternal commitments signed to an individual senior manager according Sustainability performance is also supported and to its content and his/her responsibilities. This indireinforced through involvement with organizations vidual – the “owner” of the Sustainability Ambition that set standards of best practice externally. For inis then responsible for the action plan, monitoring, stance we are: measurement and communication that is necessary to ensure that the Ambition is understood and deli•signatories to the Global Compact and founder vered. Ambitions that rely on action by plants, for members of the Hellenic United Nations Global instance those covering emissions, have been furCompact Network; ther cascaded and feature in monthly performance meetings between the plant management and the •a founder member of the Greek Business Industrial General Manager. Council for Sustainable Development (Lafarge is Individual objectives for Heracles managers are dea member of the World Business Council for ﬁned annually between the manager and his/her Sustainable Development); immediate superior and must be “SMART” (Speciﬁc, Measurable, Ambitious, Realistic, Time-bound). •members of the Hellenic Corporate Social Sustainability is included according to the indiviResponsibility Network. dual’s role and responsibility. HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report 9 SUSTAINABILITY AMBITIONS As explained on page 8 our Sustainability Ambitions are central to our sustainability program. They are aligned with the Lafarge Global Sustainability Ambitions 2012 but are specific to Heracles and its role in Greek society. Progress with Tracking and reporting on performance against the targets that we set ourselves in 2009 is a key part of our management of sustainability. sustainability ambitions 2012 THIS TABLE SUMMARIzES OUR PROGRESS IN 2010 AND THE ACTIONS THAT ARE PROPOSED FOR 2011 Target deadline 2009 2010 Comment and Plans performance performance against target against target MANAGEMENT On safety our target is to reduce 2010 Achieved (1.03) Achieved (0.3) The injury rate in 2010 corresponds to one Lost Time Incident. Our aim remains to the lost time injury severity rate achieve and sustain an incident rate that is zero. (LTIFR) to 1.3. Full compliance with the Lafarge 2010 Achieved Achieved We remain in compliance and are maintaining this with continued training of our Group Competition Policy. employees. Training of all Heracles plant ma2010 Achieved Achieved We achieved the target to train all plant managers one year early and have also exnagement teams in applying the tended the process to the management teams of our distribution centers and quarries. Lafarge Group stakeholder relations management process. On customers, carry out an 2010 In progress Completed The annual survey was completed for bagged cement customers and an additional annual customer satisfaction for bagged survey of end-users was carried out. We will conduct a bulk cement customer sursurvey on both bagged and bulk customers vey next year. cement business. Implement the OTIFIC (On Time, In progress We are optimizing all our “order-to-delivery” processes before we move to In Full, Invoiced Correctly) implementing the standard. Standards in operations. Reach 20% of women in senior 2012 Achieved (27%) Achieved We have a good record on women in management positions; we aim now to and executive management (30%) increase the overall number of women in our operations. (Lafarge Hay Grades 18+). SOCIAL By 2010, establish a 2010 In progress Achieved Frequency of medical examinations required for different job roles is now deﬁned comprehensive occupational and examinations are taking place. health program including at a minimum regular medical examination. 10 Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES Target deadline 2009 2010 Comment and Plans performance performance against target against target ENVIRONMENT Have 100% of our sites audited Permanent In progress In progress All plants are now covered; we have decided to include distribution centers and are environmentally at least every making progress with this. four years. By 2010 reach a rate of 100% of 2010 100% 100% As well as completing the rehabilitation plan required as a condition of permitting, quarries with a rehabilitation Heracles undertakes to apply the Lafarge standard in rehabilitation. plan complying with Lafarge standards. By 2010 all our quarries will 2010 Achieved Achieved Screening was completed in 2009. We are now developing an 18-month program have been screened according which will enable us to deliver the second part of this Ambition. to criteria validated by WWF International and those 2012 In progress In progress with realizable potential will have developed a biodiversity enhancement plan by 2012. By 2010 cut our net CO2 2010 -12.8% -8.34% We were not able to meet our target for 11% decrease in 2010, due to change in emissions per metric ton of product mix toward higher strength cement, with higher proportion of clinker. cement produced by 11% as We have extended the deadline to 2012 and we are intensifying our efforts in compared to 1990. research and development to improve our products’ carbon footprint. Cut our dust emissions in our 2012 -94.6% -95.04% We have signiﬁcantly out-performed our target for dust. cement plants by 40% over the period 2005-2012. Cut our NOx emissions in our 2012 +0.05% -13.13% We are pleased to have met this target in 2010. cement plants by 12% over the period 2005-2012. Cut our SOx emissions in our 2012 -84.9% -97.41% We have met the target for SO2. cement plants by 20% over the period 2005-2012. By 2010 have a baseline for 2010 In progress Achieved Measurements at our cement kilns began in 2005; they now take place twice a persistent pollutants in our cement year. We have implemented all relevant Best Manufacturing Practices. pants for 100% of kilns and reinforce our Best Manufacturing Practices to limit emissions. Plans for 2020 In 2012, we will deﬁne the new sustainability proWe are committed to ensuring that our contributions gram that will replace the Sustainability Ambitions bring beneﬁt to Greece, support the viability and 2012 and deﬁne the directions to take in the period success of our business and reﬂect the aspirations up to 2020. The discussions and consultation that of our employees and our stakeholders. Our plans support that process are already taking place within will also take account of the global targets to be deour organization. ﬁned by Lafarge. We hope to bring forward our ideas in the next year and to give more details in the 2011 Sustainability Report. HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report 11 STAKEHOLDER DIALOG Engaging with stakeholders Stakeholder engagement is central to our development as a sustainable business. Our stakeholders help us improve and to shape our response to emerging issues. Stakeholder engagement is one of our Sustainability Ambitions targets, aiming to ensure that consultation with stakeholders and understanding their expectations is integrated in our sites’ operations. Our Stakeholders Local stakeholder consultation We have production and distribution facilities throughout Our intention is that local stakeholder consultation meGreece and a countrywide commercial presence. The etings should be the main pillar of our engagement at basis for identifying our stakeholders is by mapping a local community level. those who impact or are impacted by our business. Our In july 2010 the Milaki local stakeholder consultation stakeholders include: committee held its ﬁrst meeting. Preparations for this •our employees and the communities around our meeting had begun in 2009. This local stakeholder plants and distribution terminals; consultation committee is a model which we intend to •our customers, for whom we are in business; roll out at our other large sites; preparations for the •our extended network of suppliers and equivalent arrangement at Volos began in 2010 so we contractors who work with us; expect the ﬁrst meeting to take place there in 2011, as •the authorities, at national, regional and local well as regular on-going meetings at Milaki. level, who control and regulate our operations; At our smaller sites, where stakeholder committees •our shareholders; would not be practicable, we are committed to holding •the NGOs and civic society organizations who at least one open day each year. monitor our environment and social responsibility performance; Making it clear •the media, who report on our performance. We understand that our approach to community stakeholders is unusual for businesses in Greece. We are Our engagement approach aware that this may make it difﬁcult for people to be For engagement with all the stakeholder groups idensure why and how they may take part. It can also be tiﬁed, we have established a structured approach to confusing that there are legal requirements for consulensure that, through any of our operations, we are able example to listen to stakeholders, learn from their feedback and FRAMEWORK PRINCIPLES respond to their expectations. AGREED FOR LOCAL Our management teams at our sites review their relaSTAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION tionship with their stakeholders on an annual basis. In COMMITTEES “ •the participants are representative Opinion of 1300 of the local community •all members participate stakeholders sought equally and jointly to issues under discussion in the Magnesia and •meetings are initiated by the plant, regularly, at least two or Evia regions ” three times a year •the participants suggest matters for discussion and any subject can be brought forward the review they conﬁrm that stakeholders have been provided it is of collective interest properly identiﬁed and that there is a robust and well•the date and agenda for each publicized mechanism for handling complaints and is determined at the previous comments; they then develop engagement opportunimeeting ties such as consultation meetings (at our plants) and •meeting minutes are used to open days (at our smaller sites). record the discussion and the participants’ opinions •experts or independent bodies may be invited to take part, if suggested and agreed by the participants 1 Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES example tation which are linked to the process of gaining apOUR STAKEHOLDERS: proval for new permits. Our stakeholder engagement, THEIR COMMENTS AND THEIR including consultation committees, is separate from EXPECTATIONS this. We are pleased that many stakeholders have already ...[the company] has done a lot on chosen to get involved in dialogue with us. We will conoccupational health and safety... tinue to make clear the aims and objectives of our work we believe that it is really an with stakeholders and to ensure that practical expeinvestment. rience improves understanding. ...gradually Heracles should invest Another challenge is stakeholders’ need for reliable inmore in people... make them more formation about the process of cement manufacture effective ambassadors of what they do. and its environmental performance. We have observed ...[the company] needs to make the during our engagement with people that conﬁdence in right business moves through the regulatory process and in environmental controls competitive technologies, materials, raw by the relevant authorities in Greece is low. One of the materials to ensure its future viability reasons we produce this sustainability report is to ad...it has done things in relation to the dress the gap in information. Other methods which we environment mainly in terms use to provide information include the open days, other of saving energy and reducing site visits, our website, designated contact people for ingreenhouse gas emissions, but formation for each site and print publications. surely it can make a greater effort ...Heracles was a very good Opinions and expectations business, but went through many We completed two surveys of stakeholder opinions and adventures and changes... the expectations in 2010; both were carried out for us by umbrella of Lafarge, with its an external company. The ﬁrst used telephone interprinciples, procedures, is a very views with c. 1300 people and was undertaken in the positive thing Magnesia and Evoia regions where our plants are lo...it should look for new building cated. The second consisted of in-depth interviews with materials... to incorporate new 30 stakeholders at national level, including media, cutechnologies that exist abroad... stomers, non-governmental organizations and regulabecause the requirements of the tory authorities. households and for environmental The survey ﬁndings indicated that, amongst local staprotection will be much greater. keholders, the main expectation concerns environmental management of sites, whereas national stakeholders are most keen to see us contribute to the STAkEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ﬁght against climate change, and make technical and (Percentage of target population trained in product innovations. Many respondents expressed stakeholder engagement methodology) concerns about the impact of the ﬁnancial crisis. These and other ﬁndings are helping us to shape our 2008 2009 2010 sustainability activities. They are especially relevant to 50% 50% 100% our plans for the period to 2020, following the comRelevant managers at all our plants, distribution terminals pletion of our Sustainability Ambitions 2012; we will be and quarries are now trained in the methodology. discussing these with our stakeholders. STAkEHOLDER IDENTIFICATION Frequency and Type (A) throughout the year rs Shareh (B) regularly Supplie olders (C) 2-3 per year R (D) annually n ity tions (A ) Investo au egul (E) ad hoc mu Publica Relatio r ns (A) th ato ori ry m tie Co ) rogram s (A) Me s s (A Safety p Annual eti ation ng ) gs (B) Genera s( lic s( A Meetin Meetin l E) Pub isi t (B ) g (D) ev en ts Sit v rs ye n me an tio R mp tio lta C) NG o su gs ( wit egula sto C n ns B) Os Cu Co eetin (A D) s( hc rm ) s( eti ng ca us e m D ay Me ck bli Sa tom etin en ba ed e Pu fet e rs s g Op Fe n th bility pro y & o o ina D) (A sta rt ( Interna gra the ) Su epo meetin l m r R gs (B) s joi C ( A nt se ust ) (E) ees Publica rvi ce ome cements Announ tions (A lin r Employ Media ) e( (B) Industr C A) gs (B) Sa usto Meetin Announ Events Relatio ial t m Su isfac er fﬁce cements ns (B) rve tio Press o (A) (A) y( n on D) operati HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report 13 15 Understanding our business reporting 18 20 22 Health and safety Workforce and people Communities 24 Environment key issues and management 25 Climate change 28 Managing our emissions 29 Water footprint 31 Waste and recycling 32 Biodiversity at our sites 34 Meeting their needs 36 Responsibility and sustainability How we 38 Reporting methodology report 40 GRI corresponding tables UNDERSTANDING OUR BUSINESS How cement is produced 1 Extraction and preparation of raw materials The raw materials needed to produce cement are extracted from our quarries (limestone, clay, schist, etc), after thorough geological research and chemical analysis in speciﬁc quantities and proportions 2 Transport The quarries are usually located close to the cement plants. The raw materials extracted are crushed through a milling process and then transported to the plant. 3 Crushing These raw materials are then transported to the crusher and stored before they are homogenized. 4 Raw grinding The raw materials are very ﬁnely ground in order to produce the raw mix. 5 Burning and cooling The raw mix is preheated before it goes into the kiln, which is heated by a ﬂame that can be as hot as 2000°C. The raw mix burns at 1500°C producing clinker which, when it leaves the kiln, is rapidly cooled with air fans. So, the raw mix is burnt to produce clinker: the basic material needed to make cement. 6 Finish grinding The clinker and the gypsum are very ﬁnely ground giving a “pure cement”. Other secondary additives and cementitious materials can also be added to make a blended cement. 7 Storage, packing, dispatch The cement is stored in silos before being dispatched either in bulk or in bags to its ﬁnal destination. HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report 1 UNDERSTANDING OUR BUSINESS Our business is being affected by the difficult A challenging economic context that Greece is currently facing. We have a strategy for the medium-term and are well-placed to offer year customers a range of innovative, low-CO2 products that are suitable for different construction purposes. The industry key points Cement market and The cement industry provides materials used in the sustainability construction of homes, other buildings and infraThe ﬁnancial crisis highlighted structural weaknesstructure. The most widely used of these materials ses in the cement market and its lack of competitiis concrete (made from cement and aggregates) veness. which is used in situations ranging from foundations Our approach is to increase the productivity and effor roads through to structural elements in very large ﬁciency of our operations, optimize our production and complex buildings. costs, use innovation and technical knowledge to Demand for cement worldwide is strongly linked produce cement products that are lower in both with population growth, urbanization, and econoCO2 emissions and in production cost than the mic growth. The demand for more elaborate and available alternatives, and to help our customers complex buildings and the desire for more sustaiunderstand better their beneﬁts and applications. nable construction have stimulated the industry to The use of alternative materials and alternative fuels produce many different types of cement suitable for are the most promising routes which we are explodifferent purposes. ring (see pages 25 and 26). In the longer-term we see further environmental and cost beneﬁts in the Cement in Greece provision of sustainable construction solutions. Although the rest of the world began to recover from Cement manufacture in Greece is also subject to recession in 2010, Greece did not. The austerity competition from neighboring countries where promeasures required by the European Commission duction can take place at lower cost and is not suband the International Monetary Fund affected deject to CO2 restrictions. Our strategy is unchanged mand for new houses and infrastructure. Domestic in response to this. We still believe that innovation, demand for cement dropped to six million metric cost performance and improved environmental pertons in 2010, compared to the peak of 12 million formance is the best long-term solution. tons in 2007. This created very difﬁcult conditions for Heracles and we believe these conditions will Safety and enviromental continue into 2011. compliance In the medium term however, we believe there is a Safety and environmental performance are key elestable domestic market for cement which is larger ments in Heracles’ approach to sustainability. We than that which exists at present. Our strategy is priare therefore working to establish our business as a marily to address the needs of that market and reference point for industrial safety in Greece and to more marginally to look for exports as long as they embrace our customers and suppliers in efforts to bring proﬁtability to our company. improve safety and environmental performance. 1 Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES Grey cement market in Greece* Use of cement in Greece Heracles cement production (Thousands of metric tons) (Per cent of total cement sales) (Thousands of metric tons) Data from the Greek Cement Association for the years 00-009. There has been another small drop in 010 Demand has declined as a result of the as a result of the economic situation. recession and austerity measures. We believe that long-term domestic demand *Internal estimates will be higher than at present. The construction of homes and infrastructure *Grey cement is essentially the majority of accounts for 0% of the market. cement sales in Greece – white cement holds a marginal portion of the sales. **Internal estimate Who beneﬁts from our operations Shareholders by type (Cash value added, € millions) (%) Revenues: Sales & ﬁnancial interest received 30.8 % Cost of good sold -1.0 Use of reserves . 10. Cash Value released 1 Taxes to be paid to government . .0%  Paid to investor for providing capital 0. 1.8% 3 Paid to lenders as a return on their borrowings .9 1.8%  Paid to employee for their services 19. 81.0%  Community investment 0. 0.% The difﬁcult economic context of 010 reﬂected in the negative income results and consequently in the value distribution. Our employees are the group that beneﬁts the most from the value created by Heracles. Turnover Net proﬁt/loss after tax (€ thousands) (€ thousands) The Lafarge Group is our largest shareholder. Our turnover declined again as a result of the economic situation. These results reﬂect the economic situation in Greece in 010, especially the slowdown in private and public construction activity. HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report 1 HEALTH AND SAFETY Health and safety is a company core value. We believe that all incidents are preventable and we aim to be a reference point for excellence in industrial safety in Greece. Results for 2010 were encouraging; there were no fatalities and injury rates were the lowest ever. But we are continuing Top priority with our key challenge, creating a culture in which responsibility for safety is felt at every level, and with other safety and health initiatives. and continuing action example Results for 2010 LOTOTO Our key measures of safety performance, shown in the charts on the following page, indicate good proWe implemented a new gress in 2010. There were no fatalities and the frestandard to make sure that we quency and severity of injuries were both lower than eliminated the risk associated in previous years. During the year we worked in with non-isolated energy-using three main areas where improvement is required: equipment. creating the right safety culture, reducing risk and LOTOTO – meaning Lock Out, extending our safety procedures to embrace those Tag Out, Try Out – is a new that work with us. procedure which requires every employee to put a personal lock Creating the right safety culture on energy-using equipment It remains the case that senior managers are requibefore a task begins. There are red to show “Visible Felt Leadership” in their aptwo key principles; every task is proach to safety. For instance, every member of the properly assessed and prepared Executive and Operations Committees has safetyand, because each employee related performance objectives and must cascade has their own lock, there is a these to their teams. But we want to extend ownerpersonal involvement in ship of safety below management level to those ensuring safety. who, for instance, supervise a workshop or an activity, or are line managers. We held workshops with these individuals to increase their safety awareness Health at work and to support them in identifying critical behaviors Our health program, launched in 2008, aims to prothat inﬂuence safety in action; we involved them in vide an occupational health service to all emhealth and safety inspections and housekeeping acployees. A job risk assessment deﬁnes the type and tivities. In addition, in an effort to increase awarefrequency of medical checks required and our meness and mobilization behind our key priorities for dical database helps the occupational doctors to safety, all employees were invited to enter the commanage data and the required medical follow-ups. petition to deﬁne the 2010 safety message that Since the start of the program no occupational diwould best reﬂect these priorities. sease is reported. We are also responding to the outcome of a gap analysis which compared our proAnticipating risks gram with Lafarge standards and Greek legislation. Data on near-misses and unsafe conditions is a very There were two particular campaigns in 2010; valuable resource which helps us anticipate and “noise the hidden risk” was a major theme in prevent exposure to risks that may cause serious inHealth and Safety Month and we intensiﬁed meajury. We made the collection and use of this data surement programs for exposure to crystalline silica our focus in 2010 and are publishing it for the ﬁrst dust. In addition, our doctors have been asked to time in this report. undertake a statistical evaluation of data resulting from medical examinations so that we can focus in Engaging others future on both occupational and life-style risks, and The roll-out of the Lafarge Contractor Safety Manaprovide the appropriate awareness-raising. gement standard is described on page 36. We held the second round of Road Transportation Safety 0 Days (the ﬁrst round took place in 2008-9) and there were ﬁve meetings in different locations. More than 600 participants including customers, drivers and other partners took part in the discussions which encompassed safe-driving, towing, reporting of unsafe conditions, loading and unloading, and FATALITIES communications. IN 2010 18 Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES example example SAFETy IN ACTION EXEMPLARy SAFETy Reduction of lost time injury DURING KILN SHUTDOWN frequency rate In September, the Milaki plant AT VOLOS (Number of accidents leading to launched a three-month project loss of time by million hours to improve health and safety Every year, each of our plants is worked) through the elimination of shut down so that extensive unsafe behavior. The staff and maintenance work can take managers used the experience place. This is essential to of the last two years to identify ensure reliable operation during work practices and behaviors the rest of the year. that were unsafe, assess risks and develop new approaches. These “kiln shutdowns” are very The project had the full challenging in terms of safety commitment of the plant because they involve many management team, who were different people (employees and team leaders in delivery. contractors) and work of There has been progress but we continue to The main commitment of Milaki different nature (production, seek further improvement. employees was “As of December mechanical, electrical etc). 1st no job will be carried out without prior risk assessment In 2010 the Volos shutdown Lost time injury severity rate and deﬁned safe work was to last 40 days and procedure”. involve 100 employees and (Number of calendar days lost as a result of accidents by thousand hours 160 contractors. The worked) management decided it should be a pilot project for a new, exemplary approach to safety in maintenance works, with three Fatalities and lost time injuries pillars: delegation of safety duties to (Number of incidents – contractors and employees) line management with Fatalities Lafarge LTIs Contractor LTIs commitment of all people to 003 1 1 * safety 00  1 * implementation of standards 00 9  and good practices for each There has been progress but we continue to 00 13  work and task seek further improvement. 00 1   constant follow up, with 008 8  implementation checks and 009   corrective actions. 010 1 1 The program brought *Data on contractors was not reported prior to 00. sustainable results in safety There has been progress but we continue to seek further improvement. management. Line managers were strongly involved, and their accountability and responsibility Near Miss reporting was developed. All staff and contractors were highly (Number of near-miss reports submitted) mobilized and committed, and new safety procedures and tools were developed. The program was commended by the European Agency for Safety & Health at work and cited in a communication on best practice in safe maintenance distributed to member states. We deﬁne a near miss as an incident which didn’t result in an injury only thanks to luck. We encourage our employees to report these situations so that we take corrective measures and avoid potential incidents. In 010 the average number of near-miss reports per month was 1 compared to 1 in 009. Each near miss report generates at least 1 or  corrective actions; there were at least 80 corrective actions in the year. HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report 19 OUR PEOPLE Our long term commitment is to sustain a robust organization, where people can develop their potential as A vital part professionals and contribute to the success of our business. We are already pleased to see signs of progress, despite the difficulties of 2010. of our business Our strategy for people For our company, people development is a top priority and a commitment. We focus on the personal development and fulﬁllment of our employees with a long-term view. People development is a systematic process designed to strengthen the competencies and skills of our people. Using this process, we seek to optimize their performance in their current duties but addiexample tionally to enhance their potential for building a sucIDP IMPROVEMENT cessful career within our organization. Central to our people development process is the An in-depth qualitative review of Individual Development Plan (IDP). This is a tool Internal Development Plans which uses not only conventional training but also (IDPs) revealed that their users on-the-job training, coaching, e-learning tools and needed more guidance in their assignment of new responsibilities, to develop skills use, so as to develop IDPs that and knowledge needed in a challenging working enwould make a distinctive vironment. In parallel, through participation in indifference to performance and terdepartmental projects and working groups, both capabilities. locally and internationally, our employees come to Senior management committed know the organization better and develop personal to a series of actions, to be skills on a wider scale. Starting with recruitment, driven by the Human Resources each employee has his or her own IDP, based on team, that would underline the his or her development needs and aligned with the importance of the IDP as a company’s principles. development tool. This strategic planning of the careers of our people First, a training program was gives us the opportunity to enhance their talents, designed, to enhance the maximise their potential within the organization and quality of IDPs; there were 6 to make the best of their ability in the long term. The sessions with 91 participants in assignment of new responsibilities and challenges total. Then, individual coaching enables our employees to expand their knowledge sessions were provided for the and competencies and to develop their leadership key population to improve their skills. own IDPs and those of their direct reports. The sessions Progress in a difficult year focused on the signiﬁcance of a At the end of 2010 Heracles had a total of 1318 emwell-designed IDP in identifying ployees. Within the year 34 people were hired and the competencies and 282 people left the company due to retirement and corresponding learning activities early retirement. In these difﬁcult circumstances, and resources, needed to the development of our people is even more imporimprove individual performance tant. The best use of their talents and skills is critiand to prepare for new cal to enhancing the competitiveness of the responsibilities. There was company. In 2010, we ﬁlled key positions with tasupport, advice and tools lented and competent people, where they will have available from the Human the largest positive impact on the performance of Resources team throughout. our business and will ensure its long term viability. There was a marked improvement in quality of IDPs as a result. In 2009 the proportion of IDPs rated as 48 “very good” had been 10%; in 2010 the proportion rose to 60%. The program was recognised with a Lafarge Group Award AVERAGE HOURS TRAINING (in the Best Talent Development PER MANAGER category). 0 Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES Diversity We have already out-performed our Sustainability Number of employees Ambition to have women holding 20% of managerial positions (Hay grades 18 and above); the proportion is now 30%. While we still aim to increase the proportion further, we have been focussing on the wider challenge of increasing gender diversity across the entire workforce, especially middle management. Opportunities for students Our internship program offers senior students of universities and other educational institutions an opportunity to gain experience of a working environment, to develop skills and conﬁdence and to share with us their enthusiasm and new thinking. FiftyInvesting in a skilled workforce two interns were taken on in 2010. (Average hours training per person per year) Total headcount declined again in 010. 18 INDIVIDUALS GAINED AN INTERNAL PROMOTION IN 2010 Reviewing performance (Percentage of managers receiving performance appraisals) The age structure of our workforce (%) Age range 2008 2009 2010 <30 9.3 9.3 9.9 31 0 . 3. . >1 3.11 3.1 3.9 The age proﬁle of our workforce is still weighted towards the middle and Investment in training by type upper segments. (Percentage of total expenditure on training in different categories) Job evolution The percentage continues to be high; we aim for 100%. 2008 2009 2010 Hirings  8 3 Resignations 9 10  Women in management Retirements   10 (Percentage of female managers in Hay Early retirements  191  grades 18+) Deaths  3  Total 93 11 88 Early retirement is the main source of change in our workforce. Women in the workforce (Women in different categories of employee) Women 2008 2009 2010 Women Hay Grades 0 3 9 1 & above (managers) Women Hay Grades 118 10 93 11 & below Health and Safety is our number one priority Total 18 19 1 and therefore commands the greatest Total headcount 19 13 1318 expenditure. % 9. 10.11 10. There was a decrease in the absolute number of women employed but as a proportion of the workforce women are better represented than in 008. HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report 1 IN THE COMMUNITY Our plants and other facilities are located in communities where our employees and their families, and many of our suppliers and customers live. Our commitment is to contribute to building a better world for them, by A role contributing to economic, social and environmental progress. We also want members of our communities to know more about our operations and the way we conduct our business. and a relationship Our community focus 3 In supporting community organizations and causes, we know that we can be more effective if we direct our attention to particular issues which are close to our business values. The areas we have identiﬁed are health and safety, education and environment, and infrastructure. Continuity of support is also imFOCUS AREAS HEALTH AND SAFETY, portant, particularly in the current economic cliENVIRONMENT AND EDUCATION, mate. AND INFRASTRUCTURE Health and safety in the community We have an ongoing commitment to raise awareInfrastructure for community ness of road safety issues in the communities surbenefit rounding the Halkis plant; the road accident rate in Donations in kind, which form part of our commuthis part of the Evia region is a major concern which nity investment, often include the loan of machinery we share. Our campaign, which we are running in and tools and the donation of materials for commupartnership with local organizations, encompasses nity projects. pedestrian safety, trafﬁc circulation in the city, the safety of older drivers and the links between health Our PRAXSI program, created after the devastating and driver safety. This year, in june about 60 peoﬁres in the Evia region in 2007, supports local ﬁre ple attended a training day on the topic of safety for prevention programs, rehabilitation and mainteolder pedestrians and drivers; in September the nance of the natural environment, environmental plant hosted a workshop organized by the Halkis education and development initiatives to stimulate police service on the subject of safe access to schools. business. In 2010 the fund supported training for There was brieﬁng on the work of the school trafﬁc ﬁre-ﬁghting volunteers at the Milaki plant; the traiwardens, vehicle management and circulation, and ning was given by the Halkis Fire Brigade in coopeappropriate safety infrastructure. ration with the Aliveri Fire Service. The fund also The Halkis plant also organized a sea rescue traigave support to those affected by ﬂooding in the ning exercise for local coaches and athletes, given south of the Evia region where the Milaki plant is loby the local diving school. cated. In 2011 the fund will pay for many of the improvements in safety infrastructure around schools Environment and education that were identiﬁed at the workshop on safe access School children local to the Halkis plant have been to schools described above. taking part in the environmental improvement program there; the plant is undergoing refurbishment, Open Days redundant land is being planted with trees and local We believe that visits to our plants should enable plant species, and a way-marked trail is being cremembers of the community have a better underated inside the plant, where visitors can observe the standing of our business. For instance, they are opplants and read about their origin and characteriportunities to learn about our management of stics. In December 2010, at the opening of the trail, health, safety and the environment, and to see our the children were invited to adopt certain trees operations and processes. Our plant managers have along the way and had a presentation on biodiverpersonal targets to ensure that school visits and sity from an expert botanist from the Goulandris other tours take place. Museum of Natural History. In December 2010, the Milaki plant organized an Also in 2010 we continued our support of the PriOpen Day for the community. More than 150 peomary and Secondary Education Departments of ple visited the plant and the new desalination unit Evoia for the delivery of their teachers’ seminars on and attanded the presentation by the Hellenic Mahealth, environment and culture. rine Research Institute (see page 30).  Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES Assessing our socioeconomic footprint Our operations, because of their size and their nature, are signiﬁcant for the communities in which they take place. Our socioeconomic impact is therefore important. Each major site, as part of its local integration plan, already undertakes an assessment of the primary and secondary value that is created by its operations. In 2010 Lafarge developed, in cooperation with the non-governmental organization CARE, a tool for the measurement of socioeconomic footprint. Using this tool can help sites understand better their employment impact (direct, indirect and induced), economic contribution and contribution through their value chain. We will be making use of this tool at our major sites in 2011. example Community contributions Community contributions AMBULANCE FOR ALIVERI (Distribution of support by category, (Source of support, % of total The community of Aliveri has % of total community investment) community investment) only a small health center and several times in recent years it has been obliged to ask Heracles for loan of the company’s ambulance because its own vehicle was not in operation. We have decided this year to fund the purchase of a new ambulance for use by the community. The vehicle is being designed and ﬁtted prior to delivery in 2011. Our plants are the majority owners of comTotal community investment in 010 was munity support programs. €9,000 including €9,000 in materials. Taking account of market conditions, this is comparable to the €90,000 invested in 009. Socioeconomic value created (milion €) HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report 3 ENVIRONMENT It is our responsibility to ensure that our operations are well-managed, with potential impacts on the environment properly controlled. We must of course adhere to legal Key issues standards and regulations but this is not enough; in areas that are material to us, we are committed to going beyond compliance and to a cycle of continuous improvement. and management Our key environmental issues which she/he becomes aware. The full text of the GroThe production of cement is an industrial process, up’s Environmental policy is available on the site which entails certain impacts on the environment. The www.lafarge.com Our aims and objectives beyond key issues for us are: those deﬁned by regulation are set out in our Sustai•climate change, due to the release of CO2 nability Ambitions, described on pages 10 and 11. embedded in the limestone which is the main raw We have a system for monitoring and reporting of envimaterial used in cement manufacture and CO2 ronmental performance using Key Performance Indifrom fossil fuels used in the manufacturing cators (KPIs) that is deﬁned for all the cement process; businesses in the Lafarge Group and is checked and •the release to air of emissions from combustion; validated by the Lafarge cement business regional cen•impacts on biodiversity as a result of quarrying and ter for Europe. The Volos plant is subject to an environthe subsequent rehabilitation of quarries; mental management system consistent with the Lafarge •the abstraction and return of water to the standard and in 2010 this system was also certiﬁed as environment associated with our processes. complying with the ISO standard 14001. The environThe following sections address these topics in turn. mental management system at the Milaki plant has Cement manufacture is such that there are no liquid or been certiﬁed to the ISO 14001 standard since 2004. solid wastes as a result of the production process. On the contrary, there are opportunities for recovering value from Audits for all major facilities waste and resources from other businesses; see page 31. Regular environmental audits reﬂect best practice in environmental management in industries such as ours. Environmental policy and We follow this proactive approach, believing that the management discipline of the cyclical audit process raises and mainAs part of its commitment in relation to sustainable detains standards in areas including noise and dust supvelopment, Heracles, as a member of Lafarge, has for pression, pollution control, and waste and water a number of years integrated environmental aspects management. The Lafarge Sustainability Ambition speinto its strategy and culture. ciﬁes that regular environmental audits should take The Group’s commitments in this respect cover the miplace at all our plants every 4 years. This is done by tigation of climate change, the conservation of nature, external experts, who do the same for all Lafarge plants a more efﬁcient use of energy and natural resources, (so they have a standard methodology and evaluation the aim to minimize the production of waste, harmful grid). In 2009 we decided at Heracles to extend this to air emissions and water discharges, the preservation our distribution centers. Of our six distribution centers, of heritage, landscape and biological diversity. three of these have now been audited and the remaiThe Environmental policy deﬁnes the Group’s commining three will be done in 2011. tments regarding its operations, Greenﬁeld site development and major modiﬁcation projects, resources, training and research, procurement, product stewardEnvironmental investment ship and stakeholder relations. Every employee and di(In €) rector must, within the limits of her/his duties, participate in the Group’s efforts and commitments by complying with applicable regulations and the Group’s environmental policies. Each employee or director must report to the persons responsible for these matters, any compliance failures or possible exposures of Environmental audit program 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 target Plants Volos Milaki Halkis Distribution Terminals Drapetsona Rio Thessaloniki Iraklio Igoumenitsa Kavala The audit cycle continues and additional sites are now included. Total environment expendidure in 010 was .0,8 €  Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES ENVIRONMENT We have a strategy for reducing CO2 emissions from the manufacture of cement which includes process optimization and product innovation. This, together with sustainable construction, is how we see our business Climate contributing to combating climate change. We are assisted by being part of a larger business which has adopted a leadership position in tackling the challenge of global warming. change Our strategy We are taking multiple routes to reducing the emissions associated with cement manufacture. Burning fossil fuels to produce clinker (from which cement is manufactured) produces CO2, so optimizing the combustion process and other types of energy efﬁciency reduce emissions, as does replacing fossil fuels with renewable or other alternatives. Thirdly, there is product innovation; the use of cement additives which are CO2 neutral, allow us to develop products that have a lower CO2 footprint. Alongside these efforts, we are promoting sustainable construction which has the potential to improve energy efﬁciency and reduce emissions from buildings while they are in use; see pages 34 and 35. Optimization and energy consumption During 2010, there was a major drive at the Milaki plant to upgrade its industrial performance. This meant the application of the so-called Plant Operating Model (POM) which details organizational and technical approaches to operation. This resulted in achieving a very high Reliability Factor with a very low number of kiln stoppages, resulting in a very efﬁcient energy performance of the plant. For this performance, the plant is rated as among the best-managed Lafarge plants. Alternative fuels The successful introduction of biomass as an alterexample native fuel at our Volos plant in 2009 has been folREDUCING THE lowed by a similar development at Milaki using TRANSPORT IMPACTS paper sludge. Biomass now accounts for 1% of fuel OF DISTRIBUTION used in our plants. Thanks to the combined In strategic terms, we see potential in the use of fuel shipment routes model that we derived from the residue of municipal waste recyuse, we have improved signiﬁcling called solid shredded waste (SSW). The dicantly our transport footprint. scussions that this has generated with the In 2010, we invested in videopermitting authorities and our other stakeholders ilconferencing for our six lustrates that it takes time to achieve the shared undistribution centers and derstanding required by all parties. This is a major rationalized their organization inﬂuence on our progress with further emission reinto two discrete regions: North ductions. We look forward to being able to proceed and South Greece. This has with the use of SSW at one plant in 2011 and at the reduced the need to travel and others subsequently. the associated transport emissions. We are also piloting Innovation the use of LPG as an alternative Product innovation requires that we work with our fuel for cars and trucks. customers to understand their needs, use our teAdditionally, we will then chnical skills and introduce them to alternative, monitor fuel consumption and lower-CO2 products that may be available. For inhence emissions; if the stance, we already have the capacity to substitute evaluation is positive there is pozzolan or ﬂy ash for clinker; we may also deploy scope to introduce this more different additives to reduce emissions. widely in 2011. HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report  ENVIRONMENT Overall performance example IMPROVED POWER In 2009 we out-performed our targeted reduction CONSUMPTION AT THE in CO2 emissions per metric ton of cement; we achVOLOS PLANT ieved a 12.8% reduction while the target was 11% (compared to 1990 levels). We were not able to sukiln 1 at the Volos plant is one stain this reduction in 2010; the reduction was of the biggest in the Lafarge. In 8.34%. This was largely the result of a shift in our 2010 we invested €10 million customers’ requirements in the current economic in an upgrading program; we context; there was increased demand for high introduced major changes in strength cement with a high proportion of clinker. kiln design, replaced and There was a decline in total emissions as a conserenewed manufacturing quence of market conditions in Greece in 2010. equipment and changed kiln operations. State of the art fans and drives were installed in the kiln preheater tower, cyclone geometry was improved and new separator, fan and drives were installed in the raw mill. As a result the power consumed, relative to the amount of clinker produced, has % 8.34 been reduced by 10% (6kwh per metric ton of clinker). This corresponds to a reduction in CO2 emissions of 9,000 metric tons. Volos kiln 1 is now among REDUCTION IN CO2 EMISSIONS PER the best in Lafarge in terms of METRIC TON OF CEMENT SINCE 1990 speciﬁc power consumption. Alternative raw materials (Consumption of alternative materials as % of total raw materials consumed for cement and clinker production) Our use of alternative raw materials remained more or less at the same level as in 009.  Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES Alternative fuels Total CO2 emissions (gross and net) (Consumption of alternative fuels as (Thousands of metric tons per year) % of thermal consumption) Total CO emissions reduced as a result of market conditions. GRI and other international reporting protocols prescribe that net Use of alternative fuels currently comprises emissions differ from gross in the exclusion of emissions from only biomass and paper sludge and is not at a combustion of waste. Because our use of waste as fuel is currently at very signiﬁcant level. Our strategic aim is to use low levels, there is no signiﬁcant difference between our gross and our net solid shredded waste (see text). emissions. Clinker factor CO2 emissions per unit of product (gross and net) (Ratio between clinker consumption (Kilograms per metric tons of cement) and cement production) Emissions per unit of cement produced increased in 010 due to change in customer demand and product mix. Again, there is no signiﬁcant difference between our gross and our net emissions. Improvements in recent years were partially reversed in 010 due to the higher clinker proportion in the cement product mix. HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report  ENVIRONMENT Cement manufacture gives rise to emissions to air. These emissions are subject to legal limits which we respect and Emissions meet. But it is part of our sustainable business ambition to reduce these emissions further, using the technology and knowledge that are available to us. compliance and improvement example Cement and air quality REDUCING NOx Cement manufacture differs from many other induEMISSIONS MILAKI PLANT strial processes in that the key impact concerns emissions to air, especially dust, and not liquid waste In 2010 operation of SNCR or solid waste, which do not occur in the production (Selective Non-Catalytic Reactor) process. Nitrogen oxides (NOx) are also released as technology began at the a result of the combustion process, as is the case in Milaki plant.This technology other industrial combustion processes. Depending involves injecting urea solution on the composition of raw materials used in the into the hot gas stream as it combustion process, sulfur dioxide (SO2) can also leaves the kiln, is compatible be released during cement manufacture; such emiswith cement manufacture and sions are generally low in comparison with other inhas been an industry best dustries because the sulfur oxides are captured practice used successfully during the clinker formation process. in the cement industry. This investment has guaranteed Progress in 2010 operation at lower NOx There was a signiﬁcant reduction in almost all meemissions, signiﬁcantly below asures of air emissions during 2010. The decrease the limit values. was not only in absolute values (due to market conditions) but in emissions relative to the quantity of cement produced (known as speciﬁc emissions), which is the measure for improvement we use for our Sustainability Ambitions. This means that we are delivering real sustainability beneﬁts, which will be sustained as market conditions improve. Our performance is discussed in more detail below. NOx Persistent pollutants In 2010 we brought emissions of NOx down below Heracles is included in the agreement that Lafarge our target level for the ﬁrst time. This very satisfachas reached with WWF to reduce persistent pollutory result was largely due to the improvements we tants. Measurements at our plants began in 2005; made at the Milaki plant (see example). they now take place twice a year. Stack Dust Fugitive dust This was the ﬁrst full year in which all three of our All our installations (plants, terminals and quarries) cement plants operated with hybrid dust ﬁlters in are taking steps to reduce and control sources of place. There have been successive reductions in fugitive dust. For example, we avoid storing matestack dust emissions since ﬁlter installation started rials in open areas as much as possible. In 2010 we and we are now performing signiﬁcantly better than tested a pilot system for the automation of unloatargeted. ding of cement silos at distribution centers which has the potential to ensure better dust and spillage SO2 control. We will decide this year whether the system SO2 emissions in our Volos and Halkis plant are alis suitable for wider use. most zero as the raw materials used are free of sulWe have started the construction of a new building fur compounds. at our Volos plant for the storage of raw materials. Once completed, all handling and internal transport of these materials will take place under cover, thus reducing fugitive dust emissions. We completed in 2010 the installation of continuous monitoring systems in the mills of all our plants which will also assist in improving dust control. 8 Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES NOx emissions SO2 Emissions (Grams/metric ton clinker) (Grams/metric ton clinker) Total emissions of NOx were ,800 metric tons (8, in 009). Process Total emissions of SO were 19. metric tons (13 in 009). Emissions mastery, proper fuel speciﬁcation, selection and management as well as of SO are signiﬁcantly below the target level. investment in SNCR technology in Milaki, contributed to signiﬁcant reduction of NOx emissions. They are now below our target level two years ahead of our commitment. Stack dust emissions (Grams/metric ton clinker) Total stack dust emissions were 0. metric tons (. in 009). Stack dust emissions are signiﬁcantly lower than the target level. HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report 9 ENVIRONMENT Water is a global issue, which requires local solutions. There is growing concern about global water scarcity and its possible social, economic and Water security consequences. Although cement is not a major water-using activity, it is our responsibility to use water carefully and to balance our needs against those of other users. Protecting a resource example Types of water use MILAKI A CHALLENGE Total water withdrawn by source Most of the water we need (for cooling in cement AND A DECISION plants, for dust suppression and for watering newly(m3 per year) established trees and other plants) is groundwater; In September 2010, the Milaki 2009 2010 permits govern the amount and location of the necesdesalination unit started operaGroundwater ,0,99 ,8,91 sary drillings. We use some treated water; overall about tion. It provides the process Surface water 30, 12% of our water needs are met by supply of treated water (350,000 – 400,000 m3 Other 30,0 3.11 water through the municipal water supply network but per annum) the plant needs for Total ,88,00 3,18,11 the situation at each plant varies. For instance, the its operation. Volos plant uses only ground water while the Milaki Previously, 90% of the water for 83% of the water we use is abstracted from groundwater sources under licence. plant was, until the commissioning of the desalination the Milaki cement plant had unit (see example), 90% dependent on water imporcome from another region, tranted from another region. sported to the island in sea tankers. Another 7% had come Conserving water from the island’s own municipal Total process water discharged Water used for cooling is contained in closed systems supply and the remaining 3% and can be re-used again and again. At Milaki almost from groundwater sources under (m3 per year) all the water that would otherwise be discharged is colpermit. Although the plant recy2009 2010 lected, treated and used for dust suppression and wacled as much water as possible, Groundwater 18,000 1,8 tering. The Halkis plant collects and uses rainwater. we knew that relying on water Surface water 1,89,333 ,08,9 from another region was not suMunicipal supply Protecting the water stainable in the long-term and Other 0 environment we began to consider proposals Total 1,0,333 ,,180 We have nearly completed the installation of a new for desalination in 2007. In the water withdrawn and discharged is drainage system at our Halkis plant which is improOur stakeholders were concerincluded a well in the Volos plant, which is not ving the quality of water discharged back to the envined about the potential impact used as process water. ronment. At the Volos and Milaki plants settling ponds of desalination on water quality and oil traps are used to treat water before it is dischin the gulf of Aliveri. To address arged. their concerns, we commissioA new Port and Marine Standard Operating Procedure ned the Hellenic Center of Mais reducing the risk of incidents that might comprorine Studies to study the WATER mise the marine environment. It speciﬁes the anti-spill potential impact and to under(m3/year) pollution prevention kits that are now held at all termitake periodic tests of sea water nals for use in the event of spillage or other incidents. quality and the monitoring of marine ﬂora and fauna through Water footprint oceanographic studies. The reWe are also taking part in the water footprinting activiports of the Institute are availaties of the whole Lafarge Group. Water footprinting, ble to controlling authorities which is widely recognized as an important tool in and community stakeholders. water management, enables us to set site speciﬁc targets and to prioritize our actions. Milaki, as a plant that is located in an area of extreme water scarcity, was mapped this year using the Global Water Tool designed by the World Business Council on Sustainable Development. We will then complete water footprints for our other sites. % 20 WATER CONSUMPTION REDUCTION IN 2010 30 Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES Waste Cement manufacture is a resource-based industry; we must use those resources carefully, recycle them where possible and maximize our opportunities to recycle the products of other industries. and recycling Waste principles and hierarchy “Industrial Ecology” Our approach is based on the waste hierarchy: miThe sustainability of ecosystems comes from their nimize, reuse, recycle and recover energy, and ﬁequilibrium; materials and resources are constantly nally dispose to landﬁll. recycled. Industrial ecology applies this principle to human activity, making the most efﬁcient use posWaste management in practice sible of by-products and waste. Much of the work In 2010 we introduced facilities for the segregation that we are doing to develop innovative new proof waste for recycling at our distribution centers; ducts for our customers (see pages 34 and 35), inthere are now such facilities at all our plants, all our volves the principles of industrial ecology. distribution centers, all the quarries that are in acAt our cement plants we recycle the by-products of tive use and our head ofﬁce. Segregated materials other industries as raw materials, for instance ﬂy are collected and handled by certiﬁed contractors, ash derived from power stations can substitute for as is the small amount of residual waste requiring clinker in certain types of cement. Using wastes disposal at landﬁlls. from other industries as a source of fuel (see page Another focus of activity in 2010 was the waste ma26) is another form of industrial ecology. nagement practices of those who work with us. Our Volos and Halkis plants have organized employee awareness campaigns for the proper handling of waste. We wanted to make signiﬁcant improvements, not just in legal compliance but in behavior adopted in the daily lives of employees, contractors and others. We began to audit contractors for “duty of care” – their responsibility to ensure that waste is collected, transported and transferred to the next person in the chain of custody with appropriate controls at % 96 every step. We also carried out housekeeping audits at all distribution centers; these audits ensure that materials and waste are being stored appropriately, that sources of dust and nuisance are controlled, and help to improve site appearance to the beneﬁt of the OF ALL WASTE PRODUCED local community. IS RECYCLED Waste recycling and disposal (tons per year) 2009 2010 Hazardous (oils, grease) recycled 13 1 Hazardous (rugs contaminated with oils, 10 13 greases etc.) disposed Non hazardous recycled 3,39 ,9 Non hazardous disposed 0 0 Total 33 91 Hazardons waste is recycled at specialized treatment facilities. No waste is incinerated. HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report 31 ENVIRONMENT Rehabilitating quarries and enhancing the biodiversity associated with them are key elements in our ambition to operate as a sustainable business. This year we took Biodiversity our first major step towards realizing the biodiversity potential of our sites, while maintaining our rehabilitation commitments. and quarries A biodiversity enhancement Year of biodiversity program for Heracles The United Nations designated 2010 as the year We are pleased to report the development of a prowhen the world would be invited to celebrate the gram with the University of Thessaly (Volos), which importance of biodiversity and take action to safewill become the backbone of our future work to enhguard it. We contributed to the raising of awareness ance biodiversity. Starting in 2011, with our quarof biodiversity, both internally among employees ries supplying our Volos plant, the university’s and externally. For this, we translated into Greek ecology experts will assess existing ﬂora and fauna and distributed to our stakeholders a Lafarge publiat the quarry, and in a 500 meter zone around it; cation on biodiversity and quarries describing the they will assess damage done and propose how to methodology applied in quarry management and reestablish on the site the species found in its surrohabilitation in order to protect natural ecosystems undings. They will also make recommendations for and enhance biodiversity. This, together with case the safeguarding of any rare or endangered species studies detailing our approach to rehabilitation of found. In the future, we plan to extend the learning our quarries in Greece, was posted on our website. from this program to our other quarries. An internet campaign we aired in 2010 also featured biodiversity as a key sustainability commitment Rehabilitation effort and invited visitors to view our website for our Rehabilitating quarries is a requirement in Greek efforts. At a local level, our Halkis plant organized law but we try to go beyond these requirements to for the local schools a tree planting day with a preensure that the worked-out quarries deliver their full sentation on biodiversity. potential. In 2009 we had completed screening in accorTowards greater understanding dance with the Lafarge standard. This enabled us in We are aware that not everybody shares our per2010 to focus on those quarries where, for historispective on the potential for quarries to contribute to cal reasons, rehabilitation work was not sufﬁcient; biodiversity. We hope that our work with the Uniwe have now developed action plans for these loversity of Thessaly will promote understanding cations and rehabilitation is in progress. Regrettably, especially if, as we hope, it becomes possible to in the case of the schist quarry serving the Halkis provide for public access to quarries, once extracplant, this was not adequate and a ﬁne was impotion ceases, to observe ﬂora and fauna. We also insed. tend to engage more directly with interested Our rehabilitation practice takes into account the stakeholders on the subject of biodiversity. after-use of the quarry, when the exploitation period ends and the quarry is returned back to community For example, wherever feasible and despite the loss of mineral reserves that this causes, we reduce the height of our quarry working benches to ﬁve meters so as to improve the after-use. Selecting the appropriate after-use is a key issue; we operate most of our quarries under lease from private or public owners, which means that after-use cannot be altered; at our own sites we have more scope to select the best outcome for biodiversity. 18 MONTH CONTRACT TO HELP US REALIzE BIODIVERSITY POTENTIAL 3 Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES example example KATAKALOU SCHIST A UNIqUE CASE: OUR qUARRy (MILAKI) PUMICE STONE qUARRy ON yALI ISLAND We have always tried to make our quarries as environmentallyOn a desert island in the € 1,000,000 annually friendly as possible and have Dodecanese, Yali, which generated by the company’s often been prepared to go belongs to the Municipality of operation. A good deal of the further than legal requirements. Nissiros, our afﬁliate LAVA, company’s gross income is The schist quarry at katakalo, mining and quarrying company, allocated to the constant which is situated near the operates since 1952 a pumice presence of a tugboat in the Milaki cement plant, is an stone quarry, which is a frontier area of kos island; example. volcanic material, with natural Moreover LAVA rents a boat to The quarry was mined and properties (heat-insulating, ensure commuting between according to the approved sound-dampening, nonNissiros and kos islands. LAVA’s rehabilitation study had a combustible, homogenous, exporting activity is the reason typical bench formation with white colored, high mechanical why a Customs’ Ofﬁce is trees, bushes planted alongside strength and low speciﬁc located on Nissiros island. the benches. However, following weight) that make it ideal for Additionally, the loading of an agreement with the archaeosustainable construction dozens of ships annually for the logical authorities, we decided applications. domestic and international to embark on a better For the rehabilitation of the markets stimulates decisively rehabilitation plan in which the quarry, a nursery with more than the area’s economic life. slope of the benches was 2,200 plants has been built, to Beyond export activity, LAVA altered so that the site no longer grow various local species such has initiated a partnership with resembled a worked-out quarry. as pines, oak-trees, ﬁg-trees, the Agricultural University of In addition an area of musk-trees, cypress-trees and Athens, for a research program 50-55,000 m2 was planted acacias, as well as some of on “The promotion of good with olive trees and vines to particular interest such as culture practices for pumice blend in with the local environjuniperus macrocarpa. horticulture and their spread in ment. Construction of the nursery culture practice”. The program Our initiative was very well began in 2009, and the ﬁrst aims at providing the university received by the local authorities plants were placed in March with data and monitoring of and the local community, and 2010. Later, after the autumn cultivation in pumice, with a made our people proud. rains, plants were transplanted view to identifying any problems and taken out to the sun. and ﬁnding ways to solve them, Quarry employees aspire that while in parallel supports the next year their nursery will have training of geotechnical experts 3,500 items, making this and producers in hydroponic Progress with rehabilitation nursery the second in size for culture in pumice. All the above Heracles. activities will be combined so (Area affected and rehabilitated, in thousand m) The quarry activity and exports as to contribute as much as Total Already Rehabilitated Mined of pumice stone generates a possible, both to recording and area Rehabilitated in 2010 signiﬁcant local income, the generating new knowledge, and Volos ,90 1,0 0 81 company being one of the to disseminating this knowledge Halkis 1, 10  38 largest foreign-exchange to Greek farmers, ﬁnally aiming Milaki 1,90 30 0 0 generating production businesses at helping improve the Milos 39 13 10 80 in the Dodecanese. The competitiveness of Greek Total ,10 1,801 10 ,11 Municipality of Nissiros collects hydroponic greenhouse pumice revenues in excess of units. About one-third of our total land-holdings is in use for mining, and one-third has already been rehabilitated. The balance has yet to be mined Progress with planting (Area affected and rehabilitated, in thousand m) 2007 2008 2009 2010 Halkis 0 3,00 ,00 1,000 Volos 3,9 0,110 1,30 ,000 Milaki ,00 300 ,000 ,00 TOTAL ,3 ,810 1,80 8,00 Establishing trees and other plants is one part of our rehabilitation program. The high number of plants used at Volos is due to the number of quarries to rehabilitate () and the different requirements of the rehabilitation plan. HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report 33 CUSTOMERS Customers drive our business so meeting their needs and improving what we offer them are key to our sustainability. Long-term, we see ourselves providing customers with a variety of Meeting products for different situations and integrated solutions that will make sustainable construction possible. Our short term priorities are to deliver our products safely and improve the order process. their needs Sustainable products Our customers’ safety We believe that we can support our customers with Safe delivery, of both bagged and bulk cement, is a range of quality and low-CO2 products. To do this, very important to us. we must work with them and understand their Bulk sales represent approximately 75% of our needs, and thus increase the differentiation of our sales by volume, transported by silo trucks to readyproducts. mix customers with over 110,000 deliveries per In 2010, alongside our annual survey of our immeyear. During 2010, we have conducted safety audiate customers, we conducted a qualitative and dits at 812 customer sites; the safety improvements quantitative survey of our end-users (typically builthus identiﬁed are being implemented in 2011. ders) so that we understand their needs better. We intend to make more use of the GPS kits that were installed on our bulk cement delivery trucks in Our products 2009. We have designed and tested a device which We already supply more than one product; A bagwill monitor pressure of silo truck tanks and ensure ged cement with a lower carbon footprint and one of that unloading only takes place when conditions are greater strength. In 2011 our range will be extensafe. ded further. Bagged cement is mainly purchased by pick-up customers and generates a high number of visits to Sustainable construction our sites. In 2010 we launched a 3-month commuLonger-term we want to move from the supply of nication campaign focused on the use of personal products to the provision of sustainable construcprotective equipment, securing of loads, and on-site tion solutions; that is, product systems and solutions trafﬁc movement. The ﬁrst results in all sites and that improve energy efﬁciency and reduce carbon terminals are very encouraging. In 2011 we will footprint. We believe that sustainable construction continue our efforts to improve the safety awareness has signiﬁcant potential in Greece and so, together of our customers. with our industry partners and the Greek Business Council for Sustainable Development, we held a Optimizing “order to delivery” conference on the subject for government, building In 2010 we launched a project to improve all the professionals and other interested stakeholders. steps involved in taking and fulﬁlling a customer’s order. We saw this as essential if we were to implement the Lafarge standard for OTIFIC (On Time, In Full, Invoiced Correctly) and do so on a sound base. Customers and our sites We welcome visitors to our sites with tours and open days for their beneﬁt. Customers are always especially welcome. In 2011 we are planning a number of open day events especially designed for customers. 812 SAFETY AUDITS CONDUCTED AT CUSTOMER JOB SITES 3 Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES BULk CEMENT PRODUCTS Portland CEM I 42,5 N An early strength Portland cement that is particularly suitable for civil engineering, building applications, ready-mixed concrete and concrete products, when early demoulding of formwork is required. CEM I 52,5 N A high early strength Portland cement that is particularly suitable for facilitating the early demoulding and precast concrete. Portland Composite CEM II / A P 42,5 N A Portland pozzolan cement suitable for civil engineering, building applications, readymixed concrete, and concrete products. In comparison with CEM I cements, it has sulphate resistance properties and a low heat of hydration. example CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SURVEy CEM II / B-M (W-P) 42,5 N A Portland ﬂy ash pozzolan cement suitable for civil engineering, building applicaTo assess the degree of tions, ready-mixed concrete and concrete products. In comparison with CEM I cesatisfaction among customers, ment, it has sulphate resistance properties and a low heat of hydration. Heracles commissioned an independent study of the White CEM II / A-L 52.5 N Bag Channel customers, White cement suitable for plaster application (nd layer) and all concrete applicawhich was conducted in October tions, when white color is required. 2010November 2010, to assess the overall satisfaction Pozolanic with Heracles, compare the CEM IV / B (P-W) 32.5 R level of satisfaction with A Pozolanic ﬂy ash pozolan cement, suitable for civil engineering, building applicacompetitors and identify tions, ready-mixed concrete and concrete products. In comparison with CEM I ceparameters which contribute to ments has sulphate resistance properties and a low heat of hydration customer satisfaction. The study was a quantitative Special one, using a structured MC 22.5 X questionnaire, in face to face Cement suitable for mortar applications (brick laying, rendering, screeding, etc). interviews with a sample of 220 respondents, who provided 294 Type IV/55 (Sulphate Resistance) responses (some respondents A Portland cement for concrete production in aggressive environment, when high perevaluated more than 1 supplier). centage of sulphates is occurred. Type IV/ cement has very high sulphate resistance 56% of the dealers surveyed properties. consider Heracles as their best supplier. Based on the detailed survey ﬁndings on the attributes that drive customer satisfaction, Heracles took action in optimizing procedures, such as in ordering and delivery. BAGGED CEMENT PRODUCTS Athlos Athlos bagged cement is suitable for mortar application (brick laying, rendering, screeding, etc). Basis Basis is a Portland ﬂy ash pozzolan cement suitable for civil engineering, building applications, ready-mixed concrete and concrete products. In comparison with CEM I cement, it has sulphate resistance properties and a low heat of hydration. White White cement CEM II / A-L . N suitable for plaster application (nd layer) and all concrete applications, when white colour is required. HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report 3 OUR SUPPLIERS Each of our plants is a local operation, with suppliers who may be small or medium sized businesses. We aim to show leadership, using our role in the local economy to promote sustainability Responsibility and generate economic benefit. 2010 was a very challenging year for everyone in Greece and so it was even more important to adhere to our principles. and sustainability Our presence in Greece Cement manufacture is a specialized operation, requiring a corresponding high level of specialization in those who carry out tasks such as maintenance. Thus the number of established businesses who can provide us with the specialized, top quality industrial services that we require is limited. This gives Heracles particular responsibilities towards its suppliers. We must show leadership and act responsibly to help them develop; at the same time we expect them to share our desire for improvement. Hence, we treat our contractors as part of our family, sharing the good as well as the bad times. Safety – a priority to be shared The ﬁnancial crisis did not change our approach; work which started in 2009 to extend our safety culture to our contractors continued. We are pleased that the safety record concerning our contractors Code of conduct has already improved (see page 19). We impleIn 2009 we had planned to extend our Code of Busimented the Lafarge global standard on Contractor ness Conduct (see page 6) to contractors and business Safety Management (CSM); our 19 largest contracpartners. As a priority, we decided to focus just on those tors were embraced in june and the remainder 63 who work for us as consultants or business intermediawere included at the end of the year. From january ries. They are now subject to our Code and the re2011 onwards, all contracted work is subject to this mainder of our suppliers will be embraced in 2011. standard. Environmental and social Financial crisis – mutual support performance of suppliers The crisis means that many contracts have to be reOur supplier evaluation procedures already include negotiated. This must be a two-way process. The questions about handling of materials and waste but renegotiations that took place in 2010 showed that we know that a broader approach is needed. the right approach can serve mutual interests. The work that we have done to extend our safety It was necessary for us to amend our terms of paystandards and culture to our suppliers has made us ment to protect our cash ﬂow. We negotiated a “rebetter acquainted with their culture, how they work verse factoring” arrangement with the banks; and how they allocate responsibilities. This is an exHeracles suppliers and contractors were to be grancellent basis for the next stage: extending the envited additional access to bank ﬁnancing while our ronmental and social aspects of our sustainability payment terms to them were extended. ambitions to all those that work with us. 82 CONTRACTORS NOW WORk TO THE LAFARGE CONTRACTOR SAFETY MANAGEMENT STANDARD 3 Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES Spending in Greece (% of spend) 2009 2010 Local suppliers in Greece % 3% Suppliers outside Greece % % The reduction in proportion of spend in Greece in 010 is due to the higher price of fuel, which is purchased outside the country, and reduction in the price of contracts in Greece in response to the ﬁnancial crisis. example HELPING WITH HEALTH Breakdown of our suppliers by type AND SAFETy The safety performance of a contractor working for us for many years was not improving as much and as fast as we required. The safety conditions and behaviors at the job site were giving us great cause for concern. Ending the contractual relationship would have had serious repercussions in the local economy. The alternative was an intense improvement program, with explicit commitment from the contactor’s management. We ﬁrst offered full support to our contractors to conduct a gap analysis. With our support they then developed an action plan addressing the identiﬁed limitations in equipment, training and safety behaviors; Raw materials and utilities form the two we offered additional training to biggest categories of supply. their staff. In less than six months, we could observe a step change in their mindset and safety performance; the ﬁrm continues to work for us and Contractors Managed under CSM does so to high safety standards. (% by number and corresponding turnover) The case demonstrated that being speciﬁc, persistent and fair can generate sustainable outcomes. By the end of 010 all contracted work in Heracles was under the contractor safety management standard. HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report 3 HOW WE REPORT One of our commitments to our stakeholders is to provide comprehensive and regular information on how we are addressing sustainability issues. We know that to fulfil that commitment the way Writing in which we report must improve each year. This year’s improvements include the choice of issues to discuss and the quality of our environmental data. this report Scope and focus Data collection and In choosing which topics to cover in this year’s remanagement port, we have taken account of our Sustainability Systems for collecting and managing data have improAmbitions, the views of our stakeholders and the ved in line with our commitment to report on an annual underlying principle that an annual report should basis and to provide performance data in each report. focus on the year in question and not repeat inforData that is necessary for the preparation of the KPIs mation that is already in the public domain. Throuused throughout the Lafarge Group is collected in acghout, and consistent with the commitment we cordance with Lafarge procedures and consistent with made in the light of comments on our ﬁrst sustaithe GRI G3 reporting standard. Data on total CO2 emisnability report in 2008, we have kept to a minimum sions is presented consistent with the requirements of references to the activities of the Lafarge Group and EU Directive 2007/589 while that on emissions per mefocussed on the activities of Heracles. tric ton of cement produced follows the methodology set out in the Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI) Pro...sustainability Ambitions tocol. These deﬁne our sustainability targets and hence Other environmental data is collected according to the address the issues on which we focus most of our procedures of the Heracles environmental department attention. This year, as we approach the end of the Health and safety data and data on policies towards our relevant period for our Sustainability Ambitions people are the responsibility of the health and safety 2012, our account of progress against these ambiand human resources departments respectively. tions is accompanied by information on the steps we are taking to a deﬁne a new set of ambitions for Assurance the period to 2020. (Please see pages 10-11). Data that contributes to KPIs used through the Lafarge Group is collected by Heracles and consoli...views of our stakeholders dated by Lafarge, following review and validation by This report has been designed to address our stathe Lafarge regional technical centers. Ernst and keholders’ key concerns and interests, as expresyoung provide external validation and assurance for sed to us. There is for instance, more information the Lafarge Sustainability report and this assurance on the business context, the impact of the ﬁnancial covers the following data items: lost time injury frecrisis on our activities, environmental management quency rate, competition policy, training on staat our sites and our actions to help combat climate keholder relationship methodology, female senior change. Product innovation, a key concern of our managers, environmental audit, quarry rehabilitanational stakeholders, is mentioned in several section, CO2, dust, NOx, SO2 and water withdrawal. tions. In the light of these internal and external assurance procedures, and given that this is only our third re...a report on 2010 port, we do not currently consider that further asWe have avoided repeating information about 2009 exsurance is warranted but this is something we cept where this is necessary to understand the context continue to keep under review. of action taken in 2010. Plans for 2011 are mentioned where relevant but the main focus is the activities and Compliance with GRI Guidelines issues of 2010. We have followed the GRI G3 Guidelines in the preparation of this report and have had our compliance with the Guidelines checked. Compliance was found to be A. An index of contents according to the GRI Guidelines follows on pages 39 to 46. It is our intention to achieve a similar level of compliance with our 2011 report, but in accordance with the new, G3.1 Guidelines that were released in March 2011. 38 Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report 39 GRI INDEX G3 CONTENT INDEX Application Level STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Proﬁle Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis Proﬁle Disclosure Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. See this Report, page 5 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. See Annual Report pages 8-9 2. Organization Proﬁle Proﬁle Disclosure Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer 2.1 Name of the organization. Heracles General Cement Company 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. See this Report page 4 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating See this Report page 4 companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 49-51 Sophocli Venizelou str, 141 23 Lycovrissi, Attica 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with One. The company operates in Greece only. either major operations or that are speciﬁcally relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Limited company registered under Greek Law 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types See this Report page 4 of customers/beneﬁciaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. See this Report page 4, total number of employees: 1318, total asset:€884390k, beneﬁcial ownership: €1434K ; capital structure: €673619K 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. None 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. European Good Practice Awards 2010/11, Commended entry, See thiw Report page 19 Four Lafarge Cement Awards:Plant Mastery and POM Implementation, See this Report page 19. Talent Development Implementation, See this Report page 25. Best Initiative to Reduce our Environmental Footprint See this Report page 30. Special Prize for Cost Reduction and Cash Management concerning Fixed Cost. 3. Report Parameters Proﬁle Disclosure Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., ﬁscal/calendar year) for information provided. 1st january 2010 31st December 2010 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 2009 Sustainability Report published in june 2010 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Costas Giannaros, GiannarosC@lafarge.gr 3.5 Process for deﬁning report content. See this Report page 13,38 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint Report covers the activities of Heracles Cement ventures, suppliers). Company only 3.7 State any speciﬁc limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. No such limitations identiﬁed. See 3.6 and 3.8 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced Same coverage as in Sustainability Report 2009 operations, and other entities that can signiﬁcantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions See Lafarge Group Sustainability Report pages 36-37. and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, None and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or None measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. See this Report page 39-46 0 Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Heracles is part of the Lafarge Group. Much of the data used in the Heracles Sustainability Report is subject to Lafarge Group internal and external (Ernst and young) veriﬁcation and assurance. (See page 36 of the Lafarge Group Sustainability Report 2010). At this stage in our development of sustainability reporting we do not consider that additional assurance at company level is necessary. 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Proﬁle Disclosure Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest See this Report, pages 6-7. The Managing governance body responsible for speciﬁc tasks, such as setting strategy or Director reports to the Board on matters relating to organizational oversight. economic, social and environmental performance. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive ofﬁcer. The Chair of the Board is not an executive ofﬁcer. See this Report page 6. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of See this Report, page 6. Our Corporate the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Internal Regulation prescribes that independent and non executive board members shall have no other responsibilities apart from participation in the audit committee. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction We uphold the rights of shareholders, including to the highest governance body. minority shareholders, as speciﬁed in Greek law. Internal mechanisms are in place for employees to make suggestions to the Management via unions and the Management meets periodically with trade union representatives 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior Personal targets for both safety and sustainability are managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's included in key managersí performance targets. performance (including social and environmental performance). See this Report page 8. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conﬂicts of interest are The Charter for the Board of Directors includes a avoided. paragraph on conﬂict of interest. It states that a Board member should notify the Board in a timely manner if a conﬂict of interest arises. Board members, Executive Committee and operational management state their compliance with our conﬂict of interest policies in an annual certiﬁcation letter. 4.7 Process for determining the qualiﬁcations and expertise of the members of the highest The General Assembly of shareholders assesses the governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, performance of the Board. They take into account the and social topics. balance of the Boardís composition. They ensure that each Director possesses the necessary qualities, experience and competence (including on strategy, economic, environmental and social topics) thereby enabling the Board to perform its duties effectively. They implement corporate governance requirements according to Greek legislation and take into account the balance of the Board's composition 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles See this Report, pages 6-7, 24. relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's See this Report, page 7. identiﬁcation and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly The General Assembly of Shareholders assesses the with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. performance of the Board. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed See Lafarge Group Sustainability Report page 8 by the organization. referring to commitment to limiting climate change. Heracles is part of the Group and shares this commitment. See also Heracles Environmental Policy, paragraph 1, commitment to sustainable development principles. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other See this Report, page 9 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report 1 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international See this Report, page 9 advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Categories of stakeholder groups are identiﬁed; See this Report page 13, Identiﬁcation of individuals and groups by name is not appropriate. 4.15 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. See this Report page 12-13 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type See this Report page 12-13 and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and See this Report page 12-13, 34-35 how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) G3 DMA Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Aspects Economic performance See Annual Report , page 8 and pages 28-32 Market presence See Annual Report, page 8 and this Report, page 4 Indirect economic impacts See this Report, page 23 DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Aspects Materials See Environmental Policy and this Report, page 31 Energy See Environmental Policy and this Report, page 25 Water See Environmental Policy and this Report, page 30 Biodiversity See Environmental Policy and this Report, page 32 Emissions, efﬂuents and waste See Environmental Policy and this Report, pages 28 and 31. Products and services See Annual Report page 8, Environmental Policy and this Report pages 16 and 34 Compliance See Environmental Policy and this Report, page 24 Transport See this Report page 25 Overall See Environmental Policy DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA Aspects Employment See Code of Business Conduct page 7 and this Report page 20 Labor/management relations See Code of Business Conduct, introduction and page 7. Heracles is also a signatory to the Global Compact: see principles 3,4,5 and 6 of the Compact Occupational health and safety See Code of Business Conduct page 7 and this Report page 18 Training and education See this Report page 20 Diversity and equal opportunity See Code of Business Conduct page 7 and this Report page 21 DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Aspects Investment and procurement practices This is not a material issue for us, given the high standards of human rights in Greece and the fact that our operations and almost all of our suppliers are based in Greece. We are however signatories to the UN Global Compact. Non-discrimination See Code of Business Conduct page 7 Freedom of association and collective bargaining This is not a material issue for us, given the high Child labor standards of human rights in Greece and the fact that Forced and compulsory labor our operations and almost all of our suppliers are Security practices based in Greece. We are however signatories to the UN Indigenous rights Global Compact. DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Aspects Community See Environmental Policy and this Report page 22 Corruption See Code of Business Conduct pages 2 and 4 and this Report page 7 Public policy See Code of Business Conduct page 6 and Lafarge Lobbying Charter Anti-competitive behavior See Code of Business Conduct pages 3 and 4 and this Report pages 6 and 7 Compliance See Code of Business Conduct, Environmental Policy and this Report page 22  Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Aspects Customer health and safety See Code of Business Conduct page 7 and this Report page 34 Product and service labelling See Code of Business Conduct page 2 and this Report page 35 Marketing communications See Code of Business Conduct page 3 Customer privacy See Code of Business Conduct page 3 Compliance See Code of Business Conduct page 2 I STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Economic Performance Indicator Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, See this Report, page 17 employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities See Lafarge Group Sustainability Report 2010 page 8 due to climate change. (strategy for transition to sustainable economy in light of climate change). Heracles is a participant in this strategy; see this Report page 34 (sustainable construction). EC3 Coverage of the organization's deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations. Heracles relies on the public pension system for its employees, not on private pension companies. However, the Company compensates retiring staff with the equivalent of 100% of the compensation in case of dismissal, and recognizes the cost of these expected payments in its ﬁnancial reporting. No other signiﬁcant beneﬁt plan is run by the Company. EC4 Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance received from government. No signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance received Market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at The Heracles G.C.Co minimum salary is 129% % of signiﬁcant locations of operation. the statutory minimum EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at signiﬁcant See this Report page 23, 36-37 locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local The majority of our staff are local hires. 15% of senior community at signiﬁcant locations of operation. and executive management are expatriates. We recruit employees with the skills that best meet the needs of our business Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily See this Report, page 23 for public beneﬁt through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, including the See this Report, page 23 extent of impacts. Enviromental Performance Indicator Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Raw materials and fuels: 7,083.5 kt; Clinker: 3,508 kt; Cement: 4,190 kt EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 8.9% of our material are from recycling (ﬂy ash, styra bauxite, slag and calamine) Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 4772 Mj coal, 7238 Mj petcoke; 98 Mj oil; 61 Mj gas; 110 Mj biomass EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 1748790 Mj (485775 Mwh). Electricity purchased from the public grid in Greece is generated using coal (c. 60%), oil (c.15%), gas (c.13%) hydro (c. 8%) with the balance comprising other sources including other renewables. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efﬁciency improvements. See this Report , page 25, 27 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efﬁcient or renewable energy based products and services, See this Report page 25 (Alternative fuels) and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. and 34 (our products) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. See this Report, page 25,27 HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report 3 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 2,842,971 m3/year ground water; 306,625 m3/year surface water; 276,065 m3/year other EN9 Water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal of water. See this Report page 30 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. See this Report page 30 Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas 1.Milos island Pozolane quarry which consists of: and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 227.000 m2 land owned 439.000 m2 land leased The quarry area is in a protected area of the red viper (vipera scwheizeri) as well as adjacent to Natura 2000 protected zone. Hornstone quarries (two) in Anavra Volos. Both quarries are leased i) The ﬁrst is 135.000 m2 and ii) the other 230.000 m2 both are inside the Natura 2000 protected zone. EN12 Description of signiﬁcant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in Our main impact on biodiversity is related to our quarry protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. activity. All of our quarries have had in the past an impact on the original habitat of ﬂora and fauna due to disturbance and change in topography. These impacts are now being mitigated through rehabilitation plans (see page 32). Potential for ongoing impacts due to offsite effects (dust, noise, lighting etc) exists but is mitigated through site management and audits (see page 24) and through the conduct of environmental assessments at each quarry as part of the permitting process. Three quarries are in or adjacent to protected areas. (see EN11). EN13 Habitats protected or restored. During 2010, 102,000 m2 were restored according to the plan submitted and authorized by the authorities. Environmental inspectors as well as mining inspectors often visit the quarries to certify that rehabilitation programme is progressing in line with the environmental and mining terms. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. In conjunction with WWF the Lafarge Group has worked on a set of guidelines for biodiversity management in quarries. The substance of the guidelines has been incorporated into the agreed methodology recommended by the WBCSD Cement Sustainability Initiative. Heracles is committed to achieving full implementation by the end of 2012; See this Report page 11 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats The Pozolane quarry on Milos island is in a protected in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. area of ecological value. In particular, the area has two protected species, the vipera scwheizeri and the Mediterranean seal (monachus monachus). Emissions, efﬂuents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 2997000 metric tons according to the methodology speciﬁed in EU directive 2007/589 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. This is estimated to be c. 40,000 metric tons. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. See this Report page 11,25-26 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 0 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other signiﬁcant air emissions by type and weight. See this Report page 29 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. See this Report page 30 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. See this Report page 31 EN23 Total number and volume of signiﬁcant spills. 0 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under 0 total; 0% shipped the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related No wetland or water body is signiﬁcantly affected by habitats signiﬁcantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water water discharges. A study of the Gulk of Aliveri is and runoff. underway and recommendations are being followed. See this Report page 30. Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of See this Report page 16, 25 (Innovation) and 34; impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. 100% of packaging materials used for bagged cement are reclaimed. Packaging materials are not an issue for bulk cement sales.  Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES Compliance EN28 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Monetary value 138825; no non-monetary sanctions non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport EN29 Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and These are not identiﬁed as key impacts for our materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the business but see this Report page 25 workforce. for actions being taken. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. € 6,275,121 capex; € 321,588 wastes management; € 434,938 cleaning and watering of plants areas; € 552,818 environment restoration; € 136,093 recycling and utilizing expenses. Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicator Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. For Heracles General Cement Company the ﬁgure is 1318 as of 31 December. 100% are on full time permanent contracts. All our employees are located in Greece so there is no breakdown by regions. LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. See Sustainability Report page 21. The turnover rate is 23% (264) per men and 15% (22) per women, while it is 2% (2) for the ages below 30, 2% (18) for the ages 31-50 and 63% (266) for the ages above 51. All our employees are located in Greece so there is no breakdown by regions. LA3 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or This is not applicable as all our employees are full time. part-time employees, by major operations. Labor/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. All, as per applicable law in Greece LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding signiﬁcant operational changes, including whether As per applicable law. Notice period is not it is speciﬁed in collective agreements. speciﬁed in Collective Agreements. Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health All employees are covered by Health and Safety and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety Committees, with elected representatives in the plants programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of See this Report page 18 and 19. All data refers to Greece. work-related fatalities by region. Absenteeism rate was 0,025 2,5% of the total working time, due to sickness and lost time incidents (60 days). LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist The comprehensive Heracles General Cement workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Company occupational health program includes educational and preventive measures Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. See this Report page 21 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued See this Report page 21 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. See this Report page 21. 100% of our cadre population receives annual and mid year performance reviews Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according Board of Directors: Age: 31-50: 25%, 50+: 75%, to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Gender: M 100%, Nationality: Impatriates --> 50% Executive Committee: Gender F --> 25%, M --> 75% Age 31-50 --> 100% Nationality Impatriates --> 25% Employees: See this Report page 21 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. This is not material issue for us. Heracles has a gender-neutral pay system which follows the Greek and EU pay equality legislation. HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report  Social: Human Rights Performance Indicator Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant investment agreements that include human This is not a particularly material issue for us, given rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. the high standards of human rights in Greece. All of our investments are in Greece. HR2 Percentage of signiﬁcant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on This is not a particularly material issue for us, given human rights and actions taken. the high standards of human rights in Greece and that 73% of our supplies are sourced from Greece. Consequently we do not track data on this matter. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of This is not a particularly material issue for us, given human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. the high standards of human rights in Greece. Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. No incidents related to breach of the Code of Business Conduct principles concerning discrimination were reported through the business in Greece. Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations identiﬁed in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective Not applicable. Freedom of association is guaranteed bargaining may be at signiﬁcant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. in Greece. Child labor HR6 Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child labor, and Not material issue for us. Child labor not a material measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. issue in Greece Forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory l Not material issue for us. Forced and compulsory abor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. labor not lawful in Greece. Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures This is not a particularly material issue for us, given concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. the high standards of human rights in Greece. Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Social: Society Performance Indicator Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and Each of our sites, as part of their local integration manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, plans, assesses the primary and secondary value and exiting. created by our operations. See this Report page 12, 22-23 Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 100% of Heracles Cement Company. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. See this Report page 6 (41% of employees, 95% of contractor drivers) SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. None. There have been no such incidents. Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. See Lafarge Group Sustainability Report 2010, page 8 and Lafarge Lobbying Charter. These public policy positions are adopted on behalf of the Lafarge Group of which Heracles is part. SO6 Total value of ﬁnancial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and 0 related institutions by country. Anti-competitive behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly None practices and their outcomes. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Nil non-compliance with laws and regulations.  Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES Social: Product Responsibility Performance Indicator Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are The company assesses the impact of products and assessed for improvement, and percentage of signiﬁcant products and services services on health and safety during their production, categories subject to such procedures. transport and use. Products are labeled accordingly and safe instructions are provided to users. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes None concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) are available for all signiﬁcant products and services subject to such information requirements. types of cement produced. These are provided to our clients and any cement user and are also posted on our website PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes None concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring See this Report page 3 customer satisfaction. Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing Members of the Communication Control Council communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes None concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and None losses of customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws and regulations 0 concerning the provision and use of products and services. Fully Reported Partialy Reported Not Material Factor HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report  LAFARGE GROUP PROGRESS Lafarge group progress against Sustainability Ambitions 2012 TARGET Deadline 2009 2010 WHY IS LAFARGE PURSUING THIS AMBITION? WHAT WILL CHANGE? performance performance HOW ARE WE PROGRESSING AGAINST THIS AMBITION? MANAGEMENT On safety reduce the employee lost time 2010 0.98 0.76 We continue to work towards our goal of zero accidents and to extend our health and injury frequency rate for Lafarge safety culture to new businesses and those that work with us. employees to 0.94 or below in 2010. Continue to check the implementation of 2010 65% 96% Two business units in Africa are still to be tested; this will be done in 2011, as part of our Competition compliance program in the continuous process of implementation of the competition compliance program our business units. 100% of all worldwide. signiﬁcant business units will be tested for compliance with it by end 2010. Manage and improve our local stakeholder relationship management by: •training 100% of units in the local 2010 58% for 81% for Training of the target populations in both Cement & Gypsum have increased this year stakeholder relationship methodology; Cement Cement (+23% for Cement; +19% for Gypsum). Aggregates & Concrete reporting for 2010 12% for 31% for was suspended as the organization underwent realignment during the year. In 2010, Gypsum Gypsum six sessions involving 74 members of the Aggregates & Concrete division took place. In 2011, our focus will remain on providing appropriate training and workshops espe•full reporting of the three new KPIs. 2010 Done cially for the Aggregates & Concrete division. Three additional targets (undertaking 76% (348 people) of our target populations now complete an annual self-assessment self-assessment on stakeholder relationships, on their relations with stakeholders. launching a dedicated intranet site and providing an internal audit screening tool) were completed in 2009. On customers, by 2012, the Group will 2012 €1.8bn €1.9bn Although all sales were affected by the recession, sales of new products showed more achieve €3bn annual sales in new resilience in the developed countries where they are primarily sold. products. Reach 20% of women in senior and 2010 12.7 13.5% In 2010, 13.5% positions in senior management were held by women, while our amexecutive management (Lafarge Hay bition remains at 20% by 2012. In 2010, 33% of business units had a speciﬁc regrades 18+) by 2012. cruitment and/or career development plan for women. SOCIAL By end 2010, establish a comprehensive 2010 On track Plan rolled-out but We have expanded the scope of this ambition so that we now address all the industrial Group-wide occupational health program not implemented risks facing our people. A Health Assessment Standard Operating Procedure is now including, at a minimum, regular medical yet due to expanding in place and there is a plan for the implementation of a risk-based health assessment examination. ambition for all employees. We have analyzed potential exposure of our employees at all our cement plants, and through our Personal Protective Equipment Standard have taken appropriate steps to limit health impacts. This medical examination program will allow us to track our employees to assure that the mitigation steps that we have taken are effectively working. For HIV/AIDS and malaria, by end 2010, 2010 On track Completed Our public health methodology has been extended to Russia and Ukraine, where we Lafarge will have extended to major have broadened our approach to reﬂect better the public health issues that are predeveloping countries where it operates, valent in these countries. its best practice currently implemented in Africa. 8 Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES TARGET Deadline 2009 2010 WHY IS LAFARGE PURSUING THIS AMBITION? WHAT WILL CHANGE? performance performance HOW ARE WE PROGRESSING AGAINST THIS AMBITION? ENVIRONMENT Have 100% of our sites audited Permanent 86% 89% With around 2000 sites in 78 countries, this is a very ambitious objective. We contienvironmentally within the last four years. nue to make progress in both having these sites audited and having more of these types of sites covered by an environmental management system. For our cement plants, nearly all except the most recent acquisitions are compliant with this objective. Coverage in our Aggregates & Concrete Division, as well as cement grinding stations, has improved, but has still not reached the desired targets. By end 2010 reach a rate of 85% of 2010 79% 84.5% This has proved to be a challenging objective, particularly because many quarries quarries with a rehabilitation plan have had to alter their operational plans in response to the recession. In 2010, we complying with Lafarge standards. made a signiﬁcant improvement in the number of rehabilitation plans and we were only 0.5% from reaching the target of 85%. By end 2010, all our quarries will have 2010 64% 94% There has been a signiﬁcant improvement in the use of screening since 2009. Unibeen screened according to criteria versal coverage was a very stretching target, given the diverse range of quarries we validated by WWF International. operate; we have not met it but we have achieved a high level of coverage. Those in sensitive areas* will have 2012 35% 47% Screening is revealing that a higher than anticipated proportion of our sites do have developed a site biodiversity program by potential. This is a positive outcome but poses a challenge for us in putting programs 2012. in place. By end 2010: All three of these objectives were met ahead of schedule; the ﬁrst (concerning net • cut our worldwide net CO2 emissions 2010 -20.7% -21.7% emissions) in 2009 and the second and third (concerning absolute emissions) in per ton of cementitious by 20% as 2008. In 2010 we focused our efforts on further reductions while working at the same compared to 1990**. time on setting new objectives. In the Kyoto Annex 1 countries we have cut our emis• cut our absolute gross emissions in the 2010 -37.7% -36.5% sions by 20.5% per metric ton of cementitious and in the non-Annex 1, countries we Cement Business in industrialized have cut our emissions by 22.9%.Absolute gross and net emission cuts in industriacountries by 10% as compared to 1990. lized countries by end of 2010 must be seen in the context of the current economic • cut our absolute net emissions in the 2010 -41.3% -40.6% downturn which has signiﬁcantly impacted our production volumes. Cement Business in industrialized countries by 15% as compared to 1990. Cut our dust emissions in our cement 2012 -26.2% -35.7% Cement plants generate dust. In 2010 considerable progress in reducing emissions plants by 30% over the period was made as new/retroﬁtted systems were introduced. The reduction target has been 2005-2012. met, ahead of schedule. Cut our NOx emissions in our cement 2012 -22.2% -27.9% NOx is emitted from virtually every combustion process, including cement manufacplants by 20% over the period ture. We achieved the targeted reduction in 2009, and in 2010 continued to imple2005-2012. ment programs which have further reduced emissions. Cut our S02 emissions in our cement 2012 -49.6% -52.8% SO2 is another unwanted product of cement manufacture. We achieved the targeted plants by 20% over the period reduction in 2008, and again in 2010 implemented programs resulting in substantial 2005-2012. reduction of emissions. By end 2010 have a baseline for 2010 69.2% 100%*** Persistent pollutants (some of which may be contained in raw materials used in cepersistent pollutants in our cement of kilns ment manufacture) are emitted by cement kilns. Lafarge is working with WWF to achplants for 100% of kilns and reinforce analyzed ieve signiﬁcant reductions in emissions. our Best Manufacturing Practices to limit • The program has completed measurement of persistent pollutants in all operating emissions. kilns; • Plant speciﬁc action plans have been developed to reduce emissions from a group of top-emitting plants; • Progress with reducing emissions will be monitored and reported. Progress on our Sustainability Ambitions: Indicators veriﬁed by Ernst & Young (010 data). Fully achieved * Sensitive areas are deﬁned as IUCN Category I to VI sites and those containing IUCN red-listed threatened species. Partially achieved ** Net CO emissions are the gross emissions less the emissions that come from burning waste (see page 8). In progress *** Due to the economic recession, in 010 ﬁve kilns with very low utilization have been excluded from the previous scope; if included, the percent kilns analyzed would have been 9% instead of 100%. NEW TARGETS WILL BE ANNOUNCED IN 2011 HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report 9 LAFARGE GROUP PROGRESS The year at a glance Values and Governance Climate Change Training in the Code of Business Conduct continues. The governance We continued to outperform the greenhouse gas emissions target we set of our Board is largely consistent with the relevant corporate governance for 2010. Through innovation and continued progress in industrial ecology, code and the Board now includes three women. We strive to improve our Lafarge continues to make substantial progress in reducing CO2. The understanding of the practical implementation of human rights. Our quality of our greenhouse gas reporting practices (monitoring, veriﬁcation competition compliance program continues with improved training tools. and disclosure) was rated by the Carbon Disclosure Project and ranked amongst the top 10 in the world. Public Positions We have continued our lobbying work, explaining to policy-makers and Industrial Ecology and Recycling stakeholders our views on key issues relevant to our business. Climate New and varied ventures to replace fossil fuels with alternative, renewable change, resources and biodiversity are key topics; we have well-informed sources of energy for our cement kilns are emerging throughout our and considered opinions on these and other policy issues which we business. They all contribute to reducing CO2 emissions and we are articulate and promote in the public arena. encouraged that our commitment to this and other forms of industrial ecology shows such signiﬁcant growth potential. People development and Social dialogue The global recession has deeply affected our sector. Lafarge remains Managing our Emissions committed to social progress in its workforce: people development and As part of our agreed program of work with WWF to reduce persistent social dialogue are progressing. Although our understanding of outsourcing pollutants we have measured emissions from operating kilns and started practices and analysis of industrial actions have been improved, to implement action plans to reduce emissions from a group of plants challenges still remain. with the highest emissions. We have also met our target for reducing particulate emissions. These actions will allow us to address identiﬁed Health and Safety and emerging issues related to air quality. Health and safety remains our Number 1 priority. Although we have made progress in reducing incide nts at our sites, overall we still had Biodiversity at our Sites 44 fatalities in 2010. This is deeply regrettable. We are pursuing the 2010 was the International Year of Biodiversity, an opportunity for us initiatives designed in our 2006 roadmap. to take part in a global campaign to celebrate and raise awareness of biodiversity. We continued to make progress with rehabilitation plans and Communities site biodiversity management plans for quarries. Like any community member, it is important that our sites co-exist with their neighbors in a constructive manner, during periods of continuity Water Footprint and periods of change or development. In 2010, Lafarge faced new isIn order for Lafarge to implement its strategy to reduce its water withdrawal sues with neighboring communities; please see speciﬁcs on our website from aquifers and lakes and rivers, we have piloted a water footprinting http//sustainabilityreport.lafarge.com . assessment to determine our sites’ impact on water resources. We have also started taking action at sites in areas of extreme water scarcity. Sustainable Construction Since early 2010, a dedicated sustainable construction team has been Sustainability Ratings shaping Lafarge’s development as a provider of construction solutions. In january 2011 we learned that we had not been included in the most New products and building systems continue to be developed and we recent listing of the Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the have demonstrated our ability to work as partners on major projects World. Having been in this list for six years, this is disappointing but shall alongside architects, engineers, contractors, speciﬁers and customers. motivate us to further improve our sustainability practices. In 2010, we remained in the DJSI Europe Index and re-entered the DJSI World Index, which we left in 2006. Lafarge was granted the GRI application level A+ for the 2010 Sustainability report. For the full Lafarge Group Sustainability Report please visit http//sustainabilitvreport.lafarge.com What’s next? Many of our Sustainability Ambitions 2012 targets were established in We believe that considering our size and our values, Lafarge can have a 2007 and have now been completed. strong positive impact on local communities and their development. We A capital intensive industry such as ours requires long term planning and will also progress in the ﬁeld of sustainable construction, provide innowe must normally project our activities far beyond current events. However, vation that will increase the energy efﬁciency of buildings, address clithe rapid changes occurring in the world and the latest events in the mate change issues and deliver solutions for affordable housing. Through Middle East or in japan cannot be left unacknowledged: natural disasters, the use of life cycle analysis we can benchmark our activities, promote social changes and political upheaval will pose additional and different the recycling and use of sustainable materials, and help preserve the challenges. We need to address them in a responsible manner while world’s natural resources. With this context in mind, and with our stacontinuing to ensure the safety, development and well-being of our keholders helping to guide us, we will continue to set even more ambitiworkforce. ous objectives. 0 Sustainability Report | 2010 | HERACLES World leader in building materials, Lafarge holds top-ranking positions in each of its business lines. With a diversified and balanced geographic portfolio and 76,000 employees in 78 Lafarge’s countries, Lafarge is at the heart of global growth supporting developing economies and responding to the tremendous need for housing and infrastructure in emerging countries. presence in the world Cement Aggregates & Concrete Gypsum Worldwide market position: Worldwide market position: Worldwide market position: World Leader Cement, hydraulic binN° for Aggregates and N°3 for Concrete Ready-mix N°3 Plasterboard systems and ders and lime for construction, renovaand precast concrete products, asphalt and paving for gypsum-based interior solutions for tion and public works engineering structures, roads and buildings new construction and renovation Employees: ,3 Employees: 3,38 Employees: ,98 Revenues: 9, million euros Revenues: ,088 million euros Revenues: 1, million euros Countries: 0 Countries: 3 Countries: 30 Number of plants: 18 Number of plants and quarries: 1,18 Number of plants:  World map of Lafarge’s presence as at December 31, 010 (plants and sales ofﬁces). GROUP REVENUES GROUP EMPLOYESS BY DIVISION BY DIVISION 16,169 REVENUES (IN MILLION EUROS) 827 NET INCOME (IN MILLION EUROS) HERACLES | 2010 | Sustainability Report 1 Heracles General Cement Company 19.3 klm Markopoulou Avenue 19002 Paiania Athens Greece Tel.: (+30) 210 2898 111 www.lafarge.gr
