Top Advertising Pte Ltd 1 Implementation of Global Compact Principles Communication on Progress Report Top Advertising Pte Ltd August, 2011 Top Advertising Pte Ltd 2 Implementation of Global Compact Principles Content 1. Company Profile ……………………………………………………….. 03 2. The Statement of Continued Support ………………………………04 3. Implementation of Global Compact Principles …………………. 05  First Principle ………………………………………………. 05  Second Principle …………………………………………. 05  Third Principle ……………………………………………... 06  Fourth Principle ……………………………………........... 06  Fifth Principle ……………………………………………… 06  Sixth Principle ……………………………………………... 07  Seventh Principle ………………………………………… 08  Eight Principle …………………………………………….. 08  Ninth Principle ……………………………………………..08  Tenth Principle ……………………………………………. 09 Top Advertising Pte Ltd 3 Implementation of Global Compact Principles Company Profile We have also spun off Advanced Media Services, of which include Web We are the first to research into and Media/Social Media and E-Commerce launch Table Talkers/Table Top Conceptualization, Design and Advertisement as an Alternative Implementation. Communications Medium. We bagged the “Best in Region” title, up against We engage Creative Communication competitive Asia Pacific Region Specialists in our lineup, to evaluate and contestants, at 2008’s PIXI (Printing advise on the appropriate media mix for Innovation with Xerox Imaging) Awards. execution of Integrated Marketing Communications Roadmaps. Top The spot is on Top Advertising Pte Ltd, Advertising is not all business. CSR established 2002, with the vision to be the (Corporate Social Responsibility) runs in leading Design and Print Innovator in Asia. our blood, even before CSR became a hit phrase. It is always our priority to serve. We are an assembly of Creative Professionals in the Design and Print We from ground-up commits to local industry, commissioned to provide top-ofinitiatives which directly benefit the lessthe-range products, advanced and privileged, creatively too, apart from innovative services. We have made a providing financial resources. quantum leap since incorporation, from a finishing service unto a Modern Design and Top Advertising for one in 2006 designed Print Solution Provider. We serve the and donated 1,000,000 pieces of papers complete suite, from Conceptualization to to the Cranes to Grains Project. The papers Design, Printing/Production and Delivery of were distributed to residents to make any Communications Medium, Traditional cranes, each of which was then or Up-To-Date. exchanged for rice and distributed to the needy and the less-privileged. We do all you name, Posters, Banners, Business Cards, Letterheads, Assorted We are proud to announce our arrival, in Corporate Premiums, Table Talkers, both form and function. Packaging Boxes, Lanyards, Name Tags, Badges, Print Media such as Newsletters, Magazines, Books, Brochures, Flyers and Postcards. Top Advertising Pte Ltd 4 Implementation of Global Compact Principles Statement of Continued Support This report is aimed fulfilling Top Advertising’s first reporting requirement to the United Nation Global Compact and reporting on our commitment in corporate responsibility efforts. We are thankful to be part of this network The Global Compact Principle has always been incorporated within our company’s strategy, culture and day-to-day operations, and we engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development of the United Nations. Top Advertising remains committed in its support for United Nations Global Compact 10 Principles, which are associated on our company policies for a responsible business practice. We will continuously improve on implementing these principles especially in the areas of Environment and Human Rights. Top Advertising Pte Ltd 5 Implementation of Global Compact Principles Implementation of Global Compact Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Implementation: Human rights are very important aspect to Top Advertising. Value for human rights is an integrated element of project planning and finishing, from planning to conclusion of a project. We ensure that all our activities are conducted in accordance with human rights standards. Insight and knowledge is made available to relevant employee or staff and training is always provided when appropriate. Top Advertising doesn’t discriminate on gender, age, religion, race, colour, ethnic origin, cultural background, social group, marital status and political views or opinions. We recognize the value of the different cultures in which we engaged on our daily operations. We ensure that everyone, without any discrimination, has the right to equal pay for equal work. The remuneration policy is equal for all equal positions and equal load of work. Principle 2: Business should make that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Implementation: Alongside with the rights of employees to work in equal, Top Advertising also respects the right of employees to rest and leisure. Leaves are given for entitled employees and other benefits are also provided.  Benefits for the employees Company program for employee’s benefits are as follows:  Annual 14 days leave and additional of 1 leave every year with a maximum of 18 leaves and leaves during birthday.  Year end bonus to all employees.  Company outing, movie watching and dining out together with the company expenses.  Every employee is applied for a health insurance. We also support, promote and implement the program “Work Life Balance” of Health Promotion Board, a government agency here in Singapore. Where in by implementing this program we create a healthier workforce, lower health cost and improve our organization’s productivity and efficiency. Top Advertising Pte Ltd 6 Implementation of Global Compact Principles Labour Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining For all our employees, we give opportunities to them to join labor association and political parties. It is their freedom to express their opinions. Principle 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Implementation: Top Advertising is committed not to employ forced labor. An employee is not allowed to work for more than 12 hours within a day except in the following circumstances:  Urgent work to be done to machinery or plant  Interruption of work which was impossible to foresee An employee can be required to work up to 12 hours a day if the employee gives his consent in writing, after the provisions of Sections 38 and 40 of the Employment Act of Singapore’s Ministry of Manpower have been clearly explained to him/her. Employees are informed of the daily working hours, the number of working days in each week and weekly rest day. Overtime regulation is only applied to agreeing employee. Payment for overtime is following the regulation of the government. Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Implementation: We do not permit child labor and we do not engage or hire children under the age of 18. We strictly follow the Employment Act of Singapore where in stated that, no child below the age of 13 years shall be employed in an industrial or non-industrial undertaking except in the following circumstances:  A child may be employed in an industrial undertaking in which only members of the same family are employed.  A child who is 12 years of age or above may be employed in light work suited to his capacity in a non-industrial undertaking. Furthermore, young persons aged 16 to 18 are permitted to work only provided their safety, health and morals are protected. Proper training and instruction must also be given to them in the relevant branch of activity. Top Advertising Pte Ltd 7 Implementation of Global Compact Principles Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Implementation: We do not accept any type of discrimination based on race or ethnic, religion, gender, cultural background, age, marital status or political views. Table 1: Top Advertising Construction of Employees based on race and gender The recruitment and termination of employment are carried out in complete accordance with the Employment Act of the Singapore’s Ministry of Manpower. Equal opportunities are given to everyone during hiring for a vacant or a new position. No gender or age discrimination is applied. We set the recruitment process fair and unbiased. Top Advertising Pte Ltd 8 Implementation of Global Compact Principles Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Implementation: As a printing industry, our production processes always handle with concern to the environment friendly. We always monitor and evaluate our manufacturing working condition. In respect for the value of the earth and its resources provides, Top Advertising is working ambitiously through continuous improvement, for little environmental impacts. We design our products, develop and use advance machines and technology to produce a minimum adverse effect on the environment, making more efficient utilization of energy and resources. Our health and environment policy applies to all our activities:  From procurement of raw materials  Development of projects and processes  Shipment and storage  Handling of products  Waste disposal and recycling of products Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Implementation: With our ambition to demonstrate respect and a great sense of responsibility to the environment, the products we are using are FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) Certified. FSC certified forest products are verified from the forest of origin through the supply chain. The FSC label ensures that the forest products are from responsibly harvested and verified sources. The FSC 10 principles and criteria describe how forests can be managed to meet the social, economic, ecological, cultural and spiritual needs of present and future generation. With the FCS certification natural resources are managed responsibly, forest and plantations benefit people – both people dependent on forest and the global community at large. Through the use of these FSC certified products we promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Implementation: With the vision to be the leading Design and Print Innovator in Asia we used advance machines and technology from designing to completion of our projects. We make sure that our machines meet the standard environment friendly technology, old ones has been reengineered to fulfill the standard requirement. Top Advertising Pte Ltd 9 Implementation of Global Compact Principles Anti Corruption Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Implementation: Confidentiality, integrity and transparency are highly emphasized principle in Top Advertising. We are honest and fair in all our business, bribery or any other forms of corruption are not allowed to engage. Top Advertising is not all business. Corporate Social Responsibility runs in our blood, even before CSR became a hit phrase.
