Sustainability Report 2010 The global leader in door opening solutions Sustainability Sustainability highlights in 2010 1 ASSA ABLOY in brief 2 CEO statement 4 ASSA ABLOY’s way of working 7 Code of Conduct 8 Governance 9 Goals and performance 10 Organizational responsibility 11 Acquisitions 12 Sourcing process and supply chain integrity 13 Sustainable product innovation 17 Manufacturing 20 Energy consumption and CO2 emissions 20 Water and waste 22 Organic solvents and surface treatment 23 Sales and customers 24 People People make it all happen 27 Career in ASSA ABLOY 28 Health and safety 30 A responsible employer 32 Gender diversity 33 Stakeholders Engaging with stakeholders 35 Memberships 35 External recognition 36 Dialog with ethical investors and analysts 37 Community outreach 38 Reporting Reporting the Group's progress 41 Reporting principles 41 GRI content index table 42 Glossary 44 Contacts Reader’s guide ASSA ABLOY has published a sustainability report each year since 2006. The report describes the Group's sustainability initiatives and addresses issues that ASSA ABLOY has identified as the most important to its stakeholders. The report is aimed at experts with an interest in ASSA ABLOY’s sustainability performance, including analysts, investors and nongovernmental organizations. As signatory to the UN Global Compact, ASSA ABLOY will submit this report to the UN Global Compact as a Communication on Progress report. The sustainability report is aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines declaring level C (see Cover photo: page 42–43 for GRI content index). The data preMetal scrap recycling is sented in this report has been collected over the material to ASSA ABLOY from calendar year and includes all ASSA ABLOY operations both an economic perspective as well as suppliers. For further information regarding and from a cycle perspective. the sustaina-bility report and its reporting principles, Recycling contributes to see page 41. decreased ­environmental The emission of green house gases from the impact of ASSA ABLOY, it production of this printed product including paper, other materials, and transports has been offset by decreases the energy and investment in the corresponding amount of resource consumption hence certified reduction units from the CDM project NATL Power. it creates economic and environmental incentives. It is a classic win win situation. DI C ECOL AB NO EL R 341 123 ER PR IN T TE D M AT Sustainability highlights 2010 • T  argets defined for all major areas up to 2015. These include water consumption, energy efficiency, green house gas emissions, chemical handling and health & safety. • T  he number of sustainability audits in low cost countries increased to 376 compared to 188 in 2009. At the year end 288 active suppliers had satisfied the minimum standards for quality and sustainability and were classed as reliable. • Independent social compliance audits were performed at ASSA ABLOY’s Guli-factory, China, and at the factory in Johor, Malaysia. • 18,000 employees took part in the third global employee survey. • The number of entities reporting on sustainability has increased from 181 to 204. • During 2010 ASSA ABLOY developed a tool to visualize the sustainability development on Group, division and company level. About this report This report, along with additional information available online, explains the Group's sustainability performance in 2010. Unless otherwise stated, all information refers to activities undertaken between January 1, 2010 and December 31, 2010. The 2010 data is based on 105 factories and 99 sales units and offices, compared to 91 factories and 90 sales units and offices in 2009. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 1 ASSA ABLOY in brief ASSA ABLOY is the global leader in door opening solutions, Since its formation in 1994, ASSA ABLOY has grown from a dedicated to satisfying end-user needs for security, safety regional company into an international Group with about and convenience. 37,000 employees and sales of about SEK 37 billion. As ASSA ABLOY is represented in both mature and emergthe world’s leading lock Group, ASSA ABLOY offers a more ing markets worldwide, with leading positions in much complete range of door opening solutions than any other of Europe, North America, Asia and the Pacific. In the fastcompany on the market. growing electromechanical security segment, the Group has a leading position in areas such as access control, identification technology, door automation and hotel security. ASSA ABLOY’s divisions at year-end 2010 Americas division Share of Group total EMEA division Share of Group total Asia Pacific division Share of Group total Sales Sales Sales Americas EMEA Asia Pacific Americas division manufactures and EMEA division manufactures and sells Asia Pacific division manufactures sells mechanical and electromechamechanical, electromechanical and and sells mechanical and electro26% 34% 15% nical locks, cylinders, security doors electronic locks, cylinders, security mechanical locks, digital door locks, and door frames in North and South doors and fittings in Europe, the high-security doors and fittings. China America. The majority of the division’s Middle East and Africa. Most sales take and the rest of Asia account for about sales are in North America, where Operating place in West Europe, but emerging Operating 70 percent of sales, while Australia and Operating ASSA ABLOY has an extensive sales income (EBIT) markets in East Europe and the Middle income (EBIT) New Zealand account for the remainincome (EBIT) organization and sells its products East are gaining in importance. EMEA ing 30 percent of the division’s sales. through distributors. Sales in South consists of a number of Group comIn Asia, the division’s largest brands are America and Mexico take place mainly panies with a good knowledge of their Baodean, Gateman, Guli, King, Pan Pan, through distributors, wholesalers local and in many respects diversified Shenfei, Tianming, Wangli and Yale. In 30% 34% 13% and DIY stores. Some of the division’s markets. Some of the division’s leading Australia and New Zealand, the largest leading brands are Ceco, Corbin Russbrands are ABLOY, ASSA, IKON, Mul-Tbrands are Lockwood and Interlock. win, Curries, Emtek, Medeco, Phillips, Lock, TESA, UNION, Yale and Vachette. The division has 15,500 employees SARGENT and La Fonte. The division The division has 9,500 employees and and divisional management is based in has 7,000 employees and divisional divisional management is located in Hong Kong, China. management is located in New Haven, London, United Kingdom. Connecticut, USA. Global Technologies division Share of Group total Global Technologies Sales Operating income (EBIT) 14% 13% Global Technologies has a leading position as a supplier of electronic security solutions worldwide. The division consists of two business units: HID Global and ASSA ABLOY Hospitality, with sales mainly to the commercial segment. HID Global is a global leader in secure identity solutions, primarily in identity and access control, and in contactless identification solutions. ASSA ABLOY Hospitality is the market leader in electronic lock systems and safes for hotels and cruise ships. The division has 2,500 employees and divisional management is based in Stockholm, Sweden. Entrance Systems division Share of Group total Entrance Systems Sales Operating income (EBIT) 11% 10% Entrance Systems division is a global leader in automatic entrance solutions. The product range, sold under the Besam brand, includes automatic swing, sliding and revolving doors, air curtains and a comprehensive service range. Door, gate and garage door automation and industrial doors are sold under the Ditec brand. The products are sold through distributors and installation companies, and installed in industrial, commercial, institutional and residential applications. The division’s third brand, EM, markets automatic pedestrian door products and targets major distributors particularly in Europe. Entrance Systems has 2,700 employees and divisional management is located in Landskrona, Sweden. 2  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 A selection of ASSA ABLOY products that meet the increasing demand from customers for electromechanical, digital and intelligent door opening solutions. Sliding doors for clean-room environments Mobile phones replace hotel room keys Ditec Entrematic added three new product lines to its ASSA ABLOY initiated a world first pilot project in the Valor range of pedestrian sliding doors in 2010: fall of 2010 at the Clarion Hotel Stockholm in Swethe Valor D space-saving model for double doors, the den. ASSA ABLOY joined forces with Choice Hotels Valor S for doors weighing up to 500 kg, and the Valor Scandinavia, TeliaSonera, VingCard Elsafe and Venyon H hermetic model. to replace hotel room keys with NFC-enabled mobile The new additions double the number of models in phones. The end result was the world’s first complete the range to six, allowing Ditec Entrematic distributors to mobile key service utilizing NFC technology. provide sliding door automation for an even wider array Selected hotel guests receive an NFC-enabled of applications, including clean-room environments. mobile phone with special software installed. They All Valor automation units feature advanced elecbook hotel rooms in the usual way and receive bookEnhanced security tronics and user friendly control panels and displays for ing confirmation on their mobile phones. The guests with HID operating and monitoring the doors. Both the opening can check in on their mobile phones before arrival at HID Global introduced width and closing time can be set to adjust automatically the hotel. When check-in is complete, a digital hotel its multi­CLASS Magnetic when user traffic increases. room key is sent to the mobile phone. On arrival at Stripe readers that are the hotel, the guests skip the check-in line, go directly designed for customto their rooms and open the door by holding the ers upgrading their mobile phone close to the door lock. When leaving current access control the room, the doors lock automatically. Guests check card system from the out using their mobile phones and the digital hotel popular magnetic stripe room keys are deactivated. (magstripe) technology The solution is made possible through ASSA to enhanced security ABLOYs scalable secure delivery infrastructure for from 13.56 MHz smart mobile keys. This solution ensures end-to-end secucard technology. Suprity and is applicable for residential, commercial and porting access control hotel applications. technology combinations including magnetic stripe, keypad, HID Prox and 13.56 MHz smart card technology (including iCLASS and FIPS 201 credentials), the multi­CLASS reader line represents the ultimate in flexibility, enabling a cost effective and truly seamless migration solution with no operational disruption. Sustainability work highlights 2004/ 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Code of Conduct Supplier audit tool Sustainability Innovative sustainability Sales companies and Increased number of program strategy with checklists offices are included in audits of suppliers in Whistle-blowing Employee survey for product development reported figures low-cost countries Internal audits Employee survey The follow-up of Targets for 2015 Training and best energy consumption are defined for all Training for marketing practice sharing and CO2 is expanded monitored areas and sales Criteria for investA common Supplier audit training ments if > SEK 1 M recruitment and Code of Conduct updated selection guide is Directive due diligence launched ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 3 CEO statement Sustainability integrated into the business processes During the last five years it has been shown that the best Group Management sets the sustainability targets and way to achieve true and endurable progress for sustainabilthe framework, but execution is the responsibility of the ity within ASSA ABLOY has been to integrate it in the main operational divisions. This is why we have only a small corbusiness processes, which are sales, logistics, manufacturporate sustainability organization, which mainly handles ing, product development and sourcing. Sustainability is guidelines, follow-up and coordination. All other staff dealnot a stand-alone process or something we simply add on ing with these issues are based in the divisions close to the top of what we do. The integrated approach ensures that business processes. sustainability becomes a natural part of everyday work for After setting and delivering on the first round of targets all our employees. for sustainability we now have a new set of targets for 2015 Let me give you some examples. When a new supplier which covers all areas. The new targets are described and agreement is finalized, sustainability forms an integral quantified in this report. The Group is also stepping up its part of the agreement as one component amongst all activities within product development, sales and marketing the terms agreed upon. When a salesperson makes a deal to integrate sustainability aspects on an even larger scale with a customer, the Code of Conduct is one of several in the product range within for example energy savings for basic principles followed. When a manager is hiring staff the customers, use of recycled materials and also recyclabilor promoting people within the organization, equal treatity of our products. ment regardless of gender or nationality is an important The activities within energy conservation in our own consideration. In the product development process the operation, health and safety, supply chain, substitution of environmental impact of packaging, logistics and energy chemicals and equal opportunities are progressing very well. consumption, to mention a few examples, are factored into More than 40 percent of our material is sourced from quality levels and manufacturing costs. These are practical low-cost countries and the program for audits of quality examples of how sustainability is assured as a part of our and sustainability in these countries has been increased sigeveryday processes. nificantly over the last years. We will carry on ensuring that “The integrated approach ensures that sustainability becomes a natural part of everyday work for all our employees.” 4  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 all our suppliers maintain the same standards, regardless of where in the world they operate. The social and ethical performance of our sites is an important part of our approach to sustainability. Therefore we carry out several social audits every year through an independent audit company. The audits focus on workplace conditions, health and safety, security, ethical behavior and similar topics. Two audits were performed in 2010, one in China and one in Malaysia. The results gave us important feedback on areas in which we can improve. In 2010, we held a roundtable meeting with ethical investors. The meeting was well received and we thank all investors and analysts for their interest and valuable input. I also want to thank our employees for their dedication and achievements during the year. I hope that this report will be valuable to you, and give a fair and in-depth picture of the sustainability activities within ASSA ABLOY Stockholm, 20 April 2011 Johan Molin President and CEO ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 5 Working to make sustainability part of everyday life. Balancing economic, social and environmental considerations across our entire business.  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 ASSA ABLOY’s way of working ASSA ABLOY’s sustainability work is integrated throughout the value chain. From sourcing to recycling, sustainability initiatives are based on an ongoing risk analysis as well as on the Code of Conduct, and involve both internal and external stakeholders. Beyond the strategy Sustainability considerations are integrated into business In 2007, ASSA ABLOY launched a new sustainability plans, decision-making processes and business principles. program. The program was developed by the Group’s SusFollowing a long-term strategy to handle risks, the tainability Council with representatives from all divisions. Group will continue to integrate sustainability into the Running until 2010, the program is based on the value chain. Group’s risk-assessment procedures, covers key sustainability issues and mandates measurable results. Monitoring the progress The program has been successful in integrating proceTo effectively monitor progress and maintain a systematic dures for quality and environmental management, and in approach, ASSA ABLOY has developed a database of manuproviding a structure that allows everyday operations to facturing companies’ reports on sustainability indicators. It continuously improve their sustainability performance. includes examples of best practices and other tools. Sustainability targets and policies have been implemented Details of steps that have been taken by various comthroughout the Group. The organization recognizes the panies to reach Group sustainability targets have been need for continuous improvement and consequently new entered into the database. Group companies and divisions targets have been set for the period 2011 to 2015. can access information from the database to compare their progress and trends with those of other ASSA ABLOY Part of everyday business companies. In 2010, 204 factories, sales units and offices ASSA ABLOY is organized around business processes such reported. as innovation, sourcing, operations and sales. The Group’s approach to sustainability means that programs, indicators and objectives are integrated into these processes. Sustainability: integrated into each part of the value chain rs I nn ome ov st at C u ion Code of Conduct and Governance People Sales S o ur cin g M an u facturing ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 7 Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct includes ethical business practices, safe working conditions and environmental standards, and sets the framework for ASSA ABLOY’s daily operations. Whistle-blowing The ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct establishes the prinsuppliers, the focus is on risk-category suppliers, particumechanism ciples that ASSA ABLOY applies in relation to its employees, larly in low-cost countries. Any issues related to the suppliers and other stakeholders. The Code of Conduct is If a supplier fails to comply with the Code of Conduct, Code of Conduct are dealt consistent globally and available in 18 languages. ASSA ABLOY first engages in a dialog aimed at bringing with at the local level whenThe Code of Conduct is based on the United Nations about measurable improvements. The supplier is requested ever possible. Managers Global Compact, the Organization for Economic Coto follow the agreed improvement plan. Contracts are have the responsibility to operation and Development Guidelines for Multinational terminated if non-compliance continues and is not remeensure compliance and to Enterprises, and the ISO14001 environmental management diated within an agreed time frame of a maximum of 12 foster a workplace culture in standard. months. which any problem can be discussed openly and withAt the core of everything out prejudice. The Code of For ASSA ABLOY the Code of Conduct represents the Conduct includes a mechanism for whistle-blowing, by minimum level of action required for responsible business practices, and our contribution to sustainable ASSA ABLOY’s Code of which any stakeholder can report suspected violations. development. The Code of Conduct is given to all managers and union Conduct covers the During 2010, six cases were reported – compared representatives. It is communicated and made available to all employees. New employees starting their work at ­following areas: to seven in 2009. ASSA ABLOY are required to read the Code of Conduct and Following thorough agree to abide by it and any related policies. Business ethics investigations, appropriate ASSA ABLOY monitors the implementation of the Code • Fair competition and antitrust legislation measures have been taken of Conduct. Any non-compliance is handled immediately. • Bribery and the cases have been During 2009, increased awareness and understanding • Fraud resolved. of the importance of complying with the Code of Conduct • Entertainment, gifts, gratuities and donations was promoted in all parts of our organization through the • Records and reports The Code of Conduct is mandatory orientation program, which was completed by • Government investigations a­ vailable in 18 languages on more than 22,000 employees. A global employee survey • Conflicts of interest www.assaabloy.com/code. carried out in 2010 showed that 86 percent of respondents had been informed about the Code of Conduct, compared Workers’ rights, human rights, consumer to 79 percent in the 2008 survey. interests and community outreach ASSA ABLOY adheres to the laws of the countries in • Child labor which it operates. The Code of Conduct does not replace • Forced or bonded labor legislation – if the two are in conflict, legislation takes pre• Freedom of association and collective bargaining cedence. If the Code of Conduct sets a higher standard • Workers’ contracts, working hours and than the existing legislation, the Code of Conduct takes compensation precedence. • Diversity and gender balance • Discrimination, harassment and equal Ensuring supplier compliance opportunities Sustainability is a key element in supplier selection and • Employee privacy overall supply management. • Alcohol and drug abuse ASSA ABLOY’s divisions are responsible for securing their • Human rights respective suppliers’ compliance with the Code of Conduct • Consumer interests and the Environmental Requirements. • Community outreach The Code of Conduct is a document that all suppli• Environment, health and safety issues ers are required to read. Quality and sustainability audits • Environment and sustainability are carried out before suppliers are accepted. Though the • Health and safety objective is to minimize the risk of non-compliance by all 8  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Governance ASSA ABLOY’s corporate governance is based on its articles of association, the Swedish Companies Act and the rules and regulations of the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm (Stockholm Stock Exchange). Corporate governance all divisions – handle sustainability issues related to their The Group applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Goverbusiness processes and functions. The divisions and their nance, which forms part of the rules of the Stockholm Stock units are responsible for compliance with ASSA ABLOY poliExchange. This Code is based on the principle of “comply cies and programs as well as for reporting back to Head or explain”, and primarily deals with the organization and Office. working methods of the Annual General Meeting, the Board A Code of Conduct compliance committee is chaired of Directors and the management, as well as the interaction by the Group Senior Vice President Human Resources and between these bodies. includes the person responsible for environmental issues at Group level and two employee representatives. Among Sustainability governance and organization other things, the committee handles whistle-blowing cases. The Board of Directors has the overall responsibility for The Group intranet contains a site intended to support existing and emerging risks, and for identifying and maxithe sustainability managers. It includes tools, best practices mizing opportunities to reduce them. and access to the reporting database. It presents all susThe Executive Team is responsible for sustainability risk tainability indicators and allows follow-up reporting of the management and decides on sustainability policy, Code of sustainability program. Statistical reports and score cards Conduct and strategy. enable companies to compare their performance with other ASSA ABLOY companies. Managing the sustainability agenda At ASSA ABLOY, sustainability issues are managed sysManagement system tematically by a set of established standards, tools and All factories with significant environmental impact should requirements. be certified according to the environmental management The environmental sustainability coordinators at the standard ISO14001 or another certifiable environment Group and divisional levels check that the necessary polimanagement system. cies, programs and tools regarding environmental issues By the end of 2010, 69 of the Group’s production units exist and are implemented, while the Human Resource had implemented such a system. The number of units that function at the Group and divisional levels oversees social are ISO14001 certified has increased from 39 in 2009 to 47. and ethical issues. Councils for Operations, Human Resources, Sourcing and Innovation – with representatives from the Group and Number of entities covered Sustainability organization by ISO 14001 certificates and other certifiable management systems Environmental Social & Ethical 07 08 09 10¹ Stefan Tisell, ASSA ABLOY Group Krister Eriksson, Head of HR ISO 14001 39 37 39 47 Head of Environmental Sustainability Certifiable Magnus Kagevik, Head of Operations EMEA Bill Harding, Head of HR systems 29 26 23 22 Jeff Mereschuk, CFO Americas Jack Dwyer, Head of HR Total 68 63 62 69 Allen Wong, Head of Operations Asia Pacific Holly Li, Head of HR ¹ The change is due in part to the closing of Eva Karlsson, Head of Operations Entrance Systems Maria Ewerth, Head of HR units in the restructuring program, while some new units have been certified. Jason Bohrer, Head of Operations HID Global Michele DeWitt, Head of HR Lars Witteman, Head of Operations Hospitality Dolores Shore, Head of HR ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 9 Goals and performance In 2010 ASSA ABLOY updated its sustainability program with goals and ­targets set to run until 2015. The targets have been developed by the Group’s Sustainability Council with representatives from all divisions. The program is based on the Group’s risk assessment procedures, covers material sustainability issues and mandates measurable results. The overall goal for 2010 was for ASSA ABLOY to further Below the most important activities within the Group are develop the governance of sustainability and to increase presented: the knowledge and control of sustainability status within • The implementation of a process for all companies with the Group. In order do so, a series of different activities in the ASSA ABLOY Group that included setting targets were introduced during the year. These activities will for all environmental KPIs; continue throughout 2011 with further fine-tuning and • The implementation of a validation and consolidation follow-up on performance. process on the divisional and Group level with regards to the targets for environmental KPIs on company level; • All companies within the ASSA ABLOY Group are as from 2010 obligated to identify and report their most material environmental risks and how they are managed. The companies report to Group level. Performance reporting flow Collection of data Data analysis Shor-term targets Long-term targets Using the 2009 data as a baseline, the 2010 data was Each company is obligated to set targets and will report on c­ ollected and analyzed in order to understand the status progress at least every six months to ASSA ABLOY Group. and to set long and short-term targets. Material KPI Target¹ Area 2009 2010 2015 Number of entities covered by ISO 14001 certificates and other certifiable management systems 62 69 75 KPI, Greenhouse gas emission CO2/Value added (Tonne/SEK M) 12.4 12.2 –10% KPI, Energy consumption/Value added (MWh/SEK M) 33.0 32.4 –15% KPI, Water/Value added (m3/SEK M) 124.6 110.0 –15% KPI, Hazardous waste/Value added (kg/SEK M) 283 259 –15% Consumption of chlorinated organic solvents (PER and TRI) (tonne) 44 32 –75% KPI, Percentage of spend in low cost countries represented by sustainability audited suppliers 40%² 80%² >90%³ Injury rate 8.4 7.6 –15% Injury lost day rate 150 142 –15% Proportion of females in senior roles See page 33 See page 33 Increased share ¹ For comparable units. ² Countries covered: China, Macau, Hong Kong and Taiwan. ³ Countries covered: All low cost countries. 10  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Organizational responsibility ASSA ABLOY is a decentralized organization and the responsibility of implementing the Code of Conduct, as well as other policies such as the risk management policy, is delegated from the Group to each division. The organizational responsibility for identifying and manAt the ASSA ABLOY Group level, the divisions’ is followedaging sustainability risks lies within each division in the up via the sustainability reporting process. Since 2010, ASSA ABLOY Group. Each division is expected to have additional reporting on each company´s most material the appropriate risk awareness and to manage the risks environmental risks and risk mitigation actions is mandain a proper way, regarding both “traditional” risks and tory for each company within the Group. sustainability risks. Within each division, the operational At the divisional board meetings among other things responsibility is delegated to each factory or business. The risks, compliance and sustainability related matters are on monitoring process differs among markets and divisions. the agenda. Each division has the responsibility to design its monitoring Integrating acquisitions is an important part of risk process. The responsibility does not only cover the divimanagement. sion's own business, but also includes the supply chain and All acquisitions are preceded by a thorough due dilisupply chain audits are to be performed. Each division is gence process including sustainability issues. The due further responsible for ensuring that new suppliers meet diligence process enables an effective integration into the the ASSA ABLOY requirements. Group. Organizational responsibility Board of Directors ASSA ABLOY Group Management Divisional boards Entrance EMEA Americas Asia Pacific HID Global Hospitality Systems Environmental Mapping Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Sales Unit Sales Unit Sales Unit Sales Unit Sales Unit Sustainability Report process ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 11 Acquisitions With its history of more than 150 acquisitions, ASSA ABLOY has a comprehensive process for bringing new companies into the Group, including bringing them up to set sustainability standards. Through acquisitions, ASSA ABLOY expands into new geo­ added value to ASSA ABLOY’s customers worldwide graphic markets, strengthens its product offerings, accelthrough increasingly complete solutions to meet growing erates innovation, meets customer demand more rapidly security challenges. and expands partner opportunities. ASSA ABLOY has implemented a Group-wide process that sets out the steps for Recognized risks making acquisitions. ASSA ABLOY has identified three sources of potential risk as This process is divided into four phases: strategy, assessa result of acquisitions: ment, implementation and integration. Each phase consists • Significant environmental pollution to soil or ground of predefined activities, decisions and documentation water that have occurred in the past; requirements. • The supplier base in low-cost countries of the acquired company; Acquisition integration • Manufacturing processes that use hazardous Sustainability represents an important area to cover in the substances. acquisition process and forms part of the due diligence process. Special attention is paid to environmental matters Recognizing these risks enables ASSA ABLOY to address in the integration process. them early in the integration process and manage them The companies acquired are integrated into the Group in accordance with Group policies and guidelines. based on their specific conditions. This lets them p ­ rovide Pan Pan manufactures and sells security doors ASSA ABLOY acquired the Chinese company Pan Pan in March 2010. Pan Pan safety management. The analysis showed a need for improvement and manufactures and sells security doors under the brands Pan Pan and Jing Jing. ASSA ABLOY required Pan Pan to install certain safety equipment in the Prior to the acquisition, an environmental due diligence process was factory and raise the general safety level. performed by the responsible division together the third-party experts. The The progress of Pan Pan´s management is followed-up by a sustainabildue diligence process disclosed shortcomings in the Pan Pan waste water ity supervisor within the ASSA ABLOY Group in China. Pan Pan is required treatment and the environmental management in general was considered to report on its performance regularly. Pan Pan has advanced in its mantoo poor. Also the due diligence disclosed the need for after-treatment of agement and performance. ASSA ABLOY considers the acquisition to be polluted soil. ASSA ABLOY made the decision to acquire Pan Pan despite an example of successful integration into the Group. the need for several improvements. As part of the terms for the acquisition, ASSA ABLOY is not the single owner of Pan Pan and the co-owner (the Pan Pan was provided with an action plan by ASSA ABLOY. The demand was seller) will keep the local management until 2012. When Pan Pan becomes made to Pan Pan to invest in a qualified waste water facility and to improve wholly owned by ASSA ABLOY, the integration into the Group will be comthe systematics in the environmental management in general. plete. Despite the shared ownership, the ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct is In addition to investigating the level of environmental risk manageimplemented and applies to the entire Pan Pan organization. ment, ASSA ABLOY also analyzed the need for improvements in health and 12  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Sourcing process and supply chain integrity Sustainability is a vital factor in our sourcing process. For ASSA ABLOY, auditing and improving sustainability performance among our suppliers is a continuous task. Process and organization for areas covered in ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct. Based on sustainable supply management the response in the self-assessment, on-site sustainability Group Management sets the sustainability targets and audits are agreed on with the supplier. framework, but each division is responsible for managBoth the self-assessment and the on-site audit check list ing the process in the operations and maintaining a good are designed to verify if the supplier is compliant with the supplier base. During 2010, the organization was further ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct, covering business ­ethics, streamlined as the Global Sourcing Office was closed and labor rights and human rights, environment, health and resources were distributed to each division . This means safety. that the divisions are responsible for having competent In 2010, the Sustainability Check List was reviewed and auditors on their teams. revised to further assure that relevant areas of the Code Following the changes in the organization, the Group of Conduct are covered. It also helped clarify the scoring Supply Management leads a Sustainability Council includcriteria to ensure suppliers are assessed and rated in a coning representatives from each division. The Council coordisistent way. Calibration training was conducted in Shanghai nates activities and follows-up on target achievement. All with participants from all divisions to familiarize them with divisions are operating according to the same guidelines, the revised check list and practice it at external suppliers in processes and IT system, which are provided by Group the region. ­Supply Management. Each division is responsible for performing audits when required, and their audit reports are submitted to The sustainability audit process the Group’s supplier database. A Group audit function Based on a risk assessment, high-risk suppliers in low-cost ­follows-up on reports in the database and carries out countries are required to perform a supplier self–assesscalibration audits to ensure that correct procedures are ment in the sustainability areas that correspond with the followed. Audit PROCESS Long-term Supplier development and consolidation Mid term Supplier risk assessment Target and measurements Supplier On-site Audits Supplier Development Self Assessment Grow Ongoing Scoring principles Traffic light System Fix Sustainability Supplier Quality Follow Up Audits Exit The audit is carried out by applying a sustainability audit check list. demand for an action plan, a dialog and follow-up. If the supplier fails If required, further questions are asked. When evaluating the audit to improve its performance, ASSA ABLOY will end the professional results, the auditor uses a “Scoring Principles – The Traffic Light System.” relationship. There are a few questions in the audit check list that are The green color indicates that everything is ok and that the supplier of such significance that they are called “stopper”. That means that if a complies with ASSA ABLOY requirements and no further investigasupplier fails to comply with the ASSA ABLOY standards on such a mattion is needed. Yellow demands further evaluation of the severity of ter, the supplier is disqualified, no matter how great the perforce is on the non-compliances and if considered relevant, an action plan will other matters. be provided by ASSA ABLOY to the supplier. Red signifies the absolute ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 13 Sourcing process and supply chain integrity Scoring Principles – The Traffic Light System Confidentiality is ensured by assigning user rights and An audit results in a rating for the supplier, green, yellow by limiting updating rights to accredited and trained or red, depending on total score. While green means that administrators. the supplier is accepted, yellow indicates that improveThe database enables follow-up of Audited Spend and ment measures need to be implemented within a specific a tool for prioritization and identification of preferred time frame. Red means that the supplier is not approved suppliers. for sourcing following the audit. Both red and yellow status can be revised based on Audits and results in 2010 evidence of a corrective action plan, well-documented In 2010, ASSA ABLOY increased the number of on-site progress and firm commitment from the supplier. Conaudits in low-cost countries compared to 2009. During the tracts with suppliers may be subject to termination in case year, ASSA ABLOY performed 376 sustainability audits. At of non-compliance that is not acted upon within an agreed year-end, 288 active suppliers had satisfied the minimum time frame. standards for quality and sustainability and were classed as reliable. The percentage of spend represented by sustainSuppliers in low-cost countries ability audited suppliers increased from 40 percent to 80 ASSA ABLOY suppliers in selected low-cost countries are percent in 2010. listed, graded and tracked in a supplier database. The Some of the audits revealed serious infringements of the database ensures transparency and that the purchase orgasustainability criteria, and eight active suppliers received nization has access to consistent information about the the red rating during the year. This means that they are suppliers’ performance. The supplier database is available added to the Group Black List pending corrective actions on the Group intranet for access by selected p ­ urchasers. and follow-up audits. 14  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 ASSA ABLOY has worked with supplier development and large increase of suppliers in China between 2009 and 2010 selection to improve the performance of the supplier base. is mainly due to acquisitions. ASSA ABLOY is identifying The detailed information in the supplier database shows strategically important and preferred suppliers, to help prithat the purchase volumes from suppliers that receive oritize resource allocation and audits. the highest rank, green, with respect to sustainability, or Moving forward, ASSA ABLOY will include more low-cost that are categorized as Class A with respect to supplier countries in the Group’s auditing program. quality, have gone up significantly. In 2010, 35 percent of total spend in low-cost countries were from green-rated Risk suppliers. To follow the Code of Conduct is a requirement in all supplier contracts. Sustainability audits are carried out on Challenges and focus going forward suppliers in risk categories. The objective is to minimize ASSA ABLOY Supply Management will continue to work risks of non-compliance among suppliers, primarily in lowwith and develop suppliers in order to increase the number cost countries. that receive high rates in the supplier assessments. This As of 2009, a sustainability audit process is the main tool will reduce risks associated with non-compliance and at used in on-site audits to evaluate how well a potential supthe same time contribute to better control and quality at plier meets set requirements. These tools were reviewed suppliers. and strengthened during 2010. ASSA ABLOY has carried out The main challenge going forward is how to sustainably standardized audits on suppliers in regards to sustainability manage and ensure that standards are being met at the since 2006. growing number of suppliers, including a large number of suppliers that each represents low sourcing volumes. The “Improving the sustainability performance within ASSA ABLOY and among our suppliers is a very important task. All divisions are responsible to ensure that their suppliers comply with ASSA ABLOY standards, and to make sure that the Group targets are achieved.” Stefan Tisell, Director Production Processes and Environmental Sustainability. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 15 Customers increasingly value sustainability.  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Sustainable product innovation Delivering world-class innovation requires a process that takes customer needs into account, meeting them with solutions that add value in an efficient and ­sustainable way. Customer research shows The environmental impact of ASSA ABLOY’s new products Product Management that customers are more and the processes in which they are produced are deterValue analysis or value engineering (VA/VE) is a specific inclined to buy green or mined mainly in the development phase. Material choice method to review a suggested or existing product to energy-efficient security and quantity, manufacturing process, energy savings and ensure that over-specification is avoided. This method is and safety products if these other sustainability aspects are all determined during required by the Gateway process for all new development. are offered as part of a comproduct development. Group companies use the Group’s Close to 100 VA/VE workshops were carried through plete green door opening Product Innovation Process and environmental check list during 2010. The workshops give good results in terms of solution. for their new product development. reduced material, components and unnecessary processes. Estimates indicate that the workshops have saved many The Product Innovation Process tonnes of metal. The Product Innovation Process has three major elements: • Product Management – addressing the strategic aspects Voice of the Customer of innovation. Customer research shows that customers are more inclined • Voice of the Customer – ensuring the development of to buy green – or energy-efficient – security and safety what the customers want. products if these are offered as part of a complete green • Lean Product Development and a Gateway system – door opening solution. ensuring development projects are carried out in an Listening to customers ensures consideration of their efficient way with minimum waste. sustainability expectations when developing new products. This also applies to manufacturing the products and how Environmental check list the products perform in serving the customers. As a part of the global Product Innovation Process, an enviCustomers increasingly value sustainability. This is ronmental check list has been designed to help ensure demonstrated by, for example, increasing demand for that no irrelevant or unnecessary functions are developed, construction that is considered green and the increasing no unnecessary or hazardous materials are used, and pronumber of buildings registered with LEED. cesses are sustainable and efficient. Voice of the customer methods are critical in determinBy designing products and processes correctly from the ing both what level of performance products have to live start, the cost-benefit ratio is optimized and the need for up to and what can be changed or removed without affectsubsequent corrections is minimized. The aim is to follow ing the value of the product to the customer. the principle of reduce-reuse-recycle: for example, reducing the amount of material in our products; designing products Lean product development that can be upgraded rather than exchanged; and enabling The Gateway process ensures that all relevant sustainthe recycling of material from process scrap and at the end ability issues are considered. For example, environmental of the product life cycle. and health and safety issues should have been identified, checked and dealt with before continuing beyond the product and process design step in the Product Innovation Process. With Lean product development, waste – defined as Graham Sketch Door “not adding value to customers” – is reduced in both the development and production phases. combines visual appeal and eco-friendliness The Sketch Door from Graham is a flush wood door alternative to traditional stile and rail doors. By mixing and matching different woods and grain directions, Sketch Doors provide high-end visual appeal and can be constructed from a wide range of core materials, ranging from fire-rated mineral to eco“Sustainable product innovation is all friendly Agrifiber. Graham Sketch Doors are available with a sound about understanding and meeting rating up to STC 46, fire rated up to 90 minutes, Forest the needs of our present and future Stewardship Council certified and can be made with customers, actively mitigating negative no added urea formaldehyde. environmental and social impact and making sure that ASSA ABLOY is a partner in the future”. Ulf Södergren, Chief Technology Officer (CTO) ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 17 Reduce-reuse-recycle The recycle principle is addressed by the environmental ASSA ABLOY applies the principles of reduce-reuse-recycle check list, which ensures that all environmental aspects of in its product innovation. product development and production are considered. The In implementing its sustainability strategy, the Group Product Innovation Process requires that suppliers particiintends to reduce its use of chemicals, energy and materials pate in a Supplier Quality Assurance audit to ensure that needed to fulfill security, safety and convenience requireASSA ABLOY’s high standards are met. ments. The ultimate aim is to reduce the negative impact The Group has reused and recycled products, compoof our products and processes. nents and materials for many years already and intends to The reuse aspect is addressed through an increased continue to improve in this area. focus on modularity. All major platform development The Group’s ambition is to optimize product construcshould be modular so as to maximize the variance for the tion so that raw materials will be utilized in the most customer while minimizing the complexity of customefficient way resulting in as little spill and scrap as possible. ization. As a result, components can be produced in an The Group continuously aims to separate waste in differefficient way and product obsolescence is avoided. ent fractions for more efficient reuse and recycling. Recycled metal Tonne 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Waste metal for recycling 45,700 59,300 38,700 35,800 36,200¹ ¹For comparable units. Total amount of waste metal for recycling amounted to 39,000 tonne, including units acquired during the year and increased reporting. Besam solves Ostankino Tower’s draught problems The tallest free-standing structure in Europe, Russia’s 540-meter Ostankino Tower, broadcasts television and radio transmissions from more than 30 stations. It also features conference facilities, several observation decks and a well-known restaurant, making it a popular destination for tourists. Because of its great height, the building is subject to powerful internal draughts in its elevator shafts. These conditions not only impact the comfort of staff and visitors, but also the fire resistance of the building. Besam, an ASSA ABLOY Group company, installed two large, three-wing revolving doors in the tower entrances to completely separate the indoor and outdoor environSaving time and r­ educing ments while still allowing the building’s large number of visitors convenient access. Besam also provided 14 fire-rated automatic sliding doors in the entrances to the costs while improving elevator halls, resulting in a draught-free environment and enhanced fire-resistance. The contract includes Besam service for all 16 installations. product performance Careful analysis has improved production of the Besam automatic sliding-door package for North America, saving time, money and raw materials while still improving product quality. The panels for the sliding door, which also have to swing in case of emergency, are built using aluminum extrusion. After a thorough VA/VE (value analysis-value engineering) process, ASSA ABLOY company Besam was able to realize cost savings by reducing the amount of aluminum in selected profiles, while improving the design of the swing-away latch, making it easier to manufacture and adjust in the field. VA/VE analysis allows Besam to not only reduce costs but to also invest in product improvements to aid in manufacturing and installation. 18  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Energy savings and better business Dutch shops have traditionally kept their front doors open at all times, the theory being that it makes them more inviting and attracts more customers. But it is a costly practice, particularly in winter, which can drive up heating costs. Besam contributed a ‘Smart Door’ solution to an independent study conducted by the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs on the correlation between energy savings and automatic doors. The solution featured a UniSlide Telescopic sliding door used together with an air curtain which could be activated when the door was open and shut off as soon as it was fully closed. The study, which measured both energy use and visitor traffic in an Amsterdam branch of DA Drugstore and Perfumery, found that the automatic entrance not only produced significant energy savings – up to 43 percent – but also helped keep the shop floor clean, noise-free and comfortable for customers. A video on the Besam website, with subtitles in English, shows how retailers can reduce their energy consumption and welcome in their customers at the same time. Strong, energy-efficient doors With energy prices continually increasing and nonresidential buildings consuming almost 40 percent of energy used in North America, Ceco Door remains committed to providing maximum thermal-resistant solutions. According to data from the Spray Polyurethane Foam Alliance, doors are responsible for 11 percent of the overall leakage in a building. The new Trio-E door is steelstiffened for strength, but has achieved an operable U factor of 0.29 (ASTM C1363), over 50 percent better than other steel-stiffened doors currently available for commercial applications. Many building owners can spend millions of dollars on energy bills annually. The Trio-E represents a chance Eco-friendly printing solution for them to realize significant savings on new or retrofit projects. improves security When the Trio-E is combined with thermally broken frames, Pemko thresholds and the Norton Trinity closer, HID Global, an ASSA ABLOY Group company, has partnered with leading multifunction it becomes a sustainable building solution that can elimi­ printer manufacturers and their application solution providers to create an eco-friendly nate infiltration and exfiltration in the door opening and print-management solution. guarantee that the building envelope is tightly sealed, The solution will enable companies to not only reduce their carbon footprint, but also even in the harshest environment. to increase security and save money. The company’s “secure print authentication” document printing solution extends an organization’s existing security investment by combining a secure document printrelease system with the same industry-standard HID Global readers and HID Prox and/or iCLASS cards that are used for building access at Fortune 1,000 corporations worldwide. A recent study found that the average employee prints 10,000 pages per year, of which 17 percent is not actually needed. In addition, the study found that the paper printed each year by a single employee produced greenhouse gases equivalent to one week of car exhaust. HID Global’s solution helps eliminate these issues and is ideal for companies trying to reduce their carbon footprint by reducing waste associated with printing and electricity consumption. It eliminates paper waste by deleting print jobs not released in pre-set timeframes; reduces the use of toner and wear on the device by printing fewer documents; and allows a device to function in a low-power mode until a card is swiped to start a printing job, saving electricity. The reduced waste and electricity consumption also translates to cost savings for organizations, where the print-management solution annually saves organizations up to USD 220 for each employee. It also solves security concerns posed by all-in-one multifunction printer devices that allow organizations to easily scan, print and copy sensitive data. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 19 Manufacturing Energy consumption and CO2 emissions ASSA ABLOY has developed different tools and a database to facilitate and increase control of consumption and emissions. The database further enables best practice sharing within the Group. ASSA ABLOY has been conducting assessments of its prodof production that had the greatest environmental impact, ucts and production processes for several years. The results caused by energy consumption. The aim was to further show that it is energy consumption in the production phase reduce CO2 emissions through energy optimization. The that has the most significant impact on the environment. three-step approach continued to be an important strategy ASSA ABLOY works with sales as a reference for its and it included: energy efficiency analysis and how it affects energy conFurther streamlining of manufacturing processes to sumption. The aim is to identify ways to better assess how enable the concentration of production to fewer producchanges in operations affect energy consumption. tion sites. It is important to underline that the streamlining still enables full capacity, efficient working practices and Three-step approach high standards of quality at the remaining sites. The three-step approach that was launched in 2009 was Further application of energy saving solutions. A few continued and further developed during 2010, Among examples are low-energy lamps and lights, sensors in heatother activities, a database on relevant KPIs was established. ing and cooling systems and timers. ASSA ABLOY continued to focus its efforts on the aspects Energy consumption MWh 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Direct energy – oil 45,000 35,000 9,000 23,000 32,000 – gas 194,000 190,000 191,000 174,000 171,000 – Total 239,000 225,000 200,000 197,000 202,000 Indirect energy – electricity 280,000 283,000 260,000 261,000 255,000 – district heat 22,000 28,000 22,000 33,000 36,000 – Total 302,000 311,000 282,000 294,000 290,000 TOTAL ENERGY USE 541,000 536,000 482,000 491,000 493,000¹ ¹For comparable units. Total energy consumption amounted to 539,000 MWh, including units acquired during the year and increased reporting. Total energy use (MWh) KPI, Greenhouse gas emission CO2/value added (tonne/SEK M) MWh Tonne/SEK M 600,000 15 500,000 12 400,000 9 300,000 6 200,000 ² Due to implemented changes in ¹ For comparable units. Total energy reporting and calculation principles 3 (see page 41), KPI-reference values 100,000 consumption amounted to 539,000 MWh, including units acquired during are not available for 2006 to 2008. 0 the year and increased reporting. 0 ³ For comparable units. 06 07 08 09 10¹ 06² 07² 08² 09³ 10³ KPI, Total energy/value added (MWh/SEK M) Greenhouse gas emission CO2 total (tonne) MWh/SEK M Tonne 40 200,000 30 150,000 20 100,000 ² Due to implemented changes in 4 For comparable units. Total green10 reporting and calculation principles 50,000 house gas emissions amounted to (see page 41), KPI-reference values 212,000 tonne, including units acquare not available for 2006 to 2008. ired during the year and increased 0 ³ For comparable units. 0 reporting. 06² 07² 08² 09³ 10³ 06 07 08 09 104 20  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Alternative energy sources that together with innovative environment in the consumption of energy and fossil fuels product design can create energy efficiencies in the proand through emissions to air. There are trends towards duction and the using phase were further explored. taxes on CO2 emissions, increase in price of oil emphasizing the interdependence between ASSA ABLOY’s conditions to Transport run business in an effective, environmentally sensible way Efforts to reduce the CO2 footprint continued in 2010, and the supply and cost of resources. including the improved monitoring of transportation of goods and employees. In 2010 ASSA ABLOY increased the Performance demand for information from its travel agents on business The total energy consumption for comparable units was travel. The information provides ASSA ABLOY with the posincreased by 2,000 MWh. An increase of 0.4 percent comsibility to understand the current traveling behavior and to pared to 2009. The normalized result, i.e. energy intensity, promote a different behavior. On divisional level, there are was improved by 1.7 percent in 2010. The objective to guidelines for business travel and routines for approval. reduce the normalized energy consumption by 15 percent from 2006 to 2012 has been passed. The target for 2015 is Environmental impact to achieve a reduction of the energy intensity by 15 percent ASSA ABLOY is dependent on energy in its productions compared to 2010, see page 10. process and the company is vulnerable to the effects from CO2 emissions intensity was improved by 1.5 percent energy retrieved from exhaustible resources. Examples of compared to 2009. In 2010, 12.5 percent of the total such effects are an increase in price and reduction in supply energy consumption came from renewable energy sources. of certain energy sources. Further, the company affects the Canadian eco-power makes it easier to be green ASSA ABLOY’s adoption of 100 percent low-impact renewable energy for its renewable electricity into the regional grid to match the amount of power Canadian corporate headquarters is helping the company reduce its greenASSA ABLOY’s headquarters use. house gas emissions even further. Shane Magee, President and Country Manager, ASSA ABLOY Canada, says In September 2010, ASSA ABLOY Canada announced that it had selected the agreement is a perfect fit with the company’s push for sustainability. Bullfrog Power to provide energy for its Corporate Head Office in Vaughan, “We have been committed to energy efficiency in our manufacturing plants Ontario. In Ontario, Bullfrog Power’s electricity comes exclusively from local for years and our move to Bullfrog Power for our Canadian corporate headwind and hydro facilities certified as low impact by Environment Canada. quarters is in keeping with this commitment. It is a natural progression.” Under the agreement, Bullfrog’s Ontario generators inject 387 MWh of ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 21 Manufacturing Water and waste A further developed process for waste management and water consumption are important factors in ASSA ABLOYs efforts to reduce its environmental impact as well as to cut costs. Water Waste Steps to improve water efficiency have focused on the platASSA ABLOY works towards minimizing the waste created ing operation as this consumes the most water of all the by its manufacturing processes. Increase of other types of manufacturing processes. The aim is to reduce operating toxic waste is temporary. It is caused by installation of new costs and environmental impact. production equipment and the fact that proper cleaning Technology innovation in the circulation and reuse of facilities were installed with a short delay. ASSA ABLOY water resulted during 2010 in a decrease in water discharge expects a 10 percent reduction of other types of toxic compared to 2009 (for comparable units). The lower conwaste during 2011. sumption reduces the energy needed to heat water, which Various metals are now sorted to assist in the recycling in turn decreases energy consumption. of their content. Oil is now extensively filtered so that it can be reused in manufacturing. Water Certified companies appropriately dispose of any haz2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 ardous waste that cannot be reused. Purchased water (1,000 m3) 1,878 1,997 1,763 1,765 1,604 Water from on site wells Hazardous waste (1,000 m3) 146 141 104 91 69 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Total water consumption Metal sludge (tonnes) 1,898 1,443 895 751 726 (1,000 m3) 2,024 2,138 1,866 1,8561 1,6741 Oil for recycling (tonnes) 1,451 741 878 769 551 KPI, Water/ Value added (m3/SEK M) NA² NA² NA² 124.6³ 110.0³ Other types of toxic waste (tonnes) 2,080 1,991 2,688 2,694 3,197 ¹ For comparable units. Total water consumption was 2,075 (1,000 m3) including Total hazardous waste units acquired during the year and increased reporting. (tonnes) 5,429 4,175 4,460 4,214 3,9314 ² Intensity values are calculated for comparable units between 2009 and 2010, (see page 39), reference values are not available for 2006 to 2008. KPI, Hazardous waste/ Value added (kg/SEK M) NA² NA² NA² 283³ 259³ ³ For comparable units. 4 For comparable units. Total amount of hazardous waste was 4,502 (tonne) including units acquired during the year and increased reporting. Good things come Suzhou’s packaging in smaller packages is now greener and cheaper Improvements in packaging can bring big environASSA ABLOY Entrance Systems (Suzhou) launched an initiative to make its packaging mental benefits. A study of packaging sustainability practices more sustainable. for ASSA ABLOY China in early 2010 identified several A sustainability review was conducted during the first two quarters of the year. improvements, which are already paying off. The conclusion was that in some cases the packaging used was overly protective and not The study showed that excess packaging was being environmentally friendly. A list of planned improvements was completed at the end of used for all Chinese product lines. In consultation with the second quarter. customers, an improvement program came into effect Previously, wooden crates used for packaging were labeled manually using screen in May 2010, and was almost completed by the end of printing. The process was time consuming, used acetone, produced waste water the year. and noxious fumes, and stained the floor. By reducing the amount of packaging, maximizing Under the new system, the previously large amount of wooden crates has been reuse of cartons and reducing the number of cartons, replaced with a smaller number of boxes. Whenever possible, boxes are reused and prothe improvement program has cut staff hours for packtective packaging has been minimized. In addition, boxes are now labeled with adhesive aging by up to 15 percent. Reduced consumption of stickers – eliminating the need for acetone. energy and raw materials means packaging has a much As a result, the total annual cost of packaging has been reduced by more than RMB smaller environmental footprint. 20,000 (USD 3,000). Time devoted to packaging has also decreased by 10 percent to 15 percent. 22  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Manufacturing Organic solvents and surface treatment ASSA ABLOY is continuously working to reduce hazardous substances in its production processes and find replacements. Most production units have phased out chlorinated solvents altogether. Organic solvents Consumption of organic solvents Chlorinated organic solvents such as perchloroethylene (PER) and trichloroethylene (TRI) are often used for surface PER consumption treatment of metals, including degreasing, cleaning and pretreatment before plating. Tonne ASSA ABLOY does measure other organic solvents than 80 the ones reported on in the sustainability report. Perchlorethylene (PER) and trichloroethylene (TRI) are reported as 60 they are the two most environmentally hazardous organic solvents. ASSA ABLOY has been working systematically 40 for many years to reduce and, in the long run, completely eliminate the use of the two solvents from its productions 20 process. ¹ Total consumption amounted to 32 tonne. These solvents are hazardous, and ASSA ABLOY has been 0 06 07 08 09 10¹ testing alternatives. Most of the Group's entities are already using alternatives, such as ultrasonic cleaning processes and water-based chemicals. TRI consumption Performance Tonne 100 During 2010 the phase-out process of TRI was completed, and the use of TRI was eliminated. TRI has been substituted 80 with less environmentally hazardous solvents within the entire ASSA ABLOY Group. The phase-out of PER within 60 the Group continued and a reduction of the number of 40 sites using PER was achieved. The total consumption of chlorinated organic solvents was reduced by 27 percent 20 compared to the 2009 figures. Commitment to reducing the use of chlorinated organic 0 06 07 08 09 10 solvents will continue and it is ASSA ABLOY's aim for all of its facilities to cease using them. PER and TRI total consumption Surface treatment Metal is a frequently used material in ASSA ABLOY’s Tonne 200 products. Products and their components need surface treatments to meet high standards of quality, including cor150 rosion resistance and finishing. The surface treatment processes are highly complex and require a balance between energy, water and chemicals, as 100 well as automatic or semi-automatic controls. ASSA ABLOY has a long-established level of expertise in the surface treat50 ment field, including with processes such as passivation, ² Total consumption amounted to 32 tonne. anodization and plating. 0 06 07 08 09 10² Performance Surface treatment processes under change ASSA ABLOY is working towards changing its surface treatment processes in order to have most of the remaining Processes under change processes converted by the end of 2011. Acquired companies added to the number of processes Number in 2010, the number of processes decreased by three. 40 30 20 10 0 06 07 08 09 10 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 23 Sales and customers The demand for products that have a green or sustainable profile is increasing and the expectations on ASSA ABLOY to provide those products in a responsible way are increasing as well. In order for ASSA ABLOY to continue to attract customers, we must meet and exceed these expectations. Managing business opportunities within the Group with regard to sustainability. More imporTo ASSA ABLOY’s customers, buying a sustainable or tantly, every customer must feel and trust that ASSA ABLOY green product is not only about knowing that it has been can deliver high quality products that meet or exceed his or sourced and manufactured in good way. It is also about her expectations, and that these products are sourced and the design being sustainable and the using phase and manufactured in a responsible way. the post using phase being less environmentally damaging. All these factors enable ASSA ABLOY’s customers to Creating awareness reduce their environmental impact and to feel that through Keeping up to date with sustainability development ASSA ABLOY, they can make an active choice. throughout the ASSA ABLOY value chain is important in There is large potential in the green building industry, order to create and maintain awareness. We do that by and ASSA ABLOY will be an active partner in this segment. training programs that covers governance, innovation, ASSA ABLOY’s sales force is the face of the company sourcing, manufacturing and sales etc. The Group intranet towards our customers. In order for ASSA ABLOY to be and the staff magazine are other important channels to perceived as a responsible company, it is vital that the sales engage with the employees on this matter. force truly can communicate the work that is performed RFID solution improves cost-effectiveness of waste disposal While most consumers and businesses don’t think about what becomes of waste after they dispose of it, those responsible for waste handling do. HID Global, an ASSA ABLOY Group company, is making it easier to collect and manage that information. Radio-frequency identification (RFID) technology is a powerful tool for waste collection, disposal and management, delivering compelling benefits to city governments, waste-removal contractors and their residential and commercial customers, by making it easier to identify and track waste streams. Colin Thorne, Sales Director EMEA for Industry & Logistics from HID Global, says: “Local governments, businesses and individuals all have an interest in making waste collection and disposal as cost-effective as possible. RFID technology provides significant cost benefits by automating various aspects of the operation, including verification of container pick-up, tracking customer usage and measuring route efficiency.” HID Global offers a range of transponders using RFID technology suitable for waste-management operations – including residential and commercial bins, medical waste containers, skips and bottle banks — along with reader cores and support services. HID’s products are compliant with all relevant standards and are fully interoperable with other standardized components and systems. 24  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 The Cooper Union equipped with ASSA ABLOY products The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art’s newly constructed academic facility at 41 Cooper Square in New York, attained LEED Platinum certification. In keeping with the school’s goal to create a high performance building, openings throughout ASSA ABLOY joins US 41 Cooper Square are constructed with door and hardware products from ASSA ABLOY Group brands. Regenerative Network A blend of doorway security, life-safety, aesthetics and sustainability is achieved with ASSA ABLOY is proud to have become the 25th member Curries hollow metal 707 doors and McKinney three-knuckle hinges along with 8200 of the US Regenerative Network, the business conSeries mortise locks, 80 Series exit devices and 351 Series door closers from SARGENT. sortium of leading global and venture-backed green The doorways feature a mix of mechanical and electromechanical locks that provide building product manufacturers and service providers. balanced security throughout the building, enabling facility personnel to set access priviBy joining the network, ASSA ABLOY has sent a mesleges according to their needs. Each opening is also carefully tailored to fit the design sage that it is committed to sustainability. motif set forth by project architect Thom Mayne of Morphosis. “Environmental ethics and social responsibility are From a sustainability perspective, all of the doorway products are constructed with an integrated part of ASSA ABLOY’s commitment to propercentages of recycled material that exceed LEED materials and resources guidelines, viding products and services that are environmentally and when used together as a complete assembly, the openings can help improve building sound throughout the entire production process and the envelope thermal performance. product life-cycle,” says David Gottfried, US ­Regenerative Network CEO and founder. “ASSA ABLOY’s presence greatly enhances our dynamic roster of companies that seek the highest pinnacle of sustainability.” “The environment, business ethics and social responsibility are critical issues that corporations must address to be integral members of society,” said Aaron Smith, Director of Sustainable Building Solutions at ASSA ABLOY. “Our unconditional aim is to make sustainability a central part of our business philosophy, culture and strategy. Our membership in the US Regenerative Network will help ASSA ABLOY realize these objectives and enhance our position as a socially responsible ­market leader.” New luxury hotel first to use Graham Sketch Door Widespread use of sustainable construction practices and building products made with recycled content and other green materials enabled the Fairmont Hotel and Resort in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania to achieve LEED Gold certification. Included in this hotel are numerous products from ASSA ABLOY. More than 500 of the roughly 800 openings are equipped with the Graham eco-friendly wood Sketch Doors made with Agrifiber cores. Other ASSA ABLOY brands installed are Adams Rite , Ceco Door, HES, McKinney, Norton, Pemko, Rixson, Rockwood and SARGENT. The Graham Sketch Door constructed with an Agrifiber core addresses green building challenges while still offering the same aesthetic and durability properties as wood fiber doors. By mixing and matching different wood species and grain directions, Sketch Doors provide high-end visual appeal at a more economical price compared to traditional stile and rail doors. The architects of the Fairmont Pittsburgh chose a Rift Oak custom design featuring a Walnut inlay and a dark custom color finish for openings throughout the hotel. In addition to answering security and life-safety needs, the locks and hardware used in the hotel are also constructed with large percentages of recycled material that exceed the minimum requirements in the LEED materials and resources guidelines. Smart system cuts hotel energy use and costs With energy one of the highest costs for hotel properties, the Orion energy management solution from VingCard Elsafe helps reduce energy cost, while ensuring guest comfort and improving hotel environmental initiatives. The award-winning intelligent solution automatically controls temperature settings when guests leave their rooms, reducing energy costs while ensuring guest comfort. The Orion system can also be fully integrated with VingCard Elsafe VISIONLINE wireless online locks, safes, and other networked subsystems like in-room lighting, providing even greater control for the hotelier. The Orion system received the prestigious Editor’s Choice Award at the 2010 International Hotel, Motel Restaurant Show (IHMRS) in New York as best green technology and has already proved recouping the cost of capital investment in two years or less. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 25 People the most important aspect of ASSA ABLOY's business. 26  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 People make it all happen It is ASSA ABLOY’s vision to be an attractive company to work for. To achieve this, a lot of effort is put into offering opportunities for interesting career development, challenging tasks and a positive and safe working environment. Know your company Employee survey results from 2010 Employees learn about ASSA ABLOY’s history, products, related to sustainability strategy, Code of Conduct and get a better understanding of how their jobs contribute to the company’s overall goals through the web-based interactive training program, 3,9 1 2 3 Entrance to ASSA ABLOY. The program is available in 15 3,8 4 5 languages on the Group intranet. The program is a manda3,7 6 7 tory part of employee introduction across the Group. In the 3,6 3,5 2010 employee survey the question “I am clear about my 3,4 role and how it contributes to my unit’s objectives” got the 2008 2010 second highest score out of 36 questions. An updated version of the program will be launched 1: strongly disagree, 5: strongly agree. in 2011. Sustainability on the intranet How well do the following statements The Group intranet contains two sustainability sites. One is correspond to your opinion? open to all employees and one is intended to support sus1. My unit values diversity among its employees – tainability managers and includes tools, best practices and 3.75, 9th highest score among 36 questions. access to the reporting data base. 2. My unit is a good place to work – 3.71. 3. My unit shows environmental Employee survey responsibility – 3.77, 6th highest. An employee survey is carried out globally every 18–24 4. I am treated with fairness and respect months to give employees the opportunity to express their at my unit – 3.70, 11th highest. views about their jobs, their workplace and the company. 5. My unit shows responsibility regarding The third survey took place in April 2010, in which more the health, well-being and work than 18,000 employees participated. The results were environment of its employees – 3.69. benchmarked against and compared to previous surveys, 6. I can openly and with respect express my showing the effects of actions taken and providing useful views and opinions within my unit – 3.59. input for the identification and initiation of activities in 7. My unit has high ethical and moral standards – 3.64. areas whith room for improvement. The results are broken down for more than 170 units to allow for targeted actions The scores on the questions are very much and communication to all employees. in line with those from the 2008 survey. Motivated people mean better customer value Continuous improvement is important for business. It is also important when taking care of people, as ASSA ABLOY Romania can testify. After a bumpy few years of economic downturn and major restructuring, the company recently embarked on a major transformation, both in terms of business and as a workplace. With HR playing a strategic role, the company, working with local unions, created and implemented a transparent and coherent salary system, called Motivating People, backed by a detailed performance evaluation system. Feedback from employees shows the system makes them feel more respected, important and appreciated, and they have seen major improvements in their working conditions. Implementing a clear and visible three-year strategy, and communicating the message to all employees, is paying off: Romania had the highest improvement level of all units in the 2010 employee survey. ASSA ABLOY Romania has chosen Lean as the main vehicle to achieve Business Excellence. The main aim is to create value for customers, deliver high-quality products and great service, while also minimizing costs and lead time. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 27 Career at ASSA ABLOY ASSA ABLOY believes that people make it all happen. Depending on the employee’s ambition and initiative, career development is achieved through challenging tasks, learning, feedback and teamwork. Training and development Talent Management Process Two Group-wide development programs, ASSA ABLOY ASSA ABLOY’s Group-wide Talent Management Process Management Training and the ASSA ABLOY-IMD Business aims to support career development. The process involves Leadership Program, are offered to a number of senior manall levels of the organization and includes a structured agers each year. In 2010, 53 managers participated in both approach to succession planning as well as to the developprograms. ment of employees in general. In the ASSA ABLOY Management Training program, participants learn about all aspects of ASSA ABLOY’s business Job posting and recruitment and operations, network with colleagues from different ASSA ABLOY employees are expected to take responsibility locations and business areas, share best practices and for their professional careers. Consequently, all vacant posiidentify new business opportunities. Since the launch tions are posted on the Group intranet, giving employees of the program, 360 managers from 35 countries have information about job openings and the opportunity to participated. apply. When recruiting, priority is given to internal appliThe ASSA ABLOY Scholarship Program provides the cants – provided their qualifications match those of exteropportunity for employees to work at a Group company nal candidates. other than their own for a period of time. The purpose is to The job posting policy is now well-known and institushare knowledge and experiences, and learn about other tionalized within the Group. cultures and ways of working. All employees can apply for the program. Building team spirit through training Some 30 managers in recently acquired companies and managers who have been appointed to new positions in more established Group companies are selected to participate in ASSA ABLOY’s Management Training Program every year. Introduced in 1996, the program encourages networking and sharing information and best practices. “The aim is to integrate acquired companies by building a network of key managers and sharing informa­tion and best practices,” says Bill Harding, VP Human Resources in division EMEA. “The participants learn more about the Group so that they can take advantage of our size and available resources. And this is a price­less way to build the important ASSA ABLOY culture and team spirit.” Each program includes three modules and group work throughout the year. 28  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 “ASSA ABLOY’s policy is to post job vacancies internally to encourage career advancement for qualified internal candidates. It is an important aspect of our talent management process that can help facilitate internal mobility in order to retain top talent in the long run.” Margaret Wirtes, Director of Strategic Human Resources Initiatives and Internal Communications, ASSA ABLOY Americas division. Scholarship gives employees a chance to grow The ASSA ABLOY Scholarship is designed to provide employees with the opportunity to further develop their professional knowledge and skills, as well as to create a deeper understanding of ASSA ABLOY. Candidates for the scholarship should have an excellent record and, for practical purposes, be able to communicate in English. Anna Pojen, an Online Corporate CommunicaOne of last year’s participants, Aaron BuxtonIvy Glezos, IP Services Manager from HID tor from ASSA ABLOY Head Office in Sweden Rella from ASSA ABLOY Australia, spent two Global in Irvine, California spent one month at spent one month at HID Global in Irvine, months at the EMEA IT Shared Service Center in ASSA ABLOY Head Office in Sweden. “My expeCalifornia. Landskrona, Sweden. rience was very enriching both professionally “It was incredibly fun to be able to take on “It was a fairly intensive induction program,” and personally. It was a great opportunity to a role where I could share the best of my 13 Aaron says. “It was a great way of developing share my professional knowledge and expertise years of communication experience,” Anna says. stronger working relationships.” in IP portfolio management and to showcase “I strengthened my knowledge about search HID's best practices and implementation of engine optimization, my English improved, scalable automation. It was my privilege and and I learned a lot about the identification and pleasure to meet and work with the nicest access control industry, where HID operates.” group of professionals across the Atlantic. My time in Stockholm is one that I will look back on with fond memories. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 29 Health and safety A workplace culture where everyone takes responsibility is the basis of ASSA ABLOY’s health and safety strategy. ASSA ABLOY is committed to providing a safe working environment where risks that can cause accidents or impair the Injury rate, total health and well-being of its employees are eliminated. Managers are ultimately responsible for implementing 12 and maintaining compliance with ASSA ABLOY health and safety procedures and regulatory requirements in their 9 work areas. Health and safety committees have been established 6 in the production units, with union representation where applicable. The committees receive reports of incidents, monitor performance and discuss opportunities for im3 provements. In addition, the committees initiate training to address specific risks. 0 06 07 08 09 10 Learning from each other All entities are benchmarked against each other. This allows Injury lost day rate, total for comparisons and the sharing of best practices, thereby helping the Group to attain higher standards. 250 Performance 200 ASSA ABLOY’s workplace health and safety performance continues to improve. During 2010, the injury rate de150 creased by more than 9 percent. The injury lost day rate, 100 or number of days lost due to injuries in relation to number of worked hours, decreased by 5 percent. 50 Injury 0 Division Injury rate lost day rate 06 07 08 09 10 Americas 11.1 214 Asia Pacific 5.1 60 EMEA 10.5 115 ESD 14.2 216 Global Technologies 3.3 27 Group 7.6 142 Recognized risks ASSA ABLOY’s health and safety risks are mainly related to the use of chemicals for degreasing, painting and surface treatment, and to production processes such as die-casting, stamping, drilling, cutting and polishing. 30  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Health-management program boosts productivity In January 2010, HID Global launched ACCESS health, a comprehensive health-­management program that provides free and confidential support to enrolled employees to achieve their health goals and manage health conditions. The program was designed to help employees identify personal health risks, encourage personal responsibility for health and wellness, help members make healthy choices, control health-care costs through proactive behavior change and improve overall morale and well-being. ACCESS health services engage employees in biometric health screening, health-risk assessment, medical and prescription claims analysis, interactive online tools, disease management and lifestyle health coaching. Healthy Motivations, a company certified in privacy standards, facilitates the program and ensures employees’ absolute confidentiality. Employees are not charged for the program and receive a substantial discount on their health-insurance premiums. Improved employee health will result in fewer missed work days and increased productivity. Raising HIV/Aids awareness In Africa, a continent that has been heavily affected by HIV/Aids, ASSA ABLOY “We are also doing advanced training with our peer educators, sponsored by is raising awareness of the disease in both the workplace and the community. SWHAP (the Swedish HIV/Aids Workplace Program).” ASSA ABLOY South Africa is looking at HIV/Aids holistically, and incorpoASSA ABLOY Kenya, meanwhile, received an award from SWHAP for its rating it into a wider wellness program. workplace program on HIV and AIDS, in the category of Most Innovative Lyna May, Human Resources Manager, says the company provides volunIntervention. tary counseling and training to employees. The prize recognizes programs that are not only original and innovative, “We intend to train employees who are traditional healers to become but also inspire others to follow suit. peer educators as well,” May says. “They can then raise awareness in the ASSA ABLOY Kenya’s “intervention” was a health-check session to raise community. awareness of HIV and AIDS among the company’s retail distribution network. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 31 A responsible employer Ethics are central to ASSA ABLOY’s way of conducting business. Social compliance auditing is a way of measuring and reporting on social and ethical performance, contributing to transparency and accountability. Factory Compliance Audits covering areas such as labor by external auditors to obtain an independent view of the standards, human rights, human resources, work envicurrent situation in the factory. ronment, workplace culture and skills development are The audits are followed by improvement activities conducted on a regular basis. The audits are conducted in where needed. In 2010 ASSA ABLOY’s Guli factory in China line with internationally accepted and applied procedures and the factory in Malaysia were audited. Employee voice heard through the EWC The European Works Council (EWC) is a forum where 24 employee representatives are not only informed about what’s going on within ASSA ABLOY, but also have the chance to ask Group management questions. “EWC is the only transnational forum within ASSA ABLOY where employees get information and can discuss important transnational issues with Group management,” says the council’s president, Rune Hjälm. In the end of November 2010 the EWC meeting were held in Sweden where Johan Molin, ASSA ABLOY’s President and CEO, and Tzachi Wiesenfeld, the Executive Vice President and Head of EMEA division, talked about the Group’s economic and financial situation and ­expected trends in business, production and sales. Other topics covered were for example competence development, equal opportunities, the Code of Conduct and the manufacturing footprint program. “Since the results of our Hifab audit were highly positive, we've taken the opportunity to showcase the things that the Malaysia facility is doing well, and the best practices we've learned about from Hifab and their local partners. This has become a powerful internal message and a way of setting the bar for all of our manufacturing sites.” Michele DeWitt, HR Director, HID Global. Factories in China and Malaysia complete ­independent audits In 2010 ASSA ABLOY continued to gauge the performance of its factories in various social and ethical dimensions. Project management company Hifab and local partners audited the factories in Xiaolan, China, and Johor Bahru, Malaysia, to assess their development in terms of work environment and social responsibility. The audits were conducted in line with internationally accepted procedures, and included an opening meeting with management and key staff, a factory inspection, management interviews, documentation reviews, interviews with selected workers at the factory and a closing meeting with management. The audit team at ASSA ABLOY in China stated that: “The employees are content and appreciate their management team’s efforts. A complete EHS (Environmental Health and Safety) management system is in place and the factory is clean. There is room for improvement, which will be facilitated by the factory’s well-developed communication culture.” The audit team at ASSA ABLOY in Malaysia said that: “The factory in Malaysia may very well function as a role model for other factories in terms of its approach to social aspects. The easily accessible Employee Handbook covers policies and the Code of Conduct. Meanwhile, a ‘Job Rotation Matrix’ enables the employees to gradually improve their overall competence in the factory’s different work stations.” 32  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Gender diversity ASSA ABLOY values and promotes diversity. This includes the ambition to achieve a better gender balance at all levels of the organization over time. About 40 percent of Group employees are women, while Female managers at different levels in the organization¹ the percentage of women in managerial roles is significantly lower. Activities and results are followed up in conPercentage of females nection with the Talent Management Process. Level 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 In the recruitment and promotion process, the under2 – reports to CEO 0 0 0 0 0 represented gender is given priority, provided that 3 – reports to level 2 9 14 11 15 16 applicants’ qualifications are equal. The goal is also to have 4 – reports to level 3 10 19 17 18 18 at least one candidate from the underrepresented gender 5 – reports to level 4 * 22 23 20 24 among the final candidates. All employees 41 39 40 39 37 * Not reported. 1) ASSA ABLOY AB head office is not included. Gender diversity policy In order to emphasize the importance and support the ambition to have a larger proportion of female employees in senior roles a global gender diversity policy has been established in 2010. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 33 ASSA ABLOY's stakeholders expect transparency. 34  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Engaging with stakeholders ASSA ABLOY stakeholders are those who have a direct relationship with, or who are affected by, the Group's business. In the area of sustainability, they include shareholders, investors, customers, suppliers, employees, local communities, non-governmental organizations and the media. An open-door policy helps ASSA ABLOY listen to our stakeholders and use their input to drive and deliver change within the organization. In 2008, ASSA ABLOY decided to relocate the Mul-T-Lock passed and the factory in Yavne developed its work with factory from Barkan in the West Bank to Modiin in Israel. Lean and streamlined its processes, it became clear that it The decision was formed due to criticism aimed at would be more efficient to keep the facility in Yavne and ASSA ABLOY for its factory on occupied land. When relocatintegrate the Barkan factory into Yavne. The move will be ing the factory, it was important that the 100 employees completed by the end of 2011 and means that the original had the possibility to continue their employment. The new work force from Barkan can continue their employment. location was within commuting distance. Short facts on this subject: Mul-T-Lock was founded in In 2008 ASSA ABLOY formed a strategy on how organize 1973, it has had operation on the West Bank since 1984. its future business in Israel. The initial intention was to set In 2000 ASSA ABLOY acquired the business and continued up a new factory in Modiin, an industrial park with capacity to run the factory on the West Bank. In 2008 ASSA ABLOY to also host Mul-T-Lock´s manufacturing in Yavne. As time decided to move the factory from the West Bank to Israel. Memberships ASSA ABLOY’s long-standing commitment to sustainability work is reflected in its partnerships and memberships. ASSA ABLOY and the UN Global Compact ASSA ABLOY has been a signatory to the UN Global As a signatory ASSA ABLOY is obligated to issue a Com­Compact since 2008. Our participation in the UN Global munication on Progress Report annually to the UN Global Compact means that we support and commit ourselves to Compact. We fulfill this obligation by issuing an annual Susactively promote and respect the 10 principles on human tainability Report, that is communicated to the UN Global rights, labor standards, environment and business ethics in Compact. our operations and in relation to the different ASSA ABLOY stakeholders. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 35 Engaging with stakeholders External recognition ASSA ABLOY regards an open dialog with our stakeholders as an important ­factor for developing and improving our business. We highly appreciate feedback and input on our performance. We are very happy and proud to have received global recognition by governments, non-governmental organizations and investors for our social and environmental performance over the years. Below are some examples of how we performed in 2010. FTSE4Good Index FTSE is an independent company jointly owned by The Financial Times and the London Stock Exchange. It produces different indexes. The FTSE4Good Index aims to facilitate investments in companies that meet globally recognized corporate responsibility standards. ASSA ABLOY is included in the FTSE4Good Index. The company meets the stringent social, ethical and environmental criteria of the global index company FTSE Group, and is positioned to Dialog with ethical investors and analysts capitalize on the benefits of responsible business practice. Kempen Kempen is a Dutch merchant bank that provides investment funds among other financial services. ASSA ABLOY has been included in the Kempen SNS SRI Universe, which since 2003, invests in European companies that adhere to strict sustainability criteria such as environmental, ethical and social standards. Folksam The Swedish insurance company Folksam conducts annual studies of how companies carry out their social and environmental responsibilities. Folksam issues different reports and indexes on corporate social responsibly among ­Swedish companies listed on NASDAQ OMX Small, Mid and Large Cap. Gender Diversity Index The annual Gender Diversity Index measures the percentage of women at different levels within companies on NASDAQ OMX. In 2010 ASSA ABLOY strengthened its score compared to 2009. ASSA ABLOY received a score of 3 (2.07), the average score for its sector was 2,6. Carbon Disclosure Project ASSA ABLOY participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for the fourth consecutive year. The CDP is an international initiative to assess companies’ preparedness in regards to risks and opportunities related to climate change. It is backed by 534 investors with assets of USD 64 trillion. In the Nordic report for 2010, ASSA ABLOY receives a score of 36/100 (42/100). 36  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Engaging with stakeholders Dialog with ethical investors and analysts ASSA ABLOY benefits from regular and open dialog on sustainability with ­investors and analysts. A dialog with investors and analysts is a very effective and how ASSA ABLOY manages those. Information on systemvaluable tool to further develop the ASSA ABLOY business atic approaches and evaluations processes were requested, and to communicate our way of working. Owner represenespecially for sourcing in low cost regions. Energy efficiency tatives are an important stakeholder group that can offer and how ASSA ABLOY works to reduce its environmental knowledge, best practice and risk management input to us. impact are other important matters raised in the dialog. During 2010 ASSA ABLOY conducted round table discusAlso the opportunity side is of importance to the owner sions and one on one meetings. The input will be taken into representatives, they want information on business opporconsideration in our future strategies and work as well as in tunities related to sustainability. Our aim is to continuously our communication. Example of issues that were raised by improve our communication and reporting to better meet the investors and analysts in 2010 are; Risks in sourcing and the needs of our stakeholders. “ASSA ABLOY has been persistent in its sustainability work ability to show that it can be profitable in two ways – for the Folksam: this year. There are still areas to be improved, but I think company’s bottom line and for the environment. The comCarina Lundberg Markow, ASSA ABLOY has proven to the market that it is serious pany could also be even clearer in identifying sustainability Head of Corporate about sustainability. We are very pleased with the GRI audit standards in their products. Lastly, we are pleased with the Governance of the report this year and that the company has focused gender work ASSA ABLOY has been doing. We appreciate on China. However, it would be good if ASSA ABLOY could that ASSA ABLOY takes a very serious approach to diversity provide more information regarding the results of the audits and gender. However, a bit more focus on diversity at the in China, and the outcome of this work regarding financial top levels of the company would be appreciated from our or quality improvements. Also, it would be interesting if side.” ASSA ABLOY could build a business case around sustain“ASSA ABLOY has evolved its sustainability work from the represents a major challenge in regards to ensuring compliSwedbank Robur: small-scale commitment it was 10 years ago to the extenance to its Code of Conduct. The development of a control Anna Nilsson, sive, systematic and transparent approach that is taken system for the supplier base is therefore crucial. Most of Head of Responsible today. There are still many challenges due to ASSA ABLOY’s ASSA ABLOY products do not have any large environmental Investments presence in low-cost/high-risk countries and the high impact during use, so the company should focus on environdegree of manual labor and processes that have an environmental measures during production and after-use recycling. mental impact throughout the value chain. As even more Some products can help customers become more energy of ASSA ABLOY´s value chain moves to low-cost countries efficient and we look very positively on ASSA ABLOY´s efforts (mainly China), sustainability risks within the company’s within this area.” own operations and its supply chain increase rapidly. This “ASSA ABLOY is taking a systematic approach to sustainwhen working with suppliers in China and other emerging Third Swedish National ability. The company is good at listening to stakeholders, markets. ASSA ABLOY could add some more information Pension Fund (AP3): especially when it comes to disclosing information. about sales of their energy saving door solutions. It would Christina Kusoffsky Hillesöy, ASSA ABLOY is decreasing the number of suppliers which be interesting for financial analysts to understand that they Head of Communications & is good from a risk perspective. But there are still a lot of can make money doing this and that there is a connection Sustainable Investments suppliers that the company makes very small purchases between sales of sustainable products and profit.” from, and they don’t audit them for compliance with the Code of Conduct – this is a big challenge for the company. The company also needs to train its purchasers even more, at the lead level, so that they can identify risks, particularly “It’s often challenging for a company to define exactly who getting better at identifying the risks. There are some really Fourth Swedish National is responsible for what when it comes to sustainability, but good opportunities for ASSA ABLOY to save energy for conPension Fund (AP4): ASSA ABLOY is trying to make those definitions as clear as sumers. The increased use of wireless technology and the Arne Lööw, Senior Manager possible. Another challenge concerns the high rate of acquireuse of products after renovation are also areas that can Corporate Governance sitions the company makes. It would be interesting to see increase the opportunities in this area. It could also be good how those companies are integrated into the ASSA ABLOY if ASSA ABLOY was involved early in the building process to culture post acquisition. China is a very important area, so show how energy could be saved with the right products it is good that the company is focusing the report on its and solutions.” work there. Third-party audits and spontaneous evaluations are of utmost importance, but I think the company is ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 37 Engaging with stakeholders Community outreach ASSA ABLOY has the opportunity to contribute and give back to the local ­communities in which we operate. It is an opportunity that brings meaning and joy to a great number of people, organizations and communities. ASSA ABLOY considers community outreach to be an donating solutions to non-governmental organizations; important part of building trust in our organization, makdonating funds to provide safety to children and communiing our employees feel proud to represent ASSA ABLOY. It ties living in crisis; and arranging employee campaigns to is also part of being a good corporate citizen. The need for support disadvantage people. Some of the initiatives carcommunity outreach varies in the different regions where ried out during 2010 are outlined below. the Group operates. An example of contributions has been Yale and ASSA ABLOY donate 500,000th lock to Habitat for Humanity Affordable housing is not a new problem in the world, nor “Yale’s support of Habitat quite literally provides the keys is securing your family and your home. Ten years ago, the to success and a sense of security, which all people want for ASSA ABLOY Group made a pledge through its Yale brand themselves and their families,” said Jonathan Reckford, CEO to work with Habitat for Humanity International to alleviof Habitat for Humanity International. “Yale’s gift in turn ate these problems by providing security to all Habitat for allows Habitat affiliates to direct more resources to other Humanity homes in the United States. And on December construction expenses. We are delighted to celebrate this 18, the 500,000th lock was installed in partnership with tremendous milestone, and we are grateful to have Yale as Loudon County Habitat for Humanity and a Knoxville-area such a faithful and committed partner. Habitat homeowner. “Yale is very proud to be partners with Habitat for Humanity to secure families in their new homes,” said Dick Krajewski, General Manager for Yale Locks & Hardware. “We hope each family feels a sense of pride and accomplishment the first time they unlock the door to their new home and a new beginning.” The ASSA ABLOY Group and Yale Locks & Hardware joined Habitat’s affordable housing work in 2001 with a commitment of USD 5 million in interior and exterior locksets and complimentary technical advice to Habitat affiliates regarding use and installation. Yale renewed this commitment in 2006, exceeding its second USD 5 million pledge by nearly USD 1 million. The company also supports Habitat house construction through employee volunteerism on build sites near Group locations in, Mason City, Iowa, New Haven, Connecticut, Charlotte, North Carolina, Roanoke, Virginia and New York City to a name a few. Additional product support to local build projects has been provided by the brands from ASSA ABLOY Mexico and ASSA ABLOY Asia Pacific. 38  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Yale raises awareness about diabetes Yale Locks & Hardware, an ASSA ABLOY Group company, was well represented by a team of just over 100 people – composed of 43 employees and their family members – at the American Diabetes Association’s annual Step Out Walk on October 16, 2010. Not only did Yale have the largest company team at the event, but it also amassed the largest employeedriven contribution towards the fight against diabetes. In the space of just six weeks, the team raised just under USD10,000 through a variety of fundraising events. There was a friendly competition between the company’s profit centers and office to see which would have the largest percentage of walkers at the Step Out Walk. The Cylindrical Profit Center won, and enjoyed a pizza party as a result. Paul Boyles, Human Resources Manager, applauded Brenda Gossage, Industrial Nurse, for her hard work in spearheading the campaign, and also thanked the team captains for their efforts. “They worked so hard and their commitment and dedication were unmatched,” Boyles said. Think globally, act locally World Environment Day is really all about thinking local. And the people at ASSA ABLOY Mexico used the UN-backed annual event on June 5 to highlight what people can do at a local level. Staff at the Pelicano site formed an “ecological brigade” to promote green activities within the company and the community. Their first job was tidying up the area outside the facility, installing trash cans, tending to trees, sprucing up sidewalks and painting crosswalks for pedestrians. Employees and their children took part in a competition creating items from recycled materials. Entries included wallets, handbags, flowers and other handcrafted items. The day wound up with a recycling event, with employees given a sapling and a certificate for every ten used batteries or plastic bottles they brought in for recycling. World Environment Day provided a great opportunity for ASSA ABLOY Mexico to create a sustained effort to protect the environment every day of the year. Snowdon charity walk success ASSA ABLOY UK employees participated in a charity walk up Snowdon, the highest mountain in Wales, to raise money for the Birmingham Children’s Hospital. In unusually good weather – they were able to wear T-shirts commemorating the event – the team took about three hours to make their way up the Pyg Track. It was by no means a walk for the complete amateur. True team spirit took over and though participants – ages ranging from nine to 50-something – walked at different speeds, they never walked alone. The team enjoyed breathtaking views on their way to the summit, which they reached shortly before 1pm. There they enjoyed a well-earned lunch break, followed by a short but steep descent down the Miners’ Track to Llyn Llydaw lake. Finally, a walk of about an hour took them back to the Pen-y-Pass car park. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 39 Reporting ASSA ABLOY's progress. Reporting principles. 40  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Reporting the Group's progress Reporting principles ASSA ABLOY is dedicated to improving its communication on sustainability in terms of transparency, scope, quality and the frequency of information. The company’s Sustainability Report 2010 was published in April 2011. In retrospect Communication Number of reporting units When ASSA ABLOY began Internally, the Group intranet and sustainability reportfocusing on sustainability, ing database are important tools for communication. it prioritized manufacturExternally, the Group web site www.assaabloy.com and 250 ing because of its impact on the annual Sustainability Report communicate to a wider the environment, as well as public. 200 health and safety. The Group also frequently presents its sustainabilIn 2005, ASSA ABLOY ity approach to external audiences, such as analysts and 150 implemented its first formal investors. 100 internal reporting system. The system encompassed Changes in reporting management 50 several quantitative and In 2009, the Group moved from a reporting structure that 0 qualitative indicators and focused on geographical sites to one based on operational 06 07 08 09 10 covered the more significant units – also called base units. This means that the reporting operations from an environstructure and data are similar to those used for Group-level mental/health and safety financial reporting and therefore support the integration of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) perspective. sustainability into all areas of operations. This report covers the 2010 reporting year. It covers all In 2007, a separate Compared to 2009, the number of entities reporting ASSA ABLOY operations, as well as those of our suppliers. reporting database was on sustainability in 2010 has increased from 181 to 204 For the reporting of indicators, the scope of 204 units has developed and the scope of due to acquisitions. The reporting units include sales units been defined. Joint ventures are included if ASSA ABLOY reporting on sustainability and offices. The number of reporting units has also been holds a majority of the shares. Sustainability indicators are was expanded. affected by the reduction in the number of factories and reported by companies that have been part of the Group Between 2008 and increased outsourcing. since at least the end of the first quarter of 2010. Units 2009, the number of units with less than 10 employees do not report on sustainability reporting on sustainability Changes in calculation principles indicators. increased from 80 to 181 Reported normalized KPIs are based on currency-neutral The report has been developed with guidance from a – including sales units and monetary values and value added rather than sales, in order number of standards and with substantial input from invesoffices. to minimize the effect of currency fluctuations and the tors and available rating schemes, in particular the GRI Between 2009 and 2010, ongoing restructuring of the Group. By using value added Guidelines. ASSA ABLOY reports against level C of the GRI the number of reporting as a measure, the normalized values are also not affected by by self-declaration. (See cross reference to the GRI on pages units increased from 181 to the outsourcing of manufacturing. We believe this provides 42–43). 204. The increase is related a more accurate picture of what is going on in the Group. ASSA ABLOY reports its sustainability performance to acquisitions of new From 2010 ASSA ABLOY uses the same principle for calannually. This is the fifth Sustainability Report. The previous companies. culating CO2 emissions as in the annual Carbon Disclosure Sustainability Report, for 2009, was issued in April 2010. ASSA ABLOY has further Project-report. Previous reporting has been based on the developed its reporting syssame CO2 factor for all countries in the Group. The selected GRI audit tem with improved analysis method gives a more relevant calculation on the actual CO2 To improve the validation of data and the reporting of GRI, capabilities and consolidaemissions since it takes into account how electricity is genan independent review of ASSA ABLOY’s GRI application tion of data. erated in different countries. level has been performed by Deloitte AB, Sweden. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 41 GRI content index table ASSA ABLOY’s Sustainability Report 2010 follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, level C. The table below indicate where information can be found; additional indicators that are applicable to ASSA ABLOY’s Sustainability Report (if nothing else is stated) or Annual operations. Symbols show if the respective indicators are Report (AR). The table covers all core indicators as well as partly or fully reported on. Page Page reference Degree reference Degree Profile 4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc. 4–5, 7–8, AR 2–3 1. Strategy & analysis 4.9 The board’s monitoring of the sustainability work 9 1.1 CEO’s comments 4–5 Commitments to external initiatives 1.2 D escription of key impacts, risks and opportunities 7, 13, 17–25 4.12 Association to external voluntary codes, principles or Inside cover, other initiatives 9, 35, 41 2. Organizational profile 4.13 Membership in organizations 25, 35 2.1 Name of the organization Cover Stakeholder engagement 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services 2–3, AR 10, 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 35–39 12–15 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of important 2.3 Operational structure of the org. 2, 9, 11 stakeholders 35–39 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Back cover 4.16 Approach to stakeholder relations 35–39 2.5 Countries where the organization operates 2, 4.17 K  ey topics and concerns that have been raised through AR 11, dialogues with stakeholders 36–37 16, 91 5. Economic indicators 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 64–65 EC1 Direct economic value and distribution AR 75,79 2.7 Markets 2 EC2 R  isks and opportunities for the organization due to 2.8 Size of the organization 2 climate changes 17–21 2.9 S ignificant changes during the reporting period 41, EC3 C  overage of the organization’s defined benefit plan AR 102–103 obligations AR 99–100 2.10 A  wards received during the reporting period 31, 36 EC4 F inancial assistance received from government 3. Report parameters Market presence Report profile EC5 R  ange of ratios for standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage 3.1 Reporting period Cover, 41 EC6 Purchases from local suppliers 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 41 EC7 L ocal hiring and proportion of senior management hired 3.3 R eporting cycle (12 months, 24 months, etc.) 41 from the local community 3.4 C ontact details Inside cover Indirect economic impact Report scope & boundaries EC8 I nfrastructure investments and services provided for 3.5 P rocess for defining report content 41 public purposes 3.6 B oundary of the report 41 EC9 S ignificant indirect economic impacts, including the 3.7 S pecific limitations on the scope or boundary of extent of impacts the report 41 6. Environmental performance indicators 3.8 B asis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc 41 Materials 3.10 C  omparability with previous reports 41 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods EN2 Recycled input materials 18 regarding scope, boundaries, etc. 41 Energy GRI content index EN3 Direct energy consumption 20–21 3.12 T  able identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 42–43 EN4 Indirect energy consumption 20–21 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 4. Governance, commitments & engagement improvement 17–21 Governance EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable 4.1 G overnance structure for the organization 9, 11, energy based products and services 17–22 AR 64–67 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 4.2 T he Chairman of the Board role in the organization 9, 11, and reductions achieved 17–22 AR 67 Water 4.3 I ndependent and/or non-executive board members AR 67 EN8 Total water withdrawal 22 4.4 M ethods for shareholders and employees to propose 27, Biodiversity recommendations, etc. to the board AR 64–65 EN11 Location/scope of land owned near protected areas/ 4.5 R emuneration to senior executives AR 66, areas of biodiversity value 104–105 EN12 Factors that affect biodiversity 4.6 P rocesses for avoiding conflicts of interests in the board AR 67 4.7 P rocesses for determining the competence of board members AR 65 42  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Fully reported Partly reported Not reported Page Page reference Degree reference Degree Emissions, effluents & waste Non-discrimination EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 20–21 HR4 T  otal number of incidents of discrimination and EN17 O  ther relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions actions taken EN18 I nitiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 20–21 Freedom of association & collective bargaining EN19 E missions of ozone-depleting compounds HR5 Operations where freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken 11–12 EN20 N  O, SO, and other significant air emissions Child labor EN21 Emissions to water HR6 Operations where there is a risk for incidents of child EN22 Waste 22 labor and actions taken 11–12 EN23 Significant spills Forced & compulsory labor Products & services HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for inciEN26 A  ctions to reduce environmental impacts of products dents of forced or compulsory labor and actions taken 11–12 and services 7, 9, 17–23 Indigenous rights EN27 P  roducts sold and their packaging materials that HR9 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous are reused people and actions taken Compliance Society EN28 F ines non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance Community with applicable laws SO1 Programs for evaluating the operation’s impacts on Transport communities EN29 Environmental impact from transport 21 Corruption 7. Social performance indicators SO2 Business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 11–12 Employment/ Employees SO3 Employees trained in the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 8 LA1 Total workforce by function, employment type 2, and region AR 106 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption LA2 Rate of employee turnover Public policy LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees AR 90 SO5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying Labor/management relations SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, LA4 Percentage of employees covered collective bargaining politicians and related institutions agreements Anti-competitive behavior LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior Health & safety Compliance LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, work related fatalities 30 SO8 Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with applicable laws LA8 Programs to assist workforce regarding serious diseases 31 Product responsibility LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Customer health & safety Training & education PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts 17–18, of products and services are assessed 23, 25 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee Product & service labelling LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support employees’ career development 28–29 PR3 Product labelling and information LA12 Employees receiving regular performance and career Marketing communications development reviews PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards and Diversity & equal opportunity voluntary codes for marketing communications LA13 Composition of governance bodies and workforce 33 Customer privacy LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy Human rights Compliance Investment & procurement practices PR9 Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with regulaHR1 Consideration for human rights in regard to tions concerning the use of products and services investments 12 HR2 Human rights in the supply chain 13–15 HR3 Training and education in human rights 13, 27 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 43 Glossary 5S principles Injury rate 5S is a key element of Lean and stands for Sort, Set in order, Measure injuries per million hours worked. Shine, Standardize and Sustain. Injury lost day rate Carbon Disclosure Projcet (CDP) Measure in lost days due to injuries per million hours The Carbon Disclosure Project, or CDP, is an independent worked. non-profit organization compiling the world’s largest database of corporate climate change information. CDP ISO 14001 harmonizes climate change data from local organizations A global, certifiable standard for environmental managefrom around the world to assist in the development of ment systems created by the International Organization for international carbon reporting standards. Standardization. Carbon footprint KPI A CO2 measurement of the impact of human activities on Key Performance Indicator. the environment, in terms of the amount of greenhouse gases produced. LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design. CO2 Carbon dioxide. NGO Non-governmental organization. Direct energy Energy generated and utilized on site from oil, gas, etc. Organic solvents Perchloroethylene and trichloroethylene. EBIT Earnings before income and tax. PER Perchloroethylene. Energy conservation The practice of decreasing the quantity of energy used, for RoHS example through efficient energy use. European Union Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive. Global Compact A UN initiative that encourages companies to apply sustainSRI able and socially responsible principles. Socially Responsible Investment. Global Reporting Initiative, GRI TRI Global guidelines for sustainability reporting. Trichloroethylene. Greenhouse gas missions Value added Gases from the atmosphere that contribute to the greenEBIT plus total cost for personnel. house effect, for example CO2 and methane. Indirect energy Electricity and heating. 44  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Contacts Environmental sustainability: Stefan Tisell, ASSA ABLOY AB Director Production Processes and Environmental Sustainability stefan.tisell@assaabloy.com Tel: +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 Social and ethical matters: Krister Eriksson, ASSA ABLOY AB Senior Vice President Human Resources krister.eriksson@assaabloy.com Tel: +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 Production: ASSA ABLOY, Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Photo: cover Johnér Bildbyrå, ASSA ABLOY’s own photographic library, among others. Print: Elanders AB, Falköping, April 2011. ASSA ABLOY is the global leader in door opening solutions, ASSA ABLOY AB dedicated to satisfying P.O. Box 70 340 end-user needs for SE-107 23 Stockholm security, safety and Klarabergsviadukten 90 convenience SE-111 64 Stockholm Sweden Telephone +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 www.assaabloy.com Fax +46 (0) 8 506 485 85
