Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 The ISS Way Contents Letter from the Executive Group Management 3 About iss 4 The iss Approach to Corporate Responsibility 6 Governance 13 Our Performance and Targets 16 Iss and People 19 Iss and the Planet 26 Iss and Profit 30 Iss and Partners 33 Reporting Principles and Compliance 35 Front page: The ISS Values Honesty: Moses Amoakehene, France Entrepreneurship: Inês Costa, Portugal Responsibility: Nina Arsih, Indonesia Quality: Brahim Elhazmir, Denmark CR Report 2010 3 Letter from the Executive Group Management As a leading global provider of facility services, with steps in strengthening our foundation in support of our operations in established markets such as those in Western continuous commitment to the UN Global Compact. Europe and in emerging markets, ISS influences the lives of many people. By the end of 2010, ISS had more than We are proud to present our first ISS Corporate 500,000 employees, making us one of the largest private Responsibility Report where you can read more employers in the world. At ISS, our successful performance about these initiatives; our approach to Corporate is based on the day-to-day efforts of our employees, Responsibility, our Governance, our initiatives in People, who together ensure that we reach our strategic goals. Planet, Profit and Partners areas, our performance and We would like to express our warm gratitude to all our our objectives and targets. employees for their dedicated work. We are conscious that our size bestows on us a sizable corporate responsibility We seek to enforce our sense of purpose through our particularly in the area of human capital. corporate responsibility efforts and examples of these can be found in the postcards throughout the Report. ISS has management teams in 50 countries and operations in an additional 13 countries. Our global footprint includes In terms of reporting, this is a first step in our journey. operations in Western Europe; the Nordic region; Asia; the In the coming years, we aim to build upon this report by Pacific region; Latin America; North America and Eastern augmenting our data both in terms of scope and quality. Europe. We deliver services to our customers mainly through the use of our own employees (self-delivery). We We strongly believe that the long term success of our believe that the ability to self-deliver enables us to provide company depends on the balance of social, environmental our customers with several benefits including direct and economical aspects of our business. Being an integral control over and accountability for resources employed as part of our business strategy, the ISS Way, our efforts in well as the ability to standardise the service delivery and these areas will provide us engaged employees, enhanced assess and manage risk related to specific contracts in a customer experience and boost business growth. manner we would not be able to if we relied mainly on subcontractors. Yours faithfully “As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we are committed to aligning our strategy and operations with the ten Global Compact principles on human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. ISS respects, supports and promotes human rights as stated in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the Core Conventions of the International Labour Organisation.“ Jakob Stausholm Jeff Gravenhorst Corporate Responsibility is a journey and while our behaviour Group Chief Financial Officer Group Chief Executive Officer has been responsible throughout our more than 100 years of history, we are dedicated to continually improving our performance in this area. In 2010, we have taken many 4 CR Report 2010 About iss ISS is one of the world’s largest commercial providers of facility services, operating in over 50 countries in Europe, What is Facility Services? Asia, Pacific, North America and Latin America. ISS has Facility Services covers a range of services: a diverse customer base of public and private sector customers. Cleaning services – office cleaning, industrial cleaning, specialised cleaning, With more than 520,000 employees, we are one of the washroom services and more; largest private employers worldwide. The vast majority of Office support services – reception our employees serve in the front-line delivery of services. services, internal moves, helpdesk/call centre internal services & logistics and more; Through a network of local operations, ISS offers Facility Property services – building maintenance, Services on an international scale. It is our ambition to technical maintenance, pest control services, develop partnerships with our customers enabling them damage control, landscaping and more; to focus attention and resources on their core business by Catering services – company restaurants, canteen services, vending machine services, outsourcing a broad range of support services to ISS. events & conference dining and more; Security services – access control, manned ISS’ strong market position is maintained through a guarding, alarm response, surveillance continuous focus on following our vision: systems and more; Facility management services – on“Lead facility services globally by leading site management of facility services, facility services locally” change management, space management, consulting and more. Our history ISS has operated in the service industry for more than a ISS offers three models for providing services: hundred years. The ISS Group was founded as a small Single service, where the customer buys Danish security company in 1901 and began offering just one of the components listed above; cleaning services in 1934. The first subsidiary outside Multi service, where the customer buys Denmark was established in 1946, and overseas expansion two or more of the components listed began in 1973. The company has grown to have a turnover above; of 74 billion Danish kroner in 2010. Integrated facility services, where ISS takes over all, or most of, the facility Organisation functions at the customer’s premises. ISS’ head office is in Copenhagen, Denmark. ISS maintains a decentralised organisational structure under which its country operations are separately organised and act with a significant degree of autonomy. Country management is supported by a strong regional management structure providing strategic direction, managerial support and financial control. Ownership ISS A/S is fully owned by FS Invest II Sarl, which in turn is indirectly owned by funds advised by EQT Partners and Goldman Sachs Capital Partners. Business services & IT Ferenc Joba, Hungary 6 CR Report 2010 The iss Approach to Corporate Responsibility ISS influences the lives and livelihood of many people through providing employment and training as well as What is a principles-based approach? providing safe and healthy work environments for millions of employees and customers in the facilities we service. The Principles-Based Approach was recommended by the UN Global Compact We recognise that our long-term sustainable business (UNGC) summit 2007. It requires for success depends on a high level of corporate responsibility, corporations, in their corporate strategy and as we face global challenges such as deprivation of the in their corporate responsibility initiatives, natural environment, poverty, illiteracy, water shortages to select guiding principles drawn from and and urbanisation. In all areas ISS can be part of finding aligned with internationally and politically and implementing solutions to the global challenges. agreed priorities. We have adopted the principles-based approach to These are commonly based on the UNGC’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, Corporate Responsibility (CR), thus contributing to environment and anti-corruption, which enjoy sustainable development as defined by the international almost universal consensus. These in turn community. This principles-based approach effectively are derived from: The Universal Declaration integrates universally accepted principles into the way of Human Rights; The International Labour we do our business. They are embedded in our Values, Organisation's Declaration on Fundamental our Code of Conduct, our strategy, The ISS Way and our Principles and Rights at Work; The Rio Leadership Principles. Declaration on Environment and Development; and The United Nations Convention against Our commitment to the UNGC Corruption. ISS has made a strong commitment as a signatory and supporter of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) A Principles-Based Approach is said to ensure that corporations contribute to sustainable since its inception in 1999. In line with the membership development as defined by the international regulations, we are committed to aligning our strategy community, and not by the current 'corporate and business operations with the ten principles on human responsibility fashion’, changing media focus, rights, labour rights, environmental protection and antior issues campaigns. This approach secures corruption. a long-term basis for corporate responsibility strategies. As such, Corporate Responsibility for ISS means our commitment to contributing to a sustainable economic development and responsible business practices by: Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Labour & Human Rights Providing proper working conditions including a safe Giving people an opportunity to enter the labour working environment for our employees; market; Managing our business activities in an environmentally Working with our employees and the local community responsible way. and society at large in improving employees’ lives in ways that support sustainable development and our Business Ethics business; Conducting our business in a lawful manner; Ensuring fair and equal treatment and no discrimination Competing for business on fair terms and solely on or harassment; merits of our services; Respecting employee’s right to collective bargaining Combating corruption and bribery; and the right to join trade unions; Carrying out our activities according to principles of Supporting introduction of minimum wages and good corporate governance; compliance with working time regulations; Ensuring that the social, environmental and ethical Avoiding use of child labour as well as forced or commitments of ISS are reflected in dealings with compulsory labour. customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. CR Report 2010 7 Corporate responsibility is sound business by being part of a strong team and capable through Accountable and transparent systems as well as track training. Research clearly shows that in companies that records within corporate responsibility are, in many ways, focus on corporate responsibility, employees find it progressing to become what is expected of professionally provides a sense of purpose and a source of pride. managed companies. Service Value: Our customers may have different needs but they all request a consistent service product. Our The diffusion of corporate responsibility as part of Group Health, Safety and Environment Management corporate management is, however, very uneven in system supports a systematic approach in delivery of our terms of industries, and the facilities management services. industry has not been a front runner on this agenda. This Customer Experience: A positive customer experience leaves ISS with room to create a positive effect on our will be supported by capable, engaged and motivated competitive situation through focussed efforts in corporate ISS team members. In line with research, we believe responsibility. our focus on corporate responsibility will provide our employees with a sense of purpose that will contribute Corporate Responsibility is therefore in alignment with our to a positive customer experience. strategic cornerstones: Business Growth: Our corporate responsibility performance may inspire customer’s trust in our 1. Customer focus: We build sustainable partnerships company leading to increased business opportunities. with our customers who value our approach in how we deliver our services in for example an environmentally friendly way; 2. People management: We excel in managing our people by managing our HSE risks in our operations and provide opportunities for development; 3. Integrated Facilities Services Strategy: By Acquisition integrating our service deliveries into our customer’s Growth organisation, we can also create value for our customers in helping them reduce their risks in the corporate responsibility area; Business Platform 4. Multi-Local Approach: Our global framework in managing health, safety, environment, labour practices, Service human rights and anti-corruption allows us leverage a Concept systematic approach to these areas regardless of location. Business Growth Corporate responsibility and our value chain The implementation of the ISS Value Chain as a management tool is an integral part of the Group’s strategy process in implementing the ISS Way. We believe that value is created through dedication in each link of the Employee Value Chain, and that corporate responsibility activities Engagement Customer support the links in the Value Chain: Experience Business Platform: Our corporate responsibility Service commitment, strategy and performance are important Value aspects of the Business Platform in determining what to do and what not to do. The choices made in the business platform must be aligned with our commitment to the ten principles of the UNGC. Service Concept: The purpose of the service concept THE ISS VALUE CHAIN process is to convert the needs of our customers into concrete and attractive service offerings. Global challenges deeply embedded in corporate responsibility can inspire business opportunities such as ‘Green In other words: Corporate Responsibility makes sound Cleaning’. Extended stakeholder engagement business sense. In addition to our corporate responsibility activities will also provide more sources for market initiatives being coherent with our Values, our Code of understanding. Conduct, our strategy, the ISS Way and our Leadership Employee Satisfaction: To have satisfied customers, Principles, we trust the results of our initiatives will also you need capable and engaged employees motivated provide us a competitive advantage as: 8 CR Report 2010 Our solid Health, Safety and Environment and Corporate practices, environmental and Anti-Corruption issues of Responsibility performance will make us a preferred greatest significance to our stakeholders and our future partner; success topics in accordance with the United Nations By being proactive in managing risks, ISS can Global Compact (UNGC). demonstrate understanding of an issue and address it through our efforts; ISS’ seven regions were assessed based on the following It will lead to resource preservation and hence cost parameters: savings; It will build our reputation, helping us attract, motivate Attention towards corporate responsibility related risks; and retain our employees; Identification of risks; By building our reputation and brand, it will provide Immediate assessment of whether identified risks at new business opportunities. group as well as local level are sufficiently mitigated under the guidance of current policies, procedures and management systems. LEADERSHIP PRINCIPLES The Report contained: The leadership principles describe the way leadership is performed at ISS. In combination, they serve as a guideline and a benchmark for A generic risk assessment for a selection of corporate leaders and help us bring out the full potential responsibility indicators for countries where ISS has of our employers. They translate our Values significant activities; into actions and describe behaviour that A gross list of potentially relevant corporate characterises a successful leader within our responsibility related issues based on a review of company. In other words, it is the framework what competing countries have chosen to report for the way we do business. The nine on – combined with the general scope of corporate Leadership Principles are: responsibility reporting; A consolidated, prioritised list of corporate responsibility 1. In ISS we put the customer first; 2. In ISS we have passion for performance; issues and topics identified by key personnel in the 3. In ISS we encourage innovation; global ISS. 4. In ISS we treat people with respect; 5. In ISS we lead by example; Three proactive focus areas 6. In ISS we lead by empowerment; In summation, the result of this process was the 7. In ISS we develop ourselves and others; determination of three focus areas where ISS holds a 8. In ISS teamwork is at the heart of our unique position to contribute, and which support our performance; overall business vision and business strategy, The ISS Way: 9. ISS is one Company with shared values, one brand and one strategy. Facilitating the Right to work; Non-discrimination, equal opportunities and diversity; Access to education. Our materiality process In 2009, ISS, with the help of an external consultant, On page 10, three postcards from around the world show PricewaterhouseCoopers, conducted a materiality examples of how we work within these proactive focus assessment to identify those human rights, labour areas. Prioritised corporate responsibility issues in ISS are: Labour rights Human rights Environment Anti-corruption 1. Health & Safety 1. Freedom of association and 1. Systematic environmental 1. Systematic anti-corruption 2. Work time & overtime collective bargaining management management 3. Harassment 2. Child labour 2. Chemicals Gifts and entertainments 4. Security 3. Discrimination Price fixing 5. Responsible sourcing Kick-backs 6. Privacy Use of agents 7. Living wage Health care Daniela Meyer, Switzerland 10 CR Report 2010 Working within three focus areas In 2010, ISS Finland also supported the TaitajaPLUS event, where students with special needs compete in different Supporting the right to work vocational skills, striving to become experts in their field. Australia: Including indigenous people TaitajaPLUS aims at improving vocational education, raising In 2010, a new co-operation between ISS Australia, the awareness of vocational skills for these students, and the Australian Government and major indigenous connecting the competitors with potential employers. organisations around Australia made ISS a leader in the employment and training of Indigenous Australians. Supporting non-discrimination Not just jobs but careers in ISS Denmark ISS started by committing 45 jobs for Indigenous ISS Denmark is focused on helping minorities access the Australians, a number growing to 140 people over the past labour market and has been working for several years 12 months. This outcome is based on close collaboration to provide job and career opportunities for immigrants with some of Australia’s leading indigenous associations: and increase the number of immigrants in management positions. The Australian Employment Covenant, an initiative aimed at securing 50,000 sustainable jobs for In just two years from 2007 to 2009, ISS Denmark went Indigenous Australians, backed by employers, the from 93 managers with immigrant background to 195, government and indigenous people. ISS has pledged a and the goal is to reach 250 in 2011. Making this possible, total of 70 jobs to this initiative. is a training programme directed at immigrants on Supporting the GenerationOne movement dedicated management tools and leadership. to the elimination of poverty and disadvantage to all Indigenous Australians. In 2010, ISS Denmark received the ’Mangfoldighed i Strong partnerships with job service providers who Arbejdslivet’ (MIA) Award (‘Diversity in Working Life’) from assist in referring Indigenous Australians to ISS. the Danish Institute for Human Rights. This award is given to Danish companies that make extraordinary efforts to create ISS’ experience is being spread to other sectors. Recently workplaces that are both diverse and broad by nature. An ISS was invited by the Australian Government to extract from the basis for giving the award to ISS Denmark participate in a selective employer forum to identify ways says: of removing barriers to employment in the Resources and Mining Sector. “ISS is determined to make diversity an established part of the company. Both by ensuring equal Supporting access to education opportunities for all, but also in terms of making Finland: ISS partners with Skills diversity a potential business resource. The awareness ISS Finland has entered a partnership with the Skills Finland of working with diversity and especially the many organisation, supporting an annually occurring event, great initiatives and results led to the panel of judges which focuses on competition, training and coaching in electing ISS Denmark winner of the MIA Award 2010.” different vocational skills for young professionals. At the same time, students get a chance to prove their worth, ISS Denmark has 9,000 employees of which about 40% thereby showing themselves as possible job candidates at are immigrants, coming from more than 130 different ISS Finland and other companies. countries, whereas immigrants constitute only 8% of the Danish labour force. This makes ISS Denmark one of the ISS Finland is one of the three main partners in the country’s most diverse places to work. Skills Finland event, supporting the event financially and providing judges in categories where ISS has the best know-how. By working with other companies in the service industry the focus on education becomes greater, and the quality and attractiveness of vocational education and training will be improved. CR Report 2010 11 Initiatives undertaken We aim to create value for our key stakeholders, and we As a result of the report, a number of adjustments and want to listen and respond to relevant stakeholders who additions to the ISS Corporate Responsibility framework have an interest in our company. had to be developed, which led to the following strategic initiatives in 2010: We have been actively engaged with all of our primary stakeholders, i.e. those who have a direct effect on or are Establishment of a Group function for Health, Safety directly affected by our business, in 2010: and Environment and Corporate Responsibility; Development of Group Health, Safety and Environment Employees – with whom we engage on a daily basis. Policy, Vision and Manual; For the first time, in 2010 we conducted Corporate Self-Assessment Questionnaire to Suppliers on Employee Engagement Surveys (EES). Read more on Corporate Responsibility issues; page 23. Development of an Anti-Corruption Policy; Customers – where we interact daily as well. In 2010 Updating the Code of Conduct to include a more we tested a customer experience survey system, which specific human rights policy as required by UNGC; and provided us with many insights on our customers’ including a mechanism for reporting breaches (read experiences. In 2011, all countries must perform more in ISS and Profit); customer experience surveys for 80% of total turnover Development of a whistleblower policy and system, and (equal to approximately 20% of the customers). As filing and application with the Danish Data Protection follow-up to the customer experience survey, actions Agency for approval (read more in ISS and Profit); plans must be prepared for each customer, KPIs must be Updating of the International Human Resources produced and reported on twice annually. Standards, which set a minimum standard for treatment Users – who work at the facilities we manage but are of our employees, in line with the UNGC (read more in not involved in the decision to have ISS as a provider. ISS and People); We also tested an User Satisfaction survey concept for Approval and roll-out of the ISS Corporate Responsibility the daily user of the services provided by ISS in 2010. Policy; Unions – with whom we engage locally, regionally and Development of Environmental Management System globally to improve standards for employees and to guidance notes; make sure any issues are dealt with appropriately and Instigation of a corporate risk management project to consistently. Read more on page 33. identify the largest corporate risks. The project has been Suppliers – where we have begun implementation of testing expectations and tools at corporate and country a self-assessment questionnaire in 2010. level, respectively, and scanned the environment for Investors – who are at present limited to two private risks in the corporate responsibility arena. equity companies, with whom Executive Group Management meet on a regular basis. These initiatives are described in more detail elsewhere in the report. A group of other stakeholders, external groups who influence stakeholders’ perceptions of our company Engaging with stakeholders exist, e.g. media and NGOs. We engage with these ISS works in a web of interactions with internal and groups as necessary but specifically in terms of corporate external stakeholders. We believe that our legitimacy is responsibility. highly dependent on how we are perceived by our key stakeholders and local communities in which we operate. While we recognise that communication must be sensitive to local customs, we endeavour to communicate with one voice to all stakeholders and in all geographies to support our aspiration to lead our industry globally as one company with one culture and one brand. It is our policy to be open and honest in both good times and bad, and to treat our stakeholders with fairness and respect. Business services & IT Carolina Perez, Sweden CR Report 2010 13 Governance ISS has a two-tier management structure consisting of the Lead by example, Lead by empowerment, Develop Board of Directors and the Executive Group Management ourselves and others, Teamwork is at the heart of (EGM). The Board of Directors regularly reviews the Group’s our performance, and One company, one brand, one corporate governance in relation to the Group’s activities, strategy – define the leadership style ISS expects from business environment and statutory requirements. A set of each of the managers in the company. specific corporate governance guidelines for the ISS Group has been adopted by EGM and subsequently implemented Corporate governance policies and procedures take into by all regional and local entities. account the Danish Companies Act, the Danish Financial Statement’s Act, and the Danish Venture Capital and We strike a balance between autonomy and alignment. Private Equity Association’s guidelines for responsible We operate with strong local leadership and autonomy to ownership. ensure timely responses to local operational demands and to benefit from knowledge of local labour and business conditions. We also develop and implement the overall Group fundamental policies and strategic directions to enable us to exploit best practices and leverage our geographical footprint. We are disciplined and use tight financial controls. Honesty We respect Governance and business conduct principles All operations in ISS must adhere to the following fundamentals: Compliance with law – a fundamental implying always operating in accordance with local laws and regulations. Entrepreneurship The ISS Corporate Values – the guiding principles of We act how ISS conducts its business which each manager is expected to understand and follow. The ISS Code of Conduct – each manager is responsible for managing the ISS business in compliance with our code of conduct, and for ensuring that employees are aware of and adhere to the same principles. The Code of Conduct has been updated in 2010 to ensure alignment with the UNGC, and will be Responsibility distributed first to office-based employees, (white collar We care workers), followed by front-line employees. The Code of Conduct is considered part of the terms on which all employees accept employment in ISS. Compliance with ISS Group policies – falls under the responsibility of ISS regional and country management. The operations of ISS must comply with policies and guidelines designed by the ISS Group functions, and document their implementation. As part of the work to Quality build a solid foundation, most of our policies related to We deliver corporate responsibility have been revised or developed in 2010, and their implementation and testing will begin in earnest in the years 2011-12. The ISS Leadership principles – which integrate the human aspect of the ISS Way. These nine principles – Put the customer first, Passionate about performance, Encourage innovation, Treat people with respect, 14 CR Report 2010 We are further committed to corporate responsibility as a signatory and supporter of the United Nations Global Leadership Commitment Compact since its inception in 1999. Governance of corporate responsibility Implementation and Operations Auditing, Non-conformances & In order to integrate corporate responsibility throughout Performance Monitoring Incident Reporting & Planning and Control Management Review the ISS Group, corporate responsibility is anchored in the Risk Management Executive Group Management comprised of the CEO and CFO. Corrective Actions Incident Investigation While Executive Group Management is ultimately responsible for ISS Corporate Responsibility activities, Group Health, Safety and Environment and Corporate Responsibility (Group HSE and CR), is responsible for the development of the ISS Group’s Corporate Responsibility strategy, including Health, Safety and Environment. Documentation Group HSE and CR works with other Group functions and Regional CEOs and Country Managers in implementing the strategy in our operations and countries. Countries In December 2010, Group HSE and CR sent an ISS Group in the ISS Group report on corporate responsibility HSE and CR Action Plan to countries. The objective of this aspects as part of the annual reporting process thus Group HSE and CR Action Plan are targets and actions to: contributing to the overall ISS Group Corporate Responsibility reporting. Improve our HSE and CR culture; Improve our HSE management systems; Providing a management framework To monitor our HSE and CR performance. We consider health, safety and environment a top priority. This is embedded in our leadership principles. We strive to The Action Plan contained Group targets and actions for protect the personal health and safety of our workforce, 2011 and also a road map for targets in the next five years. recognising that healthy business performance is delivered through healthy people and safe processes and equipment. We recognise that our success and our future require us The ISS Vision and policy for HSE to carry out our operations in a safe and environmentally Our HSE vision is called ‘100’. conscious way. This is part of the ISS Way. 1: We aim to be number 1 in our industry We therefore require a systematic approach to health, and recognised as an industry leader in safety and environmental management in order to achieve the way we deliver health, safety and continuous improvement in quality and performance. environmental performance; ISS needs to manage these matters as critical business 0: We operate with 0 fatalities in our activities, set standards and targets for improvement, and workplaces; and measure, appraise and report on our performance. 0: We incur 0 serious incidents and occupational injuries at our workplaces. The ISS Group Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Our HSE Policy is to: Manual is the framework by which each Country shall develop effective HSE management to support our Values, Have a systematic approach to HSE Code of Conduct, HSE Vision, and Policy. The objective is management designed to ensure compliance to create a consistent approach to HSE across the Group. with the law and achieve continuous improvement; However, the success of our HSE culture is dependent on Measure, review and report performance every individual and leader in the company. Each has the and set targets for improvement; responsibility to eliminate their risk behaviour and that of Investigate incidents to determine their others. We all have a part to play in: root causes and take appropriate corrective actions; Require our suppliers to manage their HSE in Managing our HSE risks systematically; line with this policy; Learning from our collective experiences in order to Include HSE performance in the appraisal of continually improve our HSE performance; staff and reward accordingly. Being Ambassadors by promoting and driving a strong HSE culture. CR Report 2010 15 External review of new Group HSE manual To complement the country’s internal audits, Group HSE The Group HSE manual was based on four international and CR will also with Group Internal Audit carry out audits standards, (OHSAS 18001, ISO14001, ISO 22000 and ISO in 2011 on corporate responsibility issues. 9001), and part of its development consisted of a third party review (by Det Norske Veritas), which compared the manual The Internal Audit function at group level is a key element to the above mentioned standards and company activities. in ensuring business compliance across the Group. While the primary role of the function has been monitoring “The corporate HSE manual represents a milestone financial compliance, the Internal Audit function will in ISS’ HSE work. In DNV’s opinion, the HSE Manual also play an important role going forward in monitoring provides a good corporate and integrated framework compliance of Human Rights and Labour Practices. In for national management systems and for all service 2010, the function carried out 54 assignments covering areas (Facility Management, Property Services, 38 countries. Audits in fourteen countries carried out by Cleaning Services, Catering Services, Office Support Group Internal Audit covered: and Security Services). It covers all main requirements in ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 22000. Documented hiring procedures; The HSE manual is presented in a way that on a Procedure for segregation of duties in the payroll process; national level will help ISS to implement an integrated Approval procedures for time, attendance and payment approach for managing quality, food safety, to ensure that employees are paid the correct amount environment and occupational health and safety.” and how they are paid. Main conclusion from the Det Norske Veritas preCompliance mechanisms assessment report Our commitment to corporate responsibility has been communicated to suppliers, major customers and our By the end of 2010 all but two countries 1 had performed employees. Also, when we acquire new companies and a self-assessment based on the manual identifying gaps enter new markets and joint venture opportunities, we between their systems and the Group requirements, and actively promote the ISS Code of Conduct. prepared an action plan to close these gaps. Full compliance with the manual is required by the end of 2011. We have a zero tolerance approach to significant breaches of the Code of Conduct and have, when necessary, Furthermore, from 2011 periodic business reviews of each terminated contracts with employees when they were country, performed by Regional CEOs, will include HSE found to behave in breach of the Code of Conduct. and CR subjects and the Country’s progress in meeting their Action Plans. To facilitate this process, Group HSE In 2009, a Group Business Integrity Committee was held in 2010 two Regional HSE meetings in Copenhagen, established, consisting of the Group CFO, Head of Group Denmark and Sao Paolo, Brazil with the HSE heads from Legal, Head of Group HR, Head of Group Internal Audit. sixteen countries representing the Latin America, Central The Committee is responsible for investigating reports and Western Europe regions to develop a common of possible significant breaches of the Code of Conduct understanding of the Group strategy and to share best throughout the Group. practices. These Regional meetings will continue to be held in 2011 in order to facilitate this common understanding. The Committee is authorised by the EGM to monitor fraud controls and fraud losses; decide how to investigate One of the key elements in the Group HSE manual is fraud suspicions and suspected non-compliance with a Management Review. From 2011 onwards, Country laws, ethical standards and the ISS Code of Conduct; and Management will be required to carry out at least one to direct appropriate actions in response to investigation Management review of the suitability, adequacy and results. effectiveness of the Country’s HSE Management system annually. Within the scope of its responsibilities, the Committee has authority to obtain any information required from Internal audits employees, officers and external parties. The Committee Countries are also required to establish and maintain an has authority to request audits, and when deemed internal audit programme and carry out periodic audits appropriate to secure investigation of issues or concerns. of the Country’s HSE management system at least once a year, in order to: Determine whether the HSE management system is effectively implemented; Identify areas for improvement, leading to continuous improvement in HSE management. 1) Ireland, and Russia 16 CR Report 2010 Our Performance and Targets We report on our performance within three areas: People, planet, and profit. At this stage of our reporting journey, we do not have data or targets for the partner area. People 2010 2009 2008 Planet 2010 Number of employees 522,700 485,847 472,801 Electricity consumption 91,995 MWh -Full time % 73% 71% 69% Electricity emissions 30,710 tonnes CO2 eq. -Part time 1 % 27% 29% 31% Electricity costs 76.2 Million DKK Total workforce Vehicle emissions 3 72,924 tonnes CO2 eq. -Front-line 471,925 -% Male 48% Business Travel -% Female 52% 3,660 tonnes CO2 eq. emissions 4 -White collar 44,037 -% Male 52% -% Female 48% profit 2010 Turnover -% All employees 54% 39% 49% Revenue 74,073 Million DKK -%Front-line 58% 41% 51% -%Male 50% N/a N/a Net Finance costs 2,566 Million DKK -%Female 50% N/a N/a -% White collar 16% 16% 24% -Male 58% N/a N/a Taxes paid 697 Million DKK -Female 42% N/a N/a Staff costs 47,990 Million DKK People 2010 Hours of training -Front-line 2,605,633 -White collar 382,255 Absentee rate 2.3% Incidents of discrimination 48 Fatalities 5 Lost time Incident 11 Frequency (LTIF) 2 Exposure hours 1) Defined as employees working an average of less than 25 hours per week for ISS 908.6 (million hours) 2) A Lost Time Incident (LTI) is defined as any work related injury or occupational illness which results in a person being unfit for his/her normal duties for more than 24 hours any day after the injury. The LTIF is based on 1 million exposure hours Number of Vehicle 3) Covers 13,824 leased vehicles comprising 74% of the fleet 5,574 Accidents 4) Covers emissions from Business travel from Group, Australia, Chile, Denmark, France, and Philippines Public Administration John Petersen og Murat Güzel, Denmark Objectives and targets for 2011 7. Reduce the emissions from our leased cars (gm/km) from 2011 over the leasing period of 4 years by 15%. 1. In accordance with the HSE Vision, our first priority is to 8. All Countries translate the ISS Code of Conduct in their prevent fatalities at our work places. Our Group target local languages in 2011 and to make this available is 0. during the induction for every employee. 2. In terms of Lost Time Incidents Frequency (LTIF), the 9. All countries must carry out a customer experience Group target for 2011 is to reduce LTIF by 25%. survey to customers representing 80% of revenue in 3. Related to the LTIF are Lost Work Days (LWD) as a result 2011. of lost time incidents. The Group target for 2011 is a 10.To conduct an annual employee engagement reduction of 15%. survey with a target to have offered 250,000 of our 4. In terms of Total Reportable Cases Frequency (TRCF), employees to respond to the questionnaire by the end the Group target for 2011 is to reduce our TRCF by at of 2012. least 25%. 11. To have a minimum of 350 of our Top Managers across 5. At least one yearly Management review by Country the Group take the E-learning modules on Antimanagement of the suitability, adequacy and Corruption and Competition laws in 2011. effectiveness of the Country’s HSE Management 12.To carry out audits on least 20% of countries we system. operate in regarding compliance with Child Labour and 6. Systematically measure the carbon emissions across the working time regulations. Group from electricity in 2011. Health care Siti Chotijah, Indonesia CR Report 2010 19 Iss and People – Creating a great place to work As a service provider, people are at the heart of ISS’ business. Employees per region Most of our over 520,000 employees serve in the front line of our business and they are our most valuable resource. total The ISS Code of Conduct clearly calls for ISS to secure and Western Europe 41% protect the personal health and safety of our workforce. Nordic 9% Asia 31% It also protects our employees’ right to fair and equal Pacific 3% treatment and freedom of association and collective Latin America 9% bargaining. It further states that we do not use forced North America 3% labour or employ children, and that we offer adequate Eastern Europe 4% wages and training opportunities as well as respect employee privacy and protection of personal data. A workforce of our size involves great responsibility. full time Managing our risks in terms of our employees’ health and safety is a business requirement, demanded by our customers and required by our investors. But first Western Europe 29% and foremost, our employees deserve we take this Nordic 8% responsibility seriously. Asia 42% Pacific 3% Latin America 13% Rules for safety North America 2% The vast majority of people employed by ISS actually clean, Eastern Europe 3% guard, prepare meals, etc. This is why sound safety rules are so important. In 2010, we initiated the development of the ISS Safety Rules, which are intended to align behaviours in carrying out daily tasks. The rules cover: Male* Stopping unsafe work; Western Europe 31% Permit to Work; Nordic 7% Energy isolation; Asia 45% Electrical safety; Pacific 4% Confined space entry; Latin America 7% Driving safety; North America 4% Working at heights; Eastern Europe 2% Housekeeping; Manual Handling; Working with Chemicals. female* The Rules were launched on September 1, 2010. Western Europe 51% Campaigns were carried out in individual countries to Nordic 10% ensure commitment to these rules, e.g., inclusion in internal Asia 19% communication documents, management meeting agendas, Pacific 2% publications on intranets and development of posters. Latin America 9% North America 3% “To make this launch a success and to ensure buy in Eastern Europe 6% within your country, I would ask you to be active in this campaign by personally knowing the Safety Rules and also discussing them within your leadership team and organisation.“ *based on average number of employees in 2010 Jeff Gravenhorst, CEO in a message to all ISS Country Managers launching the safety rules. 20 CR Report 2010 Health and Safety performance 2010 that the implementation of the Group HSE Management In 2010, we unfortunately had five fatalities at our system and the ISS Safety Rules will improve our overall workplaces. This is unacceptable and we are personally performance. saddened by each of these fatalities. Our business is based on our human capital and the safety of our employees is therefore paramount. Fatalities Each of these fatalities has been investigated to determine 8 2010 5 the root cause of the incident and corrective actions have 4 2009 5 been taken to prevent similar incidents from occurring again. In order to learn from these unfortunate incidents, 0 2008 8 in 2010, we have strengthened our requirements for incident investigations to: Lost Time Injury Frequency Understand what caused the incident; per region Prevent the incident from occurring again; Prevent similar incident occurrences; Western Europe Improve the operation of the facility and Nordic the organisation. Asia Pacific Our Lost time Incident Frequency based on incidents Latin America per 1 million exposure hours across the Group was 11 North America in 2010. In order to achieve our HSE vision, we have set Eastern Europe targets for reducing this significantly over the next few 0 5 10 15 20 25 years, beginning with a 25% reduction in 2011. We expect An overview of fatalities in 2010 Years Location Date Services Description worked Employee was working as a guard at a university controlling vehicles at the parking lot. He was Greece March 10 Security 2 years found dead in the university premises after sliding down stairs and hitting his head. Employee was walking on a plant’s tinplate roof, when he stepped on a glass fibre panel and fell Argentina March 18 Cleaning 10 months through it, falling approximately six metres. He died instantaneously. Employee was cleaning the outside of a window from an inside office using a telescopic rod. EmDenmark September 20 Cleaning 38 years ployee lost balance and fell 6.4 m to the street below. Employee was given first aid but was declared dead upon arrival at the hospital. Employee was found lying on the grass dizzy and disoriented. Employee was taken to the shelter to Singapore November 4 Landscaping 3½ years rest. The Employee subsequently suffered a heart attack and passed away prior to arrival of the ambulance. A team of 3 employees were felling trees on the edge of a river. One of the employees was driving an articulated France November 15 Landscaping 4 years loader vehicle and had loaded a tree from the bank and was driving the vehicle when the vehicle rolled over, crushing our employee. Our employee died at the scene of the accident. CR Report 2010 21 Aligning through strong Human Resources Year ended 31 December standards 2010 2009 2008 The purpose of the ISS International Human Resources (HR) standards is to align HR procedures. The ISS HR Standards Employee length of service: are rooted in the ISS Way and constitute the basis for effective HR Management across the ISS Group and build Share of employees with less 39% 36% 35% a solid foundation for our business growth, as well as than one year of service projecting us as a professional service provider. Share of employees with one 38% 40% 38% to five years of service In 2010, a review of our Human Resources Standards against our commitment to the UNGC was performed. It Share of employees with showed that we needed to further strengthen the standards more than five years of 23% 25% 26% in the areas of Human Rights, Forced and Compulsory service Labour, Child Labour, Working Hours and Anti-Corruption. As a result, we have updated our HR standards, and the updated standards also clarify the requirements on country In 2010, the share of full-time employees (working 25 managements, and set minimum standards for compliance. hours or more a week) rose to 72%. This indicator is With this process completed we have established a important, as, on average, full-time employees develop foundation for our businesses to build on. stronger ties with ISS. The distribution of employee seniority (in years) provides another perspective for ELEMENTS INCLUDED IN OUR employee loyalty within ISS. In 2010, approximately 61% INTERNATIONAL HR STANDARDS of the Group’s employees had been with ISS for more than one year compared to 62% in 2009. The decrease was due Recruitment to the growth in our workforce from 2009 to 2010. Forced and compulsory labour Child Labour We need engaged people Working Hours An important tool in retaining employees is the creation of Discrimination, harassment and abuse an engaging work environment. The ISS Human Resources Remuneration, Benefits and Incentives Employee Appraisals and Reviews vision “to be the preferred employer in our industry” supports Training and Development the business strategy by focusing on: upgrading leadership Health and Safety and management capabilities, enhancing customers’ Succession Planning service experience, integrating acquired businesses, and Motivation and Loyalty ensuring competitiveness through cost efficiencies. Employee Relations Managing Sickness and Absenteeism Reporting and Monitoring Employee User Customer Business Engagement Perception Experience Growth In the future we will be securing integration of the standard through training, leadership development and other human resources tools. This will most likely happen as a continuing effort to integrate leadership principles Employee Engagement is where every level of the and strengthen leadership capabilities, by integration organisation is staffed with people who can and will into the employee engagement survey, and the design of deliver services in a way that strengthens the customer’s leadership self-assessments. We will also be working on experience of service value. monitoring compliance, presumably as part of the internal audits already performed. Employee engagement survey questions Holding on to employees The service industry in general has high levels of employee 1. I feel able to do my job well turnover because the industry is often considered suitable 2. I am motivated to contribute more than is for short-term or secondary employment. We pursue a expected of me at work number of strategies to reduce turnover among blue3. I feel proud to work for ISS collar employees, including arranging for more full-time 4. How likely is it that you would recommend and daytime work. We also seek to enhance employee ISS to others as a good place to work engagement and provide multi-tasking jobs, encourage 5. Expressed intention to continue working career development opportunities and design programmes at ISS to promote teamwork and skills development. PHARMACEUTICALS Rokia Kalté, France CR Report 2010 23 Structured surveys and train our managers and executives. Most of these ISS is, in many ways, a people management company. We training programmes were developed exclusively at ISS have always believed that our customers are satisfied if University, while others were designed in cooperation our employees are satisfied and engaged in their work. with institutions, such as Stanford University, International We have, however, not consistently employed the tools to Institute for Management Development, Henley prove this correlation. Management College and INSEAD Business School. We began the work necessary to clearly establish the link In 2009 and 2010, more than a thousand senior managers between engaged employees and satisfied customers in and specialists attended workshops and programmes at 2010. We have tested an employee engagement survey ISS University. Pursuant to our strategy, ISS Academy was on 4,500 employees in Portugal and more than 30,000 launched as an ISS University initiative to foster knowledge in the Nordic countries, with between 45% and 76% of sharing and skills development related to integrated facility employees responding. services. As part of the ISS University philosophy, regional and country managers are being certified to run ISS Measured on a scale from zero to five, the average result Academy programmes locally in local languages, which will of the surveys was 4.2 – 4.3, implying that our employees facilitate the flow of knowledge to our employees. in these countries indeed are engaged and happy to work for ISS. Additionally, in order to implement strategic initiatives, such as Cleaning Excellence and the integrated facility We want to roll out the employee survey to more countries services concept, ISS University continues to develop key and have set a target to offer 250,000 of our employees specialists and train-the-trainers. This is supplemented by the opportunity to respond to the questionnaire by the local initiatives. end of 2012. Extensive training activities Certified Outsourcing Programme Another way of securing our employees’ satisfaction As a leading advocate for the outsourcing with their ISS employment is training and development. profession, ISS has developed a Certified This was supported by findings in the 2010 employee Outsourcing Program (COP) in collaboration satisfaction survey, our first, which found that units where with International Association of Outsourcing training had been very high on the agenda in the past Professionals (IAOP). The program is tailor year, the engagement survey score was higher. made for ISS and our Sales Managers, who are meeting the everyday outsourcing challenges Initiatives on training were taken in 2010, with fourteen and needs for understanding what’s behind. countries audited on training by Group Internal Audit and thirteen countries establishing training programmes for The background for the program is that we employees. continue to see a positively development within the outsourcing industry. Whether it is within IT, production or outsourcing of internal facility We need many different sets of skills to deliver on our services the market is getting more matured. promises to customers, and our ability to train and develop The customers’ goal is not just cost savings but employees therefore remains one of the cornerstones of a dynamic and continuous transformation that the ISS human resources strategy. keeps them healthy and competitive. The philosophy is to offer tailored training at all functional levels to enhance employee skills and encourage upward mobility. Training ranges from induction, basic skills Equal opportunities training through middle management programmes to Thanks to our corporate culture, and aided by language sponsorship of a Global Talent programme. courses and adapted training materials, ISS is an employer of choice for many immigrants and ethnic minorities. In all Much attention is devoted to developing the first regions, but especially in countries such as Belgium, Denmark, management layer e.g. team leaders, supervisors and France, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom, ISS is contract managers, who are responsible for the immediate among the largest employers of ethnic minorities. staff and customer contacts. Most training is conducted at ISS academies and training facilities in national and local The ability to attract immigrants and ethnic minorities is operations. partly due to the nature of many of our jobs requiring little prior training or formal certification of skills, something In addition to the training provided in the countries and which has often been out of reach to members of these on a regional level, we have established the ISS University, groups. It is, however, also very much due to a conscious an in-house education centre in Copenhagen, to educate effort to secure all people a chance for a productive Industry & Manufacturing Pedro José da Silva, Brazil CR Report 2010 25 membership of the society in which they live, the right to Council (EWC) as an in-house forum for dialogue between work and access to education. We have an important role management and employee representatives across Europe. to play, locally and internationally, in giving attention and providing solutions to the challenges involved in global The agenda for meetings in EWC includes the structure, migration, urbanisation and employability. financial situation, and development of the Group, the current situation and probable trends of employment. Employee relations Discussions also involve the introduction of new working Employee and trade union relations are a natural part of a methods and processes, training and health & safety people-centred business such as ISS. The corporate policy issues, provided that such issues may affect the interest of of involvement and dialogue is applied locally in country the employees of the ISS Group in more than one country operations. In the last five years, we have not experienced in Europe. any material disruption to our business as a result of strikes, work stoppages or other labour disputes. The EWC agreement was renewed in 2009 for four years and allows for up to 30 employee representatives to Nearly 50% of our employees are in Europe and are participate in an annual EWC meeting at our headquarters. generally members of trade unions, and employee and A total of 22 representatives from 16 countries took part in trade union relations, consequently, are a high priority the EWC dialogue in 2010. for us. In 1995, we established our European Works Netherlands: Work-training for people with disabilities Together with three NGO partners, we have launched the Wajong project, offering work-training to young people with disabilities which will aid their entrance into to the labour market. Participants receive classes, work experience and personal coaching, with ISS Netherlands providing training in various facility services. When the participants have completed their training, ISS Netherlands is motivating its customers to allow ISS to employ young people from the Wajong project at their premises. Singapore: Jobs for people with disabilities We collaborate with Singapore National Employers’ Federation to redesign cleaning jobs to fit people with disabilities. Since May 2009, we have hired a total of 13 people with disabilities and they now work at the National University Hospital as cleaners. Everyone needs motivation to do a good job, and we identify and reward the best performer among the 13 employees at the Hospital. 26 CR Report 2010 Iss and the Planet – Considering the environment in the way we work Our environmental policy is stated in our Code of Conduct: and heating. In fact, according to IFMA, studies have ISS is committed to continuously reducing the adverse shown that daylight cleaning reduces the amount of environmental effects of its operations. energy needed to illuminate a commercial office building by 4 to 8% annually. The main environmental impacts from ISS’ operations derive from our cleaning services and consist of use of ISS is increasingly searching for solutions to reduce our chemicals as well as water and energy consumption. We environmental impact from our operations. In 2010, ISS also emit CO2 through the use of cars in our operations partnered with one of our suppliers, Tennant, on the use and travel activities. of their ec-H2O technology. This technology eliminates the use of chemicals for normal daily cleaning. In addition, the In general, there are two ways in which ISS can influence technology also significantly reduces water consumption the extent of our impacts: through the design of processes and CO2 emissions. ISS and Tennant have carried out pilot and equipment we use, and through the portfolio of projects at several of ISS customer sites and the results services we offer to our customers. from these pilot projects have proven the effectiveness and saving potentials. As a result, ISS has purchased over As part of the Group HSE and CR Action Plan, we will 275 machines with the ec-H2O technology in the second be running an environmental campaign in 2011 to raise half of 2010. The potential savings from the use of the 275 awareness of our environmental impact and on how we machines is an estimated yearly reduction of 100 tonnes can all take measures to reduce this. As a pilot project, CO2 and approximately 11 million litres of water when we will also investigate further reducing our energy compared to conventional machines. consumption at our head office. We are presently working with an external partner looking at projects which will lead to energy savings and reductions. Less impact from cleaning With 52% of ISS’ revenue originating from our cleaning services, this part of our business is where we have the greatest possibility to reduce our environmental footprint. The International Facilities Management Association (IFMA) estimates, that a minimum of 2.7 million tonnes of cleaning chemicals are consumed annually in the performance of cleaning tasks, and misuse and overuse due to lack of training is very common. For a number of years, ISS has worked to reduce the number of chemicals we use for cleaning, and to design processes which can reduce water consumption. Since 2009, we have taken this work one step further and Reduce, reuse, recycle developed a cleaning service offering named ‘ISS Green Water is recognised as a critical resource as the availability Cleaning’. of freshwater per capita is steadily decreasing across the world. We have learned from our Cleaning Excellence The concept is based on the principles of ‘Cleaning programme to use less water, reuse equipment and tools Excellence’, also developed by ISS, the application of which that improve indoor air quality and benefits the outside already results in significant reductions in use of water and environment. The benefits are: cleaning substances. Detergents reduced by 75% over 1 year; Taking this one step further, ‘ISS Green Cleaning’ offers Water consumption and disposal reduced by up to 70% customers a cleaning concept using and procuring certified with technologies like the use of micro fibres; and environmentally friendly chemicals, employees Reuse cleaning solution and increase productivity with educated in greener cleaning, and day time cleaning, Cleaning Excellence; which saves energy from eliminating night time lighting 95% of our chemical packaging is recyclable. Business services & IT Lena Magnusson, Sweden 28 CR Report 2010 Aiming for leadership In a broader sense, ISS Green Cleaning wants to affect What is Green Cleaning? the entire process of creating a healthy environment for At its outset, Green Cleaning essentially the people who work and visit the facilities managed by involved the use of environmentally preferable us. It is our firm belief, that as our customers’ need to chemicals. Since then, the concept has demonstrate their commitment to running a sustainable evolved to include environmentally preferable business grows, ISS can offer a hand. tools, equipment and paper goods. Further, Green Cleaning incorporates not only the ISS is uniquely positioned to deliver this leadership in environmentally preferable products and how, greener facilities management, as we have worked for when and where they are procured and used, decades to develop documentation of processes, supplier but also on the health and safety of both relationships and a structured management approach cleaning personnel and building occupants, as securing uniform services worldwide. well as daylight cleaning that leads to energy savings. Less impact from pest control In North America particularly, Green Cleaning ISS provides pest control services to more than 250,000 has become more formalised and accredited private and over one million residential customers in 30 through methods available from e.g. the markets. Our overall strategy is to monitor and prevent US Green Building Council’s LEED suite of the infestation of pests. However, as the nature of this accreditations. Several ISS companies are business implies the use of pesticides and other toxic certified according to these programmes. substances, we have taken a number of initiatives to reduce the adverse environmental effect of our work: IFMA recently released a guideline in which three stages of Green Cleaning programmes In all markets, we adhere to as a minimum the are described: guidelines set by the International Pest Control Stage One includes the development of Association, which advocate use of the least polluting a clear Green Cleaning Policy, as well as the product available. In markets with regulation we will transitioning of certain products (i.e. chemicals only use products which have been approved locally. and equipment) from traditional to green In situations which would previously have required including training of cleaning professionals in fumigation, a process in which pesticides are used that their use. are often very harmful to the surrounding environment, we have altered our practices and recommend the use Stage Two – in which the Green Cleaning of heat treatment, which has no repercussions for the Policy includes detailed information on how surroundings. green processes will be utilised, managed and In all best practice models for the procedures we measured. Product selection now includes apply to perform our services, it is clearly stated that paper products, trash liners, hand soaps, and other cleaning materials, including microfiber. we must use the product which does the least harm Alternative technologies are tested and to surroundings. One example is combating rodents, implemented where appropriate. where using anything but the mildest product could cause both rodents’ resistance to the toxics used, and Stage Three involves using environmentally the transfer of toxic residue to other animals, which preferable products for all product categories, might later by used for human consumption. processes should be completely implemented to ensure the least impact, and all decisions Limiting our own footprint should be made so they are clearly consistent In 2010, our efforts were bolstered with the with the principles of sustainability. A Stage implementation of the HSE policy, and Group HSE Manual. Three program also demands collaboration and Many ISS operations are already certified in accordance alignment of activities between the cleaning organisation and the customer. with environmental standards such as ISO 14001, LEED, Green Seal etc., but the new governance framework will secure a more uniform standard across our operations. Turkey: The ISS Forest We are in the process of creating an ISS Forest around the Ulkü village in Bursa, Turkey. The project aims to cover the amount of paper consumed in ISS Turkey, as well as generating environmental awareness among the employees. In November 2010, 1,200 new saplings were planted, joining the 1,250 small trees planted in 2009 by 1,250 volunteering ISS employees. Industry & Manufacturing Patricia Müller & Erwin Wenger, Switzerland Norway: Clean catering ISS has opened the country’s first canteen certified by the Nordic eco-label the ’Swan’, examines the environmental effect of goods and services during the entire life cycle from raw ingredients till waste. To be certified, a canteen must ensure that all aspects of the operation are environmentally friendly, be it energy consumption, waste management, the use of chemical products or the use of organic foodstuff. All processes, including procurement, have to be documented, and continuous improvement must be demonstrated. In 2010, ISS first began measuring our global footprint. Data One of the main initiatives pursued was to reduce the CO2 for our environmental performance is currently limited to emissions stemming from car fleet. In 2010, we began the the CO2 emissions from our car fleet and business travel. In transition to energy efficient cars. ISS leases more than 2011, however, we will begin to establish baseline data for 18,000 cars worldwide, and 14% of these were changed our other main consumptions, electricity and water. according to the new practice last year. In the evaluation for the new leasing agreement, one of the four criteria We realise that our car fleet and electricity used in offices used was energy and efficient labelling of the cars. In are the main sources of emissions in ISS, and we are addition, fleet managers in our countries have also initiated and will be directing many of our efforts to reduce our car driver safety programmes that include reducing speed emissions from these two sources. and hence fuel consumption. 30 CR Report 2010 Iss and Profit – Business integrity is part of the brand-protection we deliver to our customers Running a sustainable and profitable business is the Revenue 2010 primary objective of ISS, and 2010 proved another year in which our company improved its performance. By Service Our main objective is to improve our Operating Margin, Cleaning Services 52% which has been on average 5.8% per year from 2006 Property Services 20% to 2010. We seek to improve operational efficiencies by Catering Services 9% increasing our local market positions and operational densities, as well as by implementing Group-wide Support Services 8% excellence and best practice initiatives. Security Services 7% Facility Management 4% Another objective is to focus on organic growth through new sales and cross-selling of service solutions to both 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 new and existing customers. We aim to continue to % of Group revenue leverage our international market position and service offering in order to increase our local market positions and drive organic growth. We continue to work with a wide By region range of initiatives, including the further development of our Corporate Clients organisation, enhancing our Western Europe 53% focus on specific customer segments and implementing Nordic 23% commercial planning processes and tools. Asia 7% Pacific 7% As part of this growth strategy, our objective is also to Latin America 4% leverage our corporate responsibility performance to become a preferred partner for our customers and to North America 4% develop this into a Value Proposition for our customers by Eastern Europe 2% helping them reduce their risks in this area. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 % of Group revenue Zero tolerance for unclean business The practice of corruption and bribery is illegal, criminal and detrimental to businesses, institutions and governments and consequently harmful to all societies and individuals. Governments and organisations all over the world have recognised this a long time ago, and corruption Our business integrity is non-negotiable and a vital part of is therefore a criminal offence in most jurisdictions. the terms on which we hire and potentially give members of our staff notice to leave. And while we may operate in Because it is against our core values (Honesty, countries where the legal framework for anti-corruption Entrepreneurship, Responsibility and Quality), ISS has is weak, the ISS Code of Conduct principle on antialways had very strict rules against the practice of corruption still applies. corruption and bribery in its business, and through the signing of the UNGC we are strongly committed to combat In 2010, as part of their auditing, Group Internal Audit the use of corruption, extortion and bribery, wherever we has looked at whether the Code of Conduct has been do business. translated in the local language and delivered to the employees. Of the 14 countries audited in this area, 11 Corruption is also a key risk to our business, and in ISS, have done so. To ensure that the Code of Conduct is rules against corruption and bribery have for many years available and understood by our employees, one item in been part of the ISS Code of Conduct. These rules form the Group HSE and CR Action Plan requires all Countries part of the fundamental principle that ISS competes for to translate the ISS Code of Conduct into their local business on fair terms and solely on the merits of its languages in 2011 and to make this available during the services. induction for every new employee. CR Report 2010 31 Upgrading our anti-corruption work In 2010 we bolstered our anti-corruption work, in line Anti-Corruption in the ISS Code of with a growing global focus on combating unclean Conduct business practices illustrated in particular by the increased We have the following basic rules on Antienforcement of anti-corruption rules, not least by the US Corruption to guide the behaviour of our Government of the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as employees: well as by the passing of a new bribery act in the UK. 1) ISS is against any form of corruption and Our first action was to provide a set of Anti-Corruption bribery and is committed to combat such guidelines, as part of The ISS Way. In November 2010, we practices. launched an Anti-Corruption policy, which brought new 2) ISS competes for business on fair terms and demands for compliance by country managers. solely on the merits of its services. 3) Regardless of local practice, any personal payments, kickbacks or bribes between ISS During 2010, the Anti-Corruption policy was sent out to and customers, suppliers or public servants all country managers and Group Legal has reached out to are strictly prohibited. all regions to explain the implications of the new policy, 4) It is unacceptable to receive gifts or other and to stress the importance of this in combination with gratuities from business partners – unless our competition guidelines, which we updated in 2008. customary in the environment, of modest In 2010, 311 managers at all levels from 32 countries nominal value and serves a business purpose. undertook some type of compliance training. We have also been developing E-learning based training and compliance These rules form the basis of our Antiprogrammes, and our target is to train all senior leaders, Corruption Policy. approximately 500 people by the end of the second quarter of 2011. Management accountability strengthened In 2010 we responded to three reported instances of This system aims to: management behaviour in conflict with our Values, Code of Conduct and Leadership Principles. In all three cases, provide a possibility for employees, business partners accounting irregularity or unethical business practices at and other stakeholders to raise serious and sensitive management level led to the dismissal of the implicated concerns; manager. ensure that such concerns are treated seriously and appropriately, and Since 2009, all our managers have to comply with our reassure that any person raising a serious concern in corporate governance guidelines. These guidelines good faith will be protected from reprisals or retaliation. focus among others on aligning management contracts, creating transparency on conflict of interest issues and A complaint will be able to be filed online, using e-mail, the strengthening of governance of contracts and other telephone or ordinary post. commitments as well as the monitoring thereof. Each complaint or concern will be received by the Head A management representation letter is signed annually, of Group Internal Audit, who will record all reported stating that all country reporting is done accurately, fairly complaints or concerns, consider the seriousness and and according to the ISS Accounting manual. The letter credibility of the complaint or concern raised, and proceed now includes a section stating that this compliance does accordingly in determining the appropriate action. not only cover financial items but also Anti-Corruption and, in general, compliance with the ISS Code of Conduct. Some complaints or concerns may be resolved without requiring investigation. Others may be investigated by For more about our corporate governance system, please Group Internal Audit or external auditors, investigators see the annual report. and/or legal counsel may be engaged to assist in the investigation and analysis of the results thereof. Whistleblower system submitted for approval The development of a whistleblower policy and system The conclusions of the investigation are submitted to was also carried out in 2010. Pending approval from the the Audit Committee, established by the ISS Board of Danish Data Protection Agency, we expect the system to Directors. Depending on the gravity and magnitude of be functional and implemented by the end of the second the violation, the report may be presented to the Board of quarter of 2011, at the latest. Directors. Hotels, Leisure & Entertainment Bahtiyar Goltas, Turkey Mexico: An apple a day keeps corruption away An innocent image of an apple sewn onto the uniforms of cleaning employees in Mexico makes ISS’ commitment to anti-corruption visible nationwide. The symbol also indicates that ISS has national labour market agreements with its employees, who all belong to unions and are included in social security registers. Changing business practices in Mexico has been a lengthy process and has also resulted in some lost customers. However, now, three years after ISS entered the Mexican marketplace, our socially responsible customers welcome our approach, which has often been a key factor in winning new contracts, particularly with large organisations. In a nutshell, this initiative has transformed anti-corruption into a business opportunity. The same clean business principles, though without the apple symbol, have also been adopted in ISS’ South American operations in Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay and Chile. Sweden: support for Hand in Hand organisation In 2010, for the second year in a row, ISS Sweden donated SEK125,000 to the ‘Hand in Hand’ organisation that focuses on female entrepreneurship in countries such as India, South Africa, Afghanistan and Brazil. Women are helped to form self-help groups of 12-20 people and offered training in reading, writing and how to save money and open bank accounts. Women who complete the course are offered microcredit subsidies to start their own businesses or develop existing activities. CR Report 2010 33 Iss and Partners – Establishing long term partnerships as part of our strategy Delivering our services to our customers implies ISS Improving employment standards employees being present and visible at our customers’ Since 2003, ISS has had a global agreement with Union facilities and daily life. This requires a high level of trust Network International (UNI), committing itself to support and collaboration, between ISS and our customers, and 12 fundamental principles based on International Labour between ISS and our suppliers and employees. This is Organisation conventions. The agreement was renewed integrated in our way of doing business. Below are a in 2009 with an increased focus on labour and the right number of examples of how we attempt to strengthen our to join a union. The agreement aims at enabling all ISS bonds to some of our stakeholders. employees worldwide to be able to exercise rights to union membership and collective bargaining. A responsible supply chain As an industry leader, ISS has to ensure a responsible As part of the agreement, ISS and UNI created the supply chain, thereby guaranteeing partners and business Global UNI–ISS Foundation in 2009 with the purpose of associates protection of their brand. This is accomplished monitoring and improving employment standards within by working together with global partners that have the service industry globally. It ensures that the annual ISS integrated sustainability throughout their businesses. donation of EUR 100,000 is invested in projects within the industry and countries in which ISS operates. To progress against this aspiration, we have in 2010 developed a supplier questionnaire based on The agreement and collaboration has prompted UNI recommendations of the Danish Institute of Human to name ISS as ‘an employer that treats its workers Rights and the Confederation of Danish Industry. The well and is setting a good example for other global questionnaire covers areas such as: employers’. the ISS Code of Conduct; Partnership with Diversey Anti-Corruption; In 2010, ISS worked to develop a partnership with Legal Compliance; Diversey, a leading global provider of commercial cleaning Forced Labour; and hygiene products, with whom ISS does a substantial Child Labour and Young workers; amount of its sourcing. Non discrimination; Freedom of Association; Diversey’s commitment to the climate is first in class. It is a Workplace Health and Safety; member of WWF’s Climate Savers programme, requiring Conditions of employment of work; continuous improvement in its carbon footprint. Diversey Security; also has systems that reduce water consumption, waste Land Management; generation and provide for safer working conditions. Accidents and Health; Company products; The partnership aims to approach current and potential Environmental Protection. customers of ISS to suggest better solutions for water, energy and chemicals, making it convenient for customers to As a first step, in 2010, the questionnaire was sent to ten secure a reduction in their consumption of all three of these main suppliers and twelve of the largest countries in terms factors. So far ISS and Diversey have designed a pilot project of revenue, for distribution to their ten biggest suppliers. where an energy and resource consumption audit of three The response from the ten main suppliers shows that there customer sites will be carried out in the beginning of 2011. are no major gaps between our suppliers’ standards and the requirements in the questionnaire. In the next steps, this will progress to audits based on risk evaluations in 2011. New Zealand: Joining the Clean Start Accord We support an initiative called Clean Start, a campaign created by and for building service workers in the commercial property sector. Clean Start is about the sustainability of the service industry through the development and maintenance of good jobs for employees. It acts against the deterioration of work conditions for employees in especially the cleaning industry. The campaign focuses on fair hours, workloads, job security, treatment, leave, rights and pay for the workers. Public administration Arnal Lasat, Ireland UK: Unilever and ISS join forces for charity Unilever Foodsolutions sells two brands of tea, PG tips and Lipton, in 40 UK hospitals run by ISS Facility Services Healthcare. And in the three last months of 2010, 10% of the profit of what is likely to be more than 65,000 cups of tea sold will be donated to the local hospital in the area of Kenya where Unilever’s tea estate is located. The donation will be used for improvements to the paediatric ward, cervical cancer screening, and to renovate the hospital theatre. India: Education of disadvantaged children ISS India has partnered with Bhumi Chennai, a NGO through which students and young professionals volunteer in educating and mentoring children from orphanages, slums and village community centres. ISS Catering Services recently sponsored food for an event involving more than 1,000 children and volunteers, and looks forward to work with them for future events. Bhumi is also active in the conservation of the environment. CR Report 2010 35 Reporting principles and compliance This report, the first comprehensive corporate responsibility In order to facilitate control and review of HSE and CR report prepared by ISS, covers activities in the calendar data, each reported parameter shall have an audit trail. year 2010. An audit trail is a clear (documented) record of definitions, assumptions, aggregation, calculations and references that We have once previously communicated on corporate result in the final reported data. responsibility from a Group perspective, in 2010, but have with this report taken a large step forward on our journey The manual specifies the data that shall be available for towards transparency and commitment to corporate monitoring performance and for reporting on corporate responsibility. Our first communication did not include responsibility issues at Group level. indicators and subsequent data, which means no restatements or changes have been made to data collection, Changes and future outlook indicators or methods used for earlier reporting. This is the first step in our reporting and monitoring journey. In 2011, the Group HSE and CR Reporting We have designed our reporting to be in line with level C Manual has been expanded to include more corporate in the Global Reporting Initiative, the world’s most widely responsibility data parameters with the overall objective of used sustainability reporting framework. This requires improving our data in both quality and quantity. In 2011, reporting on a minimum of 10 performance indicators as we will start reporting on occupational illness cases, fuel well as a set of profile disclosures. An overview of the GRI costs, fuel usage, electricity consumption, electricity costs, standard disclosures included in this report can be found in and total water withdrawal by source. the table on the following pages. Our annual reporting on our corporate responsibility activities and management is also in accordance with the “Danish Financial Statements Act (Accounting for CSR in large businesses)”. The reporting furthermore serves to fulfil our obligation to communicate on progress (COP) as required by the UNGC. The data in this report covers ISS employees and their contractors and electricity consumption at ISS offices and own facilities such as central kitchens. The report does not cover our customers or electricity consumption at our customer sites. Items reported on in this report have been chosen based on our work to determine materiality in terms of corporate responsibility for ISS. Guidelines As a basis for our reporting, ISS developed a Group HSE and CR Reporting Manual in 2010 to provide reporting principles and rules to ensure a consistent basis for reporting. The principles listed are derived from generally accepted accounting and reporting policies and include Relevance, Consistency, Transparency, Accuracy and Completeness. They are intended to guide data gathering and reporting to ensure that the reported information fairly presents our HSE and CR performance. The Group HSE Manual requires that Countries and others collecting data manage their HSE and CR data quality systematically as part of their management system. 36 CR Report 2010 Overview of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines and United Nations Global Compact compliance GRI Standard Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis Section in Report Letter from the Executive Group 1.1 Foreword by CEO Management ISS and People, ISS and the Planet and ISS 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. and Profit sections 2. Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation About ISS 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services About ISS 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation About ISS 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarter About ISS 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates About ISS 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. About ISS 2.7 Markets served About ISS 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation About ISS Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, Letter from the Executive Group 2.9 structure, or ownership. Management ; Annual Report 2010 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. The ISS approach to corporate responsibility 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period Reporting principles and compliance 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 2010 3.3 Reporting cycle Reporting principles and compliance 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Colophon 3.5 Process for defining report content Reporting principles and compliance 3.6 Boundary of the report Reporting principles and compliance 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Reporting principles and compliance Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 3.8 Reporting principles and compliance outsourced operations etc. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Reporting principles and compliance Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 3.10 Reporting principles and compliance (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, 3.11 Reporting principles and compliance boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. CR Report 2010 37 4. Governance, Commitment and Engagement Section in Report 4.1 Governance structure of the organization Governance Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also 4.2 Governance an executive officer. For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the 4.3 number of members of the highest governance body that are Annual Report 2010 independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 4.4 Governance; ISS and Profit recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or The ISS approach to corporate responsibility 4.11 principle is addressed by the organization. (not required) Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, 4.12 principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes CEO message (not required) or endorses. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. The ISS approach to corporate responsibility Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to 4.15 The ISS approach to corporate responsibility engage. 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators Our Performance and Targets; Annual EC1 Economic performance Report 2010 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based EN6 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as ISS and the Planet a result of these initiatives. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Our Performance and Targets Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions EN18 ISS and the Planet achieved. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and EN26 ISS and the Planet services, and extent of impact mitigation. Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and Our Performance and Targets; ISS and LA1 region. People Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, LA2 Our Performance and Targets and region. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, Our Performance and Targets; ISS and LA7 and number of work-related fatalities by region. People Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade LA9 ISS and People unions. Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have underHR2 ISS and Partners gone screening on human rights and actions taken. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Our Performance and Targets Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child The ISS approach to corporate responsibilHR6 labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child ity; ISS and People labour. Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption SO3 ISS and Profit policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. ISS and Profit Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of PR5 The ISS approach to corporate responsibility surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 38 CR Report 2010 The Global Compact Principles Human rights Read more on page Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Principle 1 3, 11 and 21 human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Standards Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of Principle 3 11 and 21 the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 6, 14 and 26 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 6, 11, 15, 30 and 31 Design: Share your opinion KP2 A/S We welcome your feedback as it is an important part of our dialogue with our Production & print : stakeholders. KP2 A/S, Denmark, March 2011. You are welcome to contact Joseph KP2 is environmentally certified after Nazareth, Head of Group HSE and CR DS/EN ISO 14001: 2004 and EMAS at +45 3817 0000 or write to us at: and FSC certified. Head of Group HSE and CR, Copy-writer: ISS A/S, Bredgade 30, Eva Harpøth Skjolborg 1260 Copenhagen K, Denmark Iss a/s Bredgade 30 DK-1260 Copenhagen K tel: +45 38 17 00 00 fax: +45 38 17 00 11 Revision 0
