Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Contents 6 The Adecco Group 11 Message from the CEO 14 Our business and CSR 27 Insights Excellence 38 Insights Integration 47 Insights Skills 57 GRI standard disclosures 76 GRI content index 83 Further reading 85 Glossary 89 CSR Governance 91 Imprint Revenues EBITA Net income attributable Employees FTE (year-end) in EUR billions in EUR millions to Adecco shareholders in thousands in EUR millions 20.4 21.1 20.0 14.8 18.7 828 1,081 908 299 722 611 735 495 8 423 35 37 34 28 32 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 Key figures • Over 32,000 full-time equivalent employees • Over 700,000 associates on assignment daily • Over 100,000 clients every day • Over 5,500 offices in more than 60 countries and territories 2010 Revenue split by geography in % France 30% Italy 4% North America 19% Iberia 4% UK & Ireland 9% Nordics 4% Japan 7% Australia & New Zealand 2% Germany & Austria 7% Switzerland 2% Benelux 5% Emerging Markets 7% 2010 EBITA split by geography in % (operating units) France 27% Italy 5% North America 22% Iberia 3% UK & Ireland 3% Nordics 5% Japan 9% Australia & New Zealand 1% Germany & Austria 10% Switzerland 5% Benelux 5% Emerging Markets 5% 2010 Revenue split by business lines in % Office 20% Medical & Science 2% Industrial 48% Sales, Marketing & Events 2% Information Technology 11% Human Capital Solutions 1% Engineering & Technical 5% Emerging Markets 7% Finance & Legal 4% Share price performance comparison 2010 in CHF 70 60 50 40 Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Adecco Basket of competitors 1 SMI 1 Share information Tickers SWX Europe ADEN Share price in CHF Bloomberg ADEN VX • Year-end 61.25 Reuters ADEN.VX • Average 56.46 ISIN CH0012138605 • High/low 66.15/46.22 Historical data for the years in EUR million (except shares) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Statement of operations data Revenues 18,656 14,797 19,965 21,090 20,417 Gross profit 3,329 2,649 3,673 3,927 3,546 EBITA2 722 299 908 1,081 828 Net income attributable to Adecco shareholders 423 8 495 735 611 Other financial indicators Cash flow from operating activities 455 477 1,054 1,062 747 Free cash flow3 350 385 948 971 662 Net debt4 751 110 617 866 556 Key ratios (as % of revenues) Gross margin 17.8% 17.9% 18.4% 18.6% 17.4% SG&A ratio5 14.0% 15.9% 13.8% 13.5% 13.3% EBITA margin 3.9% 2.0% 4.5% 5.1% 4.1% Per share figures Basic EPS in EUR 2.20 0.04 2.82 3.97 3.28 Diluted EPS in EUR 2.17 0.04 2.71 3.80 3.14 Cash dividend in CHF 1.106 0.75 1.50 1.50 1.20 Number of shares Basic weighted-average shares 192,113,079 177,606,816 175,414,832 185,107,346 186,343,724 Diluted weighted-average shares 195,596,325 177,613,991 184,859,650 195,279,053 196,532,960 Outstanding (year-end) 174,702,026 174,079,431 174,188,402 182,647,293 184,836,462 1 SMI and Basket of competitors (Manpower, Randstad and Kelly Services market capitalisation weighted in CHF) relative to Adecco’s share price: 1.1.2010 = CHF 57.05. 2 EBITA is a non-U.S. GAAP measure and is defined herein as operating income before amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets. 3 Free cash flow is a non-U.S. GAAP measure and is defined herein as cash flow from operating activities minus capital expenditures. 4 Net debt is a non-U.S. GAAP measure and comprises short-term and long-term debt, less cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. 5 Excluding amortisation of intangible assets and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets. 6 Approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on April 19, 2011 and paid out on May 3, 2011. Our business at a glance Overview of staffing and other HR-related services market HR services General staffing • Permanent • Office & Industrial • Temporary Professional business lines • Secondment • Outsourcing Professional staffing • Training • Information Technology • Assessment • Engineering & Technical • Finance & Legal • Medical & Science • Sales, Marketing & Events • Restructuring Professional services • Career transition • Human Capital Solutions • Talent management • Training • HR process RPO (Recruitment Process Outsourcing) MSP (Managed Services Provider) management services CSR Report 2010 5 The ­Adecco Group We inspire individuals and organisations to work more effectively and efficiently, and create greater choice in the domain of work, for the benefit of all concerned. As the world’s leading Human Resource services group – a business that has a positive impact on millions of people every day – we are conscious of our global role. CSR Report 2010 6 Angela Aimson, United Kingdom, Senior Branch Manager, Adecco UK, Manchester “At the heart of the BOA Athlete Career Programme is a focus on matching talented and dedicated athletes with employers looking for their winning qualities, drive and strong team spirit.” CSR Report 2010 7 Athlete placement, Bruntwood, Manchester, UK “ The support network for athletes is key to combining work with a career in sports.” CSR Report 2010 8 CSR Report 2010 9 Craig Figes, United Kingdom, Team Captain GB Water Polo “ The work was relevant to my skill set and flexible enough to fit around a tough training regime.” CSR Report 2010 10 Message from the CEO Dear stakeholder In 2010, thanks to the commitment of our 32,000 employees, over 700,000 associates worked through Adecco every day, amounting to more than 3 million people in the workforce each year. Their income supported many families’ lives. Their skills and efforts contributed to the productivity and sustainable success of around 100,000 Adecco clients. Employment reduces the welfare burden and enables people to contribute to society at large. At the same time, it gives individuals independence, a purpose and may even fulfil a dream. At Adecco, we unlock potential in the domain of work for the benefit of all stakeholders. Unlocking potential For our candidates and associates, our goal is to help unlock their potential at every stage of their career life cycle, from leaving school to retirement. We equip people of all abilities, ages, and ethnic backgrounds to integrate into the workforce and sustain their employability in a fast-changing global economy. We assess associates’ changing capabilities, motivations and training needs, connect them to a choice of opportunities and help them gain skills and the confidence required to grow in their career roles. CSR Report 2010 11 Patrick De Maeseneire Chief Executive Officer Clients face challenges throughout their business life cycle. Securing and managing talent is a major issue, especially in mature markets where aging populations and skills mismatches between education systems and labour market needs drive scarcity. Using our broad industry expertise and geographical reach, we provide the right talent, at the right time and in the right place. By connecting clients with talent – hired on a temporary or permanent basis – they gain the resources and flexibility they need in an increasingly made-to-order economy. Change has become a dominant corporate characteristic and we provide solutions to help clients navigate mergers, restructuring and geographical expansion. Our own employees are the foundation of Adecco Group’s ability to support the life cycles of associates and clients. We offer training and development opportunities, manage and measure retention and benchmark employee satisfaction through the Great Place to Work® survey. Our commitment to unlocking potential can only be realised through a responsible approach to every aspect of our business at local and global level. We constantly improve our programmes to ensure employees and associates work in safe working environments, have equal opportunities and fair terms and conditions. On a global level, we were the first in our industry to sign the UN Global Compact in 2003, we have leading roles in industry associations such as Ciett and Eurociett and are a partner of the World Economic Forum. Our engagement with governments, unions as well as the ILO and networks such as ENAR underlines our commitment to stakeholders. Equally, we must adhere to high standards of corporate governance and environmental management. CSR Report 2010 12 As we strive for excellence in everything we do, we optimise our positive role for all stakeholders. Excellence Sustainable workplace Integration Skills We champion equal opOur commitment to lifeportunity and integrate long learning and skill people into work so that development sustains their talents and careers employability and excan flourish. pands opportunity. Adecco Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility is embedded in our business strategy, our day-to-day work and our shared values and leadership principles. Together, we strive to achieve excellence, enable integration and build skills in the world of work. To strengthen our commitment in 2010, we launched our Global Excellence Awards, further expanded the IOC and the IPC Athlete Career Programmes and introduced the Win4Youth charitable project. As the world’s leading HR services company, we are conscious of our role and responsibility. Patrick De Maeseneire Chief Executive Officer CSR Report 2010 13 We unlock potential for individuals, businesses and economies reinforced by our CSR strategy centred upon Excellence, Integration and Skills. Our business and CSR Prioritising activities Board of Directors ­Adecco Group: three main global programmes in our strategic areas Corporate Governance Committee Executive Committee Experts Groups Excellence CEO Adecco Group Head Group Communications Sustainable workplace How CSR relates to our business Integration Skills In our global organisation, spanning over 60 countries, a concerted managed approach to CSR is required. CSR is recognised as an integral part of our business by the Board of Directors and by the Executive Committee. Our programmes and activities are a Stakeholders Global programmes designated responsibility of management throughout Employees Excellence our business operations. Customers & Shareholders Excellence Awards Society Integration We communicate and report regularly to meet our inIOC Athlete Career Programme ternal and external stakeholders’ expectations. We IPC Athlete Career Programme respond to the Dow Jones Sustainability Assessment, the Carbon Disclosure Project, and the FTS4Good InSkills dex Series. We also submit our Communication on Win4Youth Progress (CoP) on a yearly basis to the UN Global Compact and apply the Global Reporting Initiative GRI Guidelines. CSR Report 2010 14 How HR services benefit labour markets Benefits for associates/employees Benefits for employers • Continuous training • Access to a broad range of skills • Flexibility for individual workers; e.g. mobility, and experience lifestyle, choice • Fostering entrepreneurial spirit • Work-life balance • Professional relationships with trade unions • Employability in the framework of a sectoral and social dia• Transition from school to work logue at both national and international levels • Choice and flexibility for companies on a global basis; manage fluctuations Long-term benefits for the labour market • Creating new jobs • Matching labour supply and demand • Reducing unemployment • Facilitating change in the labour market Our responsibility – as the market leader in HR sersource for individuals, organisations and governments vices – is to unlock and match existing potential on seeking to understand and shape the future of work. both sides. Work is the foundation of personal and We strive for an open dialogue with the financial comfamily life, corporate and organisational success, somunity and the media to enhance understanding of cial stability and economic development. Work is a our business. This involves explaining our business basic need and should be a basic right of all people. and implied risks as well as opportunities through the Choice in the domain of work supports people to derelease of our comprehensive quarterly results and velop and apply their talents and it gives a purpose to through meetings with our management at roadpeoples’ lives by building a sense of inclusion in socishows, industry and market conferences. ety. Being a service sector industry with a network of over 5,500 offices in more than 60 countries, we consider our environmental impact to be relatively minor. HowOur stakeholders ever, we are conscious of the increasing importance of reducing our Carbon Footprint and have implemented Our stakeholder groups are manifold reflecting the an emission calculator to measure and reduce our pervading importance of work. Amongst our employimpact within our major markets. ees and associates, all socio-economic backgrounds, ages and abilities are represented. The spectrum of With this report, we provide an overview of our threeroles and occupations we offer is vast, as is the diverpillar CSR strategy centred upon Excellence, Integrasity of our client base. This encompasses industry section and Skills. tors such as Office, Industrial, IT, Engineering & Technical, Finance & Legal, Medical & Science, Human Capital Solutions and Emerging Markets. Our services and knowledge around work brings us into constructive dialogue with governments, labour organisations and related bodies such as the UN, the ILO, the EU and national staffing federations, amongst others. Through established partnerships and activities with leading universities such as INSEAD, IMD, LBS and other academies around the world, we are a key CSR Report 2010 15 Our main stakeholder groups and their major concerns (blue = corresponding to UN Global Compact principles) Our main stakeholder groups Concerns Our employees Employees, candidates and associates, all socio-economic back• Work as income, fulfillment of a dream, as a basis for indegrounds, ages and abilities pendence • Work as basic need, which often is difficult to meet • Work as opportunity, as pathway into a personal future • Work as social value, which creates and foments relationships Our clients Small and large, private and public employers • Human Resources management as a key factor for competitive from all industry sectors ability and growth • Top talents for top jobs • The right person at the right time • Flexibility in the ever evolving markets Our investors Individual and institutional investors, • Profitability and return on investment analysts and stock market index providers • Sustainable growth • Corporate Governance • Risks and opportunities • Socially and environmentally responsible investments Society at large Communities, governments and related bodies, media, • Employment rates The concerns we learn from stakeresearch institutes, etc. • Equal opportunities holder dialogue, surveys and scien• Work as social integration for vulnerable groups tific research help us priorising our • Undeclared work as burden for social costs CSR core subjects and issues (see • Decent work conditions materiality matrix on next page). Excellence in essence ditions and assignments that are attractive and competitive and in tune with the changing needs of our Excellence Awards – Core Values – Global Satiscustomers. faction Survey – Seniority Awards – Great Place to Work – Revised Code of Conduct – Safety StandOur focus upon attracting, training and retaining the ards – ACE – Institutional Dialogue – Environmenbest people – as associates or as our own employees tal Performance – is key in light of the growing scarcity of talent. We Achieving excellence is central to sustaining our busimeasure average length of service for associates and ness success and industry leadership and at the same retention is one of our key priorities for our employees. time maximises our positive social contribution. We Therefore in 2009, we introduced our Seniority encourage performance excellence through our gloAwards for employees who have served our combal Adecco Group Excellence Awards. At the beginpany for 20+ years. For the first celebration in 2009, ning of 2011, eight winning teams were recognised over 860 people worldwide were recognised. In 2010, and rewarded for achieving outstanding results tothe Seniority Awards were granted to over 300 people. gether by applying the four Core Values of team We have set a consolidated group target for retention spirit; customer focus; responsibility and entrepreneurof 75% amongst our own employees. In step with the ship. The winning teams exceeded expectations in importance of this issue, in 2010 we also extended our connecting associates to work opportunities and by involvement in the Great Place To Work® (GPTW) providing HR solutions to clients, whilst sticking to survey from 10 to 24 countries, covering over 90% of sound business principles. our geographical reach in terms of revenues. Engaging with our clients and associates by listening Our core business touches on key social responsibility to and addressing their needs, is a business imperasubjects, such as labour practices including health tive and our social responsibility. Our Global Satisfacand safety at work; human rights, non-discrimination; tion Survey (GSS), which is carried out twice a year, is fair operating practices, as well as anti-corruption and a valuable tool to monitor client satisfaction within fair competition. In 2010, a revised and more comprecountries and regions. The Adecco Group uses the rehensive Code of Conduct (CoC) was introduced with sults to train and support employees to constantly ima new mandatory online training module for all our prove screening and placement processes as well as employees. Amongst other issues, the CoC is an exother dimensions of our services. To attract and retain cellent reinforcement of our commitment to adhere to clients, candidates and associates, we must offer concountry and industry Safety Standards to also ensure CSR Report 2010 16 Materiality matrix (blue = corresponding to UN Global Compact principles) High Environment Community involvement Human rights • Resource use • Labour integration • Discrimination & • Climate change • Job creation vulnerable groups • Income creation • Fundamental rights at work Labour practices • Human development • Health & safety Stakeholder concern • Decent work ­conditions Fair operating practices • Fair competition • Anti-corruption Consumer issues (HR services do not relate to consumers How we prioritise the ISO 26000 but to employees and core subjects and issues related to corporate clients) our business and the concerns of our stakeholders. Based on this, we Significance & relevance for Adecco Group designed our three operational foLow High cus areas (see chart on next page). the physical and psychological well-being of our emcategory with the World Economic Forum (WEF). We ployees and associates. The Adecco Compliance & have since been involved in a series of WEF projects Ethics (ACE) is our 5-module online training and testing and participated in several regional WEF meetings programme for employees. It prepares them to hanthroughout 2010, shaping discussions around employdle ethical and legal issues which they may encounter ment issues. in their day-to-day work. The ACE tools encourage employees and associates to reporting actual or poIn 2010, together with employees in our major countential violations of the law, Adecco Group policies and tries, we extended the measurement of our Environprocedures or the Code of Business Conduct. mental Performance using the ‘myclimate’ platform to calculate our emissions. This will help us assess Our Institutional Dialogue with governments, unions and reduce emissions and to retain our position as a and other interested stakeholders is ongoing. We decredible supplier for our clients. Additional guidelines velop and support initiatives that enable our industry have been issued for our own suppliers to make sure to grow responsibly through removing restrictions they adhere to social and environmental standards upon our sphere of operations, without compromising according to the ten principles of the UN Global Comworkers’ rights. Special emphasis is being given at pact. global level to the measures supporting the ratification of ILO Convention 181 on Private Employment Agencies as well as the bi-annual ILO Global Dialogue Forum. In 2011, this will focus on the “Role of Private Employment Agencies in Promoting Decent Work and Improving the Functioning of Labour Markets in Private Services Sectors”. We actively foster social dialogue through numerous cooperations at national and global level, under the umbrella of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed in 2008 between Ciett and UNI Global on temporary agency work. Aligned to support our business priorities, our regulatory efforts enhance the employability of candidates and facilitate their labour market transition. In late 2009, Adecco initiated its Industry Partnership in the Professional Services CSR Report 2010 17 Our three operational focus areas address the material CSR core subjects and issues (blue = corresponding to UN Global Compact principles) Focus areas ISO 26000 CSR core subjects and issues Our key ambitions Excellence Human rights • We stay alongside our clients, associates and employees • Discrimination & vulnerable Groups throughout their life cycle • Fundamental rights at work • We are a great place to work Labour practices • Whatever we do: we act responsibly, to meet the highest • Health & safety standards • Decent work conditions Fair operating practices • Fair competition • Anti-corruption Environment • Resource use • Climate change Skills Labour practices • Unlocking potential • Human development • We support people to apply talents and contribute to society • Training • We connect top talents with top jobs • Further training • We offer a future with opportunities for personal development With our three focus areas, we Integration Community involvement • We see work as a basic needs, which should be a basic right • Labour integration for all people integrate the material core subjects • Work creation • We contribute to social integration of disadvantaged individuals relevant to our business from both – • Income creation • We create new jobs the UN Global Compact and the ISO • We reduce unemployment 26000 – throughout our organisation and operations. Integration in essence Stepping Stone – Non-Discrimination – Diversity Working with various partner organisations, the AdecBusiness Councils – Business & Disability – IOC & co Group Diversity Business Councils help people IPC Athlete Career Programmes – Adecco Founwith disabilities find meaningful employment and dations & Public-Private Partnerships build a workplace of diversity and inclusion. Much of our day-to-day work involves integrating people into the workforce through a temporary job. We are a founding member of ‘Business & Disability’ This can be a great Stepping Stone into employment. a European network of companies involved in helping It can result in consecutive assignments or in an offer disabled people access the labour market. This netof a permanent position, once experience has been work has now been embraced by the ILO. As part of gained. According to the Ciett Economic Report 2011, the steering committee and as an employer of over 37% of all temporary workers are officially registered 10,000 people with disabilities a year, Adecco brings as “unemployed” before working with an agency. This considerable experience to this effective network. proportion falls to less than half that level (15%) after working as an agency worker. One of our key global programmes helps Olympic and Paralympic athletes find employment during or after Some people may require additional help if they are at their sports career. Many sports people face difficulties risk of exclusion of workforce through disabilities, age, earning an income whilst competing or when they try ethnicity or gender. Adecco Group and its Foundations to make the transition into mainstream work, once – often in partnership with respected organisations – their athletic career is over. Since 2005 and 2007 reare involved in a range of international, national and spectively, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) local programmes to help these at risk groups. We and the International Paralympic Committee (IPC) in also adhere to internationally recognised principles cooperation with the Adecco Group run the IOC and and standards, such as the UN Global Compact, the the IPC Athlete Career Programme (ACP). Currently, OECD Guidelines for Multi-National Enterprises (MNEs) Adecco provides career development and job placeto ensure, we fully adhere to their principals of Nonment support for elite athletes in over 33 countries Discrimination and inclusion with respect to employand has assisted more than 7,000 athletes so far. ment and occupation. CSR Report 2010 18 The Adecco Foundations in France, Italy and Spain – English for language improvement is offered. We also partially funded by the respective Adecco country ask every employee to complete the five modules of ­organisations – collectively donate funds as well as the Compliance & Ethics ACE programme. many hours of employee’s time and expertise to help disadvantaged groups integrate into the workforce. In 2010, we launched our global Win4Youth proThe three Foundations and our country organisations gramme to engage employees with our new values are deeply involved in Public-Private Partnerships whilst also helping young people in need. In total, that succeed in integrating disadvantaged people into 29,255 employees and over 700 clients voluntarily ran work. or walked 230,000 km to raise funds that help give children and young people in challenging situations a future. As a result, at the beginning of 2011, the Adecco Group donated USD 230,000 to six charitable Skills in essence foundations in Haiti, Chile, Spain, the USA, France and India. Each Foundation focuses upon helping young Passport to employment – Skills development – disadvantaged people between the age of 4 and 24 AdeccoXpert® & Training – Life long learning – gain the skills they need to integrate into the labour Win4Youth market. The acquisition and ongoing development of skills is a Passport to employment and provides income security and a sustainable career. We help our associates and employees acquire skills through a range of programmes and tools. AdeccoXpert®, our online candidate and associate assessment and training tool, is present in 46 countries and was used over 3 million times in 2010. To help develop our own employees’ talent, we have a series of initiatives focusing upon Life long learning and development. In the area of leadership, we run programme together with INSEAD and IMD; in Service & Sales, we have our High Intensity Training (HIT) and the Value Focused Selling VFS training programmes; and within Operations Global CSR Report 2010 19 Acknowledgements of our Social DAXglobal Sarasin Sustainability Switzerland index – a selection out of the 50 biggest ­Responsibility – indices and funds and most liquid Swiss values, which meet the sustainability criteria of the Sarasin Sustainability Matrix. External and independent bodies acknowledged our CSR performance on global and national level Pictet-Ethos Swiss Sustainable Equities Fund – is in 2010: an equity fund aiming at an above-average performance by investing in Swiss stocks of companies, Adecco stocks are included in the following sustainwhich are strongly committed to sustainability. able investment indices and funds, which select their constituents by assessing environmental, social and Natixis Impact Europe Equities Fund Natixis Asset governance criteria: Management has become N°1 in SRI management in France and is an acknowledged pioneer in SRI (SocialFTSE4Good Global & Europe indices – benchmark ly responsible investment) management with over 20 and tradable financial indices, designed to identify years of experience. companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility (CSR) standards. Vontobel Fund – Global Responsibility Swiss Equity – is investing primarily in high quality companies, with STOXX Europe Sustainability Index – tracking the strong business models, managed for long-term value performance of the leading European companies in creation. As a company’s value is influenced by its terms of economic, environmental and social sustainsustainability profile, this latter is an integral compoability criteria. nent in the process of its valuation. ECPI Ethical Index Global & Europe indices – designed to provide investors with direct access to ESG investments, i.e. considering environmental risk, social impact, and Corporate Governance structure. ESI Excellence Europe index – Ethibel’s European quality label for socially responsible investment funds. CSR Report 2010 20 Further sustainability assessments results Outlook The Carbon Disclosure Project is an independent non-profit organisation holding the largest database Excellence of primary corporate climate change information in By delivering excellence throughout our business, we the world. It was launched to accelerate solutions to will achieve sustained commercial success. This will climate change and water management by putting intensify our positive role as leader of a high-growth relevant information at the heart of business, policy industry. We bring efficiency and effectiveness to the and investment decisions. world of employment, a foundation of successful societies. Our Excellence Awards will continue to reinforce oekom research qualified Adecco as the most susthe strong relationship between commercial success tainable Swiss multinational enterprise 2009 in the and optimising our positive social contribution. Com‘services’ sector according to the sustainability rating municating this role at international and national level by oekom research. will be a priority: We will focus upon providing legitimate reasons for the lifting of restrictions upon our INrate counts Adecco amongst the 30 best Swiss operations in some market sectors and countries. We companies when it comes to measuring CO2 emiswill extend our involvement in the World Economic Fosions and identified Adecco as the respective leader in rum as well as industry associations such as Ciett and the services industry. Eurociett. Increasingly, measuring client and associate satisfaction through our Global Satisfaction Survey will Triodos Bank selected Adecco for the investment unibe the basis of our actions aimed at continuous imverse of Triodos Bank and ranked Adecco second out provement. Our goal is to achieve retention rates of of nine international employment services companies. our own employees worldwide of 75% in the near term. This reflects our commitment to be an employer Kempen Capital Management gives Adecco the of choice in our industry and beyond. Year-on-year, Pass status in the Kempen SNS Socially responsible the number of Adecco businesses participating in the universe. The SRI (Socially Responsible Investment) uniGreat Place To Work® survey will increase and benchverse consists of European companies that meet or mark our progress. Our high standards for ethical and exceed the strict ethical, social and environmental legal behaviour and safety at work will be rigorously performance standards set by Kempen Capital Manreinforced by using established tools. We will spread agement. the use of the ‘myclimate’ platform to improve our environmental performance by reducing our Carbon CSR Report 2010 21 Footprint. Our commitment to meeting or exceeding Skills stakeholder expectations, be they related to the ecoThe acquisition and lifelong learning of skills will denomic, social or environmental dimension, dictates fine most people’s access to job opportunities and our approach to Excellence. sustained employability. In an increasingly performance-related world with growing talent shortages, the Integration importance of skills as a passport to employment will Demographic trends, skill mismatches and the speed be undeniable. Our career guidance role that helps of business change, aside from unpredictable ecopeople acquire skills and experience will crystallise as nomic conditions: all increase the risk of labour market our most important source of competitive advantage. exclusion. Our greatest contribution will continue to be This cements our relationships with associates and climade through our core services. Temporary work for ents through their career and business life cycles reexample can kick-start confidence and careers. These spectively. Core tools, such as Adecco Xpert® will will be reinforced by projects targeted at specific continue to be improved as our portfolio of online and groups, run at local, national and international level offline training opportunities expands and adapts to through public and private partnerships. Our internachanging job market needs. Our Adecco Academy to tional integration activities will play a key role raising be launched in the fall of 2011 will offer new and existawareness of the risks of exclusion, the value of a diing training and development opportunities for our verse workforce and the importance of equal opportuown employees on a worldwide basis. Win4Youth nity. We will share our expertise and create additional 2011 gives employees a chance to cycle, raising corpowork opportunities for disabled people. This will be rate donations for skill development projects targeted through our participation in the ILO Global Business to young people in Greece, the Philippines and Brazil. and Disability Network and our own Disability and EmAs a unifying force for our Group and a powerful way ployment Programme. Our Global Diversity Council for employees to express our shared values, the established in 2010 will develop best practices for diWin4Youth concept is set to grow. verse recruitment policies for ourselves and our clients. As the London Olympic Games of 2012 More details and examples of our key activities in the approach, the IOC and the IPC Athlete Career Prosphere of Excellence, Integration and Skills are exgramme bring the importance of work integration into plored in the insights chapter of our CSR Report, which sharp focus. is followed by our GRI standard disclosure and index. CSR Report 2010 22 Heinrich Florian, Germany, coordinator, brotZeit e.V. “ I never forget that by taking care of children, we are ensuring that future generations get a good start in life” CSR Report 2010 23 brotZeit project, Primary School in Berlin, Germany “ We welcome the children in the morning, give them breakfast, make them feel cared for and encourage and support them with their schoolwork.” CSR Report 2010 24 CSR Report 2010 25 Sofia Walicka, Poland, brotZeit volunteer “ After a rewarding career as a flight attendant, I’ve found my second dream occupation..” CSR Report 2010 26 Performance excellence, strong values and adherence to the highest international standards is key to our ability to optimise work opportunities for all stakeholders. Insights – Excellence Overall winner Excellence Awards Germany and Austria Best performing region and overall winner 2010. Contributors: Regional head Andreas Dinges and team. Germany Strongest intern/extern improvement 2010. Contributors: Country head Andreas Dinges and team. Australia and New Zealand Best temp margin ­protection 2007–2010. Contributors: Regional head Australia & New Zealand Jeff Doyle and team. Switzerland Highest conversion ratio 2010. Contributors: Country head Michael ­Agoras and Successful business operations imply we can help team. more individuals in their working careers and provide the flexibility and efficiency companies need for susSweden Outstanding performance 2010. tainable success and to create employment opportuContributors: Country head Per-Arne ­Gulbrandsen nities. Based on this and to heighten every employee’s and team. commitment to our success, in 2010, we ran our first Excellence Awards. The Adecco Group Excellence Best International Account Team 2010 Awards recognise people, teams and countries that Contributors: Intl. Account Manager Neal Ramdenee achieve outstanding performances whilst applying our and team. core values of Team Spirit, Customer Focus, Responsibility and Entrepreneurship as well as our leadership France Best absolute increase in economic profit principles: Cool Head, Warm Heart and Working 2010. Contributors: Regional head François Davy and Hands. team. At our Management Conference in January 2011, eight India Best Emerging Market 2010. teams were awarded for their outstanding contribuContributors: Country head Sudhakar ­Balakrishnan tion to the Adecco Group: and team. CSR Report 2010 27 Our Core Values Global Satisfaction Survey – Our Values Team Spirit, Customer Focus, Responsibillistening to stakeholders ity and Entrepreneurship are the principles guiding all that we do. Frequent stakeholder consultation We seek continuous dialogue with our various stakeholders in sev• Team Spirit Our work and best-practice exchange eral fields. Our Global Satisfaction Survey (GSS) is based on mutual respect and trust. We coreaches out to more than 100,000 clients and 240,000 operate across boundaries, branches and disciassociates twice a year. Today, the survey encomplines. Team, trust and talent are our keywords. passes 25 countries and 19 languages, across eight major Group brands. The GSS monitors client and as• Customer Focus Our expertise lies in customissociate satisfaction and other retention metrics. It suping solutions and connecting the right people. We ports our ambition of delivering service excellence at are committed to building long-term partnerships all times by listening to and partnering with our cuswith our employees, associates and clients. The tomers. Employee satisfaction is specifically measured focus on people with a Warm Heart, Cool Head by the Great Place To Work® Institute. and Working Hands is our core competence. • Responsibility Our integrity leads to better work, better life – and to a sustainable future. We are honest and fair partners to our stakeholders at all times. Promoting fairness, diversity, and equality is our corporate legacy. • Entrepreneurship Our passion is to lead through enterprise and innovation. We encourage initiative in decision-making and creative solutions. Our aim is always to go the extra mile. CSR Report 2010 28 Retention rate 2007– 2010 in % 70/74/70/75 65/65/61/74 83/81/71/87 59/64/64/73 65/68/65/67 100 80 60 40 20 Group Northern Southern North Rest of world Europe Europe America Q4 2007 Q4 2008 Q4 2009 Q4 2010 Sustaining our workforce – Employees The average employee turnover was retention rates about 25% in 2010 (2008: 26%). The Adecco Group’s retention rate of 75% is among the best in the industry, particularly in the major markets. Almost 71% (2008: Strategic priority Retention is one of six strategic pri64%) of the Group’s employees remain in the compaorities for the Group. Our employees and associates ny for more than two, and approximately 41% (2008: are the most important reason for our success, which 37%) for more than five years. This figure varies from makes retention one of the Adecco Group’s six stratecountry to country, but in France – our largest market gic priorities. Our approach to training and career de– 56% (2008: 50%) are staying with us for over five velopment, equal opportunities and diversity and our years, while in Italy this figure is at 62% (2008: 60%). open company culture help Adecco Group to attract, motivate and retain talented employees and associates. The merits of these efforts and investments appear in constantly increasing employee retention Great Place to Work – rates, reaching 75% in 2010 (up from 70% in 2009). measuring our progress Associates/candidates By nature of our business, the duration of a temporary assignment ranges from We have also extended our involvement days to many months and even years, resulting in a in the Great Place To Work® survey. This high average turnover rate. As the Group seeks to exis an employee survey tool that measures pand career development opportunities, we are inthe level of credibility, respect, fairness creasingly measuring the length and nature of the pride and camaraderie within workplaces. In 2004/ relationship between our clients and associates work2005, ten Adecco Group countries participated, rising ing for the Adecco Group. The average length of serto 24 in the 2010 survey and representing about 90% vice for associates was 99 days in 2008. Figures for of Adecco Group’s worldwide workforce. In the latest 2010/2011 are currently assessed. The average numsurvey, our subsidiary DIS AG was ranked as best ember of consecutive assignments was three to four in ployer in Germany and 4th in Europe overall. In the 2008. Netherlands, we ranked 12th amongst large and multinational companies in the country. CSR Report 2010 29 FTE employees and branches at year-end by geography FTE employees Branches 2010 2009 % variance 2010 2009 % variance Geographical breakdown (year-end) France 7,017 6,910 2 1,552 1,659 (6) North America 7,169 5,208 38 1,063 950 12 UK & Ireland 2,771 2,081 33 358 353 1 Japan 2,049 2,177 (6) 146 171 (15) Germany & Austria 2,356 2,279 3 471 515 (9) Benelux 1,570 1,485 6 346 348 (1) Italy 1,552 1,461 6 422 428 (1) Iberia 1,493 1,499 0 380 387 (2) Nordics 1,041 1,009 3 192 204 (6) Australia & New Zealand 548 495 11 78 83 (6) Switzerland 455 442 3 105 106 (1) Emerging Markets 3,858 3,051 26 457 395 16 Corporate 229 217 6 – – – ­­Adecco Group 32,108 28,313 13 5,570 5,599 (1) Mandatory Code of Conduct & • Political activities and government relations: political activities and contributions, governCorporate Governance ment relations. Our Code of Conduct The Company’s Code of Con• Reporting issues and concerns: What to do in the duct (CoC) was revised in 2010 and will be reinforced case of belief of the existence of a known, suspected by an updated mandatory online training module or potential violation of the law, this Code of Conduct planned for 2011. It reflects the increasingly multiculturor any Company policy. al business environment and the evolution of legal, financial and regulatory requirements. The CoC which Our focus is on prevention. By the end of 2010, 76% of sets out the principles to be followed by all our emour employees had completed the Adecco Compliployees worldwide, was issued by the CEO and apance & Ethics (ACE) online training and testing proproved by the Board of Directors. The Adecco Group gramme covering the Adecco Group Code of Business Code of Conduct is available under www.adecco.com Conduct. In addition to the Code of Business Conduct and includes the following guidelines and policies: module, the following topics are covered by the ACE online training tool: Business Ethics, IT security, Con• Workplace conduct: mutual respect, training and flicts of interest and Email usage. Through the ACE career development, health, safety and the environhotline, employees, associates, clients as well as any ment, use of company resources, conflicts of interother stakeholders can report actual or potential violaest, insider information and securities trading. tions of the law, company policies, procedures, ethical standards or of the Code of Conduct by the Adecco • Financial controls and reporting: internal controls, Group Compliance office. Reports can also be made accurate reporting. in writing to the address provided in the Compliance & Ethics Reporting page on our website www.adecco. • Commercial practices: anti-trust and fair competicom. tion, contracting, confidential information and privacy rights, gifts and entertainment, intellectual Through Corporate Governance practices we, apply property, anti-corruption, records management. the highest Corporate Governance standards as reported in our Corporate Governance Report and adhere to the highest ethical standards and best practice as a signatory of the UN Global Compact. CSR Report 2010 30 Safety standards – a commitment 2. Risk assessment in the workplace Before placing our employees, we conduct workplace health and Safety at work The Adecco Group strives to prevent safety due diligence checks on clients’ premises, with accidents, injuries and diseases in the workplace. Recregular follow-ups thereafter. The assessment tools ognising the risks our associates are exposed to when range from sector-specific checklists through to webentering new and unfamiliar workplaces, the Adecco based, intelligent databases, such as those used by Group meets all statutory health and safety obligaAdecco UK, or formal client site safety evaluation protions. cesses, as implemented within Adecco USA. Preventing accidents and diseases Our standard 3. Employee testing, training and induction In all measures vary from country to country. The five main countries, training or briefing in accident prevention is elements are: most commonly available to our associates in the construction or industrial sector. The actual briefing or 1. Health and safety coordinators and committraining sessions are usually carried out either directly tees We have formal joint management-worker by the clients or by Adecco. health and safety committees in several countries. • Xpert® Our candidate and associate training tool In France, we are part of the “Comité d’hygiène, de Xpert® includes specific modules which help desécurité et des conditions de travail” (CHSCT), a joint termine an individual’s attitude to compliance with management-worker health and safety committee. In rules and safety orientation. In some countries, we countries such as Japan, the USA and the UK & also run risk awareness tests, tailored to specific Ireland, we have dedicated health and safety coordjobs in the industrial sector. inator teams, specialists or working groups. In other countries, these tasks are outsourced to designated agencies: for example, Adecco Germany subcontracts to its own occupational health and safety company www.gap-arbeitsschutz.de; while in Serbia, a licensed third-party agency is employed. CSR Report 2010 31 Development* of accident frequency rates 2008–2010, selected subsidiaries Rebased to 100% as of 2008 2.5 Adecco Australia Adecco Italy Adecco Belgium Adecco Netherlands 2 Adecco Finland Adecco Construction Adecco France Norway 1.5 Adia France Adecco Sweden Tuja Germany Adecco UK 1 Adecco Germany Adecco USA DIS Germany 0.5 * We focus on the development of the accident frequency rates 0 (AFR) rather than comparing absolute AFR values. This is due to the fact that our involvement in the various business sectors – 2008 2009 2010 and thus various risk potentials – vary significantly from subsidiary to subsidiary. • ‘S@ve Compétence’ in France Since 2008, Adia Country certifications has successfully used and improved ‘S@ve Compétence’. This is an innovative accident preven• Adecco Netherlands holds the SCT 1 certification tion tool for the construction sector. It facilitates • The Adecco Group France has specialised the dialogue between recruiter and candidates, branches that are CEFRI 2-certified. This certiaddressing their level of technical knowledge in fication covers validation of workers qualificasafety matters and their capacity to assess risk in tions, medical checks, training in risk prevention the workplace. The process concludes with a deand coaching of people working on assignment, briefing from the recruiter, revealing examples of and/or the similar MASE 3 certification for asgood and bad practice. The efficiency of this new signments at chemical and petroleum sites. approach undergoes continuous improvement • The Adecco Group UK is accredited with ‘Achilbecause our recruiters also learn from our associles’, targeted towards staff working on railway ates’ broad experience and good practice. The infrastructure; ‘CHAS’ (Contractors Health and integration of S@ve Compétence as an Internet Safety Assessment Scheme) for the construction platform has made it easily adaptable to specific sector and ‘SAFEcontractor’, an accreditation client area of expertise. scheme that assesses the health and safety competence of contractors and service providers. 1 SCT = Safety Checklist for Temporary Employment Agencies in Dutch: VCU 2 CEFRI = Le Comité français de certification des Entreprises pour la Formation et le suivi du personnel travaillant sous Rayonnements Ionisants (www.cefri.fr). 3 MASE = Manuel d’Amélioration Sécurité des Entreprises (www.mase.com.fr). CSR Report 2010 32 4. Medical checks In accordance with local regulaInstitutional dialogue tions, we conduct preliminary and periodic medical health checks, geared to the respective assignment, to Adecco’s global institutional activities focus on driving protect associate’s health in high-risk working environthe industry’s role through the Ciett membership and ments. Adecco Japan offers an additional range of the interaction with key global stakeholders such as support measures, depending on individual needs, the ILO and the EU. In 2011, Ciett will publish an Induswhich include a helpline staffed by specialised doctors try Report together with Boston Consulting Group for employees in need of mental-health counseling. which exemplifies how HR services providers enable Opportunities for general health checks are published the adaptation to the structural challenges taking on the Adecco Japan website. The company also adplace in national labour markets. dresses seasonal health issues, for example by organising flu vaccinations during the cold winter The ratification of the ILO Convention 181 on Private months. Employment Agencies has dropped off the political agendas of national governments in recent years. 5. Personal protection equipment By contractual Therefore, Adecco has pledged to support the ILO in agreement with clients, the Adecco Group or the cliits task to further enhance the acceptance of the role ents themselves supply our associates with personal of HR services providers around the globe. Special safety and protection equipment. emphasis is being given at Group level to the bi-annual ILO Global Dialogue Forum. In 2011, it will focus Our occupational accidents decrease In order to on the role of Private Employment Agencies (PEAs) in ensure a fair basis for comparison of our safety perpromoting decent work conditions and improving laformance among our country organisations, we look bour markets in private services sectors. at the development of accident frequency rates (AFR), rather than comparing absolute AFR values. This is due to the fact that our involvement in the various business sectors – and thus various risk potentials – varies significantly from subsidiary to subsidiary. CSR Report 2010 33 We are involved in national and regional sectoral soIn Europe, our focus alongside the industry has since cial dialogue facilitated by the EU Commission and 2008 been on the implementation of the EU Agency on global level through the Memorandum of UnderWork Directive. In the months leading up to the imstanding (MoU) on Temporary Agency Work signed plementation deadline of December 5, 2011, we will by UNI Global and Ciett respectively. remain fully committed to the dialogue with national and European stakeholders aimed at transposing the Additionally, a special focus is being placed on prokey elements of the EU directive. These include lifting jects enhancing the employability of candidates. This restrictions on temporary agency work and the supis most notably through the ‘European Alliance on port of the provision of equal treatment where appliSkills for Employability’, EU-funded training procable. Adecco, through its Eurociett corporate grammes and the facilitation of worker’s mobility membership and the mandates held in the various through the contribution to the EU Commission’s EuEU national temporary staffing associations, is advoropean Employment Services (EURES) programme. cating for a common research project with UNI Europa on ‘Temporary Agency Work & transitions in the labour market’. CSR Report 2010 34 Our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions (Based on the Greenhous Gas Protocol) Emissions 2010 Coverage Data basis metric tonnes CO2 e extrapolated to Group level (% of Group FTEs) Source Scope (CO2 equivalent) (% FTEs) Own business cars 1 (direct) 85,683 100% 14.5% Electricity 2 (indirect) 64,651 78%* 24.9% Electricity 3 (indirect) 24.678 78%* 24.9% Own business cars 3 (indirect) 46,631 100% 14.5% Rental cars 3 (indirect) 1,956 100% 22.1% Air travel 3 (indirect) 6,407 100% 72.0%** Paper 3 (indirect) 23.815 100% 11.5% Toner 3 (indirect) 7.574 100% 11.5% New lap & desktops 3 (indirect) 15.895 100% 100% ** Data basis relating to total staff of all HQs Group-wide. More adequate, since air * The reported gross global Scope 2 emissions figure relates to emissions from travelling mainly occurs amongst HQ staff. electricity consumption. In 10 major markets of Adecco (representing 80% of our FTE), we measured the electricity consumption in our major sites (representing 25% of our FTE) and extrapolated the figure within each country to 100%. As the CO2 emission factors for electricity vary very much from country to country, we did not extrapolate them for other countries. Therefore, our total gross global Scope 2 figure represents 80% of our total business and comprises a level of uncertainty of about 30%. Environmental performance In order to assess this data in a consistent and structured manner, we are using the ‘myclimate’ platform An environmental policy was adopted by the Board to collect and evaluate our carbon footprint. The ‘myof Directors on September 6, 2004 (published on climate’ emission calculator helps us to assess our www.adecco.com). emissions at any point in time, covering close to 80% of our operations in terms of revenue and it enables Mitigating greenhouse gas emissions As the global participant countries and the Global HQ to: leader in HR services, we are conscious about the environment and of the difference we can make by acting 1. Identify their Carbon Footprint responsibly. Therefore, in 2010, we started to collect 2. Use the data for any stakeholder inquiry the following environmental activity data for 10 of 3. Start reducing our CO2 emission through targeted Adecco’s major markets 1 including Global HQ to projects measure our carbon footprint: 4. Communicate about it accordingly to all stake­ holders involved. 1. Electrical energy consumption 2. Mobility: company car mileages and air miles flown 3. Office supply: paper and toner consumption 4. Office equipment: computers bought and replaced 1 France, USA,, UK, Germany, Italy, Spain, Belgium, Netherlands, Norway. CSR Report 2010 35 Our materials and water consumption (GRI indicator EN1) Total consumption 2010 Data basis extrapolated to Group level (% of Group FTEs) (100% FTEs) Material Paper (office supply, does not include printed matters) 18,080 metric tonnes 11.5% Toner (modelled from paper consumption) 181 kg 11.5% Water (from public water supply) 9,924,287 m3 6.7% Saving and recycling paper The global introduction • For several years now, Adecco Japan has been of electronic time capture (ETC) allows us to track, apusing soy ink for all printed publications. In 2006, prove and control the actual working hours of our a comprehensive paper recycling system was 700,000 associates electronically. Examples of the introduced. Since then magazines and brochures most commonly used ETC solutions are: Internet Time have been printed on recycled paper. Capture, Swipe Cards and Electronic File Transfers. • 95% of the paper used by the Adecco Group UK Given the fact that we employ on average 700,000 asheadquarter for printers and copiers is from resociates per day, this has a positive impact on the encycled sources. The goal is to achieve the same vironment. Since the global launch of ETC at the percentage or better in the UK branch network. beginning of 2006, electronic time capture has risen • In 2010, Adecco Belgium reviewed its car policy. continuously. Although we do not track the amount of Categories have been adapted and car models paper saved on group level, it is obvious that ETC have been renewed leading to a lower CO2 emissaves millions of printed time sheets and envelopes sion. Total gain has not been measured yet, but per year. CO2 emission reduction is to be considered as a permanent ongoing effort. The follow-up in 2011 is Efforts to reduce the office carbon footprint and inour eco-driving training for employees, reducing crease recycling have become standard practices in fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. Furthermost of our countries. The concept has been emmore, since June 2011, electric power consumption braced by employees in our branches which has subis ‘greened’ by purchasing ‘Guarantees of Origin’ stantially increased our recycling efforts for waste and (GoO). These GoO’s are the only proof that power paper. was generated in a renewable way, i.e. from different sources such as wind, hydro or biomass. Country highlights at a glance • Since 2006, Adecco and Adia in France recycled paper for publications such as staff magazines and commercial leaflets. Furthermore, in May 2007, the Purchasing Department introduced unbleached recycled paper, asking employees to reserve this recycled paper for internal use and, when requested, for external use. CSR Report 2010 36 Our electricity consumption Total consumption 2010 Data basis extrapolated to Group level (% of Group FTEs) (100% FTEs) Energy source Electricity (from national grids) 137,437,090 kWh 24.9% • In September 2010, Adecco Netherlands entered Sweden and Norway – our first subsidiaries with into a new contract that will ensure environan ISO 14001:2004 certification Adecco Sweden mental friendly cars will be used throughout obtained ISO 14001:2004 certification for its Adecco the whole fleet by mid 2011. Additionally, Adecco HR (administrative personnel) division in May 2007. Netherlands will be the first service provider in the Adecco Norway has held its ISO 14001:2004 certificaNetherlands certified for the “CSR Performance tion since October 2008. Adecco UK has launched a Ladder” http://www.mvoprestatieladder.nl/doc/ project to gain accreditation to ISO 14001 for its enviCSRPerformanceLadder.pdf. Additionally, since ronmental management system (EMS). 2009, the headquarters of Adecco Netherlands has had an ‘A’ rating for energy consumption. Work opportunities related to green energy • Adecco Norway sponsers sports equipment for The green energy sector is growing fast and is gentheir employees in order to encourage them to erating huge investments all over the world, but leave the car at home and ride a bicycle to work. particularly in Germany, China and the United • Since 2008, Adecco Japan has promoted employStates as well as Spain and Japan. DIS AG in Gerees to wear comfortable business clothing accordmany, for example, provides trained technicians for ing to the season. This avoids over-dependence offshore windmills in partnership with its customers. on room cooling or heating. The temperature of Adecco Norway trained construction workers about air conditioners can be set to a minimum of 28°C new insulation regulations and Adia in France rein summer and to a maximum of 20°C during the cruited 100 workers for photovoltaic panel installacool and cold season. Adecco Japan also uses tion in Portugal. commercial vehicles with low-fuel consumption for client visits. • In Adecco Australia, the head office is one of Melbourne’s first environmentally sensitive commercial buildings and contains recycled content in its steel and concrete construction. It leads by example with a ‘High Green Star’ Rating under the GBCA Scheme and the Australian Building Greenhouse Rating Scheme. CSR Report 2010 37 We strive to make the labour market accessible to all and to uphold the principle of equal opportunities Insights – Integration Stepping stone into work Less undeclared work The higher the agency work penetration is in a country, the lower the level of undeA stepping stone to the labour market Temporary clared work. By serving as a legal alternative in secjobs offer people work experience and an income. tors often plagued by illegal labour, agency work can Consecutive assignments provide people with diverse bring to the labour market thousands previously illejob experiences, work environments and enhance gally employed, hence serving as a means of fighting their adaptability to different roles and teams. In many undeclared work. Such jobs boost income tax recases, they are a stepping stone to a permanent posivenues and reduce social costs, as the number of tion for individuals who otherwise could become marpeople drawing unemployment benefit falls. A study ginalised. 37% of all temporary workers are officially conducted by the Italian National Institute of Statistics registered as ‘unemployed’ before working with an demonstrated that agency work plays a key role in the agency. This proportion falls to less than half that level reduction of undeclared work (source: Ciett Economic (15%) after working as an agency worker (source: Ciett Report 2011). Economic Report 2011). Higher employment rates Temporary jobs reduce unemployment and help prepare the ground for a job-creating economic upturn. It is a fact that countries UN Global Compact: International with a higher proportion of agency work have a lower proportion of long-term unemployed and a lower unprinciples and standards employment rate in general. Around 80% of jobs created by temporary agency work would not otherwise Adecco believes labour markets should be fair and have existed. In most European countries, the main free from discrimination and malpractices that hinder motive to work in a temporary job is to find a permathe integration of adults into the workforce. nent position (28% in the Netherlands) or to gain work experience (30% in Finland) but also to achieve a betAdecco endorses the OECD Guidelines for MNEs ter work-life balance. (source: Ciett Economic Report and is signatory of the UN Global Compact. 2011). In accordance with the UNGC principle 6, Adecco upholds the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. In line with ILO convention 111, Adecco does not allow any form of disCSR Report 2010 38 Gender distribution in 2009–2010 in % 80/20 35/65 40/60 34/66 80/20 34/66 38/62 35/65 100 80 60 40 20 Senior Branch Total Total managers managers managers workforce Male, 2009 Male, 2010 Female, 2009 Female, 2010 crimination against its employees or associates and In accordance with the UNGC principle 4, Adecco candidates with respect to employment or occupation. upholds the elimination of all forms of forced and This includes any grounds such as race, colour, sex, compulsory labour. As set forth in the ILO convenreligion, political opinion, national extraction or social tion 29, Adecco declines any work or service which is origin (unless selectivity concerning employee characexacted from any person under the menace of any teristics furthers established governmental policies penalty and for which the said person has not offered which specifically promote greater equality of employhimself voluntarily (except some special cases of ment opportunity or relates to the inherent requireforms of compulsory labour as defined in Art. 2 of the ments of a job). The non-discrimination applies not ILO convention 29). only in context of access to employment and particular occupations, but also in context of terms and condiAdecco also supports the ILO convention 105, which tions of employment as well as access to vocational calls to take effective measures to secure the immeditraining. Furthermore, Adecco promotes equal remuate and complete abolition of forced or compulsory neration for men and women conducting work of labour. equal value as set forth in the ILO convention 100. In accordance with to the UNGC principle 5, Adecco In accordance with the UNGC principles 3, Adecco upholds the effective abolition of child labour. Conupholds the freedom of association and the effective cerning minimum ages for employment, Adecco adrecognition of the right to collective bargaining. As heres to the applicable local law as long as it complies set forth in the ILO conventions 87 and 98, Adecco at least with minimum ages as specified by the ILO respects the right of its associates and candidates as convention 138. In case there is no or insufficient lowell as employees to be represented by trade unions cal law on minimum ages, Adecco applies article 2 of and other bona fide representatives of employees, the ILO convention 138, stating that the minimum age and engage in constructive negotiations, either indishall not be less than the age of completion of comvidually or through employers’ associations, with a pulsory schooling and, in any case, shall not be less view to reaching agreements on employment condithan 15 years. Of course, Adecco also supports the tions. prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour as defined in ILO convention 182. CSR Report 2010 39 People with disabilities integrated into the labour market Information on number of individuals 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Other Adecco subsidiaries Adecco Spain & Adecco (AR, BE, JP, US, DE, CH) Foundation Spain Adecco Italy & Adecco Adia France Foundation Italy Adecco France Adecco Group Global Disability and employment Diversity Council We are involved in ‘Disability & Employment’ programmes in France, Italy, Spain, Norway, Belgium, the In March 2010, our country organisations in North Netherlands, Japan, the USA and Argentina. In order America, Canada, France, Ireland, Italy, Spain, United to help people with disabilities find suitable employKingdom and Mexico launched the Adecco Group ment, we build partnerships with the respective NGOs. Global Diversity Business Council. This commits us We also train our staff in specific aspects relating to to embrace and value diversity, inclusion and non-disdisabilities in recruitment procedures and provide specrimination as a business priority. It also supports our cific training for mentally and physically challenged efforts to meet the increasingly diverse needs of cliapplicants to increase their employability. Finally, we ents, employees, candidates and communities. give our clients guidance about how to welcome Adecco’s global Diversity & Inclusion function operates someone with a specific disability onto their team and as a best-in-class internal and external solutions proprepare the work environment accordingly. vider designed to drive global revenue growth; increase global market share; ensure legal compliance We employ thousands of people with disabilmanagement; reinforce and build new global client ities As a result of our ‘Disability & Employment’ proand talent relationships and enhance global brandgramme, the Adecco Group probably employs more ing. The first ‘Inclusion Strategy Session’ was held in people with disabilities in Europe than any other comVienna, Austria, on March 11, 2010. pany. In 2010, the Adecco Group helped around 9,000 people with disabilities gain employment in Europe, which is an increase of 20% compared to 2009. CSR Report 2010 40 ILO Global Business and Disability Network The Network is a joint activity of the Employers’ Bureau Due to Adecco’s long-standing experience in integratand the Disability Team in the Skills and Employability ing people with different backgrounds and abilities Department, operating out of the ILO headquarters in into the workforce, in 2010, the company was apGeneva. proached by the UN International Labour Organization (ILO) to take part in and co-develop a global Business Some country highlights at a glance: and Disability Network. The Network comprises multinational companies, existing employer and business • In France, Adecco Medical and Agefiph (the most networks on disability, as well as representatives of important association in France for inclusion of disability organisations. The goal of the network is to professional people with disabilities) signed a assist companies integrating disabled people into the collaboration agreement in June 2010 dedicated workplace. to the recruitment of people with disabilities specifically for jobs in the health sector. Adecco has also joined the Steering Committee which • In Paris, Adecco Group France opened a city held its first meeting in June 2011. The Network has centre branch specialising in the recruitment of four main purposes and areas of focus: people with disabilities. The branch helps coor• Sharing knowledge and identifying good practices dinate the disabled recruitment efforts of other among companies and employers’ organisations. Adecco branches in the Paris region. More in• Developing joint products and services for emsights on Disability & Employment in France: www. ployers and companies to facilitate hiring and trilogie.adecco.fr. retention. • As the official recruitment services provider of the • Strengthening the work of employers’ organisaLondon Organising Committee of the Olympic and tions and business networks that have greater Paralympic Games (LOCOG) of permanent and access to small and medium-size companies at temporary workers, Adecco UK has created a national level, plus building their technical ex‘Disability Talent Pool’. This is a comprehensive pertise on disability issues. list of the qualifications and capabilities of disa• Linking companies to ILO activities and partners bled candidates who apply for roles in London at national level and working through their local 2012. We have also introduced a guaranteed inoffices and supply chains. terview scheme for disabled people who meet the minimum criteria for particular roles. CSR Report 2010 41 • In the USA, over the past 17 years, through our IOC and IPC Athlete Career partnership with ‘Abilities Inc.’ Adecco has been able to connect many of Abilities’ participants Programme to job opportunities in the New York area. As a member of the Abilities Business Advisory CounThe International Olympic Committee (IOC) and cil, Adecco employees have an opportunity to the International Paralympic Committee (IPC) volunteer, offer job shadowing opportunities and Athlete Career Programmes are designed to help participate bi-monthly in practice interviews with high-performance athletes, as well as retired Olympistudents seeking work. The ‘Business Skills’ with ans and Paralympians, to address their education, life Office Technology & Applications Training gives skills and employment needs in order to enhance their participants an opportunity to learn practical job prospects of success beyond competition. The focus of skills required to secure employment as Data EnAdecco’s role is to provide career development and try Clerks, Administrative Assistants, Accounting job placement to help ease the transition of the athClerks and Microsoft Office Application Specialists. letes into the workforce. Adecco also involves employ• The Adecco Foundation Spain provides employers ers to help them identify and understand the qualities with workplace accessibility consultancy services. athletes can bring to their business. The programmes Working with the ‘Club of Excellence and Sustainhave been in place since 2005 (IOC) and 2007 (IPC) reability’, our Foundation developed an ‘Accessibility spectively and have assisted over 7,000 athletes in Guide for companies’. The guide addresses design more than 33 countries. and furniture specifications and offers advice on the adaptation of workspaces for people with disabiliAdecco also involves employers to help them identify tites. As a result of the success of the Guide in Spain, and understand the qualities athletes can bring to it was presented at the European Parliament in Brustheir business. One highlight of 2010 was the creation sels in January 2010. of the Team USA Career Program by the United States Olympic Committee, (USOC) in partnership with pilot partners, Adecco and Hilton Worldwide. The Team USA Career Program was developed to provide a part-time, flexible employment programme for elite athletes, while allowing them to pursue their Olympic dreams, as well as help lay foundations for a career beyond sport. CSR Report 2010 42 Annual athlete participation in the IOC and IPC Athlete Career Programme between 2005 and 2010 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 We have also helped young aspiring athletes address Adecco Foundations & Public-Private their career goals. During the first ever Youth Olympic Games, which were held in Singapore in August 2010, Partnerships over 200 young athletes from 69 countries attended IOC ACP workshops, which were held in seven differAs the world leader in HR services and one of the ent languages. world’s largest employers, Adecco has a vital responsibility to help make the world of work a better place. In 2010, Adecco UK launched the IPC ACP in conIn this context, ‘better’ means fair access to employjunction with the ParalympicsGB. The programme ment and equal opportunities for all. Accordingly, we is open to around 3,000 competing and retired Pararun our own Foundations in Spain, Italy and France lympians. Aligned with London’s 2012 ambition to use to help disadvantaged people succeed in a purely the power of the Paralympics to change people’s lives, commercially driven labour market environment. the ParalympicsGB ACP will make a lasting difference to the promotion of diversity. Our respective voluntary initiatives and public private partnership programmes focus mainly on vulnerable More information about the IOC ACP and the IPC ACP: groups in the labour market. As well as disabled people, our labour integration programmes touch http://www.olympic.org/elite-athletes groups like the ageing workforce, women in need, the young and long-term unemployed. http://www.paralympic.org/Athletes/ CSR Report 2010 43 10 years Adecco Foundation Italy Number of individuals helped 2001–2010 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 People with Single Long-term People Retired disabilities mothers unemployed over 40 athletes Given professional training Integrated into labour market Investments in our charitable Foundations Adecco Foundation Italy, created in 2001 Our Adecco Foundations in France, Italy and Spain are • Purpose: Assisting, supporting and training funded by contributions from Adecco and other comdisadvantaged people for integration into the panies and organisations committed to supporting workplace our integration efforts. • Activities: The foundation runs several partnerships and initiatives. As a result, it finds employment Adecco Group Foundation France, created in 2002 every year for disabled people, single mothers, long-term unemployed and people aged over 40 • Purpose: Assisting, supporting and training • Employees: 7 disadvantaged people for integration into the • Adecco annual donation: Approximately EUR workplace 500,000 • Activities: Develop social partnerships with various • Website: www.fondazioneadecco.org non-profit organisations in three fields: education, career orientation and professional integration. Adecco Foundation Spain, created in 1999 As a result, every year, 50 non-profit organisations are supported and 150 employees volunteer • Purpose: Assisting, supporting and training to participate in local solidarity initiatives. The disadvantaged people for integration into the Foundation also manages the IOC Athlete Career workplace Programme. • Activities: The foundation runs several partnerships • Employees: 5 and initiatives. As a result, it finds employment for • Adecco annual donation: Approximately EUR the following groups: disabled people, men and 300,000 women over 45, single mothers and/or victims of • Website: http://www.groupe-adecco-france.fr/ domestic violence, elite athletes and former elite Fondation-Groupe-Adecco/Pages/Fondationathletes. Groupe-Adecco.aspx • Employees: 78 • Adecco annual donation: Approximately EUR 520,000 • Website: www.fundacionadecco.es CSR Report 2010 44 Adecco Foundation Spain Number of individuals helped 2009–2010 1,000 750 500 250 People with People over 40 Single Long-term disabilities mothers unemployed 2009: Given professional training 2009:Integrated into labour market 2010: Given professional training 2010: Integrated into labour market Helping disadvantaged groups find Some country highlights at a glance: employment • In 2010, Adecco Argentina was recognised as one of only eleven companies that act as ‘Model Helping disadvantaged groups The Adecco of Gender Equality for Argentina’. This award Group’s largest initiatives to help the unemployed follows the success of a pilot programme of certiback into work is the government-supported ‘Réseau fication of companies in gender equity lead by the Adecco Insertion’ programme in France. This operates National Institute against Discrimination, Xenothrough 40 specialised branches across the country phobia and Racism (INADI) and supported by the and coaches over 4,000 people each year. AdditionWorld Bank. ally, the programmes of our foundations in Spain, Italy, • The Adecco Group USA put its focus on the maand France, support thousands of disadvantaged job ture workers who face unique challenges due to seekers every year. shifting demographics and evolving workforce trends. During the months of May and June 2010, The European Network Against Racism (ENAR) Adecco Group North America provided ‘job readiAdecco Group is member of the ENAR Expert Group ness training’ for the Urban League of the Long on ‘Promoting Equality in Employment’. This pioIsland Mature Worker Program. neering initiative brings together businesses commit• As part of an overall effort to help service memted to diversity and inclusion (Adecco Group, IBM, bers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan accliL’Oréal and Sodexo) with non-governmental anti-racist mate to civilian life at home, the Adecco Group organisations. Together, we work on developing new USA has supported the U.S. troops as well as ways to ensure the full participation of ethnic minorimilitary families and veterans through the ‘Career ties in the labour market. In 2010 the Expert Group Connections program’ during the months of July, published a strategic report recommending a clear August and September 2010. policy and best practices for EU institutions, member states, the private sector and social partners. CSR Report 2010 45 • Adecco UK’s partnership with London 2012 inCombatting child labour cludes the implementation of a BAME (Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic) Talent Pool. This was Adecco Argentina’s participation in ‘Jardines de Colaunched at the Afro Caribbean Advocacy Group secha’ programme in 2010 enabled 350 small chilin November 2010. Also staff from the Governdren to attend kindergarten rather than having to ment’s Job Centre Plus are embedded in our team accompany their mothers whilst they worked on taon-site at London 2012. This ensures we are fully bacco harvest. This initiative is sponsored by the Netconnected with local communities to hire unemwork of Companies for the Fight against Child Labour ployed people. ‘Conaetti’ and the Ministry of Labour, Employment and • The introduction of the Equality Act 2010 in UK Social Security of the Nation. highlighted the importance of preventing discriminatory recruitment practices, in particular through the use of application forms for roles and health declaration forms. One of our UK businesses, Office Angels, produced a leaflet called ‘Your guide to the Equality Act‘ for its own employees and clients. CSR Report 2010 46 We are convinced that training and career development unlock personal potential and help sustain employability. Our investments in training and development help us attract, motivate and retain the best candidates, associates and employees who ultimately are the key value drivers of our business. Insights – Skills Skills and development for associates Adecco Group training institutes Several business units run training divisions at country level or even inAdeccoXpert® Our online candidate and associate vested in their own Adecco training institutes. Adecco assessment and training tool AdeccoXpert® is currentGroup France facilitates individually tailored training ly deployed in 46 countries. It is available in more than projects for associates, many of them leading to ac20 languages and 3 million assessments are done on credited certificates in a wide range of subjects and a yearly basis for candidates and associates. The tool professions. Some 30,000 to 40,000 associates benis used to evaluate and develop skills, knowledge, apefited from this opportunity in 2010 (33,000 in 2008). titudes, motivation and work preferences. Testing and Similar Adecco Group training institutes exist in Spain, training is available for technical skills such as MS OfItaly, Chile and other countries. fice and IT courses, as well as for business skills including project management, recruiting and Online training In a growing number of countries – leadership. AdeccoXpert® is a core tool in our efforts currently in the UK, Norway, Canada, USA and to partner with associates in their career development. Australia – we allow our associates to train through flexible, free online learning. We have up to 60 training courses, providing a range of skills packages, from business basics through to management techniques, including MS Office packages, customer service, sales, communication and management. Participants can access the chosen courses from home and complete them remotely. CSR Report 2010 47 Minimum investments into training for associates In % of gross wages (according to national law and collective ­agreements) 5 4 3 2 1 Italy France Spain Belgium Source: “Temporary agency work and collective bargaining in the EU” (http://www.eurofound.europa.eu/eiro/studies/tn0807019s/tn0807019s.htm) Some country highlights at a glance • Adecco Germany introduced a ‘technical’ career path, for those associates not aspiring to leader• Due to talent shortages in the medical sector, ship positions within the company. The ‘technical Adecco Medical in France launched a training career path’ contains several steps: junior consultprogramme tailor-made for mature professionals ant, consultant and senior consultant. There is who had been unemployed for some time. The a well-defined selection process for the various training focused upon the latest medical regulasteps. tions, technology and practices, thus boosting • In 2010, Adecco Belgium introduced ‘Project S’, a their confidence and success in finding temporary very practical five-step coaching programme (asand permanent roles. sess, coach, match, hire and retain).This has helped • In France, Adia launched ‘Galileo’ a three-year Adecco recruit, place and retain candidates and programme for recruiters. The programme enassociates more effectively. It consists of developing compasses candidate sourcing, assessment and a personalised coaching map for each associate to selection methods and special subjects such as make sure his or her skills and attitude match the the recruitment of mature professionals. jobs they are placed in and also fulfill the require• In 2006, DIS AG in Germany began partnering ments of our clients. Lufthansa’s training arm ‘TRAINICO’, by placing • Adecco Hungary has launched a 12-month internyoung associates in their occupational apprenticeship programme for MA graduates. During the ship programme. Through the scheme, DIS AG 12 months, interns will be exposed to all aspects of pays the apprentice’s salary and acts as mentor, Adecco’s operations whilst also being directly inhelping them acquire valuable skills and qualificavolved in client work. The best interns will be offered tions and enhance employment prospects. The career opportunities within Adecco. success of the scheme was one of the reasons why the Adecco Group Germany acquired part of ‘TRAINICO’ in March 2011. Every year, TRAINICO trains around 2,000 people for a wide range of roles within the aviation industry. CSR Report 2010 48 Development* of training hours per employee 2008–2010; selected subsidiaries Rebased as of 2009 2.5 Adecco Australia Adecco Construction Adecco Finland Norway 2 Adecco Italy Adecco Singapore Adecco Netherlands Adecco USA 1.5 1 0.5 0 *We rather focus on the development of the training hours than 2009 2010 comparing absolute values. This is due to the fact that the definitions and practices of training vary from country to country. Developing our employees In addition, a senior leadership programme for top management has been developed with INSEAD busiIn 2010, across the Adecco Group we continued to enness school in France. Seven sessions have been hance our established talent development opporconducted so far and 91 of our top leaders from tunities for our employees at national and global level. around the world, including members of the Executive Committee, have participated. Leadership development Complementary to the various country initiatives, the Adecco Group has a HIT (High Intensity Training) This programme originlong-standing commitment to leadership developated in North America but has also been deployed in ment. Over the past six years, more than 600 of our Australia and Europe. It focuses primarily on ‘the bahigh potential future leaders have attended the Adecsics’ for branch managers by reinforcing the core co Leadership Programme ‘AdeccoI3’ at IMD busisales, recruiting and customer service principles. To ness school in Lausanne, Switzerland. date, over 500 delegates from 25 countries have attended HIT and it acts as a great example of a joint The redeveloped leadership programme delivers cutinternational initiative. ting-edge theory and experiences to best equip Adecco leaders to live our values and leadership principles and to grow personally during their careers. Since last October, we have already had three sessions of the programme with excellent results and feedback. CSR Report 2010 49 Training for employees Average training hours per employee; selected subsidiaries Training hours 2009 Training hours 2010 50 40 30 20 10 Denmark Singapore Taiwan Italy Australia Norway USA France Switzerland Finland Netherlands In addition, in 2010 we continued to roll out a key STEP (SHORT TERM EXCHANGE PROGRAMME) The training course for branch managers around the concept of STEP which was just launched in 2011 is to world. The VFS ‘Value Focused Sales’ course goes offer our top performers at branch level an opportunity beyond basic sales technique and focuses on how to to exchange jobs with a colleague having a similar create consultative relationships with clients, thus imfunction in another country within our Group. The exproving our overall level of service and helping build change typically lasts between 1 to 6 months and prolong-term client relationships. vides a first step towards an international career. To date, almost 1,000 branch managers from 20 counIn 2010, Adecco began laying the foundations of the tries have attended the course held at Global HQ in Adecco Academy. This will be our overarching conZurich, Switzerland. The course covers: cept for all our various training initiatives for branch managers, high potentials as well as senior leaders • Sales best practices and top executives. The launch is planned for October • Consultative selling 2011. • Understanding the customer and their primary business objectives • Aligning our value proposition with the customer business objectives • Leveraging “authentic” business relationships Course attendees improve their ability to probe and understand what each client is attempting to accomplish. They learn how to uncover the client’s industry drivers, business objectives and operational issues and then attune our services to their needs thus growing the business relationship. CSR Report 2010 50 Win4Youth Humanity Foundation (India) Transforming the lives of underprivileged youth in urban India through access Helping young people succeed to first-class education. www.parikrmafoundation.org This global initiative gave all employees the opportunEducation for Haiti (Haiti) Primary schooling for the ity to run and raise funds that help give children and poorest children. www.heks.ch young people in challenging situations a future. A Group donation of USD 230,000 was distributed to six Entreprendre Pour Apprendre (France) Project charitable foundations located in India, Chile, Haiti, ‘Young enterprise’, introducing young people to the Spain, France and the USA. All of the foundations foworld of entrepreneurship. www.entreprendre-pourcus upon helping young people acquire the skills they apprendre.fr need to integrate into the labour market. Each Foundation received a USD 38,333 donation – one sixth of Fundació Èxit (Spain) Achieving social integration the total amount raised. and job insertion of young people at risk of social exclusion. www.fundacioexit.org/web/?pagina=intro 29,255 employees in 58 countries responded to the Win4Youth challenge magnificently. Teams joined The National Urban League (USA) Project ‘Ready’, forces and organised runs or ran as a group in comproviding enhanced academic and social support to munity races, motivated to add to the kilometres and high-school students. www.nul.org funds raised. For every kilometre completed, the Adecco Group donated funds to the following foundaFundación de Solidaridad Romanos XII tions: (Chile) Training centre enhancing employability in the field of computer technology and telecommunications. http://romanosxii.galeon.com/ CSR Report 2010 51 Sanketh Chengappa, Adecco India, New York City Marathon runner “ Together with my colleagues in India, we ran 75,754 kilometres knowing that we could make a difference to children’s lives in our own country.” CSR Report 2010 52 Global engagement Win4Youth 2010 (cumulative) Number of participants Number of kilometres completed Total number of countries engaged 250,000 70 60 200,000 50 150,000 40 30 100,000 20 50,000 10 0 0 Mar Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Number of kilometres Number of countries Number of participants A major highlight of Win4Youth took place on November 7th, when 64 employees, representing all continents, participated in the New York City Marathon 2010. And in October, an entire Adecco region organised a Win4Youth Solidarity day during which around 2,700 employees ran a total of over 13,000 kilometres. The countries which took part included France, Switzerland, India, Dubai, Morocco and Tunisia, among many others. Win4Youth was the first experience of this kind for Adecco – it provided an opportunity to bring vital aspects of our four core values to life: showing Team Spirit, the willingness to take Responsibility by promoting fairness, diversity and equality and by having the passion to take the initiative and make a positive difference in the lives of young people in need. CSR Report 2010 53 CSR Report 2010 54 UK places its first athlete through Adecco is the Official Recruitment Services Provider to the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games. With sport in the limelight the BOA Athlete Career Programme across the country, this was the ideal moment for the British Olympic Association to launch the ACP in partnership with Adecco UK. The first athlete referred was Craig Figes, captain of the GB Water Polo team. His goal is to lead the team at the London 2012 Olympic Games, but, as water polo is not as well funded as other disciplines, he needed additional income to carry on training. Craig was referred to Angela Aimson at Adecco’s Manchester branch. Her challenge was to find him part-time work with a company willing to work around his training regime. Craig’s degree in geography and environmental man­ agement led to a placement with property company Bruntwood, which was delighted to have the kudos of an ­Olympian on the payroll. Craig gained valuable career experience and the financial footing he UK, Manchester needed. Adecco was proud to place a leading athlete and fully satisfy BOA Athlete Career Programme a client’s requirements. Career to carer: active retirees improving Adecco Personaldienstleistungen and DIS, which support the brotZeit initiative, are German brands of the Adecco Group. Thoulife for underprivileged children sands of children in Germany come from families living below the poverty line. They often turn up for school hungry and generally lack for care and attention. brotZeit aims to make a difference to their lives, offering children aged six to nine “bread and time”. Schools make breakfast for the children, assisted by retirees who are glad to offer their time, experience and enthusiasm. Currently working in 38 schools in Munich and Berlin, there are plans to expand to other cities. Adecco agreed to use its expertise to help with recruitment, initially for the three-year expansion period. Heinrich Florian, retired branch manager at DIS AG, Nuremberg, jumped at the chance to be a coordinator and liaison. The initiative fits well with the motto: encouraging youth, connecting generations. One of the recruits, Sofia Walicka, former flight attendant and airline clerk, serves breakfast to some 20 children at a primary school in Germany, Berlin Berlin. The retirees recruited by Adecco are making a difference by givbrotZeit ing these children a better start to the day and a better start in life. Win4Youth 2010 – employees running Win4Youth is an internal initiative involving all Adecco employees worldwide. It is one of the strategic pillars of our Corporate Social for a great cause Responsibility and has drawn the admiration of world tennis champion Kim Clijsters. In 2010, Adecco employees and invited clients from around the world took part in runs and ­recorded the distance covered to make a contribution to charitable works. For each kilometre, the Adecco Group donated USD 1 to a grand total, which was shared among six selected foundations in India, Haiti, Chile, France, Spain and the USA. All foundations have a clear focus on preparing disadvantaged young people for a successful transition into the labour market. Far exceeding the initial goal to run twice around the world, 228,002 kilo­metres were finally completed by 29,255 employees across 58 countries. One of the highlights of Win4Youth 2010 was the successful completion of the New York City Marathon by 62 employees on November 7, 2010. This is a truly global initiative that highlights the Adecco Group’s core values of Team Spirit, Responsibility, EntrepreUSA, New York neurship and Customer ­Focus. Win4Youth 2011 sees employees riding Win4Youth bikes to raise money ­under the watchful eye of cycling legend Eddy Merckx. CSR Report 2010 55 GRI* standard disclosures 58 Organisation profile 59 Report parameters 60 Governance, commitments, and engagement 64 Stakeholder engagement 65 Economic indicators 70 Environmental indicators 72 Labour practices 74 Human rights 75 Society 75 Product responsibility 76 GRI content index * The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is explained in the Glossary under “GRI”, page 86. CSR Report 2010 57 This section provides the GRI standard disclosures as far as The Shanghai-based joint venture, FESCO Adecco, begins they are neither covered above in this report nor in the Annual operations as of January 1, 2011. Shanghai is the largest HR Report 2010 yet. The reference numbers in the following are market in China. The newly formed joint venture already today those used in the GRI Guidelines. For a complete overview, has over 100,000 associates on assignment, and has access please check the GRI content index on pages 77–81. to a network of more than 100 branches throughout China with a large and established local and multinational client base. FESCO Adecco will mainly provide clients with general staffing, professional staffing and outsourcing services includOrganisational profile ing the management of payroll and benefits administration, with scope to enhance its offering, benefiting from Adecco’s 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period multinational expertise in the HR services industry. regarding size, structure and ownership September 2009: The Adecco Group Executive Committee 2.10 Awards received was extended as of October 1, 2009. With this move, all The Great Place to Work® survey 2010/2011 The Great Place Adecco markets are represented in the Executive Committee. to Work® Institute helps organisations to create cultures where trust flourishes. This is done via independent, anonymous October 2009: Adecco announced the successful closing of the surveys – the results of which are provided to companies to acquisition of Spring Group on October 20, 2009. Spring Group is help them improve the workplace based on real employee a UK-listed company, with sales of GBP 517 million in 2008 and feedback. This is the largest survey of workplace practices a net cash position of GBP 40 million at the end of 2008. Spring worldwide. Group offers an excellent strategic fit and substantial synergy potential for Adecco in the UK staffing market. With this transaction, DIS AG, Germany, is ‘Germany’s Best Employer Adecco strengthens its position in the fragmented UK market and 2011’ (in the category 501 -2,000 employees), a further increases its professional staffing exposure. large step forward from rank 26 in 2010. January 2010: MPS Group shareholders approve Adecco’s DIS AG, Germany, is ranked 4th amongst acquisition. At a special meeting held on January 15, 2010, ‘Europe’s Best Employer 2011’ (in the category 501 -2,000 MPS Group shareholders approved the previously announced employees), out of 1,380 competing employers in its category agreement and plan of merger entered into with Adecco. in 18 countries, a large step forward from rank 12 in 2010. With this achievement, DIS AG is Europe’s best Personnel Services December 2010: FESCO and Adecco set up joint venture in Provider. Shanghai to enhance HR service offerings in China. Adecco Group set up a joint venture in Shanghai with FESCO, one of Adecco Group Netherlands reached 12th place on the list of the leading HR service companies in China. Under the terms the 24 top companies to work for. of the joint venture, FESCO and Adecco hold 51% and 49% of the equity respectively. Pooling Adecco’s global staffing knowTUJA, Germany, is amongst the Great Place to Work® top 100 how with a Chinese partner is an important step forward to list in Germany. take advantage of the growth potential in China. The UK Office Angels, Adecco and Spring all are listed in the ‘Sunday Times Best 100 Companies to work’ for in the UK. Adecco Norway reached rank 8 in the Great Place to Work® ‘large companies’ list of Norway. CSR Report 2010 58 Further awards received: Besides these ratings, Adecco Report parameters Group subsidiaries collected various awards for their socially responsible practice and achievements, such as: 3.5 Process for defining report content Apart from following all core and additional performance • In 2010, Adecco Group was recognised as one of the top indicators published in Version G3.1 of the GRI Guidelines, we three companies for its approach to talent management concentrate on areas which are relevant to our stakeholders in a study by the University of Innsbruck, Austria, which and material for our HR services business, as presented in focused on Germany, Austria and Switzerland, and with the charts on pages 16–18. We decided in 2010 to aggregate more than 60% of SMI, DAX and ATX listed companies and consolidate on a group level environmental reporting with participating. ‘myclimate’. • Adecco Argentina was awarded with the first prize by the French Argentinian Chamber of Commerce for the pro3.6–3.7 Boundaries of the report and specific limitations on gramme “Jardines de Cosecha”: an initiative together with the scope of the report the Chamber of Tobacco of Salta and Sesa Select prevent This CSR Report has been prepared following the G3.1 GRI and eliminate child labour in rural areas and to offer tools Guidelines. In line with the Adecco Group’s core business, that allow improvements in education, hygiene and a this report focuses mainly on social and economic perform­ healthy life for the children. ance indicators, however, environmental indicators are also • Adecco Foundation and Adecco Spain obtained in 2010 covered. Where possible, we provide information and data for a total of nine awards, such as the Good Business Practice the whole Adecco Group. Where necessary, we indicate how prize by the Andalusian Board for Equality and Social Welrepresentative our figures are. fare to merit Adecco’s efforts and successes in integrating disadvantaged people into the labour market. 3.8 Comparability from period to period • Adecco North America was selected as one of the 2010 There were no fundamental changes in our business that Top 50 Employers for Workers Over 50 by the American would significantly affect the comparability of the data with Association of Retired Persons (AARP), and awarded the our previous reports. Champions of Diversity Award by the New York Urban League – just to mention two out of many awards received. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calcu• Office Angels UK is one of only 84 organisations in the UK lations to have been awarded the top three-star rating in the Best Data for the report were collected from the Adecco Group’s companies accreditation scheme. Based on staff feedback, subsidiaries, and consolidated and checked at Group level. companies receive a Best Companies index score that Economic data have been copied from the audited Annual determines their star rating compared to a fixed standard. Report for 2009 and 2010. In the event of any divergence, the One star is first class, two stars are outstanding and three figures published in the Annual Report prevail. stars are extraordinary. This is the third year in a row that we have received this coveted award. CSR Report 2010 59 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatement of inforAdecco Group Compliance & Ethics reporting (ACE): mation All employees and associates, investors or other interested There were no developments within our business that would parties can report any allegations of fraud or violations of the require any restatement of information provided in our pre­ law, Company policy, procedure or ethical standards of convious Sustainability Reports. duct by the Adecco Group or any of its employees or agents directly to the Group Compliance Office either by calling or 3.11 Significant changes from previous years in the measwriting to the address provided in the Compliance & Ethics urement methods Reporting page on our website (www.adecco.com). Calls and Since we introduced this time a new and much more comwritten correspondence made to the Company or to its Board prehensive environmental reporting method (myclimate of Directors via the respective hotline numbers or address Performance Management System), there is only a limited will be received 24 hours a day, seven days a week, by a comparability of environmental data from this period to the third-party service provider on the Adecco Group’s behalf. In ones before. accordance with instructions issued by the Corporate Governance Committee and the Audit Committee of Adecco Group’s Apart from this, there are no significant changes from the preBoard of Directors, related to accounting, internal controls, vious years in the measurement methods used. We also allow auditing matters, corporate governance, safety, health or comparability with the previous year’s performance indicators environmental issues, or any other significant legal or ethical by providing that year’s figures, but based on the new measissues relating to the Adecco Group, will be dealt with by the urement method. Group Compliance Office. This, unless they are of trivial nature or otherwise not related to the aforementioned topics. Where deemed, appropriate, such reports will be forwarded directly to the intended member of the Board of Directors. Governance, commitments, and engagement 4.7 Process for determining the expertise required of Board members The Nomination and Compensation Committee assists the 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to proBoard of Directors in establishing principles for the selection of vide recommendations to the Board of Directors candidates for election or re-election to the Board of Directors, The shareholders’ rights are published in the Annual Report including candidates for committees of the Board of Directors, 2010, pages 199–201. Adecco S.A.’s Investor Relations Departand giving recommendations on compensation of the memment publishes its contact details and relevant publications, bers of the Board of Directors. such as quarterly, half-year and full-year results. There is also an opportunity to request information and make contact on 4.9 Procedures of the Board of Directors for overseeing the Investor Relations section of our website (www.adecco.com). management of sustainable performance These facilities allow all shareholders to approach Adecco S.A. The Corporate Governance Committee (CGC): The CGC’s priThe Group Communications Department stands as contact mary responsibility is to assist the Board of Directors in carpoint for all other stakeholders (see also 4.16, rying out its responsibilities as they relate to Corporate Govpage 64). ernance principles. The CGC is charged with developing and recommending appropriate Corporate Governance principles and independence rules to the Company, including principles and measures on Corporate Responsibility as well as reviewing and reassessing such principles and rules to ensure that they remain relevant and in line with legal and stock exchange requirements. Recommendations as to best practice are also reviewed to ensure compliance. CSR Report 2010 60 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary 4.13 Principal memberships in industry and business approach or principle is addressed associations The risk management process at the Adecco Group has strategic and organisational dimensions. Besides monitorPrincipal memberships and affiliations on corporate level: ing, analysing and mitigating risks, the aim is also to identify opportunities. This makes it obvious that the precautionary • Ciett and Eurociett The Adecco Group is a member of Ciett, approach (which indicates that lack of scientific certainty is no Eurociett and Ciett&LA, respectively the International, Euroreason to postpone action to handle potential risks) is inherent pean and Latin America Confederations of Private Employto Adecco Group’s risk and opportunities management. ment Agencies. Ciett is the authoritative voice representing the common interests of the agency work industry and 4.12 Externally developed, voluntary charters and sets of consists of 40 national federations from EU and EFTA and principles which the organisation endorses seven of the largest staffing companies worldwide: While upholding the human rights is primarily the responwww.ciett.org sibility of governments, Adecco promotes and supports the • ‘Business & Disability’ The Adecco Group is a founding Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as its preamble member of Business & Disability (founded in December emphasises “that every individual and every organ of society, 2004), a network of European companies striving to im(...) shall strive by teaching and education to promote respect prove access for disabled people to the labour market, the for these rights and freedoms and by progressive measures Internet and society at large: www.businessanddisability.org (...) to secure their universal and effective recognition“. (cf. pages 18, 41). • ENAR European Network Against Racism, the European Consequently, in November 2003, the Adecco Group became platform NGO federation of national NGOs against ethnic the first global HR company to participate in the United and religious discrimination, representative for the EuroNations Global Compact. pean Institutions: http://www.enar-eu.org/. • Carbon Disclosure Project CDP As respondent company In November 2008, UNI Global Union and Ciett Corporate to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Adecco discloses its Members, including the Adecco Group, signed a Memorangreenhouse gas emissions and climate change strategies dum of Understanding (MoA) to consolidate the industry in response to CDP’s information requests. This data is colglobal social dialogue to achieve fair conditions for the tem­ lected by CDP annually on behalf of institutional investors, porary agency work industry. purchasing organisations and government bodies. More info https://www.cdproject.net/en-US/Pages/HomePage. These two public endorsements are due to the fact that aspx. ­Adecco Group acknowledges adherence to: • WEF Industry Partner The Adecco Group is amongst the select member companies of the World Economic Forum • ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinathat are actively involved in the Forum’s mission at the tional Enterprises and Social Policy industry level. • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises • economiesuisse The Adecco Group is member of the Swiss • ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Business Federation, the largest umbrella organisation work representing the Swiss economy. The mission is to create an • UN Charter of Human Rights optimal economic environment for Swiss business. Principal memberships by country level: Usually, Adecco Group’s subsidiaries are members of the local chambers of commerce as well as of our industrial associ­ ations such as the national confederations of private employment agencies, etc. Additional, important memberships are listed below: CSR Report 2010 61 Adecco Australia • Australian Industry Group A non-profit association to assist Australian industry in ­becoming more competitive on a domestic and international level. • Asia Pacific Utilities Group (APUG) • CEO, CFO and HRD Forum • Personnel and Industrial Relations Group A subgroup of the Australian Industry Group nationally • Australian Institute of Banking and Finance • Institute of Company Directors. • Australian Institute of Management • Starlight Children’s Foundation (Supporting partner) Adecco Colombia • Global Compact Colombia. Adecco Denmark • Foreningen Nydansker An association for the integration of immigrants into the Danish labour market • Instituttet for Fremtidsforskning Copenhagen Institute for Futures Studies Adecco Group France • ENAR European Network Against Racism The European platform NGO federation of national NGOs against ethnic and religious discrimination, representative for the European institutions. • Association Française des Managers de la Diversité (AFMD) French Diversity Managers Association to promote diversity management to line managers, 80 members (Adecco Group France represented with the Vice President. • IMS Entreprendre A club of over 100 of France’s top companies committed to improving their impact on society (Adecco Group France, Adecco and Adia). • Observatoire de la Responsabilité Sociétale des Entreprises (ORSE) A French network designed to study and promote socially responsible investment (SRI), corporate social responsibility, as well as all the issues related to sustainable development (Adecco Group France). • The ‘Employment and Inclusion’ branches are members of the Conseil National des Entreprises d’Insertion A federation of enterprises working on labour integration for low-skilled and unemployed people (an indirect partnership) (Adecco Insertion, Idees Interim, Janus). • Club Etre A national network of enterprises for disabled people (Adecco Group France, Adecco and Adia). • Osons! Entreprises et Handicap A corporate club on disability inclusion in the workforce (Adecco Group France). • Club Handicap & Compétences A corporate action tank on disability inclusion initiatied by Adecco France’s Espace Emploi Handicap & Compétences (Adecco). • Forum français des amis du Global Compact The national point of contact of the Global Compact in France (Adecco and Adia) • FACE (Fondation Agir Contre les Exclusions) A network of enterprises, institutional actors and pressure groups, aiming to prevent and fight exclusion (Adecco and Adia). • Charte de la Diversité (Diversity Charter), a charter signed by enterprises to commit them to fighting discrimination at work and thus better reflect the diversity of the French population (Adecco and Adia). • Charte de la Parentalité A charter to promote parenthood at work (Adecco Group France). • Pas@Pas A web-designed portal to promote purchase management among sheltered ‘Employment and Inclusion’ companies (Adecco Group France). • Charte de l’apprentissage A charter signed by enterprises which aims to promote professional integration of young people, using a specific work contract between a firm and a student: the students spend half the time working for the firm and the other half learning at school (Adecco and Adia). • Le Réseau (Réseau National des Entreprises pour l’Egalité des Chances dans l’Education Nationale), a professional network to promote equality in Education (Adecco) CSR Report 2010 62 Adecco Germany • German Network of the United Nations Global Compact. • Zukunftsvertrag Zeitarbeit (‘Future contract for temporary employment’) is an initiative of the leading staffing companies in Germany. Its goal is to develop and implement innovative employment concepts. • BSW (Bundesverband Solarwirtschaft): the German Solarbusiness Association (BSW-Solar) represents the interests of 650 companies in the solar industry. The organisation acts as a consultant and intermediary between politics, business and consumers. • Hanse-Aerospace e.V., Hamburg, is Germany’s largest association of small and mediumsized aerospace companies. The members represent a wide spectrum, ranging from development companies, makers and maintenance companies, to aerospace-oriented service companies. Training schools, universities and universities of applied science complete the membership. A total of 14,000 staff – about 15% of all personnel employed in the German aviation and space industries – work for Hanse-Aerospace members. DIS AG Germany • Supporting Partner of brotZeit e.V. An association supporting children with difficult socioeconomic backgrounds • Zukunftsvertrag Zeitarbeit (‘Future contract for temporary employment’) is an initiative of the leading staffing companies in Germany. Its goal is to develop and implement innovative employment concepts. TUJA Germany • Supporting partner of roterkeil.net An association to fight sexual abuse of children. • Hanse-Aerospace e.V., Hamburg (see above under ‘Adecco Germany’). Adecco Italy • Global Compact Italian Network Member of the Steering Committee of the national GC network • HRCommunity Academy A network of HR managers and executives Adecco Netherlands • Port4Growth Platform for growing entrepreneurs • ABU The Dutch association of temporary work agencies • JINC A non-profit organisation which helps young people get in contact with businesses • Hogeschool Utrecht University of Applied Sciences One of the largest further education colleges in the Netherlands • NCD Dutch centre for executive and non-executive directors. • MVO Nederland A knowledge and network organisation which encourages companies to be socially responsible • NVP The Dutch Association for Personnel Management and Organisation Development • NIMA A marketing platform for professional marketers in the Netherlands • STOOF, which helps flextime workers to develop through education; via STOOF Adecco is also involved in the Lezen en Schrijven project of the Stichting Lezen & Schrijven foundation, which is campaigning to reduce illiteracy in the Netherlands. Ajilon Netherlands • The Nederlandse Biotechnologische Vereniging (Dutch Biotechnological Union); a Union for professionals who work in the Life Sciences. • SDO Stichting Deeltijd Opleidingen. • And many further educational organisations. Adecco Norway • Global Compact Nordic Network Adecco Poland • Polish HR Forum Initiative of leading companies from the employment agencies sector, operating to promote highest ethical standards, develop the employment agencies sector in Poland, and influence trade unions, authorities and government administrative bodies. Adecco Spain & Adecco Foundation • Sustainability in Excellence Club An organisation that works for effectiveness within the framework of social sustainability. • Foundation Seres Foundation for Society and Responsible Companies • Foro Soria A non-profit organisation for sustainable development. • UN Global Compact Spain • Foundation More Family (‘Fundación Más familia’). Conciliation between family and employment. • Fundación Compromiso Empresarial Foro Iberoamericano. International forum for foundations. • CSR Commission of CEOE CSR Commission of Spanish Companies Confederation Adecco Switzerland • Avenir Suisse An independent think tank for economic and social issues. CSR Report 2010 63 Office Angels UK • Employers’ Forum on Disability An employers’ organisation focused on the issue of disability in the workplace. • Race for Opportunity Committed to improving employment opportunities for ethnic minorities across the UK. It is the only race diversity campaign that has access to and influence over the leaders of the UK’s best-known organisations. • opportunitynow An organisation for employers who are committed to creating an inclusive workplace for women. Opportunity Now empowers employers to accelerate change for women in the workplace because it makes good business sense. • Employers’ Forum on Belief An independent employers’ network developed by employers themselves to share good practice on religion, belief and non-belief in order to make the most of their diverse workforce. • Employers’ Forum on Age An independent network of companies who recognise the need to attract and retain valuable employees whatever their age • Stonewall’s Diversity Champions programme, Britain’s good practice forum in which employers can work with Stonewall, and each other on sexual orientation issues. Adecco USA • National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC). • Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC). • National Business Disability Council (NBDC). • Challenged Athletes Foundation (CAF). • Wounded Warrior Project (WWP). • Abilities, Inc. • ‘Welcome Back Warriors’ Stakeholder engagement The Investor Relations & Communications Departments maintain contact with investors, analysts and the media 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder consultation through the quarterly presentations and webcasts of the • Global Satisfaction Survey (GSS), see pages 16 and 28. quarterly results, company-specific scheduled days as well as • Internationally centralised employees survey: roadshows, interviews and participation at investor conferThe Great Place to Work® Trust Index, see pages 16 and 29. ences. It maintains the corporate investor information website with a broad range of investmentand governance-relevant The Group Communications Department stands as a point of information. contact for stakeholders, including the press, our employees, candidates and associates, work councils, unions and the ILO, Society at large is very much affected by the dynamics and companies, governments, NGOs and society at large, mainly the development of the labour market, which at the same time informing them through the Annual Report, the Sustainability is the Adecco Group’s field of business. The Group therefore Report, regular press releases (available on www.adecco.com), considers society at large as a very important stakeholder e-mails, and the AGM and other events. group for dialogue, and aims to contribute to a positive development of the labour market through our corporate research General stakeholder consultation is mostly handled by the engagements. These include the Adecco Institute, the Adecco business units at country level. Such consultations address Professorship in Business and Society at the London Business mainly our candidates and associates, clients and employSchool, our research fellowship at Warwick University UK, ees be it through self-completion questionnaires or interviews and the Adecco Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) Labour (mostly for associates and employees), or regular feedback Market Research Initiative in India. Similar initiatives at country processes (mostly concerning clients). level include the Adecco Swiss Job Market Index at the University of Zurich and the monthly Adecco Job Creation Index in UK. CSR Report 2010 64 Economic indicators EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government EC1 Economic key data The Adecco Group does not receive any material financial Overall economic key data, see pages 3–4; and AR 94–101. subsidies from governments. However, some of our societal activities, at a local level, are subsidised. These include labour Investments in philanthropic activities: integration projects and joint programmes with governmental Purpose Donations in 2010 Reference organisations. These subsidies obviously do not assist us in our ordinary business, but help, to a certain degree, to remuAdecco Foundation France EUR 305,000 page 44 nerate our efforts to support governments in helping disadAdecco Foundation Italy EUR 500,000 page 44 vantaged and unemployed people get into the labour market. Adecco Foundation Spain EUR 520,700 page 44 Win4Youth EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage Helping Young People Succeed EUR 163,000 page 51 compared to local minimum wage Adecco Group is a decentralised, global enterprise, with some EC2 Financial implications of climate change 5,500 branches in more than 60 countries, managing over The efforts to address climate change represent business op700,000 employees at any given time in all professions and portunities for us: business sectors. We have decided not to report in relation to this GRI economic performance indicator, but may do so at a Due to climate change and recent developments, sustainable later date. energy has become an important topic also in terms of the creation of new job profiles. Through renewable energy from EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally alternative sources such as wind energy, solar energy and based suppliers at significant locations of operation biomass, green technology new profiles are emerging. The procurement of goods, materials and services is not usually directly related to our products and services. It would take In accordance to a survey conducted in our largest market, remarkable efforts to consolidate and document here our supFrance, between 300,000 to 600,000 jobs will be created ply expenditure, and the respective policies and practices. between 2015 and 2020 in the following sectors: construction, renewable energy and water, sanitation, waste management. Regarding suppliers as recruitment subcontractors, Adecco – Profiles requested by companies are skilled or very skilled USA runs a Supplier Diversity initiative, designed to provide profiles (Roofer Photovoltaics). opportunities for qualified minority-/women-owned businesses to participate in staffing procurement activities, and to In Germany, for many years we have been delivering RE­ forge relationships that are critical to their success. We curPOWER Systems service technicians for onshore windmills. rently work with approximately 234 (2008: 190) diverse suppliNow, our client is in need for offshore technicians for builders in the USA and, in 2010, 10% (2008: 13%) of the business ing and servicing the first and coming wind parks. As these Adecco did with secondary suppliers was conducted with qualifications are rare and not likely to be found on the open minority-/women-owned businesses. market, we offered a “search and train” approach. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community The exact procedures for local hiring depend on the local subsidiaries and applicable conditions. Generally, the workforces, managements and senior managements of our subsidiaries are hired from the respective countries. CSR Report 2010 65 EC8 Development and impact of services provided primarily for public benefit S = Engagement in our focus area ‘Skills’ The following table provides an overview of partnerships and I = Engagement in our focus area ‘Integration’ joint programmes at country level for public benefit: Partner organisation(s) Short description of project or programme Adecco Group European Network Against Racism (ENAR) I Expert Group on Employment with multi stakeholders: European institutions, NGOs, National Authorities Against Discrimination, Trade Unions and corporations (Adecco Group, IBM, L’Oréal, Sodexo) ILO Business & Disability network I Dialogue Group on disability inclusion within corporations, initiS ated at EU level by Adecco and partner companies in 2004 and included in 2010 in a worldwide ILO initiative European Association of Service Providers for People I Partnerships on European programmes mainly targeting at emwith D­ isabilities (EASPD) S powering sheltered employment workers and actors towards the private and public employment. Programmes Hop Skip Jump, Conversion and Pass it on • International Olympic Committee I Training and labour integration of elite athletes • International Paralympic Committee Training and labour integration of elite athletes Adecco Belgium • Network For Training Entrepreneurship NFTE Belgium I Adecco is ‘Golden Partner’ of NFTE. Teaching entrepreneurship to S low-income youth, helping them to become economically productive members of society. • Close The Gap, an international not-for-profit organiS Assisting with IT equipment supplies sation to assist in improving local knowledge and putting local t­alent to use by offering cost-efficient IT solutions to projects in developing countries Adecco Bulgaria • Ministry of labor and social policy S Operative programme development of the human capital ‘I can’ – providing trainings and development courses Adecco Canada • CARP, Canada’s Association for Retired I • Integration programme ensuring needs and expectatinos of Professionals mature workforce (50+) is met. • Miziwe Biik, Aboriginal Employment Training S • Training and employments initiatives for the Aboriginal community • Seneca College, leading college and educational S • Job placement and training with Xpert® for students institution. • Skills for Change (SfC), Canadian non-profit agency. S • Learning and training opportunities for immigrants and refugees • Canadian Immigration Integration Project (CIIP). I • Labour integration for skilled immigrants through effective preparation in their country of origin Adecco Denmark • IFF, Institute for Future Studies S Seminars on the future role of the labour market Adecco Group France, Adecco • European Network Against Racism (ENAR) I (see above under Adecco Group) • ILO Business & Disability network I (see above under Adecco Group) S • European Association of Service Providers for People I (see above under Adecco Group) with Disabilities (EASPD) S CSR Report 2010 66 Partner organisation(s) Short description of project or programme • Agefiph, Association for Disabled Workers’ IntegraI Labour integration programme for handicapped and ­unemployed tion people • Direction for Integration & Citizenship (Ministry of I Programmes against illetteracy for single women extended Internal A­ ffairs) and National Agency for Social S to migrants and other beneficiaries Cohesion and Equality • Réseau Adecco Insertion (Adecco’s subsidiary for I Labour integration programme for low-skilled, unemployed people integration through temporary work, in partnership S with Groupe Idees) • Pôle emploi (French national public job centre) I Labour programme for long-term unemployed people Adia France • Ministry for Work and Social Affairs I “Projet Jeunes Destination Emploi”: Integration into Adia’s clients’ • Conseil National des Missions Locales (CNML, a S workforce of young unemployed people from depressed areas national office specifically for young unemployed people with social difficulties): national agreement • Pole emploi (French national public job centre) • JANUS, the temporary work subsidiary of “Vitamine I Labour integration programme for long-term unemployed people T”, an enterprise helping people in difficulty find S employment • Pôle emploi (French national public job centre) • Ministry of Women’s Rights and Gender Equality I Labour integration programme for long-term unemployed people • Ministry of Women’s Rights and Gender Equality I Labour programme for professional equality between women and S men (including promotion of better access of women to specific jobs traditionally seen as ‘jobs only for men’, e.g. in the construction sector) • Agefiph, Association for Disabled Workers’ IntegraI “Projet Jeunes Destination Emploi”: Integration into Adia’s clients’ tion S workforce of young unemployed people from ­depressed areas Adecco Italy and Adecco Foundation • Associazione Italiana Persone Down I Labour integration programmes for • Associazione Talassemici S • People with disabilities • Associazione Regionale Siciliana per la Lotta Contro • Long-term unemployed La Fibrosi Cistica • People over 40 • Lega Italiana Fibrosi Cistica Onlus • Single mothers • Associazione Diabetici • Athletes • Associazione Genitori Persone con Sindrome Di Down • CE.I.S. di Venezia Mestre “Don Lorenzo Milani” • CFPP onlus Casa di Carità Arti e Mestieri Torino • Ministry of equal opprotunities • About 25 public regional and local employment agencies throughout the country (such as in communities and regions of Bergamo, Brescia, Lombardia, Milano, Piemonte, Puglia, Ragusa, Torino, Veneto, Venezia, Vicenza, etc.) • University of Milano I • Research and publications on labour market developments, in • University of Trieste particular concerning vulnerable groups • University of Torino • Preparing students for labour market entry • University of Roma Adecco Netherlands • JINC (business financed association to support S Adecco organises practical interview courses at high schools in ­literacy of young people with difficult socio-economAmsterdam-West for underprivileged youth. Each year about ic backgrounds) 1,000 students attend a course • STOOF Foundation I Adecco participates with STOOF in projects that stimulate the labour market participation of young people and unemployed people. CSR Report 2010 67 Partner organisation(s) Short description of project or programme • Foundation “Lezen en Schrijven” I Adecco is involved in the Lezen en Schrijven project of the Stichting S Lezen & Schrijven foundation, which is campaigning to reduce illiteracy in the Netherlands • Project Frisse Start I Adecco is involved in a sports project for unemployed people to help them reintegrate in the labour market. Adecco Norway • Norwegian Association for Deaf People I Pilot project to help deaf people find employment Adecco Poland • Autocreation Foundation I Labour integration & training programmes for: S • foreigners in Poland • people over 50 • European Management Assistants in Poland S Advisory & training project to help office workers (assistants, secretaries, receptionists) find employment • TEB Education S Advisory & training project for high-school graduates • State College of Shorthand and Foreign Languages I Labour integration programme for college graduates • Amnesty International in Poland Pro bono recruitment services Adecco Spain and Adecco Foundation • Ministry for Work and Social Affairs I Labour integration programmes for • Consejería de Economía, Hacienda y Empleo de la S • (Long-term) unemployed people ­Comunidad de Valencia • disabled people • Consejería de Gobernación de la Junta de Andalucía. • People over 45 years • Public Employee Services of: Madrid, Andalucía, • Single mothers Valencia, Catalunya, Canarias, Aragon, País Vasco, • Athletes and ex-athletes Murcia • European Social Fund • City Council of Madrid • Ayuntamiento de San Cristóbal de La Laguna Área de S­ervicios Sociales y Organismo Autónomo de Deportes • Servicio Navarro de Empleo • Consellería de Justicia y Administraciones Públicas de la Generalitat Valenciana • Fundación Pro-esport de la Comunitat Valenciana • Servicio Andaluz de Empleo • Consejería de Comercio, Turismo y Deporte de la Junta de Andalucía • Consell de Mallorca Institut Mallorquí d’Afers Socials • Diputación Foral de Guipuzkoa (Fundación Kirolgi) • Instituto Aragonés de Empleo • Xunta de Galicia • Comite Olímpico Español • ILO, International Labour Organisation I Collaboration in PREJAL (Promócion del Empleo Juvenil en América S Latina), an ILO project promoting employment for young disadvantaged people from Latin America • ‘También’ Foundation I Labour integration programmes for people with disabilities • ‘Deporte y Desafio’ Foundation • ‘La Caixa’ Foundation • Down’s Syndrome Foundation • 120 further local foundations and associations • FEFN, Spanish Federation of Large Families S Online training for the mothers of large families • Foundation More+ Family, for conciliation between Workshops and research reports in conciliation issues family and job • University of Lérida I Development of software to better accommodate the needs of • University of Castilla La Mancha people with disabilities at the workplace • Polytechnic University of Madrid CSR Report 2010 68 Partner organisation(s) Short description of project or programme • Sustainability in Excellence Club I Studies and guides for implementation of corporate responsibility S policies in companies • Universities of Barcelona, Cádiz, Huelva, Sevilla, I Programmes to improve the employability of students with disInternacional de Catalunya Miguel Hernández de S abilities Elche • Gresol Foundation, a recognised platform for anaAdecco Foundation rewards the category ”social commitments“ of lysing and exchanging socio-economic opinions Gaudí Gresol awards to recognise companies in Catalunya • European Commission DG Employment, Social AfPartnership on the European Day of People With Disabilities, 2010 fairs and Equal Opportunities • UN Global Compact Association Spain Collaboration in CSR issues, including annual Communication on Progress Adecco Switzerland • ORIF – Intégration et formation professionelle I Collaboration in the French part of Switzerland, in 30 Adecco branches. The collaboration aims at the integration of people finding themselves in a disadvantaged situation (eg. accident, handicap, illness) in the first labour market. • University of Zurich, Institute of Sociology Issuing and publishing the quarterly Adecco Swiss Job Market Index ASJMI, www.stellenmarktmonitor.ch • University of Zurich Adecco is main sponsor of their annual HR-Barometer study • Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich Badenock & Clark UK • Disability Symbol Positive about disabled people I Support for disabled people looking for jobs by connecting them with companies experienced in hiring, retaining and developing the abilities of disabled staff. Adecco UK • Paralympics GB I Support this charity through career development programmes and S fundraising initiatives. • Great Ormond Street Hospital A variety of local fund-raising initiatives, such as sporting events, • Help for Heroes pub quizzes, coffee mornings, bake-offs, and monthly dress-down days Adecco USA • Army Spouse Employment Partnership I Military Spouse Programme: ‘Career Connections’, helping military spouses find meaningful work opportunities • US Army Reserve I Army Reserve Employer Partnership: an initiative to recruit, train and put skilled Reservists to work while on inactive duty with the Army • NBDC – National Business and Disability Council I Enhancing the workplace for disabled workers • Abilities, Inc. • Just One Break, Inc. • ACLD – Adults and Children with Learning Disabilities • Women for Hire, a company devoted to a compreI Participating in career fairs for women. This partnership has hensive array of recruitment services for women ­afforded Adecco to reach thousands of talented, diverse women • About 50 further partner organisations I Labour integration support for S • African American and other minority professionals • professionals from the Emerging Markets • mature Workforce Professionals • disabled individuals • political refugees • women and other minority professionals • veterans and individuals with disabilities • latin professionals • Asian American Professionals CSR Report 2010 69 A chronological-historical overview of the development and impact of our activities, provided primarily for public benefit, is presented on pages 15–16 of our Corporate Responsibility Report 2008. Environmental indicators As of the reporting year 2010, we have implemented an emission calculator with ‘myclimate’ to centrally collect and evaluate our CO2 footprint. This year’s results will serve as basis for defining reduction targets going forward. As we introduced our new and comprehensive environmental data reporting method with the ‘myclimate’ emission calculator in 2010, there is only a limited comparability of environmental data with previous years. Therefore, we do not integrate the data from recent periods in the tables below. EN1 Materials used by weight or volume The main materials we use for our office-based business are common office supply materials. Total consumption 2010 Data basis extrapolated to Group level (% of Group FTEs) (100% FTEs) Materials Paper (office supply, does not include printed matters) 18,080 metric tonnes 11.5% Toner (modelled from paper consumption) 181 kg 11.5% EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Energy source Electricity (from national grids) 137,437,090 kWh 24.9% Natural gas (unknown) Heating oil (unknown) Fuel/diesel (business cars) (unknown) EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Withdrawal by source Water (from public water supply) 9,924,287 m3 6.7% CSR Report 2010 70 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions The table below gives an overview of some of our scope 1 and 2 emissions, based on the ‘The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard’. More details on the methodology are provided in our Carbon Disclosure Project response 2011, which is available at www.cdproject.net Emissions 2010 Coverage Data basis metric tonnes CO2-e extrapolated to Group level (% of Group FTEs) Source Scope (CO2-equivalent) (% FTEs) Own business cars 1 (direct) 85,683 100% 14.5% Electricity 2 (indirect) 64,651 78%* 24.9% EN17 Total other indirect greenhouse gas emissions The table below gives an overview of some of our scope 3 emissions, based on the ‘The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard’. More details on the methodology are provided in our Carbon Disclosure Project response 2011, which is available at www.cdproject.net Emissions 2010 Coverage Data basis metric tonnes CO2-e extrapolated to Group level (% of Group FTEs) Source Scope (CO2-equivalent) (% FTEs) Electricity 3 (indirect) 24.678 78%* 24.9% Own business cars 3 (indirect) 46,631 100% 14.5% Rental cars 3 (indirect) 1,956 100% 22.1% Air travel 3 (indirect) 6,407 100% 72.0%** Paper 3 (indirect) 23.815 100% 11.5% Toner 3 (indirect) 7.574 100% 11.5% New lap/desktops 3 (indirect) 15.895 100% 100% * For 10 of Adecco’s major markets (representing 80% of our FTE), we measured the ** Data basis relating to total staff of all HQs Group-wide. More adequate, since air electricity consumption in some sites (representing 25% of our FTE) and then travelling mainly occurs amongst HQ staff. extrapolated within each country to 100%. As the CO2-emission factors for electricity vary very much from country to country, we did not extrapolate into other countries. Therefore, our total gross global scope 2 figure represents only 80% of our total business, respectively comprises level of uncertainty of more than 30%. CSR Report 2010 71 Labour practices In November 2008, UNI Global Union and Ciett Corporate LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Members, including the Adecco Group, signed a Memoprovided to temporary or part-time employees randum of Understanding (MoU) to create a partnership Legally mandated benefits (such as contributions to health and global social dialogue to achieve fair conditions for the care, disability, maternity, education, holidays and retirement) temporary agency work industry and the 9 million temporary vary from country to country, as do the additional benefits the agency workers on assignment daily around the world. The Adecco Group provides. agreement is global in scope with mutual commitments to – amongst others – respect the freedom of association and the Additional benefits for employees usually depend on position right to collective bargaining as guaranteed by the Internaand number of years served, while additional benefits for astional Labour Organ sociates are offered in the context of attraction and retention isation ILO. programmes. Most of the larger subsidiaries run such programmes, offering several kinds of additional benefits, includFurther documents were signed between Eurociett and UNIing free or discounted access to further training, discount Europa (the European level), as ‘Joint declarations’: vouchers for shopping and travelling, and extra holidays. Eligibility usually depends on the number of hours worked. • Eurociett/UNI-Europa: Joint Declaration on the Sectoral Social Dialogue on Agency Work, signed in 2000 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective • Eurociett/Uni-Europa Joint Declaration within the framework ­bargaining agreements of the ‘Flexicurity debate’ as launched and defined by the In the Temporary Agency Work (TAW) Industry, multitude of EU Commission, signed in 2007 Collective Bargaining Agreements (CLAs) stipulate the frame• Eurociett/UNI-Europa Joint Declaration on the Directive on work relationship and functioning of workers and companies working conditions for temporary agency workers, signed rights and responsibilities. Globally, if at all, there are great in 2008 differences in the coverage of employees by CLAs, depending • Eurociett/UNI-Europa Joint Declaration on Training for Temon national legislation. The countries with the highest percentporary Agency Workers: Joint actions developed by sectoral age of employees covered by CLAs are countries with mature social partners play a key role in facilitating skills upgradlabour legislation, mostly on the European continent. But even ing, signed in 2009 in Europe, there are big differences, summarised in 3 different types of CLAs: Company CLAs (signed between user comLA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational panies and their staff), TAW Industry CLAs (signed between ­changes Agency Work National Associations and Industry Trade UnTo date, the Adecco Group does not, at a corporate level, ions) and Employer Association CLAs signed on behalf of the gather data for this core indicator. Generally, our workforces TAW Industry with Global Trade Unions. Due to the number of are informed about operational changes at the first opportucountries (and national labour legislation frameworks) Adecco nity. In several countries, the Adecco Group employees receive operates in and the variety of CLAs (with variations according information on operational changes through their representato Country, Industry, Sector and Customer) it has engaged in, tives on the national works councils or enterprise committees, the Adecco Group has no record of the percentage of employwith notice periods varying according to the agreement at ees covered by CLAs. national level. In line with EU regulation, the Adecco Group has since 1999 been following the minimum notice period regarding operational changes stipulated in the PACE (platform for Adecco Communication in Europe) Agreement. With the change of the EU regulation underway under the ‘Recast Directive’, Adecco is in the process of setting up the new ‘Adecco European Works Council’ Agreement that will regulate the minimum notice period regarding operational changes from 2011 on. CSR Report 2010 72 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee, joint management-worker health and safety committees by employee category Adecco Group does not run a formal joint management-workTraining for employees and associates is a top priority for the er health and safety committee. At corporate and national Adecco Group. A precise Group-wide method for counting level, issues of health and safety are (formally and informally) training hours has not yet been developed. The time invested in the focus of Adecco and measures are being taken to in training is mainly for formal internal and external training guarantee standards are being upheld (see also paragraph courses, individual online training at work and at home, and “Preventing accidents and diseases”, page 32 ). Due to the GRI informal training on the job. Some figures on training are number of Countries Adecco operates in (60) and the variety provided on pages 48 and 49. of regulation set-ups regarding the handling of health and safety issues (in many countries not being handled formally LA13 Composition of governance bodies by joint management-worker committees), Adecco Group Details on the composition of the Board of Directors and the but has no record of the percentage of total workforce repreExecutive Committee are provided in the 2010 Annual Report, sented in formal joint management-worker health and safety pages 186–189 and 195–198. committees. Nr. of Governance bodies 2010 Male Female nationalities LA8 Programmes in place regarding serious diseases There are appropriate measures in place to meet work-re Board of Directors (total 9 members) 7 2 6 lated needs for training and prevention – e.g. for associates Executive Committee in the health care professions – depending on local conditions (total 12 members) 12 0 7 and requirements. Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programmes to assist other people or community members regarding serious diseases LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee are usually a governmental responsibility. In countries where category this is not the case, Adecco Group has little or no presence, Adecco Group is providing equal employment opportunities to and no means to take on this additional role. all employees and applicants for employment, regardless of gender or any other personal characteristic protected by law. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements This of course also includes compensating colleagues and aswith trade unions sociates fairly for their work, regardless of their gender. Adecco Group does not have signed a formal agreement covering health and safety topics with any trade union. At LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental corporate and national level, issues of health and safety are leave, by gender (formally and informally) in the focus of Adecco and measures This is a new GRI indicator (released in March 2011). For the are being taken to guarantee standards are being upheld. time being, we can report against this indicator for the Adecco Due to the number of Countries (60) Adecco operates in and Group Headquarter and Adecco Switzerland 2009/2010: the variety of regulation set-ups and the wide range of agreements with trade unions regarding the handling of health and 100% return to work after parental leave of female employsafety issues (in many countries, there are no agreements ees. There were no parental leaves of male employees in with trade unions on any topics), Adecco Group but has no re2009/2010 cord of the health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. CSR Report 2010 73 Human rights HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken HR1 Significant investment agreements In 2001, the ‘Parquet’, the State Office of Public Prosecution that include human rights in Brussels, started enquiring at the Head Office of Adecco in Our Code of Conduct, which covers aspects of Brussels and at two of its branches in the Brussel’s area upon human rights, is applicable to our whole business and all our an anonymous testimony of discrimination placed with the subsidiaries. NGO “SOS-Racisme”. On September 2, 2009, this case had reached prescription HR2 Screening of suppliers on human rights (legal expiration). Therefore the appeals was dismissed in apThe Group does not yet have social performance criteria, plication to the procedural law. including human rights performance, as part of its suppliers’ On September 1, 2009, SOS Racism and FGTB (Fédération evaluation processes. Générale du Travail de Belgique) – both parties in the criminal procedure – have initiated a separate and new civil procedure Initiated in 2010 and implemented in 2011, the Global Procurebefore the civil judge requesting the following indemnities ment department is progressively rolling out new guidelines for the alleged damages: EUR 25,000 to SOS Racisme and a related to CSR, which our top 15 countries will implement. symbolic fine of EUR 1 to FGTB for racist practices in employment by using the ‘Belgian only’ (Blanc, Bleu, Belge) wording. These guidelines cover human rights (compliance with UN The court hearing and pleadings took place on February 10, Global Compact principles), environment (effort to at least 2011. The judgment was announced on May 31, 2011 by the measure the carbon footprint induced by using a given prodCivil Court, finding Adecco Belgium to be guilty of discriminauct or service). Further initiatives are currently being assessed tory hiring practice in some of its branches. The company to mutualise efforts at global level (e.g. Guidelines on Prowas condemned to a fine of EUR 25,000 and EUR 1. Adecco curement’s position on sustainability, sustainable procurement has taken notice of the decision. Adecco has not committed action plan, active participation to the Group’s international any wrong-doings and has therefore appealed against the Corporate Social Responsibility community). decision. HR3 Employee training on policies and procedures, HR5–HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for concerning aspects of human rights incidents of denial of freedom of association and collective All our internal colleagues must do an online training course bargaining (HR5), child labour (HR6), and forced or compulon our Code of Conduct, and on business ethics. See page 30. sory labour (HR7) – and measures taken In most countries and territories where the Adecco Group operates, human rights are generally accepted and respected in both national law and general business practices. However, a few subsidiaries are operating in some so-called ‘countries of concern’: The current list of 43 ‘countries of concern’ by EIRIS is based on the Freedom House list (see www.freedomhouse.org), amended in light of further information, including the annual reports from Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International. This list (FTSE4Good inclusion criteria, p. 5) contains three countries where the Adecco Group operates: China, Colombia and Russia. The subsidiaries in these countries represent about 0.77% of the Adecco Group’s employees and associates. See also pages 39 and 46 regarding the issue of child labour. CSR Report 2010 74 Society SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local comThe Adecco Group reached a settlement with the French Community engagement, impact assessments, and developpetition Council (Conseil de la Concurrence) to close the proment programmes ceedings regarding restrictive competition practices. The case More than 90%* of our operations run local community engoes back to 2004, when the authorities started investigating gagement programmes, usually public-private partnerships the Adecco Group France and certain of its competitors. on labour integration. See overview of selected operations and programmes under EC8. * Reference basis: total Adecco Group revenues. The country operations, which run such programmes, represent more than 90% of total Group revenues. Product responsibility SO2 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of The company’s internal auditors seek to proactively identify services are assessed for improvement risks and evaluate controls, encompassing all business units. Both our staffing process with our clients and our job placeFraud is always a consideration when conducting the annual ment processes with our candidates/associates foresee risk assessments or when reviewing control procedures each specific health and safety measures and assessments as year. The risk area related to corruption is included as part of described on pages 31–33. any fraud analysis. PR3–PR4 Required product and service information SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption The essential product and service information in context of The Group is committed to complying with all anti-corruption HR services is set forth in the respective recruitment, staffing, laws to ensure that our global business operations are carplacement and employment agreements. These comply with ried out lawfully and honestly, and are free of the influence the respective local laws and regulations. of corruption. Adecco Group’s employees are advised that a To date, Adecco Group is not aware of any significant inreport must be made if they know of, suspect, or think there cidents of non-compliance concerning our HR services is the potential for, a violation of the law, including incidents information. of corruption. To date, we are not aware of any incidents of corruption. PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public We are not aware of any substantial breaches of clients’ policy development and lobbying privacy or losses of our associates’ and/or candidates’ data in We count governments among our most important stake2009/2010. holders. To this end, we are a member of Ciett and Eurociett, the Confederations of Private Employment Agencies, and an authoritative voice representing the interests of agency work businesses. SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions Our Code of Conduct does not allow us to make any such contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions (see above SO5), and we are not aware of any such contribution made. CSR Report 2010 75 GRI content index UN Global Compact Communication on Progress index Content indices UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (CoP) The various case studies featured in this report give an insight into our activities in line with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. For more details on our progress in relation to the UNGC principles, please refer to the GRI content index on next pages. GRI application level This publication reports the sustainability status and perform­ ance of the Adecco Group. It is based on the G3.1 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. This report achieves GRI application level B – checked and confirmed by the GRI – as illustrated in the GRI applications level grid below. For detailed examples of the Adecco Group’s CSR at country level, please refer to the respective websites (links provided on www.adecco.com), and in to the social and sustainability reporting of our subsidiaries. Application level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report on: Report on all criteria Same as requirement G3 Profile 1.1 listed for Level C plus: for Level B ­Disclosures 2.1–2.10 1.2 3.1–3.8; 3.10–3.12 3.9; 3.13 4.1–4.4; 4.14–4.15 4.5–4.13; 4.16–4.17 Not required Management Approach Management Approach G3 Management Disclosures for each Disclosed for each Approach Indicator Category Indicator Category ­Disclosures Report on a minimum Report on a minimum Respond on each core G3 Performance of 10 Performance of 20 Performance G3 and Sector SuppleIndicators & Sector ­Supplement ­ Indicators, including at Indicators, at least one ment* Indicator with due Performance least one from each of: from each of: Economic, regard to the Materiality ­Indicators Economic, Social, and En­vironmental, Human Principle by either: Environmental. Rights, Labour, Society, a) reporting on the Product Responsibility. Indicator or b) explaining the reason for its omission. * Sector supplement in final version CSR Report 2010 76 Legend EC GRI core indicator Reported EC GRI additional indicator Partly reported 12 Reference to page number in this Report Not reported, see reference AR 12 Reference to page number in Adecco Annual Report 2010; ­provided for reason of omission with direct link to online version www Link to www.adecco.com > corporate responsibility > our approach Code UNGC Description Reference Principles or short answer Strategy and analysis 1.1 1–10 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 12–13 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Key impacts: 14–15; risks and opportunties: AR 51–53 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the reporting organisation Adecco S.A. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 5; AR 17–18; AR 54 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation AR 18; AR 92 (>point 1.2) 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Glattbrugg, Switzerland 2.5 Number and names of countries in which the Adecco Group operates 60 countries; AR 176 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 178 2.7 Markets served, including geographic breakdown, sectors served and AR 27–30; AR 39–46 types of customers 2.8 Scale of the Adecco Group 3–4; AR 94–101 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 58 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 21–22; 58–59 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Calendar year 2010 3.2 Date of most recent previous report CSR Communication on Progress 2009, published in July 2010 3.3 Reporting cycle Annually 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding this report 90 3.5 Process for defining report content 16–18 (charts); 59 3.6 Boundary of the report 59 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 59 3.8 Comparability from period to period 59 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations 59 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatement of information 60 3.11 Significant changes from previous years in the measurement methods 60 3.12 GRI content index 77–81 3.13 Current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for this report This report has not been assured by external auditors, but the Annual Report: AR 174–175 CSR Report 2010 77 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer Governance, commitments, and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including major committees AR 186–198; CSR Management: 89–90 4.2 Executive functions of the Chairman of the Board The Chairman has no executive functions 4.3 Board members: number, gender, independence, (non-)executive functions AR 186–189 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations 60; 64; AR 199–201 to the Board of Directors 4.5 Elements of the compensation programme 2010 for the Executive Committee AR 205–207; AR 210–214 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts AR 190 (point 3.5) of interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise 60 (cf. AR 193 (point 3.5.3) of Board members 4.8 Internally developed charters and principles relevant to sustainable Values and Leadership Princi­performance ples: 27-28 Code of Conduct: 30 4.9 Procedures of the Board of Directors for overseeing management of 60; AR 194 (point 3.7) ­sustainable performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board of Directors’ own performance AR 204-205 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle 61 is addressed 4.12 Externally developed, voluntary charters and sets of 38–39; 61 principles which the organisation endorses 4.13 Principal memberships in industry and business associations 61–64 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 15–16 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 14–15 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder consultation 28–29; 64 4.17 Key topics and concerns Stakeholders: 16 ISO 26000: 17 AR 27–30 Economic Performance Indicators DMA EC Disclosure on management approach EC AR 17–20 EC1 Economic key data (see also 2.8) 3–4; AR 94–101 – Investments in philanthropic activities 65 EC2 7 Financial implications of climate change 65 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligation AR 139–143 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 65 EC5 1 Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage compared to local minimum Reason for omission: 65 wage EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers 65 EC7 6 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from 65 the local community EC8 Development and impact of services provided primarily for public benefit 40–46; 66–69 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts 18 CSR Report 2010 78 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer Environmental Performance Indicators (continued) DMA EN Disclosure on management approach EN: 35; environm. policy: www EN1 8–9 Materials used by weight or volume 70 EN2 8–9 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Percentages not known EN3 8–9 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 70 EN4 8–9 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Not known EN5 8–9 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Not known EN6 8–9 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products 37: Work opportunities and services related to green energy EN7 8–9 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 36-37 EN8 8–9 Total water withdrawal by source 70 EN9 8–9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Adecco Group runs an EN10 8–9 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and re-used office-based business; its operations do not therefore EN11 8–9 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, have a significant impact protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected on any water sources, proareas tected areas, habitats and EN12 8–9 Significant impacts on biodiversity in protected areas biodiversity. EN13 8–9 Habitats protected or restored EN14 8–9 Strategies, actions and plans for managing impacts on biodiversity EN15 8–9 Conservation list species affected by operations EN16 8–9 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 71 EN17 8–9 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 71 EN18 7–9 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 35–37 EN19 8–9 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Not relevant EN20 8–9 NOx , SOx , and other significant air emissions by type and weight Not relevant EN21 8–9 Total water discharge by quality and destination Not relevant EN22 8–9 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Not relevant EN23 8–9 Total number and volume of significant spills Not relevant EN24 8–9 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed Adecco Group does not hazardous transport, import, export EN25 8–9 Water bodies significantly affected by discharges of water or treat any waste, and therefore no waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII. EN26 7–9 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts 35–37 EN27 8–9 Percentage of products sold that have their packaging materials reclaimed Not relevant EN28 8–9 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental regulations Adecco Group is not aware of any incidents of or fines for non-compliance with any applicable international declaration, or national or local regulations associated with environmental issues. EN29 8–9 Significant environmental impacts of transportation See EN24 and EN25 EN30 7–9 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Adecco Group currently does not have any specific environmental protection budgets. CSR Report 2010 79 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer Social Performance Indicators: Labour Practices DMA LA Disclosure on management approach LA: overview 18 (chart); AR 59–62) • DMA on Health & safety 31–33 • DMA on Employmetn & work conditions 38–40 • DMA on Employee development and equal opportunities 47–50 LA1 Total workforce 30 LA2 6 Total number of new hires and employee turnover 29–30 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 72 or part-time employees LA4 1; 3 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 72 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes 72 LA6 1 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management – 73 worker health and safety committees LA7 1 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, work-related fatalities 32 LA8 1 Programmes in place regarding serious diseases Reason for omission: 73 LA9 1 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Reason for omission: 73 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee 49–50 LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning 47–50 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 60–100%, depending on development reviews employee categorisation LA13 1; 6 Composition of governance bodies 73; AR186–189; AR195–198 LA14 1; 6 Ratio of basic salary of men to women Reason for omission: 73 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 73 Social Performance Indicators: Human Rights DMA HR Disclosure on management approach HR: overview 18 (chart) • DMA on human rights as part of our day-to-day responsibility 30 • DMA on people’s mental and physical integrity; non-discrimination 38–40 HR1 1–6 Significant investment agreements that include human rights 74 HR2 1–6 Screening of suppliers, contractors and other business partners 74 on human rights HR3 1–6 Employee training on policies and procedures, concerning aspects 30 of h ­ uman rights HR4 1; 2; 6 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 74 HR5 1; 2; 3 Operations in which the rights for freedom of association and collective 74 bargaining are at significant risk – and actions taken HR6 1; 2; 5 Operations in which child labour is identified as significant risk – 74 and m ­ easures taken HR7 1; 2; 4 Operations in which forced labour is identified as significant risk – 74 and measures taken HR8 1; 2 Percentage of security personnel trained in human rights Adecco Group is not in need of specific security personnel to protect its offices. HR9 1; 2 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people See HR4 HR10 1; 2 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to HR10 and HR11 are new indi­human rights reviews and/or impact assessments cators, introduced with G3.1 HR11 1; 2 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and (launched in March 2011). In ­resolved through formal grievance mechanisms our 2010 report, we cannot report on these indicators yet. We however intend to do so going forward. CSR Report 2010 80 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer Social Performance Indicators: Society DMA SO Disclosure on management approach SO: overview 18 (chart) • DMA on business ethics 30 • DMA on community involvement 43 • DMA on compliance AR 107 SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, 74 impact assessments, and development programmes SO2 10 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption 74 SO3 10 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies 76% and procedures SO4 10 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 17-18 (charts); 74 SO5 1–10 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and 33–34 lobbying SO6 10 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and 75 related institutions SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust, and monopoly 75 ­practices and their outcomes SO8 Significant fines and sanctions for non-compliance with laws and In 2010, there were no signifi­regulations cant fines or sanctions. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local In 2010, we are not aware of communities any Adecco Group oper­ations with significant negative impacts on local communities. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with Not applicable, see above ­negative impacts on local communities SO9 Social Performance Indicators: Product Responsibility DMA PR Disclosure on management approach PR 14–15 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of services are 75 ­assessed for improvement PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning health and safety To date, we are not aware of impacts of products and services any significant incidents of non-compliance with regulations in this context. PR3 8 Type of product and service information required and services subject to 75 such information requirements PR4 8 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning product and 75 service information PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including surveys measuring 28 customer satisfaction PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws and standards related to marketing The Adecco Group adheres to communications laws and applicable standards related to marketing communications. PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning marketing The Adecco Group is not ­communications aware of any relevant ­infringements of the law in this context. PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and 75 losses of customer data PR9 Significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning In the HR services industry, products and services PR9 comes up to SO8 (see above). CSR Report 2010 81 CSR Report 2010 82 Further reading Publications by the Adecco Group Improving lifelong learning a toolbox for companies, employees and institutions (2009) and other industry-related studies This white paper gives a new impetus to the implementation of lifelong learning beyond the Lisbon targets, which were set Demographic Fitness Survey 2009 Germany for 2010. In cooperation with the Jacobs Center on Lifelong The demographic Fitness Survey 2009 looks at how fit GerLearning and Institutional Development, a multidisciplinary man companies are in comparison with their European peers perspective on lifelong learning has been chosen to stimulate through different indicators. the debate on how to bring new dynamics into the European http://institute.adecco.com/Research/Articles/ training landscape. Documents/2009_Germany_German_DemographicFitness.pdf http://institute.adecco.com/Research/Articles/Documents/ LLL2009_World_EN.pdf Adecco Switzerland HR-Barometer 2010 The Swiss Human-Relations-Barometer 2010 is the fifth edition Accessibility Guide for Companies (2010) of a yearly study which looks at work relations, work condiJust a little over a decade ago, it would have been surprising tions as well as work ethics and behaviour of employees in to find companies that were interested in adapting their buildSwitzerland. The developments over the past five years are ings, environments, and positions for people with physical, being exemplified and discussed. sensory, or psychological disabilities. Things are no longer ISBN: 978-3-03823-610-8 that way. This is not only due to the current laws and regulations that preserve and promote the incorporation of dis­ Adecco Switzerland HR-Barometer 2011 abled workers in the workforce, but mostly due to the cultural The Swiss Human-Relations-Barometer 2011 is the sixth edition change where principles of plurality and equality have beof a yearly study which looks at work relations, work condicome stronger in daily life and at the workplace. tions as well as work ethics and behaviour of employees in http://www.csr360gpn.org/uploads/files/resources/ Switzerland. The developments over the past six years are Accessibility_Guide_for_Companies.pdf being exemplified and discussed. ISBN: 978-3-03823-648-9 2011 U.S. Job market perspectives The phrase “job growth” was happily welcomed back into the Adecco Swiss Job Market Index American vernacular in 2010. Following one of the most chalThe Adecco Swiss Job Market Index ‘ASJMI’ is the only comlenging time periods for the U.S. economy and job market. bined job market index in Switzerland, providing information What is now referred to as the ‘Great Recession’ this past year about the entire Swiss job market in all branches and across introduced a level of stability which helped to nudge the ecoall regions. It is made up of the three sub-indices Company nomic pendulum in a new direction. Websites, Job Portals and Media, which display job offers http://www.adeccousa.com/Documents/flipbook/2011-jobfrom all the important advertising channels. market-perspectives/index.html http://www.adecco.ch/en-US/about-adecco/sponsoringpartnerships/university-of-zurich/Pages/PublicationsASJMI. Two worlds collide? Bringing Copenhagen to Bologna (2011) aspx This white paper, initiated by the Adecco Group, looks at what is done to increase the proportion of highly educated people Partnerships between private and public employment in the workforce. Policymakers in the European Union initiagencies – What do European top managers think about it? ated the Bologna Process, which aims to increase the number (2009) of university graduates and to harmonise higher education Public-private partnerships are seen as part of the solution to certificates. At the same time, comparable policy measures for problems on the employment market: Over 60% of European vocational education have had hardly any impact. Vocational top managers demand more cooperation between private education in a dual system, which is widespread in Germany, and public employment market stakeholders, according to an Switzerland and Austria, is often presented and discussed as Adecco Institute survey. one way to successfully meet the growing needs of the inforhttp://institute.adecco.com/Research/Articles/Pages/Labourmation society. The report will be available as of August 2011 Market2008PPPEurope.aspx on: www.adecco-group.de CSR Report 2010 83 Future Jobs – How does work look like in Europe 2020 Ciett Economic Report 2011 (2011, German) Ciett has published its 2011 Annual Economic Report, based This study by DIS AG and the German ‘Zukunftsinstitut’ looks on figures available for 2009. This report is the fourth of its at work as a central theme. Work is not only about earning kind to reveal that the agency work industry is one of the largmoney and is far more than just an economic transaction. est private employers in the world today, boasting just under Work provides a status, an identity and gives a sense of be9 million workers employed on a daily basis, and global longing. So how will work develop over the coming years? annual sales revenues in excess of EUR 203 billion. What are the trends across industries and regions? http://www.ciett.org/fileadmin/templates/eurociett/docs/ http://www.dis-ag.com/dis/Presse/Documents/1104_DIS_ stats/Ciett_Economic_Report_2011.pdf Studie_FutureJobs.pdf Temporary agency work and collective bargaining in the EU Social Media @ Human Resource Management – A study (2008) about social networks (2011, German) This report reviews the present situation regarding the use of A study initiated by DIS AG and conducted by the University temporary agency work (TAW) in European Union Member of Applied Sciences in Dresden and the Leipzig University of States. It examines arrangements for social dialogue and Applied Sciences found out that 18 million people in Germany collective bargaining at national level across the EU. It also have a profile on Facebook and around 3.8 million Germans examines the role of collective bargaining in determining such are on XING. Social media are belonging to everyday life for matters as length of assignment, the use of TAW in strikes, many people in the private and professional domain. This and the proportion of agency workers allowed. It also analyhas been acknowledged by many companies in recent times. ses the role of collective bargaining in determining equality of More and more, social media is becoming a tool for them to treatment in pay, training and other conditions of employment. access talent. But what do employers need to think and be http://www.ciett.org/fileadmin/templates/eurociett/docs/ aware of when using social media? EIRO_Foundation_Report_on_TAW_Dec_08.pdf http://www.dis-ag.com/dis/Presse/Documents/DIS_AG_ Social_Media_Studie_2011.pdf Adecco Group Australia Temporary Labour Report (2011) The world’s leading recruiter presents Australia’s first temporary labour market report, revealing findings from the Adecco Group ‘Temporary Labour Employer Survey and Temporary Labour Employee Survey’. The report is the first of its kind in Australia to focus on this important aspect of the nation’s labour market. A copy of the report can be ordered by sending an e-mail to: marketing@adecco.com.au Agency Workers Regulations: Six months to go — is British business ready? (2011) Last year, Adecco commissioned an independent research consultancy to speak to 100 decision-makers in HR from organisations that regularly use temporary workers, to assess the levels of awareness, understanding and preparedness for the AWR. The resulting 2010 AWR survey found evidence of confusion, complacency and inertia surrounding the regulations. In March 2011, Adecco has updated the survey to see how these views have changed. http://www.adecco.co.uk/SiteCollectionDocuments/ Adeccoawrpro.pdf CSR Report 2010 84 Glossary Adecco Group Foundation The Adecco Group foundations Competence-based training Training that focuses exclusively are not-for-profit organisations that directly or indirectly help on teaching the skills, facts and attitudes associated with a disadvantaged groups enter the labour market. The foundaspecific job. tions can concentrate on the needs of target groups, and CoP Business participants in the UN Global Compact make a build an important basis for the Adecco Group’s social comcommitment to comply with the Global Compact’s ten princimitments. ples, including theim into their business strategy and their Affinity group A small group of individuals responsible for a day-to-day operations. At the same time, companies are regiven activity, issue, role or skill. quired to issue an annual Communication on Progress (CoP), Ageing workforce The next few decades will see substantial a public disclosure to stakeholders on progress made in imdemographic changes due to the ageing of the workforce. plementing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, and This development will reshape all aspects of our lives, includin supporting broad UN development goals. ing businesses, workplaces, health and education systems, Corporate culture The inherent personality of a company or requiring active intervention by all concerned. business. This includes a company’s values, vision, principles, Baby boomers Individuals born between 1946 and 1964. traditions, operating methods and work environment. The Branch Where we offer our products and services to candicompany places equal value on its associates, customers, dates and clients. shareholders, suppliers and communities, because all these Candidate Any person interested in becoming an associate elements are important to the company and its business. or having a permanent placement. Corporate governance Corporate governance encompasses Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Independent not-for-profit the full range of principles directed towards shareholders’ organisation holding the largest database of primary corporinterest seeking a good balance between direction and conate climate change information in the world. trol and transparency at the top company level while mainCarbon footprint The sum of all emissions of CO2 (carbon taining decision-making capacity and efficiency (source: Swiss dioxide), which are induced by activities in a given time frame. Code of Best Practice for Corporate Governance). Career management Addresses the needs of both employers Corporate (Social) Responsibility (CR or CSR) The definition and employees throughout their working lives. CR/CSR is still evolving. It addresses the concept that, beyond Change management The development of a planned apmerely conducting its business and adhering to legal guideproach to changing a method of management or business lines, an organisation has obligations such as looking after practice in an organisation. Typically, the objective is to the welfare of its employees, the community, society at large maximise the collective efforts of everybody involved in the and the environment. CR encompasses corporate governance, change. economic, social and environmental responsibilities. CR is Ciett The International Confederation of Private Employment backed by UN initiatives such as the Global Compact and is Agencies. Ciett is the authoritative voice representing the comthe subject of several standardisation initiatives such as the mon interests of the agency work industry and consists of 40 GRI, the AA1000 series and the ISO 26000 guide. national federations from EU and EFTA and 6 of the largest DAXglobal Sarasin Sustainability Switzerland The DAXglo­ staffing companies worldwide. Its main objective is to help its bal Sarasin Sustainability Switzerland Index tracks Swiss commembers, which include Adecco Group, Olympia Flexgroup, panies with sustainable performance. The Swiss index is Kelly Services, Manpower, Randstad and USG People. based on the 50 largest companies in terms of market capwww.ciett.org italisation and on the sustainability criteria defined by the Client A buyer of Adecco Group’s HR services. Sarasin Sustainability Matrix, which combines an industry ratCO2 equivalent (CO2-e) An accounting value for greenhouse ing and a company rating, and takes into consideration direct gas (GHG) emissions: These are generally expressed as a and indirect ecological and social effects. www.sarasin.ch weight of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2-e). This is because Decentralisation Significant decision-making delegated other GHGs may have a different global warming potential throughout the organisation, down to regional, national and from carbon dioxide and it is usual to combine the effect of all local management levels. greenhouse gases into one number for CO2-e. Code of Conduct A document referring to companies’ policy statements that define ethical standards for and proper practices for individuals and the organisation. CSR Report 2010 85 Diversity A range of visible and invisible differences that exist Generation X Individuals born between 1965 and 1977. between people. By managing diversity, we can take advanAdecco describes generation Xers as being influenced by tage of these differences and create a productive environment technology, television, day care and divorce. They represent in which everybody feels valued, where talents are fully utilan age of accelerated schedules, multitasking and the inforised, and in which organisational goals are met. mation revolution. Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI Launched in 1999, the Generation Y Individuals born between 1978 and 1989. Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes are the first global indexes Adecco describes generation Yers as pragmatic and hardtracking the financial performance of the leading sustain­ working, as well as wanting independence and job satisfacability-driven companies worldwide. tion. They are a generation of volunteers who seek such opEIRIS A leading global independent, not-for-profit organisation portunities outside the workplace. which conducts independent research into the environmental, GHG Greenhouse gases are those gases which are supsocial, governance and ethical performance of companies. posed to trap the heat in the atmosphere and thus to cause a ESI Ethibel Sustainability Indices provide a comprehensive global warming. The principal greenhouse gases that enter perspective on the financial performance of the world’s leadthe atmosphere because of human activities are: carbon dioxing companies in terms of sustainability, for institutional inveside (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (NO2) and various tors, asset managers, banks and retail investors. Ethibel Susfluorinated gases. tainability Indices list the pioneering companies, as well as Global Compact Launched at the UN headquarters, New those whose performance is rated within the average for the York, in July 2000, the Global Compact is a voluntary corpor­ sector and which meet certain financial criteria. The ESI are ate citizenship initiative with a vision of a more sustainable owned by Vigeo. www.ethibel.org and inclusive global economy. It has two objectives: to encourEthical Index Euro The Ethical Index Euro is part of E. Capital age the adoption of its “ten principles“ in business activities Partners’ ECPI Index Family. The development of the underlying around the world, and to help achieve the UN’s human and criteria for the indices is based on client consensus, sustainlabour rights goals. www.unglobalcompact.org ability and good business behaviour, the UN Declaration of GRI Global Reporting Initiative. An independent institution Human Rights, the ILO Protocol, as well as the work of acadedicated to developing and disseminating globally applicdemic institutions and NGOs involved in human rights and able Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The GRI seeks to environmental questions. www.e-cpartners.com elevate sustainability reporting to the same level of rigour, Eurociett The European Confederation of Private Employment comparability, credibility and verifiability expected of financial Agencies. See under “Ciett”. www.euro-ciett.org reporting, while serving the information needs of a broad Eurofound The European Foundation for the Improvement of range of stakeholders from civil society, government labour Living and Working Conditions is a European Union body. Speand the private business community. There are strong links cifically, it was set up to contribute to the planning and design between the GRI and initiatives such as the United Nations of better living and working conditions in Europe. Eurofound’s Global Compact, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Entercore business is both research and communicating the results prises and many others. www.globalreporting.org of that research. www.eurofound.europa.eu Human resource business process outsourcing (HR BPO) Flexicurity refers to the combination of labour market flexibilTotal or partial outsourcing of HR duties (e.g. payroll, recruitity in a dynamic economy with security for workers. Flexicurity ing, training, benefits, employee orientation, staffing). is a three-sided mix of flexibility in the labour market, comILO The International Labour Organization (ILO) is the tripartite bined with social security and an active labour market policy UN agency that brings together governments, employers and with rights and obligations for the unemployed. workers of its member states in common action to promote FTSE4Good The FTSE4Good Index Series is a series of benchdecent work throughout the world. www.ilo.org mark and tradable indices for socially responsible investors. Intergenerational programme Programmes that bring toThe indices are used as a basis for regional and global index gether participants of different ages. tracker funds – a range of structured products – and as a stock selection platform for actively managed funds. The index inclusion criteria have been designed to identify companies that meet globally recognised and accepted, socially responsible criteria as they evolve. www.ftse.com/ftse4good CSR Report 2010 86 ISO 26000 A Guidance on social responsibility issued by the associate[s]) to the client for the execution of a project, with International Organisation for Standardization. It aims to be the resources remaining on Adecco‘s payroll and integrated a first step in helping all types of organization in both the pubinto Adecco‘s reporting structure. lic and private sectors to consider implementing ISO 26000 as Public-Private Partnership (PPP) All forms of cooperation a way to achieve the benefits of operating in a socially between public authorities and the private sector. PPP is berespon­sible manner. The guidance standard was published in coming an increasingly important factor in the labour market November 2010 as ISO 26000 and is voluntary in character. It owing to the need for greater flexibility on the part of com­ does not include requirements and thus is not a certification panies, safeguarding of social security for employees and the standard. growing importance of career changes. Key performance indicator (KPI) A parameter used to deterRecruitment process outsourcing (RPO) Is the transfer of opmine whether the desired input or outcome has been erational responsibility for one or more recruiting functions for achieved. permanent labour (including recruitment administration) from Leadership development The development of leaders within the client to a services provider. an organisation. Companies may implement programmes SAM Investment boutique focused exclusively on Sustainability that instruct and guide employees on how to become leaders Investing since 1995. The firm’s offering comprises asset manin both their professional lives and their communities. agement, indexes and private equity. Learning styles Different approaches to learning. Recognised Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions The constyles include visual, auditory, kinaesthetic and intrapersonal. cept of ‘Scopes’ defines the boundaries between three differLifelong learning In an era of rapidly evolving knowledge and ent types of indirect and direct emissions: Scope 1 are direct ever-increasing globalisation, patterns of working, learning, emissions, Scope 2 are emissions associated with the generaand living need to change with the times. Lifelong learning is tion of electricity, heating/cooling, or steam purchased for a continuous process of formal and informal learning to keep own consumption, and Scope 3 are indirect emissions other employees up to date. than those covered in Scope 2. Mentorship Relationship between a (usually) senior and Secondment The assignment of an Adecco employee (not an a junior employee. The senior employee instructs and guides associate) to a client, with the employee remaining on the junior employee on a company’s work practices, skills, Adecco‘s payroll, but fully integrated into the client‘s organisaas well as career choices and decisions. tion. Multigenerational workplace Refers to today’s workforce, Secondary suppliers Other recruitment agencies, which which for the first time in history includes at least four generAdecco Group, in the role as first human resources supplier to ations: the silent generation, baby boomers, generation X and a specific client, may use for staffing procurement. generation Y. According to Adecco Group, the multigeneraSkill shortage Is an economic condition in which there are tional workplace provides a strong impetus for businesses to insufficient qualified candidates/employees to fill the markettake a closer look at the generational distribution of their place demands for employment at any price. workforce and understand each group’s needs, enabling them SRI Stands for socially responsible investment, an investment to run a more efficient and effective workplace. strategy that takes into account a company’s ethical, social OECD The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Deand environmental performance as well as its financial perforvelopment (OECD) is to promote policies that will improve the mance. economic and social well-being of people around the world. Stakeholder Individuals in, or representatives of, a group who Outplacement The process of placing employees in other have for various reasons an interest in a company such as the positions or training courses following loss of a job. Adecco Group. This includes people who are directly or indir­ Outsourcing The practice of using external workers and/or ectly affected by the Company and its actions. machinery for certain business tasks. Stretch assignment A career development tool which puts an Peer review An assessment conducted by a person of the employee in a new function, which overstrains his or her capsame level. abilities and thus challenges him or her to pick up new skills. Permanent placement The placement of a candidate (potenSustainability The principle that we must meet the needs of tially an associate) for an indeterminate period. the present without compromising the ability of future gener­ Project staffing/consulting The assignment of an employee ations to meet their own needs. Sustainability, corporate reor a team from the Adecco staff (potentially complemented by sponsibility and CSR are often synonymous. CSR Report 2010 87 Talent management The management of an organisation’s employees or workers. Talent management requires that a company recognises the individual strengths and weaknesses of its employees or workforce, as well as strive to revise and improve the talents and skills of its workforce. Temporary placement The placement of human resources for non-permanent employment needs. Placements may be defin­ite or indefinite. Thought leadership The process of providing specific, predetermined information on a certain subject. Individuals or en­ tities can be ‘thought leaders’ and can drive or lead discussions on a certain topic. Training The development of a company’s human capital. UNI Global Union The global union for skills and services. It’s the biggest grouping of individual trade unions in the world with more than 900 affiliated unions in 150 countries and 20 million affiliated members. www.uniglobalunion.org Work-life balance A situation where an employee’s work and personal life are balanced. Employees may be given options such as telecommuting, flexible work schedules, maternal or paternal leave to accommodate their personal lives with their careers. 360˚ feedback A performance review method that allows an employee to get feedback from supervisors, peers, staff members, co-workers and sometimes customers. CSR Report 2010 88 CSR Governance within the Adecco Group Board of Directors Rolf Dörig Chairman of the Board of Directors Thomas O’Neill Vice-Chairman Responsibilities at committee Alexander Gut, Chairman Audit Committee Andreas Jacobs David Prince Andreas Jacobs, Chairman Nomination & Compensation Committee Thomas O’Neill Wanda Rapaczynski Wanda Rapaczynski, Chairwoman Corporate Governance Committee Jakob Baer Alexander Gut Didier Lamouche Corporate functions Patrick De Maeseneire Chief Executive Officer Stephan Howeg Head Group Communications & CSR Christian Vasino Chief HR Officer Patrick Kleffel General Counsel Hans Brütsch Head Compliance Reporting Pierlaurent Barbieri Head Group Internal Audit Adecco Group Global Diversity Business Council Jeff O’Neill Canada Bruce Roch France Claudio Soldà Italy Lois Cooper North America William T. Rolack Sr. David J. Maldonado Esq. Francisco Mesonero Fernández de Córdoba Spain Steve Girdler United Kingdom & Ireland Salvador de Antuñano Mexico Australia & New Zealand Rick Khinda Director Marketing & Communications and CSR Belgium Geert Van Droogenbroeck Marketing Manager & CSR Denmark Vibeke Jacobsen HR Manager & CSR Eastern Europe Evangelia Isari Marketing Manager and CSR Finland Marko Pajula Sales & Marketing Director and CSR CSR Report 2010 89 France Bruce Roch CSR Director, Adecco Group France Jean-François Connan Director Insertion, Adecco Group France Jerôme Gérvais General Manager, Adecco Group Fondation Iberia & LATAM Francisco Mesonero Fernández de Córdoba General Manager Fundación Adecco and CSR Adecco Iberia & LATAM David Morales Communications Manager Fundación Adecco and CSR Adecco Iberia & LATAM India Vanitha Nav Jain Marketing & Communications Senior Manager and CSR Italy Claudio Soldà General Secretary Adecco Fondazione & Public Affairs Adecco Italy Japan Hirotaka Yamanami Corporate Planning and CSR Japan & Asia Netherlands Rinus Wittenberg Marketing Manager and CSR Norway Reidun Brekke Regional Director & CSR North America Lois Cooper Vice President CSR & Inclusion Tyra Tutor Corporate Development and CSR Pauline Gebon Supplier Diversity Rachelle Chapman ‘Career Connections Programme’ Switzerland José M. San José Marketing Director and CSR Sweden Fred Lafquist Sponsoring and CSR Charlotte Norden Director Marketing and CSR UK & Ireland Sandra Lopez Communications Manager and CSR CSR Report 2010 90 Imprint Registered office Adecco Group S.A. (Holding) CH-1275 Chéserex Contact details Adecco Group management & consulting S.A. Sägereistrasse 10 P.O. Box CH-8152 Glattbrugg T +41 44 878 88 88 F +41 44 829 88 88 Group Communications T +41 44 878 87 87 F +41 44 829 88 39 sustainability@adecco.com Investor Relations T +41 44 878 89 89 F +41 44 829 89 24 investor.relations@adecco.com http://investor.adecco.com Adecco Group on the Internet www.adecco.com Imprint Publisher: Adecco management & consulting S.A., Glattbrugg July 2011 CSR Report 2010 91 adecco.com
