2010 Sustainability Report 1 From the Chairman of the Board 2 Dialogue with the President 4 Energy Outlook 6 About This Report About Us 8 Facts of 2010 12 Stakeholders 14 PetroChina Company Limited (PetroChina, also hereinafter referred to as the “Company” “we” and “us”) has published its annual Sustainable Energy Supplies Sustainability Report since 2006. This is to present our stakeholders and the public with a clear picture of our commitment and performance in pursuit of scientific, safe, clean, economical and harmonious development. We also hope the Company can win 1.Exploration and Development 17 wider support and regard from various social communities. 2. Refining and Chemicals 20 This report represents what we did to honour our commitments to the economy, environment and society in 2010. All information 3. International Cooperation 21 disclosed in the report was sourced from PetroChina’s official documents, statistics reports as well as from statistics gathered from 4. Oil and Gas Supply 22 the Company’s affiliated enterprises, and has been reviewed in accordance with the Company’s Rules for Information Disclosure 5. New Energies 25 Control and Disclosure Procedures. Given continuity and comparability, the report provides historical and future explanations on certain issues. The report is formulated according to the principles of accuracy, materiality, standardisation and transparency. We also referred to Safe and Clean Production and Operation the Guideline on Preparing the Report on Performance of Corporate Social Responsibility by the Shanghai Stock Exchange and continue to consult the Sustainability Reporting Guideline released by the Global Reporting Initiative in 2006 and the Oil and Gas Industry 1. Climate Change 27 Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability co-published by the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association 2. Foundation Management 29 and the American Petroleum Institute. As a participant in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we also introduce our 3. Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction 30 progress in compliance with the Ten Principles and will submit the report to the website of UNGC (http://www.unglobalcompact. org). 4. Safe Production 33 The report includes a set of Forward-Looking Statements. Except historical facts, all events that may or will occur (including, but not limited to, premise, objectives, estimation and business plans) and descriptions of such events are categorised into the Forward“People-Oriented” — Employee Development Looking Statements. Due to the presence of external uncertainties, actual outcomes or trends in the future may differ from those expected in the statement. The Forward-Looking Statements were made before December 31, 2010, for which PetroChina holds 1. Employee’s Rights 37 no responsibilities or liabilities for any modification thereof. 2. Training and Cultivation 39 We sincerely hope that this report will increase your awareness of the issues concerning sustainable development of the whole 3. Growth Path 40 society such as challenges in energy scarcity, climate change, environmental protection, poverty and underprivileged groups. 4. Occupational Health 40 These issues have direct impact on the sustainable development of PetroChina and the prosperity and progress of society and the economy as a whole. We welcome any comments and suggestions. Your feedback will encourage us to do better. This report is published, along with the Company’s Annual Report in March 2011 in simplified Chinese, traditional Chinese and English. The simplified Chinese version shall prevail in case of any discrepancy. Please visit our website (www.petrochina.com.cn) for more Giving Back to Society information or downloading the electronic version of this report. 1. Promoting the Development of Local Economies 43 2. Poverty Alleviation 44 3. Support for Education 46 The Board and all directors of the Company warrant that there are no misrepresentations or misleading statements in or material omissions from the report and will jointly and severally accept full responsibility for the truthfulness, accuracy and 4. Employee Voluntary Activities 47 completeness of this report. 5. Service for the World Expo 48 6. Contributions to Overseas Community 49 Objectives and Plans 50 Appendices 52 PetroChina and Global Compact 52 Performance Statistics 53 GRI and IPIECA/API Index 55 We support Glossary 61 Feedback Form 63 2 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 3 From the Chairman of the Board “ We will accelerate the change of our growth pattern and strive to build PetroChina into a green, international and sustainable company. ” During the period of China’s 11th Five-year Plan1(2006-2010), we and gas supply shortages in certain areas and times, we strived seek growth to realise development of high quality and efficiency. the domestic market to coordinated utilisation of foreign and adhered to our policy of “Caring for energy, Caring for you”. We to mobilise all resources and to meet the market demand, which The relationships between present and long term, interest of the domestic markets and resources, with equal importance attached earnestly implemented the concept of scientific development, won high recognition from governments at all levels and social part and of the whole, size and speed and quality and profitability to increasing both domestic and global market share. From seized important opportunities for strategic development and communities. must also be balanced. We strive to coordinate the development upstream businesses to all the business modules to improve the implemented our resources, market and internationalisation of upstream, midstream and downstream, and of domestic and overall profitability, development quality and efficiency with the strategies. In addition, we proactively honored our economic, Currently, the global economy is still in a slow recovery from international business. We must establish reform and innovation aim to achieve sustainable development for PetroChina. environmental and social commitments. As a result, we the downturn while the challenges in energy security and as the powerhouse by improving the marketisation mechanism successfully resisted the impact of the global financial crisis and climate change worsen. PetroChina will proactively honour its and promoting management and technological innovation Faced with the uncertainties and unexpected risks that may a number of natural disasters, and translated these crises into responsibility and rise to these challenges to provide sustainable as well as increasing dynamism and competitiveness of the arise in future, we will respond with strategic global insight and opportunities, achieving new results and advances in all respects. energy supplies. During the 12th Five-year Plan2, PetroChina is still Company to realise intensive development. We must continue to enhance our sense of crisis, opportunity and responsibility so we Significant changes have taken place as evidenced by the at a crucial stage of developing itself into an international energy put people first by protecting the legitimate rights of employees, can seize development opportunities and overcome difficulties international energy company framework which has taken shape, company. We will focus on scientific development, accelerate the enhancing production safety, saving energy, reducing emissions, and challenges to build PetroChina into a green, international and enhanced value, competitiveness and our capability to sustain transformation of our development pattern, and ensure harmony coordinating corporate development with resource and sustainable company, and make new contributions to sustainable development. and stability. To this end, we will adhere to our business strategies, environmental protection, and balancing corporate growth with socio-economic development. in developing foreign and domestic markets and using foreign and employee growth. We will encourage and promote the Daqing In 2010, faced with a complex macro economic climate and domestic resources, with the main oil and gas businesses at the Spirit and Iron Man Spirit to build a consistent corporate culture frequent natural disasters, we analysed the situation, made top of the agenda. We will fully use our comparative advantages, with strong cohesion and great growth potential so that such scientific decisions, unified our understanding, fortified our push forward restructuring and optimisation, technology and spirits can become a spiritual pillar for the Company’s growth. confidence and jointly coped with the difficulties. As a result of management innovation, environmental protection and energy our efforts to coordinate production, transportation, sales and conservation, and put emphasis on securing and improving In the foreseeable future, we will scale up efforts to optimise inventory, and market expansion, the Company maintained stable livelihood, so as to enhance international competitiveness and structure and resource allocation, enhance technological production and operations and experienced rapid development. sustainability and achieve stable, fast and balanced growth. innovation to boost sustainable development, promote the In particular, we thrived on breaking new ground in international importance of talent in the company’s growth to provide oil and gas cooperation. We strategically started non-conventional Among these, what is most important is to accelerate the intellectual support to the Company’s development, improve oil and gas cooperation. The integrated upstream-downstream transformation of our development pattern. The Company’s all the mechanisms and systems to strengthen management business cooperation accelerated. Both Line B of the Central achievements in the 11th Five-year period show that we must and control, highlight basic management to improve refined Asia-China Gas Pipeline and the China-Russia Oil Pipeline were work to maintain steady and relatively fast growth, and at the management, promote energy saving and emissions reduction to commissioned. In the face of natural disasters, such as the Yushu same time speed up the transformation of our development conserve resources and protect the environment by embedding Jiang Jiemin, the Chairman of the Board earthquake and the Zhouqu mudslide, and during big events pattern so that our efforts on these two fronts will reinforce each this change of development mode throughout the whole like the Shanghai World Expo and the Asian Games, as well as oil other. This means we will have to promote transformation and production process. This is so the Company’s driving force for development can shift from investment expansion and increase of physical work to technological and management innovation 1 The “11th Five-Year Plan” means the planning framework of the Chinese domestic economy and social development in its 11 th five-year, which started from 2006 and as well as improvement of employee competence. From planned ended in 2010. production, operation and allocation of production means to a 2 The “12th Five-Year Plan” means the planning framework of the Chinese domestic economy and social development in its 12 th five-year, which started from 2011 and combination of planned and market based, with an enhanced will end in 2015. role for market based decision making. From development of 4 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 5 Dialogue with the President “ In future, PetroChina will mainly focus on transformation of our growth pattern to achieve high-quality and efficient development. ” What is PetroChina’s take on the achievements made Basically, we will maintain investment on a moderate scale, adopt that responding to these challenges is not the responsibility of reached 2 in the 4th quarter. Secondly, we strived to raise supply during the 11th Five-year Plan period? a prudent and flexible business strategy, foster new comparative an individual country or company, but it requires joint efforts by mobilising all resources and increasing diesel imports while advantages, and continuously enhance the Company’s growth and coordinated cooperation and pooling of mankind’s wisdom, coordinating with the state oil reserves. PetroChina arranged During the 11th Five-year Plan period, PetroChina achieved new so that PetroChina can develop into a green, international and technologies and capabilities. for all the marketing enterprises to enhance coordination with advances and results across all businesses, and during these five sustainable company. local refining plants in regions such as the northeast, northwest years, PetroChina also experienced a historic transformation. Based on this perception, while conducting international business and Shandong to pool resources together. Thirdly, we also Our total assets reached RMB1656.5 billion, which is more than To develop the green PetroChina, we will strive to provide more operations, PetroChina unwaveringly adheres to the principle strengthened reallocation of resources and rational distribution. double compared with 2005.Domestic newly-added OPIP and quality, clean and efficient energy. Particularly, we will scale of mutual benefit and win-win for common development. Resources were transported by pipeline, railway, waterway and GPIP exceeded 5 billion metric tons, which is the largest amount up efforts to develop natural gas, making it a new engine and We are committed to building cooperative relations with highway at the same time. We preferentially satisfied the demands of reserves the Company has discovered compared with other pillar for the Company’s growth. To this end, we will coordinate government, enterprises and communities in host countries. We from agriculture, public and civilian transport consumption, periods. In 2010, our output of oil and gas equivalent amounted domestic gas production and imports, push forward conventional respect and comply with their laws and regulations, protect the and major industrial and mining companies, and infrastructure to 166 million metric tons, 152 million metric tons of which was and non-conventional gas development, expand our market and environment, save resources, provide more job opportunities, projects. Fourthly, a team was established to safeguard supply domestically produced. The output of natural gas experienced the construct storage and transportation infrastructure, to improve actively participate in public welfare, and share the benefits of composed of related marketing enterprises under PetroChina. rapid growth, whose percentage in total oil and gas equivalent profitability and maintain stable supply. resources development for the common good. We also develop The team was on duty the whole time and reported the latest rose from 18.5% in 2005 to 30.2%. During the 11th Five-year strategic cooperation with our peers and build a reciprocal and situation every day so as to enhance coordination and ensure Plan period, PetroChina newly built 25,700 km of oil and gas To build the international PetroChina, we will utilise our edge to mutually reinforcing strategic partnership for common prosperity. sufficient supply. After early November, the shortage was much pipelines. We also developed more than ten core technologies boost international cooperation. Joint investment and cooperation In domestic cooperation with overseas partners, we sign oil relieved. with international competitiveness, as well as more than ten at all levels, in all areas and various forms will be encouraged. We contracts in accordance with Chinese laws and international software and innovative proprietary products. The Company’s will drive forward our business integrating refining and chemicals norms and faithfully fulfill our legal and contractual rights and value, international competitiveness and influence enhanced and international trade as we continue to invest in oil and gas obligations, which follows the principle of matching rights with significantly as we play a major role in the energy supply system. development. obligations, equal cooperation and sharing benefits for common development. It is our firm belief that energy cooperation will While we recognise our achievements, we must be fully aware To develop the sustainable PetroChina, we need to consolidate become wider and wider. of our problems, mainly a high concentration of investment, our leading role in the domestic upstream businesses, by further which generates pressure on growth of economic value; the strengthening production in the five domestic oil and gas areas. As one of the major oil and gas suppliers in China, how occurrence of major accidents, which makes the situation of We also have to accelerate strategic restructuring of the refining did PetroChina view and cope with the diesel shortage in some safety and environmental protection grave; weak proprietary and chemical business, and improve supply capacity and market Chinese cities in the 4th quarter of 2010? innovation, inadequate management and control, as well as competitiveness. In addition, we will speed up oil and gas pipeline more efforts required for changing our development pattern. We construction to create an oil and gas supply system that boasts In recent years, all the major Chinese refiners have boosted attach great importance to tackling them as we further clarify the diversified resources, flexible distribution, efficient operations and investment in their refining and chemical business, which direction of fostering growth along with the transformation of our higher safety and stability, which will serve as a solid foundation increased diesel supply capacity. Basically, diesel supplies can development pattern. This will inject a vigorous internal driving for our sustainable development. meet or even exceed demand across the country. Impacted by Zhou Jiping, the Vice Chairman of the Board and President force for the Company’s growth. multiple factors such as surging seasonal demand, diesel shortage What is PetroChina’s take on partnerships? spread in some regions in the 4th quarter. How do you define the future of PetroChina? What are the measures the Company is going to take to develop itself Energy is the main driving force for socio-economic development. As one of the major suppliers, PetroChina promptly responded into a green, international and sustainable organisation? The conflicts between growing energy demand and limited to launch the emergency plan, and took a series of measures to supply of exhaustible resources, energy consumption and relieve the situation. Firstly, our refining facilities ran at full load to In future, PetroChina will mainly focus on transformation of our reduction of GHG emissions as well as environmental protection increase diesel yield. From early November, crude oil processed growth pattern to achieve high-quality and efficient development. are common challenges faced by all mankind. We fully understand constantly hit record highs and the average diesel/gasoline ratio 6 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 7 Energy Outlook Oil and gas remain dominant in PetroChina strives to safeguard energy energy consumption supply security At present, 90% of the world energy demand is satisfied by fossil In the face of growing demand for fossil energy and declining fuel. Global energy demand will continue to grow in future. It is reserves of conventional, easily accessible and quality oil and gas, estimated that up to 2030, oil and gas will continue to represent PetroChina will safeguard energy security from three aspects: 50% of consumption of primary energy, which means fossil energy remains irreplaceable as the dominant energy source. Development of mature oil and gas fields is strengthened to enhance oil recovery. Technological innovation and refined management are fundamental to enhancing the recovery rate of the old oilfields. A series of technologies innovatively developed for high water-cut oilfield, low permeability or ultraNatural gas has entered a stage of low permeability oil and gas reservoirs, mid-depth heavy oil and rapid development ultra-heavy oil reservoirs as well as tertiary recovery technology are widely applied to all the mature oil and gas fields we operate. As the low-carbon economy grows, particularly with the advent They help to maintain stable output and keep improving the of carbon tax, the world energy structure will be dramatically efficiency of developing and utilising resources. changed. Energy consumption will go further in the energysaving, efficient, clean and low-carbon direction. Natural gas Technologies are researched and developed to promote green has become the realistic option for its stable sources, costdevelopment and efficient utilisation of traditional fossil energy. effectiveness, cleanliness, environment-friendliness and high heat As an energy provider, we are fully aware of the importance of content. It is predicted that by 2030 the share of natural gas will energy conservation and strengthening technological innovation be close to that of oil or coal in global energy mix. In future, the and application, advocating saving energy and seeking green production, sale, supply and price of natural gas will go up at the development throughout the whole industry chain. We increase same time. It is estimated that in 2020 natural gas demand will our efforts to develop natural gas to increase the proportion reach 4 trillion cubic meters, and 4.6 trillion by 2030. of clean fossil energy in the energy supply and consumption structure. We proactively change our growth pattern, and optimise business and product structure to improve energy efficiency. More efforts have been made to develop new energies for a China’s energy production and diversified energy supply system. We regard new energies as consumption will continue to show an an important strategic solution to energy and environmental upward trend challenges. Since 2006 when we started mass exploration and development of coalbed methane (CBM), we have after In the coming five years, China will continue to advance toward many years of research and practice developed a set of CBM being an industrialised, information-based, urbanised, marketexploration and development technologies that suit CBM storage oriented and internationalised country. The Chinese economy and seepage. Meanwhile, we also strengthen exploration and will remain stable with relatively fast growth, which pushes up development of tight gas, shale gas and oil sands and conduct oil and gas consumption at an annual pace of 4%~5% and 10% industrialisation experiments and resource assessments of biorespectively. With increasing dependence on energy imports, diesel, oil shale, gas hydrate and the like. China will put a higher premium on energy security and strengthen the development of domestic resources, especially clean energy, to improve its self-sufficiency. At the same time, China will attach more significance to energy conservation and environmental protection in an attempt to control excessively rapid growth of energy consumption. 8 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 9 About Us Core Businesses Development Goal (2) Market Strategy PetroChina is engaged in a broad range of To build PetroChina into an international energy company with We will strive to pursue a sustainable leading role in the market businesses related to oil and natural gas, which strong competitiveness by 2020. and maximisation of profit, by making full use of the advantage mainly include the exploration, development we enjoy in economies of scale and integrated operations from and production of crude oil and natural gas, Development Strategies upstream to downstream businesses, solidifying mature markets, the refining, transportation, storage and expanding high efficiency markets, exploiting strategic markets, marketing of crude oil and refined products, We pursue scientific development, implement the three strategies developing international markets and continuously promoting the production and marketing of primary related to resources, market and internationalization and focus on our competitiveness in both domestic and overseas markets. petrochemical products, their derivatives and the transformation of business growth models, the enhancement other chemicals, and the transportation and of independent innovative capabilities, the establishment of a (3) Internationalization Strategy marketing of natural gas. long-acting mechanism of work safety, environmental protection and energy conservation, all with a view to creating a harmonious We will adhere to the principles of active and prudent enterprise. development and a win-win situation. We support the concept of Year Total assets ( RMB 108 ) * combining “incoming” with “outgoing” and combining resources, (1) Resource Strategy market and technology with capital. We will focus on our oil 2010 16,565 and gas businesses, strengthen international cooperation and We base our strategy on maximisation, diversification and capital operation, place more emphasis on overseas oil and 2009 14,503 orderly replacement of hydrocarbon resources by adhering to gas exploration and development, develop mid-stream and 2008 11,962 the principles of attaching parallel development of oil and gas, downstream businesses in a prudent, effective and moderate 2007 10,696 enhancing the exploration of domestic resources, increasing the manner, actively facilitate the diversification of sources for acquisition of overseas resources, expanding the exploration resource imports, and expand the scale of international oil and 2006 8,803 of offshore resources, and increasing strategic reserves and gas trade so as to build PetroChina into a multinational company developing energy substitutes. This is so as to achieve rapid with strong competitiveness. growth of oil and gas production, achieve breakthroughs in Year Turnover ( RMB 108 ) * relation to emerging energy resources, consolidate our leading Company Profile 2010 14,654 role in upstream operations in China and strengthen the foundation for the Company’s sustainable development. 2009 10,193 PetroChina Company Limited (PetroChina) was established as a joint 2008 10,726 stock company with limited liabilities on November 5,1999, as part of the restructuring of China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC). It was 2007 8,375 respectively listed on the NYSE (ADS code: PTR) and the HKSE (stock code: 2006 6,914 Corporate Governance 00857) in April 2000 and on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (stock code: 601857) in November 2007. As at end of 2010, CNPC holds 86.292% shares We are committed to operating the Company in compliance with the law. We regard due observance of the law, honesty and of PetroChina. Year Net profit ( RMB 108 ) * trustworthiness, and standardisation of procedures as the fundamental principles of operation to ensure a coordinated corporate governance structure with effective checks and balances, with a view to maximise our value. Pursuant to the applicable laws PetroChina was ranked 7th by Platts in the “Top 250 Global Energy 2010 1,400 and regulations including the Company Law of the People’s Republic of China, the listing rules and the Articles of Association of the Companies” published by Platts Energy in 2010, which was the top ranking Company, we established a standardised corporate governance structure. The Annual General Meeting, Board of Directors and among enterprises in the Asia Pacific region for eight consecutive years. 2009 1,034 Board Committees, Board of Supervisors and executive bodies operate independently and effectively in accordance with the The Company was also included as a constituent stock of the SSE Social 2008 1,145 Articles of Association. Responsibility index and the Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Index. 2007 1,468 PetroChina adheres to the corporate policy of “Caring for Energy, Caring for 2006 1,435 You” and core business management principles of “Honesty, Innovation, Performance, Harmony and Safety”. The Company perseveres in carrying out business in a more effective, safe and environmentally friendly manner; Year Taxes ( RMB 108 ) * Annual General Meeting (AGM) Board of Directors and Board Committees pursues the balance among the economy, environment and society; The Annual General Meeting is an organ of authority of the Directors shall be elected at the shareholders’ general meeting provides sustainable energy for economic and social development; and 2010 2,870 Company and will exercise its functions and powers in accordance and held accountable to the shareholders at the general meeting. creates a better life for people. 2009 2,045 with the law. We hold an annual shareholders’ meeting to ensure The Board of Directors exercises the following functions and 2008 2,227 that all shareholders enjoy equal status and are able to exercise powers: (1) to be responsible for convening the shareholders’ their rights effectively. general meeting and to report its work to the shareholders in 2007 1,722 2006 1,614 * Under International Financial Reporting Standards 10 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 11 general meetings; (2) to implement the resolutions passed by of the Supervisory Committee, including three employee Anti-corruption System accident, zero defect, and being a leader in China and firstthe shareholders in general meetings; (3) to make decisions on representative supervisors and two independent supervisors. class in the world”. The Company also implemented its quality the Company’s business plans and investment proposals; (4) to IIn 2010, we deepened the anti-corruption system that focused enhancement plan, which requires the participation of each formulate the Company’s annual preliminary and final financial Executive Body on education, institutionalisation and supervision to provide employee with coverage of all the areas, system improvement, budgets; and (5) to formulate the Company’s profit distribution a favourable environment for the Company’s healthy and process control, separate supervision and accountability. It proposal and loss recovery proposal. The Board of Directors has The management under the leadership of the President – sustainable development. An education campaign encouraging focuses on improving quality management systems and ensuring four board committees, namely the Audit Committee, Investment including the Vice President and the Chief Financial Officer – loyalty, responsibility, devotion and integrity was launched. The enhanced measurement standards. The plan aims to push forward and Development Committee, Evaluation and Remuneration is the executive body of the Company. It is appointed by and campaign which promotes Daqing Spirit and Iron Man Spirit was the system construction, including appraisal, quality management, Committee, and the Health, Safety and Environment Committee. accountable to the Board of Directors. In accordance with to implement the Regulations on Honest Business of State-owned quality supervision, standardisation, measurement assurance, and As at the end of 2010, there were 14 members of the Board of the provisions set out in the Articles of Association and the Enterprises’ Leaders and mainly targeted managers at various technical support. Development of basic management projects Directors, including five independent non-executive directors. authorisation of the Board of Directors, this body implements levels. It helped to foster a climate of integrity and devotion. follows a three-tier business management model. We mobilised the resolutions of the Board of Directors and organises business We improved the Company’s management policies and antiall the staff to participate in the basic management development Supervisory Committee activities including production and operations. The Company corruption systems of various kinds and filled the loopholes of activities, which were widely carried out to realise participatory, has adopted a management system of two-level administrative the supervision and management system in key areas such as total process and all-encompassing management of quality The Supervisory Committee is directly accountable to the management (headquarters – regional company) and threeinvestment management, managers’ administration, purchasing measurement standardisation. shareholders’ meeting, and is responsible for reviewing the level business management (headquarters – special company – and bidding. We also strengthened tour inspections of managers Company’s financial situation as well as the financial statements regional company). The Company’s principal operations consist of the affiliated enterprises and key areas in production and Emergency Response System and business reports submitted to the shareholders’ meeting by of four major segments, which are mainly operated by four operations. To fill the loopholes and improve the Company’s the Board of Directors, whilst supervising the performance of branch companies, namely exploration and production, refining management, we launched a company-wide activity to deal We attached great importance to enhancing the emergency duties and responsibilities by the Company’s Directors, Presidents and chemicals, marketing and natural gas and pipelines branch with the significant problems in the sectors of projects and response capacity of grassroots units to enhance emergency and other senior management in compliance with related laws companies. construction to reduce corruption risks. At the same time, we response management. The “1+18” mode of emergency plan has and regulations. As at the end of 2010, there were nine members increased punishment for rule violations. been further improved. Emergency response plans and on-site treatment processes have been further streamlined at various HSE Management System levels, and the contingency planning system has been improved. The emergency response command, system of operations, We proactively advanced the establishment of our Health, organisational system and institutional development have all Management and Control Systems Safety and Environment (HSE) management system to enhance been reinforced according to the principles of unified leadership, integrated HSE management. In 2010, the Company spread delegated responsibilities and inter-departmental coordination. the successful pilot experience of the HSE system across the In 2010, the Company implemented the Methods on Emergency We fulfill our corporate social responsibility and realise sustainable development through sustained improvement of Company and mobilised all the expert resources to offer guidance Response to Production and Safety Accidents, reviewed the safety the management and control system. on HSE management system promotion. We started training and environmental emergency response plans of subsidiaries, in of 100 HSE consultants, continued improvement of the HSE particular those key enterprises in exploration, refining, natural system, publicised policies such as Regulations on HAZOP Analysis, gas and pipeline sectors. The Company also strengthened and 31 HSE criteria were established or revised. On the basis of construction of the five corporate-level emergency response Internal Control and Risk Management System audit, specialised audit and outsourced audit, the Company also centres which respectively handle fire control, hazardous activated the HSE operation quality evaluation to enhance the chemicals, oil & gas pipelines, blowout control, and offshore We place a high premium on internal control and risk test, appraisal and assessment, and regular notification, and sustainable improvement mechanism for the HSE management emergency rescue. In addition, the Company introduced the management. In 2010, we focused on system improvement, strengthened supervision and inspection. The system is further system. Policy on Management of Materials Used for Emergency Response policy implementation, process optimisation, and employee enhanced. Specialised training was provided for senior executives to enhance management of materials reserved for handling training to further improve the internal control system. Based and executives on internal control, which enhanced their Quality Management System emergencies. on financial statement risk control, the Company assessed understanding of internal control and risk management. The major operational risks on the basis of operation procedures newly-built units have established internal control systems as We strictly follow the concept of putting quality above everything and streamlined risk management. We also reinforced internal planned. The Company has passed the internal control auditing and released PetroChina’s quality policy, which emphasises control execution, improved a series of policies such as audit conducted by external auditors for the past five consecutive years. honesty and quality excellence, with a quality goal of “zero 12 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 13 Focus on 2010 The newly-added OPIP and GPIP hit The natural gas business grew rapidly. a new historical high. The oil reserve We supplied 63bcm of natural gas, replacement ratio was 1.02 and the gas representing a year-on-year growth of 5.7%. reserve replacement ratio reached 2.02. The replacement ratio of oil and gas equivalent reserves stood at 1.32. The strategic adjustment and layout of Technological innovation achieved major refining and chemicals have achieved advances. Efficient E&P technologies for substantial progress. The 10Mt/a refining stable production above 40mt at the high facilities at Guangxi Petrochemical water-cut Daqing Oilfield was granted the Company, our first mega refinery in the top National Science & Technology Award. south coastal area, became operational. The West-East Gas Pipeline engineering The refining technological transformation technology was granted a first-class project of Jilin Petrochemical Company National Science & Technology Award. was also successfully commissioned, one more 10Mt/a refining base established. The world’s largest single series 1Mt/a aromatics project at Urumqi Petrochemical Company and the domestic largest single set Tarim fertiliser project were successfully put into operation. International business continued to expand. We have made substantial progress in cooperation with Russia, Qatar The new energy business progressed and Central Asia, the Venezuelan heavy steadily. The two large CBM fields in oil project, Canadian oil sands and nonQingshui and Edong were smoothly conventional natural gas projects. The completed. The Company accelerated Company also successfully started CBM development of shale gas and non-food exploration in Australia. fuel ethanol and consecutively founded the National Shale Gas Development Centre and the PetroChina Fuel Ethanol Research and Development Centre. Significant breakthroughs were made Fuel upgrading was also accelerated. in oil and gas pipeline construction. Since 1 January, 2010, all gasoline and The Line B of the Central Asia-China Gas 60% of diesel produced have met National Pipeline was completed and operational III emission standard. We successfully and the Russia-China Oil Pipeline also supplied clean fuel for the World Expo and commenced operation. the Asian Games. 14 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 15 Stakeholders Trust and support from our stakeholders is the basis for PetroChina to evolve and develop. We are dedicated to improving the quality of our development and our efficiency to maximise long-term value. We are also committed to showing our gratitude to stakeholders by delivering achievements of our development to maximise the common interests of the Company and our stakeholders so as to achieve harmonious and mutually beneficial development. Communication with stakeholders Stakeholders Targets and concerns Ways of communication Key activities Key performance indicators (1) Operate legitimately and proactively exchange ideas (1) Energy security (2) Participate in discussion on formulation of energy policies (1) Pay close attention to and participate in policy discussion of the government on (2) Stable market supply and rules, contribute enterprise experience (1) Fees and taxes paid Government (3) Contribution to local economic development (3) Listen to public concerns climate change, energy saving and emissions reduction (2) Oil and gas output (2) Promote hires of local people, and cultivate local talent (4) Steer and influence public policies (5) Increase information disclosure (1) Disclose information as the law requires (1) Convene annual general meeting Shareholders Maximise the long-term interest of shareholders (2) Activities such as Roadshow (2) Equally treat shareholders, pay more attention to opinions of medium and small shareholders Percentage of dividend distributed (3) Increase information disclosure (3) Hold dialogues with medium and small shareholders in various forms (1) Number of employees (1) Protection of rights and interests (1) Employee representatives in the Board of Directors and (1) Employee training and skill training and hold employee skill competitions (2) Ration of occupational health check (2) Career development Supervisory Committee Employees (3) Fulfillment of value (2) Trade unions formed at various level (2) Occupational health check and EAP programme (3) Employees trained (3) Promote labour localisation for overseas projects (4) Ratio of local employees in overseas (4) Safety and health (3) Convene employee representatives meeting projects (1) Improve quality management system and upgrade product technologies (2) Hold Quality Month activity (1) Conduct activities to safeguard consumers’ interests (3) Ratify Global Quality Commitment Convention for China’s Industrial Enterprises (1) Oil products supply (1) Supply safe, environment-friendly and quality (2) Publicise product quality information (4) Publicize quality guideline and quality targets (2) Natural supply Consumers products (3) Conduct activities to guarantee quality service (5) Establish unified gas station management system and conduct comprehensive inspection of gas (3) Quantity of chemicals (2) Provide quality service (4) Consult with customers and consumers stations (4) Number of gas stations (5) Increase information disclosure (6) Increase supply of clean fuel such as natural gas, high-standard gasoline and diesel, to stabilize oil and (5) Percentage of high-standard fuel gas supply to Shanghai World Expo and Guangzhou Asian Games (7) Safeguard oil supply for disaster relief and rescue as well as for agricultural production (1) Use www.energyahead.com as a transaction platform and strengthen centralized purchasing (1) Hold large cross-border business negotiation and (1) Equal cooperation and mutual benefit management to give suppliers equal competition opportunities and form a PetroChina strategic supplier technical exchange meetings (1) Total quantity of electronic Business (2) Comply with laws, rules and business ethics of system (2) Use the e-transaction platform purchases partners the host country (3) Share management expertise and technical standards (2) Highlight communication and coordination with suppliers, strengthen HSE management of contractors, (2) Number of cooperation partners (3) Strictly standardize HSE management create safe and healthy working environment for operators, improve security measures and emergency (4) Contract negotiation and routine meetings response network (1) Participate in research and discussion of related public (1) Participate in Global Compact Leaders Summit and UN Global Compact High Level Forum China and policies and industry standards (1) Contribute the Company’s experience submitted COP (2) Watch industry development trends and policy NGOs developments (2) Participate in related activities (2) Hold dialogues in various forms on issues watched by the outside Number of institutions joined (3) Promote international exchanges (3) Participate in and support international environmental standardization (3) Promote sustainable development of enterprises and (4) Participate in related forums and conferences the industry (1) Disaster relief, reconstruction of disaster-hit areas, financial support for education, poverty alleviation (2) Support and drive local economic growth with big projects (1) Protect community environment (1) Hold dialogues with local communities (3) Supply clean energy like NG to remote regions (1) Input into public welfare Community (2) Participate in community development (2) Exchange with local communities (4) Hold volunteer activities (2) Number of volunteers (3) Support public welfare (3) Increase information disclosure (5) Serve Shanghai World Expo and Guangzhou Asian Games (6) Provide jobs and training to communities 16 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 17 01 Sustainable Energy Supplies It is our mission to meet the growing socio-economic energy demand and drive economic growth and human progress. Therefore, we continue to promote technological innovation and enhance international cooperation to develop clean and renewable energies and 1. Exploration and Development provide quality service to meet market needs. Resources are the most important basis for safeguarding supply and the foundation for Year Proven crude reserves ( 106 barrels ) the Company’s sustainable development. Giving prominence to exploration of oil and gas, the Company continued to implement the “Peak Growth in Oil and Gas Reserves” Programme in 2010, and achieved multiple substantial results in major basins such 2010 11,278 as Tarim, Erdos, Qaidam and Bohai Bay. In 2010, the replacement ratio of oil and gas 2009 11,263 equivalent reserves stood at 1.32, in which the gas reserve replacement ratio reached 2.02. The newly-added proven CBM reserves exceeded 100 billion cubic meters for the 2008 11,221 first time. 2007 11,706 In 2010, the Company continued to strengthen technological and management 2006 11,618 innovation to drive the transformation of our growth pattern. The refined management of the old oilfield was deepened. We proceeded with integrated development of the new oilfields and relied on technological progress to enhance individual-well Year Proven gas reserves ( 108 ft3 ) production. The Company overcame the negative impact caused by extreme climates and produced 858 million barrels of crude. The natural gas production also continued to grow rapidly, and the marketable natural gas production for the year reached 2221.2 2010 655,030 billion cubic feet. 2009 632,440 In 2010, oil production in Daqing Oilfield Co., Ltd. continued to exceed 40mt. Oil 2008 611,890 equivalent production in Changqing Oilfield Company exceeded 35mt, of which gas output at Sulige Gas Field was more than 10bcm. 2007 571,110 2006 534,692 Year Crude oil production ( 106 barrels ) 2010 858 2009 844 2008 871 2007 846 2006 831 Year Marketable natural gas output ( 108 ft3 ) 2010 22,212 2009 21,122 2008 18,642 2007 16,277 2006 13,719 18 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 19 Case Study The Transformation of Our Growth Pattern Enhances Sustainability at Daqing Oilfield Case Study Technological and Management Innovations Lead to Efficient Development of the Three-low Sulige Gas Field In recent years, Daqing Oilfield focused on change of growth In 2010, Daqing Oilfield leveraged its comprehensive The Erdos Basin where Changqing Oilfield is located belongs In terms of management, Changqing Oilfield innovatively pattern and improving profitability, and set up the goal of advantages in management and technology to integrate to typical reservoirs with “three lows” (low permeability, low created the development mode of standardised design, building a sustainable oilfield. The oilfield strategically reshaped reservoir, recovery and ground system and advanced the fine pressure and low abundance). It would require huge investment modularised construction, digitalised management and its development guideline, which highlights long-term benefits reservoir description, efficient water flooding, measures to but be unprofitable with conventional technologies and marketised operation and the cooperative development while ensuring the stable production of 40mt. Through the exploiting potential and fine production management. As a development methods. management mode. The market competition mechanism was overall optimisation of production, investment and cost, the result, the Oilfield continued to yield 40mt in the year. introduced, reducing individual-well construction cost by 50%. oilfield aims to realise efficient development. To this end, Daqing After five years of experiment and exploration, Changqing Oilfield insists on refined management and water flooding to Oilfield developed six key technologies including well With technological and management innovation, the natural stabilise production instead of increasing production capacity. location optimisation, separate pressure production, remote gas output at Sulige gas-field, the major gas field of Changqing control, and 12 matching technologies. Major technological Oilfield, has kept increasing and surpassed 10bcm in 2010. breakthroughs have been achieved in cluster wells, horizontal Given the dramatic increase of gas consumption by midstream wells and reservoir stimulation, resulting in a shift from vertical and downstream users for heating purposes in recent years, well development to cluster and horizontal well development. Sulige gas-field played a vital role in peak shaving as the main Meanwhile, the individual-well production in the same area also source of gas supply for Beijing, Tianjin, Inner Mongolia and increases by threefold to fivefold. neighbouring cities. Case Study Application of CCS-EOR Promotes Low-carbon Development of Jilin Oilfield Case Study Great Changes Driven by Technological Innovation at Liaohe Oilfield Changling Oilfield, affiliated to PetroChina’s Jilin Oilfield, faced aseptic technology and CO2 storage and flooding technology. a world-level development challenge, as the reservoir is deep Such breakthroughs inspire the industry to accelerate buried with a high temperature and the CO2 content is as development of high CO2-bearing gas fields. On December high as 30%. From 2006, PetroChina launched Jilin Oilfield’s 15, 2010, Changling Gas-field, China’s first gas field integrating High-Carbon Dioxide Natural Gas Development and Carbon natural gas development, CO2 separation, CO2 storage and CO2 The recovery rate was around 24%, which means a large amount Gravity Drainage (SAGD) technologies which can effectively Dioxide Comprehensive Utilisation and Carbon Dioxide Drive flooding, was completed and started operation. By the end of of heavy oil resources could not be utilised when cyclic steam enhance the recovery rate to 55%~60%. Recycling wastewater Pilot Experiment. The research aims to capture CO2 from 2010, Jilin Oilfield had completed one natural gas purification stimulation technology was applied at Liaohe Oilfield. Since from thermal recovery of heavy oil has been applied, saving natural gas for flooding oil in low permeability reservoirs. This station, nine gas storage and dehydration stations, ten gas 2007, Liaohe Oilfield strengthened technological innovation 16.4 million cubic of fresh water yearly. The application of this is how CCS-EOR works. distribution stations, and 800-km gas pipelines, which could to drive the change of growth pattern, and the output was technology helps protect the ecological environment at Liaohe meet household and industrial gas demand at Jilin Oilfield and maintained over 10mt with a notable increase in profitability. Wetland and relieves the water shortage in the area. The continued and deepened research and experiment resulted in part of medium and big cities in Jilin province. Meanwhile, The oilfield worked on steam flooding and the Steam Assisted in breakthroughs in horizontal well recovery technology of the application of CCS-EOR also helps to achieve zero emission volcanic gas reservoirs, horizontal well multi-stage fracturing of CO2 at the oilfield. technology of sandstone gas reservoirs, CO2 separation and 20 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 21 2. Refining and Chemicals 3. International Cooperation In the face of international oil price fluctuations at a high level in 2010, the Company leveraged its advantage in integrated management of refining and chemicals businesses and effectively responded to the challenge. We further promoted refined Year Crude runs ( 106 barrels ) management driven by benchmarking management and optimised resource utilisation. We also organised equipment maintenance and commissioning of new utilities in an orderly 2010 904 manner. The refining product structure was also improved. R&D of 2009 829 new chemical products progressed smoothly, which numbered up to 55 types, providing customers with quality, environment2008 850 friendly and diversified solutions. All gasoline produced has met 2007 824 the National III emission standard and the percentage of highgrade diesel rose by 17% over 2009. For the year, total crude oil 2006 785 processed was 904 million barrels; total refined product output was 79.45 million tons; total production of chemicals was 18.06 million tons, representing a year-on-year increase of 9.1%, 8.5% and 5.0% respectively. 23 technical and economic indicators Year Ethylene production ( 104 tons ) recorded best performance. We respect and support the energy policies of host countries production sharing contracts and joint assessment have achieved 2010 361 and proactively join hands with partners in leveraging our new progress in fields such as CBM, shale gas and tight gas. Significant progress was achieved in the structural integration of technological and capital advantages to develop oil and gas the refining sector. 60 sets of facilities were completed, increasing 2009 299 Foreign trade continued to develop fast. With long-term contracts, resources of the host countries and strive for a stable supply in the the refining capacity by 14.6 mt/a. The 10m/a refining project 2008 268 global oil and gas market. spot procurement, financing trade and various other activities, at Guangxi Petrochemical Company was fully completed and PetroChina organised import and export trades in a timely started operation, which has great implications for improving oil 2007 258 In 2010, our international business operations made significant manner to actualise resource adjustment and guarantee oil and products supply in southwest China. Technological transformation progress and witnessed a continued expansion. The Company gas supplies. The Singapore Petroleum Company is running 2006 207 in both Liaoyang Petrochemical Company and Jilin Petrochemical increased cooperation with the host countries and international smoothly and the Osaka refinery project successfully completed Company was completed. The 1Mt/a aromatics project at Urumqi peers and signed a number of oil and gas cooperation business transactions, which has basically established our oil and Petrochemical Company, the Tarim fertiliser project and the agreements, as evidenced by the big stride achieved in the gas operations hub in Asia. relocation and transformation project of Qingyang Petrochemical Russia-China project, Central Asia-China gas cooperation, the Company were all successfully commissioned at one time. By the Junin-4 heavy oil project, the Canada oil sands projects as well as end of 2010, the Company had basically built six 10Mt/a refining the non-conventional natural gas project. The Company acquired bases, four 1Mt/a ethylene bases, and two aromatics production Australian Arrow jointly with Shell. The Rumaila project in Iraq Case Study PetroChina Highlights Bio-diversity bases, which enhanced its refining products supply capacity. successfully achieved the target of increasing daily output by 10%, in Operation in Chad honouring its commitment to the Iraqi government. The Halfaya project completely took over the oilfield production operations. Line B of the Central Asia-China Gas Pipeline commenced Our Chad project is located in the savanna of south-central transmission. The Russia-China Oil Pipeline was completed and Chad, where it is hot and ecologically fragile, but rich in operational. For the year, PetroChina produced 13.76 million tons biodiversity. In rainy seasons, our operation area becomes of oil equivalent in its overseas operations. a paradise for animals. In order to protect these wild animals, the Policy of Wildlife Protection was formulated As we accelerate overseas business, we also seek broader business to enhance employees’ awareness of biological diversity cooperation with foreign peers in China. In 2010, 35 contracts conservation. of oil and gas cooperation were executed and net oil equivalent production in these projects was 3.015 million tons. Oil production A comprehensive environmental protection programme in the Zhaodong Project, Dagang Oilfield, continued to remain was developed during the construction of a pipeline stable. The ground work for the Luojiazhai gas field under the from Ronier oilfield to N’Djamena. Trench excavation, Northeast Sichuan natural gas project, a cooperation project in underground pipeline construction, fine soil backfilling, partnership with Chevron, has already started. Gas production cable laying and backfilling were all well-organised and exceeded 3,400 million cubic meters in the Changbei natural gas carefully monitored in real-time so as to prevent large project in partnership with Shell. At the same time, we proactively animals from falling into the trenches, and excavations explored cooperation in the sector of non-conventional oil and were backfilled immediately to ensure the safety of wild gas development. We innovated in our cooperation model. The animals. 22 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 23 4. Oil and Gas Supply Case Study Serving Agricultural Development Rapid socioeconomic development and continuous robust recession in the first half of 2010, and growing market demand In 2010, droughts and floods hit many places in China and affected regions in Sichuan and more than 300 employees market demands for oil and gas have provided PetroChina with in the second half, the Company proactively regulated its pace caused negative impact on agricultural production. To support carried the refined products by hand or on their shoulders to broad development space, and also lifted the responsibilities of sales and scientifically organised resources allocation. In the agricultural production, PetroChina organised a campaign in provide refueling service to drought-fighting machines at the and pressures on the Company to ensure stable and reliable extraordinary periods of droughts taking place in the southwest, 4,500 gas stations located in the top ten grain producing areas farming fields. market supplies. PetroChina observed the guideline that calls for the Yushu earthquake in Qinghai, the Zhouqu mudslide in Gansu in the planting, harvest and management periods of summer. “appreciating the big picture, stabilising supply, ensuring good and floods in some provinces and regions, as well as ploughing The Company took measures such as establishing green quality and providing sincere services” to ensure proper market in spring, planting, harvest and management in summer, the channels for agricultural machinery, an oil delivery hotline, supplies and to achieve simultaneous social and economic Company took a series of measures to deliver oil to the affected and an indication service for drivers to ensure stable supply for development. areas, ensuring timely oil products supply. The Company agricultural needs. What we did has won high recognition from enhanced organisation and successfully completed clean fuel the Ministry of Agriculture. (1) Supply of Refined Products supply to the Shanghai World Expo and the Guangzhou Asian Games. Responding to the diesel shortage in the fourth quarter In southwest China which seriously suffered from droughts, we The Company strictly complies with the Chinese government’s in some regions, the Company took urgent measures to raise the provided sufficient oil products for anti-drought purposes and policies on price, quantity and quality of oil products in an diesel-gasoline ratio, organised imports and optimised allocation delivered oil and water to the fields to help farmers minimise attempt to create a fair and quality consumption climate and to of resources. Within the year, the Company supplied 120mt of the losses. We opened a green passage in the hardest-hit provide clean and efficient products. refined oil products in China, representing an increase of 19.3%. regions like Chuxiong and Baoshan to ensure timely refueling for those machines used for combating droughts. The Company The Company advanced the construction of top-quality service also delivered oil by small quantity to the first line of the stations in a bid to improve service quality. Faced with the market drought fight. We increased delivery of oil products to the remote mountainous regions where few stations are located. Specialised research teams were established in the four hardestCase Study Chongqing Marketing Company Improves Service Quality PetroChina Chongqing Marketing Company always puts provide citizens with breakfast, continued its vehicle trunk plan customers first, and promoted the standardisation management to meet customer needs, and conducted activities of providing of gas stations. It continued to improve service quality to cultural and value-added services, providing services such as (2) Supply of Natural Gas fulfill its commitment to honesty, measurement and social drinking water, anti-cold and anti-heat stroke medicines, and responsibility. The convenience store added fast-food service to pre-paid phone cards. gas supply in Beijing and the Bohai-Rim regions. Gas storage Natural gas is a high-quality, clean and efficient energy. Promoting development and enhancing efficient supply of natural gas are depots at Huabei and Dagang completed construction. The not only requirements presented by development of a low-carbon capacity of natural gas supply and peak shaving of PetroChina has economy and construction of an environmentally friendly society, further enhanced. In the year, we supplied 63bcm of natural gas, but also an important pathway for sustainable development of representing an increase of 5.7% over 2009. the Company. PetroChina has long considered development and utilisation of natural gas as a fundamental business of strategic importance. Faced with rapidly rising market demand, the Company strengthened coordination of production, transportation, sales Year Natural gas sales ( 108 m3 ) and inventories and optimized operation of pipeline networks, which ensured stable gas supply to household consumers, public 2010 630 utilities and key industrial users. Construction of key projects was advanced smoothly as planned. Line B of the Central Asia-China 2009 596 Gas Pipeline started operation. The Zhongwei-Huangpi section of the eastern section of the Second West-East Gas Pipeline was 2008 511 completed and commissioned. The natural gas from Central Asia helped ease the gas shortage in central China for the first 2007 436 time. The Yulin-Liangxiang section of the Third Shaanxi-Beiiing Gas Pipeline was commissioned, further safeguarding natural 2006 357 24 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 25 Special Topic Multiple Measures Taken to Increase Natural Gas Supply Capacity 5. New Energies Natural gas exploration and development. During the 11th Fivebuilt pipelines reached 14.8 thousand km, connecting Central PetroChina has considered development and utilisation of new PetroChina places a high premium on new energies development year Plan period, PetroChina enhanced natural gas exploration Asia, and four gas production areas with 25 provinces and energies as strategic measures of great importance to cope and consecutively established the National Shale Gas and development, and has formed four large-scale gas production municipalities . By the end of 2010, total length of the natural gas with challenges in the energy and environment sectors, and to Development Centre and the PetroChina Fuel Ethanol Research areas, Changqing, Tarim, Qinghai and southwest, with production pipelines operated by PetroChina had reached of 32.8 thousand promote sustainable social and economic development. In 2010, and Development Centre to speed up R&D of shale gas and noncapacity of over 2000bcm, up 140% over the 10th Five-year Plan km, whose annual transmission capacity achieved 199.8bcm. the Company continued to strengthen development of CBM. food fuel ethanol. Meanwhile, the Company continued to deepen period. The Company also accelerated development and utilisation Meanwhile, PetroChina also accelerated construction of gas The two large CBM fields in Qingshui and Edong had a 1.3bcm/a industrial testing and resource evaluation of bio-diesel, oil shale of non-conventional natural gas such as CBM and shale gas. storage facilities. Both Huabei and Dagang storage depots have production capacity and produced 280 million cubic meters of CBM and oil sands and conduct research on utilisation of geothermal completed construction, enhancing our peak shaving capacity. in the year. PetroChina acquired Australian Arrow jointly with Shell energy and water soluble gas. Resource imports. The Company proactively imported gas which marked a strategic entry by the Company in the overseas resources from other countries. Line A and B of Central Asia-China During the 11th Five-year Plan period, PetroChina’s supply of CBM sector. We also pushed forward the development of shale Gas Pipeline were consecutively operational. We also sped up natural gas had been growing at a two-digit pace, rising from less gas. Construction commenced at Changning and Zhaotong shale construction of natural gas terminals. The LNG projects in Jiangsu than 30bcm at the end of the 10th Five-year Plan period to 63bcm. gas demonstration areas. The agreement on joint assessment of and Dalian is proceeded smoothly and the Tangshan LNG project This is essential in optimising China’s energy mix, restructuring the Fushun-Yongchuan shale gas was smoothly implemented. started construction. By the commissioning of these terminals, service industry, improving the atmosphere and achieving lowLNG can be brought in from offshore. carbon development. The construction of pipeline network and gas storage depots. During the 11th Five-year Plan period, the Company accelerated construction of trunk pipeline networks and the length of newlySketch Map of Major Natural Gas Pipelines Operated by PetroChina in 2010 Gas pipelines built LNG terminal under construction 26 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 27 02 Safe and Clean Production and Operation The most important resources in the world are human beings and the natural environment we rely on. The ideas of caring for life and protecting the environment have been integrated into our working motto. We stick to the principles that give weight to a people-oriented, prevention-driven approach, and advocate total participation and continuous improvement to pursue zero injury, zero pollution and zero accident. We promote operations based on 1. Climate Change safe, clean and economic production and strive to establish a resource-saving, environmentfriendly and production-safety enterprise. Climate change is a major global issue that has attracted the smooth operation, the annual reduction of N2O emission from attention of the international community. As a socially responsible which was up to an equivalent of 13 million tons of CO2. The Phase energy enterprise, PetroChina has put green development at a I and Phase II of CDM Project in the Tarim Oilfield for recovery of strategic level and placed a high premium on controlling and associated gas are progressing steadily and achieved significant reducing GHG emissions to slow down climate change by taking social and economic benefits. active measures to reduce and sequestrate carbon. (4) Participation in Carbon Reduction Discussions (1) Developing Low-carbon Energy The Company also attaches great importance to participating PetroChina took an active attitude for development of natural gas, in domestic and foreign discussions and exchanges on cutting coalbed methane, biomass energy and other low-carbon energies. GHG emissions to promote energy conservation and emissions We produce and supply clean fuel products. Wind energy, solar reduction within the industry and the state. At the experience power and other renewable energies were also utilised in areas exchange meeting on combining industrialisation and with the necessary conditions. informatisation to save energy and reduce emissions, PetroChina shared its practices and experience on such a combination. (2) Forestry Carbon Sequestration PetroChina Liaoyang Petrochemical Company and Harbin Petrochemical Company have become model pilot enterprises PetroChina actively supported and participated in the Carbon in combining industrialisation and informatisation to save energy Sequestration Forest Project organised by the China Green Carbon and cut emissions. Fund. In 2010, a number of the carbon sequestration projects, including a 400-acre forest in Fangshan District, Beijing, were successfully carried out. In addition, the Company joined hands with CNPC, donating RMB 50 million in setting up the China Green Carbon Sequestration Fund on August 31, 2010, which further drives the development of forestry carbon sequestration in China. (3) Enhanced Management of GHG Emissions PetroChina attached significant importance to carbon emission and carbon footprints during its production activities and adopted multiple measures to minimize greenhouse gas emissions. In 2010, the Company further promoted surveillance and statistics of GHG emissions and promulgated the Technical Standards on Formulation of GHG Emissions List. The Company also developed statistics analysis software and intensified training of employees. In 2010, PetroChina achieved significant progresses in two of its Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) projects. The N2O facilities of the CDM project at Liaoyang Petrochemical Company are in 28 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 29 Case Study Green and Low-carbon Development of Tarim Oilfield Faced with vulnerable desert eco-environment and malign conversion and consumption, accelerated energy-saving natural conditions, Tarim Oilfield pursues the building of a safe, resource-efficient and environment-friendly enterprise transformation of six systems such as oil recovery, and transmission. A number of technological transformation 2. Foundation Management and honours its commitments to environmental protection projects were carried out for the purpose of energy wherever it operates. It places a high premium on safe and conservation. Apart from these efforts, the oilfield also environmentally-friendly production through the whole promoted the use of solar energy abundant in the basin. The oil and gas industry involves high risks and potential hazards. hundred HSE consultants. The Company also strengthened process of operation. An incentive-based appraisal system The oilfield completed the preliminary testing of solar In recent years, the extension of the industry chain, expansion process safety management and promoted use of the HAZOP for all employees was adopted to encourage the building of energy-based irrigation of desert roads. Throughout the of business areas and frequent natural disasters have presented analysis method. a green oilfield. year, the oilfield saved 50 tons of coal equivalent and 500 a series of safety and environmental challenges. Accordingly, thousand cubic meters of water, achieving all the energyPetroChina devoted great efforts to strengthen HSE management (3) Enhanced Management of Grassroots Risk Recovery of Associated Gas. On the basis of recovery of saving indicators set in the 11th Five-year Plan. through system construction, management optimisation and the firstand second-category natural gas, Tarim Oilfield In 2010, the Company adopted the methods of safety observation strengthening of training programmes. In 2010, we continued outsourced recovery of the third-category natural gas in Wastewater Reinjection. To speed up wastewater and communication, personal safety plan, position-based training to deepen the construction of the HSE management system the wells trial extracted in remote places and with poor reinjection and mud recovery, Hade Oilfield, China’s largest needs matrix and HSE evaluation process indicators, which and focused on enhancing basic management at grassroots to supportive conditions to promote contractual energy desert oilfield, realized 100% of wastewater reinjection, provided effective methods and tools to practice line responsibility advance safety and environmental protection, resulting in overall management and professional operation of environmental which further advanced the clean development of Tarim and encourage inclusive participation. The methods and tools improvement in two areas. protection facilities. In 2010, Tarim Oilfield realised zero Oilfield. for risk management of frontline production and operation such gas flaring, and recovered one million cubic metres of (1) Implementing Safety and Environmental Protection as Two-Documents-One-Table, Four Haves-One Card, operation associated gas per day, which is enough for daily life Advocating Low-carbon Behaviours. A low-carbon lifestyle licensing, work safety analysis, process hazard analysis, locking, Accountability System consumption by a population of three million. What is more starts with awakening of people’s awareness. The activities and visual identification and safety visualisation, were improved significant is it protected the vulnerable eco-environment held by Tarim Oilfield such as Green Team and Green Family In January of 2010, Mr. Jiang Jiemin, the Chairman of the Board, and promoted. We provided guidance to employees in identifying of the Taklimakan Desert and resulted in conspicuous guided the teams and stations at grassroots levels to make signed the Safety and Environment Accountability Pledge with operational risks, standardised the management process of nonsocial and economic benefits. The project has successfully their behaviours more environment-friendly and attract each of the persons in charge of affiliated enterprises for the third routine operations, and improved protection measures for highregistered with the UN as a CDM project. their attention to details, encouraging them to do small consecutive year. The Pledge defined the areas of responsibilities, risk operations, which raised the level of management at source things and protect the environment in each and every unit accountability goals and accident-control indices and included the and in process. Energy-saving Transformation. In 2010, Tarim Oilfield and family so that they can follow a low-carbon way of same in the annual performance evaluation of senior executives, continued to save energy in the process of development, consumption. concretely assigning annual targets of safety and environmental (4) Establishment of a Long-term Effective Mechanism for protection to top managers and supervisors of each division at Management of Potential Hazards all levels. Such targets were also cascaded down to each of the employees. In addition, overseas anti-terrorism activities were In 2010, the Company continued to enhance potential hazards included in the Safety and Environment Accountability Pledge. management. We carried out 3,065 environmental hazards control projects in 69 enterprises. Specific audits were performed for key (2) Advancing Full-scale HSE Management System hazards in 17 enterprises. By the end of 2010, the Company had finished 2,606 hazards control projects with overall satisfactory PetroChina kept promoting the establishment of the HSE performances. management system and strengthening integrated management. In 2010, on the basis of having verified and confirmed cooperative (5) Ongoing Promotion Activities to Establish Frontline Green pilot unit projects, we synthesised and promoted the successful Teams experience and best practices of the pilot units and provided guidance to the HSE work of ten enterprises. Communication The Company continued to launch activities related to “frontabout HSE was also strengthened to foster a safety culture, line green teams” (at workshops and plants) at individual units through media coverage, a paper competition, and experience of production, refining, chemical, pipelines and marketing. We sharing. New members of the leading group of each enterprise strongly advocated PetroChina’s HSE culture and philosophy, received HSE training. We also launched the training of one organised and managed production operations in strict 30 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 31 compliance with the HSE standards, installed and used in enterprises. PetroChina devotes great efforts to foster and (2) Emission Reduction environment-friendly facilities according to the HSE standards, promote its unique safety culture. The Company included the and enhanced standardised management capabilities of field development of a safety culture in its overall plan of corporate In 2010, the Company broke down the pollutants reduction plants, and conducted on-site examination of key enterprises’ environmental protection on the frontline. In 2010, the Company culture development. Through highlighting safety concepts, indicators, deepened implementation of the ten emissionspollutants emissions statistics and online monitoring equipment. continued to encourage establishment of “frontline green teams”. cutting projects, conducted a specialised audit of operational The Company accelerated establishment of a pollutants reduction principles, rules, adages and values, PetroChina continuously effectiveness of key emissions-cutting projects, enhanced system, started the circular economic pilot work and enhanced enriched the content of a safety culture to guide the safety (6) Fostering the Safety Culture inspection and surveillance of desulfurisation of coal-fired power evaluation of effects achieved in reducing pollutant emissions. practices of its employees. Accordingly, safety and environment A safety culture characterised by employees’ “Self Management” operations are taken to a point where such operations are selfis the ultimate goal for safety and environmental protection motivated and managed among individuals. Case Study An Environmentally-friendly Project: the 10Mt/a Refining Facilities at Guangxi Petrochemical Company 3. Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction The 10Mt/a refining facilities of Guangxi Petrochemical The project adopted the internationally advanced and Company are located in the city of Qinzhou in Guangxi. The environment-friendly process that is wholly hydrogenated, with location is close to environmentally beautiful Beibuwan Bay, the oil products all reaching the Euro III Emission standards, 70% which is a nature reserve inhabited by sousa chinensis and of which reached the Euro IV Emission standards. A three-tier (1) Energy Conservation mangrove. We put environmental protection above everything water pollution prevention and control system was set up, and in design and construction of the project, strictly following 70% of wastewater is recycled. PetroChina regards it as a long-term strategic task to save In 2010, he Company continued to enhance energy-saving, the clean and environment-friendly concept to ensure the energy and reduce emissions. In 2010, the Company achieved as evidenced by the 75 energy saving projects such as saving environment-friendliness of this project. significant results in reduction of energy consumption and power during the mechanical oil recovery system, technological emissions through optimised structural adjustment, key energytransformation of the heavy oil steam injection system, saving projects, enhanced energy saving surveillance, deepening optimisation of the steam and condensate system, and energydevelopment of resource-efficient enterprises, and improved saving transformation of furnaces. Meanwhile, the Company utilisation of energy and water resources. In 2010, PetroChina increased evaluation of the process and efficacy of the projects conserved energy equivalent to 1.73 million tons of standard coal implemented, and continued to evaluate the energy-saving equivalent (TCE) and 28.65 million cubic metres of water, higher surveillance of key energyand water-consuming equipment than the targets set for the year. and facilities such as oil extractors, motors, furnaces, boilers and transformers used in oil and gas production, refining, chemicals The Company revised the Regulations on Management of Energyand pipeline transmission, to provide a scientific basis for rationally and Water-saving Statistics and Regulations on Management of consuming energy and water. Energyand Water-saving Surveillance to improve and standardise statistics and surveillance. Case Study Research on Energy-saving and Emissions-cutting Technologies To drive reduction of energy consumption and emissions, the difficulties in technologies for optimising the refining energy Company conducted technological research on the optimisation system and share successful experiences in applying the energy of the refining energy system to realise rationalisation of the system optimisation technologies. Through demonstration heat exchange process, maximisation of equipment efficiency, project training and promotion project practices, the Company and optimisation of operating conditions and system operation. established a technical team for energy system optimisation. The Company carried out specialised technological exchanges The concept of refined management and systemised energy such as demonstrating best practices and case studies on saving was widely and deeply ingrained in people’s minds, methods of optimising the energy systems of refining, ethylene resulting in tangible benefits from refining energy saving. projects and public utilities, to discuss the innovations and 32 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 33 Case Study Clean Production at Jilin Oilfield 4. Safe Production In 2010, PetroChina advocated the principles of “People-oriented (2) Enhanced Emergency Response Management Safety Management” and “Safety Comes from Responsibility, PetroChina Jilin Oilfield started operation in the 1950s. Its Establishing green operation teams. Jilin Oilfield made active Design, Quality and Prevention”. At the same time, the Company The Company piloted the emergency response plan for hazardous operation area covers the Songhua River, Nenjiang River and efforts to establish green operation teams and worked hard on has taken production safety as the core value of the enterprises chemicals. The frontline emergency response plan and on-site nature reserves such as Momoge, Chagan Lake, and Langyaba. promoting green operation. At present, four grassroots teams or and implemented the concept in all sectors of production and response card were formulated in close combination with the As the oilfield entered the middle and late stage of water stations under Jilin Oilfield have been honoured as Green Teams, operation to achieve ongoing improvements in production operation procedures of facilities and position, making it more injection-based development and increased frequency of with 16 grassroots units passing the clean production audit by safety. Death rate related to accidents was 1.02 person/100million feasible and practical. The Company also reviewed the safety and oil-water well operations, Jilin Oilfield attached more weight the Jilin Provincial Department of Environmental Protection. working hours and the overall accident rate was 0.0120/1million environmental emergency response plan for the trial operation of to reducing environmental impact and creating advanced The Yingtai oil recovery plant and thermal power plant were working hours. the Russia-China Oil Pipeline’s section between Mohe and Daqing development of an eco-oilfield. honoured as an Environment-friendly Enterprise. to guarantee smooth operation of the Pipeline under the extreme Safety supervision during the Shanghai World Expo and conditions of empty pipeline, low temperature and full load. The Development and application of clean production Ecological restoration. Jilin Oilfield carried out environmental Guangzhou Asian Games was also ensured. The Company Methods on Emergency Response to Production and Safety Accidents technologies. Seven clean production technologies including impact evaluation of 78 engineering projects, and 48 had been organised two corporate-wide safety inspections and conducted was implemented, and the enterprises were required to submit pressurised well-workover were developed and applied. After verified and confirmed in terms of environmental protection, specialised checks for long-distance pipeline construction, their safety and environmental emergency response plans for four rounds of upgrading, the pressurised well-repairing device Jilin Oilfield took active measures to repair and construct the operation of refining facilities, and offshore operation. Plus, the review, which focused on key enterprises in exploration, refining, sees higher efficiency. Pressurised well-workover operation was embankment of the Songhua River, restoring the eco-system of Company conducted and promoted HAZOP analysis and the natural gas and pipeline sectors. The Company also strengthened applied to 1,961 wells, reducing wastewater discharge by 3.02 128,000 square metres of vegetation. clean-out operation of oil tanks by machine. construction of the five corporate-level emergency response million cubic metres, with an input-output ratio of 1:4.5, which centers which respectively handle fire control, hazardous chemicals, not only solved production difficulties, but also realised clean (1) Transportation Safety oil & gas pipelines, blowout control, and offshore emergency production and reduction of emissions. rescue. In addition, the Company introduced the Policy on The Company further strengthened management over traffic Management of Materials Used for Emergency Response to enhance safety by implementing local management systems and management of materials reserved for handling emergencies, strengthening supervision responsibilities for traffic safety of implemented the Law on Protection of Oil and Gas Pipelines of the passengers. In addition, great efforts have been devoted to People’s Republic of China, organised corporate-level exercises on enhance safety concepts and technical training of drivers to handling long-distance oil and gas pipeline emergencies to test eliminate severe traffic accidents. the emergency rescue capability. 34 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 35 (3) Contractor Safety Special Topic Enhanced Pipeline Safety The safety management of contractors is an integral part of the Company’s HSE management system. While we attach The oil and gas pipeline is flammable, prone to explosion and safe pipeline operation, shifting our management from passive to importance to qualification of contractors, we also strengthen has high pressure. It involves multiple risks in its operation, such proactive response. safety management and provide safety training to increase as erosion, fatigue, natural and geological disasters, irregular coordination and communication for the purpose of raising their construction, and drilling holes to steal oil and gas, which are Improving emergency response ability. The Company has safety awareness and management expertise. We also improve all likely to cause leakage or even explosion and burning of the released the plan of establishing the maintenance system of security measures and development of an emergency rescue pipeline, thus human casualties and environmental pollution. pipelines and storage infrastructures. 13 maintenance centres network to create a safe and healthy environment for contractors’ PetroChina is now operating 50-thousand-plus km of oil and have been built while 35 emergency teams and 19 maintenance operations. Despite our safety efforts, there still occurred a serious gas pipelines, covering the northeast, north, east, centre and teams as well as one training centre have been established. A explosion and fire at the crude pipeline in Dalian on July 16, 2010. northwest of China. Therefore, we raised safety management of maintenance system covering the pipeline network has taken Strict lessons were learnt. The Company has taken measures to pipelines to a very important level. shape. In 2010, we launched the contingency response drills translate these lessons into institutional ways of controlling risk, on pipeline emergencies. We combined video demonstrations, and further strengthens production safety with contractors. Promoting pipeline integrity management. Pipeline integrity 3-D animated simulations, and actual emergency exercises, management is a comprehensive and integrated management of involving the whole response process from pipeline leak, to (4) Security in Overseas Operations all the factors that affect the pipeline integrity, which means that emergency handling, corporate emergency response, command, all the risk factors in the feasibility studies, design, construction coordination, information disclosure and resumption of PetroChina attaches great importance to the security of its agencies, Chinese embassies and security agencies in countries and operation of the pipeline must be identified and measured operations. overseas employees. The Company established a sophisticated where the Company operates. Furthermore, the Company so that corresponding measures can be taken to reduce risks and anti-terrorism management system. The leading team provides stepped up assessment of safety risks, improved emergency Implementing the Law on Protection of Oil and Gas Pipelines of the pipeline risks can be controlled within an acceptable frame. necessary emergency response resources and establishes evacuation plans, organised trainings related to anti-terrorism the People’s Republic of China. As a constructor and operator of oil Through continued innovation and improvement, the Company information systems for security management in overseas and emergency handling, and issued safety warnings in a timely and gas pipelines, PetroChina conducted learning, communication has gradually developed and promoted the pipeline integrity operations. In addition, PetroChina established cooperation manner. In 2010, no accidents involving physical injuries of and implementation activities and developed our own rules, management system and supporting technical standards as well links and emergency response systems with local governmental employees occurred at PetroChina’s overseas projects. regulations and operational procedures on protection of pipelines as business documentation systems that are compatible with the actual conditions of PetroChina’s pipelines. This system has to ensure that all the business operations are within the law. played a vital role in the safe operation of the pipelines. After PetroChina strengthened operational management of pipelines the Wenchuan earthquake, we relied on the pipeline integrity to safeguard pipelines being constructed and the operational and management and resumed oil transmission of the Lanzhoustable supply of oil and gas. In addition, the Company went to Chengdu-Chongqing pipeline within 24 hours, which served as a the communities and villages along the pipeline to communicate lifeline for the disaster relief and rescue. The Company had finished legal, safety and environmental protection knowledge to enhance Case Study Liaohe Oilfield Fighting Floods and Protecting Environment their awareness of pipeline protection in accordance with the law risk identification and measurement of the 39-thousand-km pipeline and ranked the risk factors, and determined the schedule and create a favourable social environment for safe operation of of risk re-measurement based on the evaluation results to ensure PetroChina’s oil and gas pipelines. In the summer of 2010, many provinces and regions of China degrees on our production and operations. In mid July and suffered heavy rain, causing negative impact to different late August, Liaohe Oilfield was hit by an unprecedented flood, with part of the oilfield and a large part of the surrounding area immersed in water. The maximum depth of water in the floodstruck area reached a record high of 3.6 metres. Liaohe Oilfield put environmental protection first, relied on a solid basis of safety and environmental protection and took effective measures to fight floods and resume operations. During the flooding period, Liaohe Oilfield closed more than 2,000 wells, conducted tours of inspection and took emergency response actions, resulting in zero casualties and zero pollution. Therefore, the national wetland reserve was maintained intact and loss of output was minimised. 36 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 37 03 “People-Oriented” —— Employee Development 1. Employee’s Rights PetroChina consistently adheres to the concept of “people orientation”. We respect and maintain the legitimate rights of our employees to promote localisation and Employees are our most precious resource at PetroChina. Our values are based on a integration of diverse cultures, and make efforts to solve the problems of great concern “people-oriented” approach and we take employees’ overall development as one of to employees. We aim to guarantee that all employees can share in the achievement of the key objectives of corporate development. We strive to achieve optimisation of both corporate development. corporate values and employees’ benefits. 12.09% (1) Rights Protection PetroChina strictly adheres to the Labour Law of the People’s Republic of China, Labour 60.98% 11.99% Contract Law of People’s Republic of China, rules and regulations of the jurisdictions where our shares are listed, and we rigorously fulfill international conventions endorsed by the Chinese government, as well as the laws and regulations of where we carry out our 8.37% operations. We have established a well-developed employment management system 3.95% composed of labour contracts, remunerations, insurance and benefits, performance 2.62% evaluation, reward and penalties, vocational training and vacation. We place a high premium on employee’s interests and make maximum efforts to protect the legitimate rights and interests of current and retired employees in a bid to develop an interest Management staff sharing mechanism for the company and the employees with the purpose of creating Technicians harmony between the two sides. Operating staff We provide equal opportunities and fair treatment to all employees regardless of their Sales staff nationality, ethnicity, race, gender, religion and culture. We strictly prohibit employment Financial staff and use of child labour and resist all forms of forced labour. Male and female employees Others enjoy equal rights in the company. Additionally, the Company has always aimed to promote employment of local residents, females and ethnic minorities in an effort to increase job opportunities for local communities. By the end of 2010, international and local employees had made up 94% of the Company’s overseas total employees. 22.95% Case study “Five-Small Project” Creating a Harmonious Micro Environment for Grassroots Employees 52.10% Following the concept of “people orientation”, the company was very active 22.74% in carrying out the “Five-Small projects” in an attempt to create a harmonious working and living environment for grassroots employees. Given the large 2.21% number of enterprises spread across a large area where employees face relatively difficult working and living conditions, Jiangsu sales company tried hard to Masters degree and above create favourable conditions for employees by establishing small cafeterias, small University bathrooms, small vegetable gardens, small libraries and small entertainment centres at grassroots depots and stations to make it more convenient for College employees to work, learn and live. Henan sales company also increased input Secondary technical school into employees’ working and living conditions and facilities by developing or below small gardens, small cafeterias, small bathrooms, small dormitories and small playgrounds at gas stations to enrich employees’ life in leisure time. Sichuan sales company also increased input into the “Five-Small project” while improving the overall conditions of gas stations, where employees can have access to delicious food in the small kitchen, hot water provided by solar power water heaters and small air-conditioned dormitories. 38 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 39 2. Training and Cultivation (2) Democratic Participation Attaching great importance to democratic management, Talent is the core competence for the company. Applying the training agencies at home and abroad to participate in training in Case Study A Female Team Safeguarding Gas Supply participation and supervision, the Company established trade modern enterprise training concept, the company improved foreign languages, international business, business administration, unions as well as the Democratic Management System and its training centres and networks to provide training to all the law and other specialties. This broadens their international vision Factory Affairs Publicity System through employee representatives employees with the purpose of developing a knowledgeable and increases their competence in international operations so that associations, highlighting the key points of the company and staff and a learning enterprise to achieve positive interaction they can grow in all respects. In 2010, the company intensified improving the democracy in corporate governance. The gas distribution station of PetroChina Southwest between employee growth and corporate development. In training of international talent and trained 124 people in foreign Oil and Gas Field provides 80% of gas consumed for 2010, the Headquarters of the Company organised 133 training languages such as Arabic, Spanish and Persian, and sent 190 core The company and all its affiliates have developed a variety programmes, with an attendance of over 20,000 people. More business executives to the US and Russia to receive education and industrial and household purposes, and this supply of channels of communication with employees and adhered than 95% of the senior technicians and employees working in key technical training. Ninety four employees strengthened their will team is composed of 12 women. They make stabilising to democratic procedures, through convening an employee positions received training in the year. power and improved competence through participation in the gas supply their priority and their day to day work. All representative congress, democratic discussions, and employee overseas project leaders training programme and overseas project the work is well performed thanks to their honed skills, representative meetings. In this way, employees’ opinions were Every year, the company selects a group of excellent managers management and core technicians training programme. sophisticated equipment, refined management, and solicited, and employees were encouraged to participate in the and key technicians and sends them to reputable universities and attention to detail. The jurisdiction-based maintenance company’s operations and management. In addition, the labour and cross check of the 150 units of equipment ensured coordination mechanism was improved to achieve harmonious their safe operation. The team management in terms labour relations. of such aspects as safety, learning, measurement and material served as a strong pillar, creating a closed-loop (3) Remuneration and Motivation horizontal and vertical management. The performance measurement and remuneration system have As the base of skilled operatives and excellent team been further improved, with the aim to build a remuneration managers in the Chengdu gas distribution system, structure that can highlight the value and performance of improvement of the station’s employee skills and balance employees in different positions so that every employee can of their skills were treated with high importance. The realise their self-worth. In recent years, the company has allocated station intensively trained and rectified the areas that resources towards employees working in the R&D area, on the were prone to negligence and mistakes by means of frontline and in harsh environments, thereby gradually improving the staff answering one question per day, taking an oral the salary for such positions. The company also widely conducts examination per week and a written examination per activities such as selection of employee models, outstanding month, so that learning could become a habit, helping workers and innovative youth talent to grant spiritual and material others a pleasure and competition a constant. rewards to employees. In 2010, we named some grassroots teams by the names of their team leaders in honour of the teams’ and Thanks to their outstanding performance, they won employees’ contribution to the company’s development. dozens of honours for Customer Satisfaction Star Service Station granted by the China Association for Quality, Case study Fushun Petrochemical Company’s Training of Frontline Employees and Model Position of Female Employee Undertaking an Enterprise granted by the All China Federation of Trade Unions. In 2010, this team was again honoured as a Red Flag Team by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission. Fushun Petrochemical Company stresses training of the frontline The company improved its training mechanism with four levels: employees, who amount to 66% of the company’s total. company, factory, workshop and grassroots teams. In addition, Through improvement of the training system and incentive the company also launched its training-certification integration mechanism, the operational skills of the frontline employees project. were effectively honed and a group of excellent operations technicians was developed. The company established a skill training performance measurement system and an incentive mechanism aiming at The company established a learning and training centre developing each working team into a frontier of skill training. and developed a training network that covered all kinds of The incentive mechanism was enhanced with improvement of work. Based on skill training systems and work processes, the a substantiated reward systems and links of skill certification to company also specified job profiles, work targets, training salary and remuneration. The evaluation system for technicians programmes and measurement criteria, turning the company was dominated by examination and supported by evaluation, into an open training classroom for the frontline employees. with evaluation and certification separated. 40 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 41 Case study PetroChina Joining Hands with Partners in Training Iraqi Employees Case study Tarim Oilfield’s EAP Creating a Psychological Oasis in a Desert Many oil and gas producing units of the Tarim Oilfield Company Since the advent of EAP in the Tarim Oilfield, four consecutive In September of 2010, we, together with our business partner the Rumaila project were first trained in English. It is our belief are scattered in the heartland of the Tarim Basin and its groups of psychotherapists came to all the oil and gas BP, launched a training programme targeting Iraqi employees, that Iraqi employees will benefit from continuous and quality surrounding areas. The feeling of loneliness created by the producing locations, giving psychological lectures and with an annual investment of USD 5 million for education and training, which also expands the local talent pool that will make desolate external environment and being far away from their providing private counseling service. More than one thousand training of Iraqi locals. In December, about 500 locals from more contribution to the socio-economic development of Iraq. families, coupled with the dry climate, dull life and restlessness, employees participated in 20 mental health seminars, and 144 could trigger psychological crisis among employees. In 2009, voluntarily checked their psychological health and received the Tarim Oilfield Company introduced the EAP and employed private counseling on work and life. The counseling alleviated a prestigious psychological counseling agency to provide employees’ work pressure, lifted their spirits, increased their counseling service in the oilfield, which created a psychological morale, and enhanced their confidence, which not only 3. Growth Path oasis in this desert. improved their psychological health, but also contributed to safety in production as well as to harmony and cohesion of teams and families. Employees are the fundamental strength for the company’s operatives in order to create a favourable environment in which development and the driving force for serving society. Since its all talent can thrive and grow. Through our efforts, the quality of foundation, the Company has implemented a strategy that strives the three teams has been continuously enhanced. By the end of to build an enterprise based upon a wide range of talent. We 2010, the company had 15 academicians of the Chinese Academy have established and continuously improved the mechanism for of Sciences and the Chinese Academy of Engineering, more than talent development, selection and allocation. The company also 1300 experts entitled to the Government Special Allowance, more Case study Digitalized Oilfield Easing Workload on Frontline Employees respects employee’s choices and strives to provide a platform for than 280 senior technical experts, 188 skill experts and over 2500 employees to fulfill themselves. experts in other fields. The company continued to develop three talent teams of With the development of information technology, we focus on in 2010. The real-time data transmission system will transmit operations managers, professional technicians and skilled digitalisation to realise remote control, coordinated work and various geological parameters to allow engineering and unified management, which not only improved productivity, geological experts as well as decision makers at various levels but also reduced workload for frontline employees. to be informed of the frontline production status and have remote discussion and command. The oilfield’s geographical 4. Occupational Health Changqing Oilfield digitalised its management of new oil and information system can display on computer the terrain, gas fields and formed the method of production organisation pipeline networks, power grid and road networks of the consisting of electronic well inspection, manual station production sites, which allows the engineering, geological inspection, remote surveillance and central control. With this and surveying staff to survey the terrain and land features on PetroChina attaches great importance to occupational health, service during operations, explored ways of occupational health method, employees can perform remote management of oil computer to optimise operation plans. implementing the Occupational Disease Prevention Law, and management and service during the large-scale operations, and and gas wells, facilities and equipment located in the depth of focusing on prevention and management following the working emphasized disease prevention and drinking water management the desert, raising productivity and returns on development. laws of occupational health and characteristics of oil enterprises. during operations, which eradicated occurrence of infectious This dramatically reduced workload for frontline employees, The Company organised revision of institutional materials such as diseases and food poisoning. improved working and living conditions, and reversed the the PetroChina Occupational Health Guide, deepened occupational situation where employees used to have “dust all over on sunny healthcare and organised occupational physical checks, with 96% With active promotion of the Code of Occupational Disease days and mud all over on rainy days“. of our employees physically examined. In addition, the Company Prevention of the PRC, the Company attached great importance pays close attention to analysis and control of the physical check to occupational health management and improvement in the The Sebei No.2 gas field of Qinghai Oilfield is located in the results and eliminates and prevents any negative impact of competence of core employees, and organized seminars on depth of lifeless Gobi areas, which is characterised by extreme occupational diseases on employees’ health. occupational health. In addition, occupational health training cold, lack of oxygen and a repulsive climate. Qinghai Oilfield and consultation are provided for the grassroots and frontline developed two patented technologies which helped to With great emphasis on occupational health management and employees. implement automatic station and depot management. In service at operations sites, we actively promoted identification addition, it developed a remote data collection system for gas and detection of occupational health hazards at workplaces, and The Company gave prominence to the psychological health of wells and achieved automatic unmanned management of Sebei organised special prevention and control activities for dust and employees, organised the affiliated enterprises to implement No.2 gas field. poisonous hazards, examined the dust and poisonous hazards the Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) in order to relieve at workplaces, carried out test, repair and maintenance of health employees’ psychological pressure. The Company also held Xinjiang Oilfield completed digitalisation of oilfields and facilities and equipment such as those used for poison isolation, mental health lectures to care for every employee to alleviate their formed a well-developed digital oilfield application system dust removal, noise and temperature reduction. In addition, the psychological pressure. Company strengthened occupational health management and 42 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 43 04 Giving Back to Society Since our fortune comes from society, it is our responsibility to contribute back 1. Promoting the Development of Local Economies to society. We pay attention to the livelihood of people, support educational undertakings, participate in community development, promote all-round socioThe Company’s development is inseparable from the support refining and chemical projects, as well as stable supply of clean economic development, and make efforts to build a harmonious society. of governments, communities and local residents. In turn, the and efficient energy also powerfully support and drive local socioconstruction and development of oil fields and refineries, the economic development and create a large number of jobs for the construction of oil and gas pipelines, the implementation of new local communities. Case study PetroChina’s Continued Gasification of South Xinjiang Mostly desert and Gobi, South Xinjiang is home to ethnic Kizilsu, and Aksu Region, now have access to natural gas and minorities such as the Uighur. Its remoteness and lack of took the lead in entering the gasified era. support constrain local economic development. Local people’s domestic fuel mainly came from coal and felling of plants like On July 14, 2010, the South Xinjiang Natural Gas Project started tamarix and populus diversifolia, which seriously damaged the construction of 12 trunk and branch pipelines with a length of local eco-environment and led to nearly 300 days of flowing 2,556 km. The project aims to allow 88% of regions, prefectures sand and dust annually. and counties such as Kashgar Region, Hotan Region and Kergez Autonomous Prefecture of Kizilsu to access natural gas In order to protect the environment and supply local residents transmitted by pipelines. Given that annual consumption of with modern clean energy, the Company started the South natural gas is calculated at 2 billion cubic metres, it will reduce Xinjiang Gasification project in 1999, accelerating development CO2 emissions by 5.2 million tons. The project has obviously of Tarim Oilfield’s smalland medium-sized gas fields and improved the vulnerable eco-system of South Xinjiang. construction of long-distance pipelines and continuously supplying gas to local residents at a low price. In the past decade, more than 4 billion cubic metres of gas has been supplied to South Xinjiang. Over one million people from the five prefectures and 30 counties in the Tarim Basin region, such as the Mongolian Autonomous Prefecture of Bayingolin, Hotan Prefecture, Kashgar Prefecture, Kergez Autonomous Region of Urumqi Yingmaili Aksu Kashgar Korla Zepu Tazhong Hetian Minfeng Natural gas pipelines built Planned Natural gas pipelines 44 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 45 Special Topic Poverty Alleviation in Xinjiang 2. Poverty Alleviation Poverty is an important constraint on sustainable development Case Study PetroChina’s Relief Efforts in the Yushu Earthquake of mankind and natural disasters tend to aggravate poverty. The Company supports and promotes poverty alleviation through increasing job opportunities to contribute to alleviating the cause of poverty. We also deliver funds and relief supplies to disaster-hit areas and closely follow the reconstruction of affected areas. On April 14, 2010, the Yushu Tibetan Autonomous We have been actively participating in poverty alleviation efforts Prefecture of Qinghai Province was hit by a 7.1 magnitude in some poverty-stricken counties and townships in Xinjiang, earthquake. Yushu, one of the 30 autonomous prefectures Tibet, Sichuan, Chongqing, Gansu, Ningxia, Qinghai, Shaanxi, Inner with the highest percentage of ethnic minorities that Mongolia, Hebei, Heilongjiang, Jilin and Liaoning. In addition, by stands at the highest altitude, is the source of the Yangtze donating funds, renovating dangerous housing, giving assistance River, Yellow River and Lancangjiang River. Its average in rescue and relief and providing information, we gradually altitude is 4,100 metres, adding difficulty to earthquake improved the living conditions of local residents. In 2010, the relief and rescue efforts. company invested a total of RMB 63.08 million in poverty alleviation. The Company went into mourning for those killed in the earthquake and organised donations inside and outside the company. Our Chongqing sales company, in joint efforts with the Red Cross and the Chongqing TV station, launched a donation drive in PetroChina's 11 gas stations Since 2002, PetroChina has been carrying out many poverty Carrying out housing projects. We provided over 1,000 in the downtown area of the city to show our support and alleviation projects in six counties of Barkol, Toli, Nilka, Qapqal, earthquake-resistant houses for rural residents to shelter them care for the affected area. To express our gratitude to the Jeminay and Qinggil in Xinjiang by means of developing rural from heat and cold, which improved their living conditions, donors, yellow ribbons representing love, safety and hope industries, constructing infrastructure, carrying out public welfare allowing them to lead a modern civilised life. were tied to the rear mirrors of the donors’ vehicles. An projects, developing talent and the like. After nearly 10 years of overwhelming majority of managers and employees also development, the farmers’ living conditions have greatly improved. Improving healthcare conditions. We invested funds in generously donated money to show their support. The construction and expansion of medical offices, renovation of donation was all transferred to the disaster area through Fostering local industries. By the end of 2010, we had dispatched 10 medical buildings, and donated medical equipment and the Red Cross. officials bringing local communities advanced ideas and medicines worth RMB 3 million, which allowed 80,000 Xinjiang management expertise, which contributes to local development. rural residents to access healthcare. The Company also organised The Company also actively participated in the The training centres founded by PetroChina provided 182 sessions medical workers to provide free medical diagnosis, to help them reconstruction. The first phase of the Yushu gasification develop good hygiene habits, and to increase their awareness of of training with attendance by 10,319 people, including county, project, completed on October 25 with an investment of self-protection and prevention. township and village officials as well as technicians. In addition, RMB 130 million, was the first project finished after the we provided free newspapers, technical books and compact earthquake. Modern clean energy was supplied to Jiegu Infrastructure construction. We supported local governments discs to help local residents meet their urgent needs of various in constructing a number of projects such as the Karamay water Town at an altitude of 3,778 metres, ushering the Yushu skills. Besides, we contacted with mainstream media such as the diversion project, Hotan gas supply project and Darim desert road people into an era of natural gas. With an annual supply of 20 million cubic metres, this project is capable of satisfying central television station to freely advertise agricultural products shelter forest, solving the difficulty faced by residents in accessing domestic consumption by 30,000 Yushu households. After reprocessing projects to promote investment in the local water, power, gas and transportation. completion of the second phase of the project, 80,000 local communities. residents of Yushu will be able to access natural gas. Active donations. In the face of disasters like floods and Supporting talent training. We invested in establishing schools snowstorms in Xinjiang, we lent our helping hand at the outset, and financing education for more than one thousand college, donating funds and materials, organising large equipment to secondary and primary school students from impoverished resume operation of water conservancy, power supplies, transport families, which contributed to talent development of ethnic facilities and utilities to clear roads in urban areas and the minority regions. countryside. 46 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 47 3. Support for Education 4. Employee Voluntary Activities Supporting educational initiatives is an important part of our been assisting poor children from eight provinces and areas such In areas where we carry out our business operations, lots of support for social advancement and development. By establishing as Inner Mongolia, Shanxi and Qinghai and donated electronic volunteer teams composed of our company employees carry various scholarships and subsidies, donating funds for building teaching equipment to some schools. In 2010, PetroChina out volunteer actions all year round. They voluntarily help primary schools and subsidising poor teachers and students, the donated a total of RMB 34.58 million to support educational those employees in difficulties, help poor students, take care of Company actively contributes to education in China. Since the activities. widowed seniors and disabled people, voluntarily plant trees and launch of “China Oasis Education Action” in 2007, PetroChina has protect the environment. In 2010, the number of volunteer teams exceeded 4,900, with over 140,000 volunteers, and more than one million people benefited from their voluntary initiatives. Case Study Petroleum Scholarship Case Study Employee Volunteers from Ningxia Petrochemical Company Launched in 2002, the Petroleum Scholarship, co-established by organises oil entrepreneurs to visit college campuses to update PetroChina and CNPC, aims at honouring outstanding students students on the latest developments in the oil industry. Besides, Young volunteers from Ningxia Petrochemical Company went as day care, healthcare, learning, cultural and artistic and supporting poor ones, as well as honouring those teachers internship and practice opportunities are provided for students into communities and launched initiatives such as “Extending entertainment. In the past 5 years, they provided more than who have developed and recommended excellent graduates to increase their knowledge of the oil industry. Helping Hand to Communities”, “One-to-One Care for the 5,000 person-times of door-to-door services of more than for oil companies. Elderly”, “Big Hand Holding Small Hand” and “Protecting the 10 thousand hours. Their visits to retired workers amounted Yellow River”. to more than one thousand person times. The Company has consecutively established the Excellence Award, Motivational Award and Talent Recommendation Award “Extending Helping Hand to Communities” Initiative. “Big Hand Holding Small Hand” Initiative. The volunteers in seven petroleum and petrochemical institutions of higher Young volunteers provided over 30 kinds of services every from grassroots units go to the nearby kindergartens to learning and 15 prestigious universities. In the past decade, the year, such as free haircutting, selling flowers to raise money volunteer their service during the Children’s Day every year. awards have been granted to 7,872 students and 572 teachers, for charitable purposes, offering medical examination, In the past five year, they offered more than 300 volunteer among whom 2,302 excellent students from poor families have safety knowledge promotion, and repairing computers participations, and donated more than RMB 100,000 to finished their education through the support of PetroChina’s for community residents. In the past five years, there were kindergartens. Motivational Award. more than 2,000 volunteer participations in such activities, providing more than 10 thousand hours of service and “Protecting the Yellow River” Initiative. These young Rules and regulations as well as specific evaluation of these serving more than 20,000 people. volunteers proactively practice their promise of adding scholarships are designed by the scholarship administration green to the motherland. Over the past five years, they agency consisting of personnel from multiple departments. The “One-to-One Care” Initiative. The volunteers provide have planted more than 100,000 trees, contributing to soil group leading the scholarships goes to colleges and universities assistance for retired workers strapped in difficulty, such conservation in the regions along the Yellow River. on a regular basis to present the awards. The Company also 48 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 49 5. Service for the World Expo 6. Contributions to Overseas Community PetroChina was the worldwide partner of World Expo 2010 operations activities were conducted among all gas stations and Over a long period of time, PetroChina has been adhering developing its businesses, the Company also aims to create job Shanghai (hereinafter referred to as World Expo or the Expo) and 240,000 PetroChina salespeople. The company freely distributed to the principle of “cooperation for mutual benefits and joint opportunities for local communities and cultivate local talent participated in the World Expo as a sponsor and an exhibitor. sticky labels advocating a green life to drivers. In addition, the development”, and committed itself to developing long-term and while improving their living conditions and contributing to During our cooperation with the Expo, the company proactively Company also provided services for tourists such as Expo Service stable cooperative ties with countries where it operates. While development of local communities. advocated the green and energy-saving concepts in line with its Guide, Expo Gas Stations Directory, and Shanghai Rail Transit Map as purpose of “Caring for Energy, Caring for You” to provide “green” well as telephone advice. power and quality service to the Expo, making its due share of contribution to the spiritual heritage of the Expo. “Saving Energy for Green Development” petition. On the Special Topic Being a Good Neighbour to Indigenous Communities special day for the Oil Pavilion, the Company co-launched the Natural gas supply. During the 184 days of the World Expo, the petition for “Saving Energy for Green Development”. As a socially west-east gas pipeline transmitted 1.23 billion cubic metres of responsible corporate citizen, the Company commits to reducing gas in total to Shanghai, of which 13.25 million was transmitted negative impact on the environment while stabilising energy to each pavilion through the World Expo natural gas networks supply to the economy and society. PetroChina also encourages and intra-park natural gas distribution system. This means that oil and petrochemical companies to be a model in saving 200,000 hazardous emissions were avoided, and emissions of CO2 energy and cutting emissions, practices energy saving and green and acid gases were reduced by 4.12 million tonnes, preventing development with full effort, and advocates clean energy and a air and water pollution in Shanghai. According to the statistics of low-carbon life. the Shanghai environmental authorities, the air quality ranking increased by 10 percentage points. Clean refined products. We supplied 450,000 metric tonnes of national IV standard oil products to the World Expo, accounting for one third of Shanghai’s total demand. The Company also supplied more than 5,000 metric tonnes of oil products for ferries and yachts used for the World Expo, effectively safeguarding smooth waterway transportation. The Company also set up portable filling facilities in the Expo park to provide filling service to logistics vehicles in the park, which is unprecedented in the history of the World Expo. “Smiling Service” activity. The Company actively committed to PetroChina’s Andes project is located in the tropical rainforest for these doctors, so consequently they provide dental care, its promise to serve the Expo. Various forms of cultural, service and in Ecuador, where are scattered the most primitive indigenous vaccination, parasite disease treatment, health surveillance and tribes that are also the poorest in this country. In 2006 when the medical communication to children. In the past five years, these Company started business operations, there were no schools doctors saved countless people’s lives and allowed more than or basic healthcare infrastructure. To reverse this situation, we, 8,000 community residents to access basic medical service, and together with our partners, launched a series of community more than 2,000 of them enjoyed free medical service. projects in order to improve living conditions for local residents and community development capability and create equal Skill training. The Company’s educational fund project enabled education opportunities for children for a better health and future. the community residents to realise that knowledge could change one’s destiny. Its agricultural project allowed them to Healthcare service. The Company financed the establishment of be self-sufficient. The humanitarian aid bailed them out of poor 2 clinics and equipped them with basic healthcare facilities and circumstances. doctors. The Company’s community doctors constantly provide 24-hour medical service, emergency transfer service, and tour Caring for children. More than 280 children aged from 3 to 12 the countryside to provide medical service, in addition to doorgained access to education and food through our funding to the to-door healthcare education and medicine delivery service. For Padre José Kentenich foundation. The Niños de Maria kindergarten many years, each doctor has received 20 to 30 patients per day, and San José de la Comuna primary school, financed by the over half of whom were children aged from 6 to 12. They also fund, provided healthcare to children living in extreme poverty. treated 472 emergencies or emergency patients who needed to The “Share the Dinner Table” activity provided local children with be transferred. In addition, they provided tour medical service more than 50,000 free lunches to help children improve their two to four times a month. Sometimes they had to reach remote nutrition. The Company also partnered with the Por una vida fund communities 40 km away or those that could not be accessed by to help improve healthcare conditions for children and youth, and waterway, hence they had to travel several hours on foot before provided free treatment to over 440 children suffering from blood they could reach the people. Children are a special concern diseases, and 63% of them had recuperated. 50 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 51 Targets and Plans In 2011, the Company will fulfill the three responsibilities for the economy, the environment and society by continuing to implement the three main strategies in the areas of resources, market and internationalisation of operations under the guidance of scientific development. We will focus on enhancing independent innovation, consolidating the foundation of corporate governance, and promoting transformation of our development model, so as to further strengthen sustainability in all respects. Item 2011 Targets Action Plans 2011 Item 2011 Targets Action Plans 2011 1. To continue to advance “peak growth in oil/gas reserves” project, scientifically organize oil/gas production, adhere to large-scale effective and scientific exploration, highlight prospecting and risk exploration; stabilize and increase 1. To continue to take effective measures to solve real problems, improve well-wise output and coordinate oil/gas fields development. accountability system for production safety and environmental 2 . To organize refining and chemical production, greatly improve profitability; protection, and enhance HSE management level. adhere to the principle of processing suitable for market, strengthen 2. To reinforce the implementation and improvement of the HSE system; production organization and scientifically distribute production load; and put strengthen the whole process monitoring and contractor safety. emphasis on construction and operation of key projects. 3. To strengthen the production safety control and the transition 3. Speed up sales network development and adopt targeted marketing To give prominence management in the construction, maintenance and temporary strategies to enhance retail competence and safeguard market supply. Stabilize oil/gas and to production safety, operations; continue to deepen well control management. petrochemical products environmental protection Oil/Gas 4. Further development of oil/gas pipelines and domestic trunk pipeline Safety and supply in the domestic and energy saving to 4. To improve emergency response mechanism, in particular, to enhance Production and networks and maintain rapid growth of natural gas business; enhance Environmental market eliminate major or severe the contingency response and handling capability of the frontline; Supply emergency peak shaving capacity to ensure safe and stable gas supply. Protection accidents further improve the security mechanism in overseas projects. 5. Continue to consolidate and expand international oil/gas cooperation and 5. To strengthen the prevention and control of the environmental risks maintain sustainable growth of overseas businesses; organize implementation posed by facilities close to waters and other environmentally sensitive of newly contracted big projects; work on exploration and development of areas. existing projects; select oil/gas assets for mergers and acquisitions; enhance the regulatory role of international trade in supply. 6. Deepen the ten energy-saving projects and ten emissions-cutting projects with focus on technological advance, transformation and 6. Enhance technological innovation to support development of core management improvement. businesses; strengthen implementation of big technological projects based on production needs and promote use of new technologies to further improve the company’s innovative capability. 1. To consider the improvement of the employees’ quality as an important 1. To actively support and participate in public welfare activities, basis for long-term corporate development, and push forward business strengthen and improve management of charitable donations to management, professional techniques, technology and the building of teams promote social effect of the public welfare measures. of high-skilled talents, especially of high-quality international talents. To enhance teambuilding 2. To strengthen communications with local governments and integrate 2. Organize position-based training and give prominence to training of To actively undertake among employees and the company’s development into local economic development. employees for key positions and overseas employees. social responsibilities in frontline construction, Employee support of public welfare and further improve the 3. To continue efforts on poverty alleviation efforts in form of adoption Development 3. Strengthen development of grassroots teams and stations, and deepen Public Welfare and development of a integral quality of the or otherwise, disaster relief, educational donations, volunteer activities development of teams characterized by technical competence, high harmonious society team and the like, and strengthen technologyand education-driven poverty profitability, professional management, innovativeness, and harmony. alleviation. 4. Deepen examination and testing of occupational hazards, strengthen 4. Develop a long-term poverty alleviation mechanism, ensure financial occupational surveillance, improve working conditions and further enhance input, improve alleviation methodology, and care those in difficulty. occupational healthcare. 52 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 53 Global Compact and Us Performance Statistics The Global Compact is a global framework initiated and advocated by the United Nations aiming at the promotion of sustainable development and the collective improvement of social well-being through responsible and innovative business practices. As a member of the UN Global Compact, we participated in the first Global Compact China-Korea-Japan Roundtable in November 2009, and delivered the speech on “Fulfilling Social Responsibility for a Bright Future”. We are committed to observing and supporting the 10 Principles advocated by the Global Compact in the fields of human rights, labor rights, environment protection and anti-corruption, using the 10 Principles to guide our practices in fulfilling social responsibilities. And we will continue to disclose our progress in keeping with the 10 Principles in the Global Compact in our annual report. Category Indicator 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Ten Principles in the Global Compact Corresponding sections herein Total assets ( RMB 108 ) 8,803 10,696 11,962 14,503 16,565 Turnover ( RMB 108 ) 6,914 8,375 10,726 10,193 14,654 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 3.1 Employees’ Rights proclaimed human rights; and Net profit ( RMB 108 ) 1,435 1,468 1,145 1,034 1,400 Human Rights 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 3.1 Employees’ Rights Taxes ( RMB 108 ) 1,614 1,722 2,227 2,045 2,870 Proven crude reserves ( 106 barrels ) 11,618 11,706 11,221 11,263 11,278 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 3.1 Employees’ Rights recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Proven gas reserves ( 108 ft3 ) 534,692 571,110 611,890 632,440 655,030 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 3.1 Employees’ Rights Oil equivalent production ( 106 barrels) 1,059 1,117 1,182 1,196 1,228 Labour Economic Standards Crude oil production ( 106 barrels ) 831 846 871 844 858 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 3.1 Employees’ Rights Marketable natural gas production ( 108 ft3 ) 13,719 16,277 18,642 21,122 22,212 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and 3.1 Employees’ Rights Total length of crude oil pipelines ( km ) 9,620 10,559 11,028 13,164 14,782 occupation. Total length of refined products pipelines ( km ) 2,413 2,669 5,656 8,868 9,257 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental 2.1 Employees’ Rights challenges; Total length of natural gas pipelines ( km ) 20,590 22,043 24,037 28,595 32,801 2.2 Foundation management 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Environment 2.3 Energy conservation and emission Crude runs ( 106 barrels ) 785 824 850 829 904 and reduction Ethylene production ( 104 tons ) 207 258 268 299 361 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly 2.1 Climate Change technologies. Death rate caused by accidents 1.40 0.25 0.50 0.36 1.02 ( person/100 million work hours ) 10. Businesses should work against corruption of all kinds, including Safety Anti-Corruption About Us Total accident rate ( incidents/million extortion and bribery. 0.07 0.03 0.03 0.0264 0.0120 working hours ) 54 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 55 GRI and IPIECA/API Index The report consults the reporting elements and performance indicator indices proposed by the Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) and compares the report with indicators listed in Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting by the International Petroleum Industry Environment Conservation Association (IPIECA) and American Petroleum Institute (API). Involved or IPIECA/ Page and place No. GRI Contents not involved Category Indicator 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 API in the report in the report Strategy and Analysis Oil discharged in waste water ( tons ) 1,131 1,001 779 701 698 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent 1 1.1 ■ P2-3,29 senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 4 Energy conserved ( 10 TCE ) 141 124 176 171 173 2 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. ■ P2-3,4,7,27,29 EnvironWater conserved ( 104 cubic meters ) 7,477 4,700 5,336 3,188 2,865 Organizational Profile ment COD discharge in wastewater ( tons ) 22,264 23,427 19,751 16,949 18,741 3 2.1 Name of the organization ■ Cover,P8 4 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. ■ P8,22-23 SO2 discharge in waste gas ( tons ) 108,614 127,498 123,500 105,044 103,793 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, ■ 5 2.3 P10 and joint ventures. 4 Number of employee ( 10 ) 44.6 46.7 47.8 53.9 55.3 6 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. ■ Cover Percentage of employees receiving Employee 97% 97% 96% 96% 96% Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major occupational health checks ( % ) 7 2.5 ■ P21,25,49 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Percentage of non-Chinese nationals in 91% 92% 92% 94% 94% overseas hires ( % ) 8 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. ■ P8 Contribution to poverty alleviation ( RMB 104 ) — 14,957 12,272 5,828 6,308 9 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). ■ P22-23 10 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization ■ P8,37 Educational donations ( RMB 104 ) 1,645 4,549 12,968 3,782 3,458 Public 11 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership ■ P8 welfare 12 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. ■ P8,27 Donations to disaster relief ( RMB 104 ) 8,011 2,483 9,009 935 4,499 Environmental protection ( RMB 104 ) — — 876 569 5,588 Report Parameters 13 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. ■ Cover Note: measurement unit 14 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). ■ Cover 1 BOE=1 barrel of crude=6,000 cubic feet of NG=169.9 cubic meter of NG 15 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) ■ Cover 1 cubic meter of NG=35.315 cubic feet of NG 1 metric ton of crude=7.389 barrels of crude (API=34) 16 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. ■ P63,Cover 17 3.5 Process for defining report content. ■ Cover 18 3.6 Boundary of the report. See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. ■ Cover 19 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. ■ Cover Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other 20 3.8 entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. □ Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques 21 3.9 underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the ■ Cover report. ■Involved ■Partial Involved □not Involved 56 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 57 GRI and IPIECA/API Index Involved or Involved or IPIECA/ Page and place IPIECA/ Page and place No. GRI Contents not involved No. GRI Contents not involved API in the report in the report API in the report in the report Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, the reasons for such 22 3.10 re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, of business, measurement methods). □ Economic Performance Indicators Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee 23 3.11 □ applied in the report. compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital 43 ■ P8,38,44-49,54 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Identify the page numbers or providers and governments. 24 3.12 web links where the following can be found. ■ P55-60 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate P2-7 25 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. ■ P52 44 change. ■ Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 45 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. ■ P37 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body P8 26 4.1 responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. ■ P9-10 46 Significant financial assistance received from government. ■ Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations 27 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. □ 47 ECO-A2 EC5 of operation. ■ P37 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of 28 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest ■ P9 48 ECO-1 EC6 operation. ■ P14-15 governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at 29 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest ■ P14-15 49 EC7 locations of significant operation. ■ P37,54 governance body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public 50 EC8 benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. ■ P43-49 30 4.5 executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social ■ P10,29 and environmental performance). 51 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. ■ P17-25 31 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. ■ P10-11 32 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance ■ P10-11 Environmental Performance Indicators body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to 52 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. □ 33 ENV-6 4.8 economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. ■ P8 53 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. ■ P25 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and 34 4.9 management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and ■ P10-11 54 ENV-5 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. ■ P30-32,54 opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 55 ENV-5 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. □ Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to 35 4.10 economic, environmental, and social performance. ■ P9-10 56 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. ■ P30-32,54 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions 36 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the ■ P10-11 57 EN6 in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. ■ P25,27 organization. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to 58 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. ■ P25,30-32 37 4.12 which the organization subscribes or endorses. ■ P27 59 ENV-A7 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. □ Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy 38 4.13 organizations. ■ Cover,P15,52 60 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. □ 39 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. ■ P14-15 61 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. □ Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 62 ENV-9 EN11 biodiversity value outside protected areas. □ 40 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. ■ P14-15 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas 63 ENV-9 EN12 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. ■ P19,21,28,31,32 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by 41 4.16 stakeholder group. ■ P14-15 64 ENV-9 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. ■ P21 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 42 4.17 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. ■ P14-15 65 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. ■ P27 ■Involved ■Partial Involved □not Involved 58 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 59 GRI and IPIECA/API Index Involved or Involved or IPIECA/ Page and place IPIECA/ Page and place No. GRI Contents not involved No. GRI Contents not involved API in the report in the report API in the report in the report Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected 66 EN15 by operations, by level of extinction risk. □ 87 H&S-1 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety ■ P37 committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. 67 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. ■ P54 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 88 H&S-4 LA7 by region. ■ P33,53 68 ENV-3 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. ■ P30-31 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce 89 LA8 members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. ■ P40-41 69 ENV-3 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. ■ P27,30-31,54 90 SOC-9 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. ■ P40 70 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. □ 91 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. ■ P39 71 ENV-4/A6 EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. ■ P30-31,54 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of 92 SOC-5 LA11 ■ P39 72 ENV-A6 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. ■ P31 employees and assist them in managing career endings. 73 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. ■ P31 93 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. ■ P39-40 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, 74 ENV-1/A1 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. □ 94 age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. ■ P37 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the 75 EN24 Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. □ 95 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. ■ P37 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly 76 EN25 affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. □ Human Rights Performance Indicators 77 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. ■ P27-32 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses 96 SOC-1 HR1 or that have undergone human rights screening. □ 78 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. □ Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance 97 SOC-1 HR2 actions taken. □ 79 EN28 with environmental laws and regulations. □ Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the 98 SOC-5 HR3 are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. □ 80 EN29 organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. □ 81 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. □ 99 SOC-4 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. □ Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining 100 HR5 ■ P37-38 Social Performance Indicators may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators 101 HR6 contribute to the elimination of child labor. ■ P37-38 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures 82 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. ■ P37 102 HR7 to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. ■ P37-38 83 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. □ 103 SOC-5 HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects □ of human rights that are relevant to operations. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by 84 LA3 major operations. □ 104 HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. ■ P37-38 85 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. ■ P38 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective ■Involved ■Partial Involved □not Involved 86 LA5 agreements. □ 60 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 61 GRI and IPIECA/API Index Glossary Involved or IPIECA/ Page and place No. GRI Contents not involved Recovery The percentage of oil (gas) produced from underground oil (gas) reservoirs in the oil (gas) in place. API in the report in the report Society Performance Indicators Reserve The result of dividing annual net incremental reserves by annual oil and gas production. It can be further classified Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of replacement into oil reserve replacement ratio, natural gas reserve replacement ratio and oil and gas equivalent reserve 105 SOC-8 SO1 operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. ■ P43-47 ratio replacement ratio. 106 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. ■ P10-11 The estimated quantities of crude oil and natural gas which the assessment and exploration demonstrate with 107 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. ■ P10-11 reasonable certainty to be recoverable and economically beneficial in future years from known reservoirs, during Proved reservoir assessment, in accordance with the standards of China, with relative error within ±20%. Proved reserves 108 SOC-2 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. ■ P10-11 reserves include proved geologic reserves, proved technically recoverable reserves, proved economically recoverable reserves 109 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. ■ P14-15 and proved sub-economically recoverable reserves. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions 110 SO6 by country. □ Volume of The volume of natural gas that can be sold in the market, excluding natural gas flared, consumed in re-injection and marketable natural Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their lost in the course of production. 111 SO7 outcomes. □ gas Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance 112 SO8 with laws and regulations. □ Liquefied natural gas is formed after the natural gas produced from gas field goes through the processes of Liquefied natural dehydration, de-sulphuration, drying and fractionation and converted to a liquid from gaseous state at low gas (LNG) temperature and high pressure. Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, ■ 113 H&S-5 PR1 P22-25 and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. The simplest member of the olefinic hydrocarbon series and the intermediate feedstock for producing synthetic Ethylene resin, synthetic rubber, organic products, etc. H&S-5 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health ■ 114 PR2 P33-34 and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products ■ Primary energy is energy found in nature that has not been subjected to any conversion or transformation process. It 115 PR3 P22-25 and services subject to such information requirements. is also named as natural energy, which includes: fossil fuel (such as raw coal, crude oil and natural gas), nuclear fuel, Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product biomass, water, wind, solar energy, geothermal energy, ocean energy and tidal energy, etc. Primary energy can be 116 PR4 and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. □ Primary Energy classified into renewable energy and non-renewable energy; the former refers to the natural energy which can be re-generated, such as solar, wind, water and biomass energies, all of which come from the sun and are renewable; 117 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. ■ P15,22 the latter cannot be re-generated, which mainly includes various fossil fuels and nuclear fuels. Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, 118 PR6 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. ■ P15,22-23 Renewable energy is energy found in nature that is inexhaustible and can be regenerated and replenished. It has Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning little or no harm to the environment, with widely-distributed resources, and is suitable for on-site development 119 PR7 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. □ Renewable energy and utilization. Renewable energy includes: solar, wind, water, biomass, geothermal and ocean energies, etc. The 120 PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of □ Renewable Energy mentioned in China Renewable Energy Law refers to the non-fossil energies such as wind, solar, customer data. water, biomass, geothermal and ocean energies, etc. Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the 121 PR9 provision and use of products and services. □ HSE is the abbreviation of Health, Safety and Environment. HSE management system integrates the elements of organizational structure, responsibility, method, procedure, process and resource, which are necessary for HSE implementing HSE management. These elements are integrated in an advanced, scientific and systematic running mode, which are interconnected and interacted, forming a dynamic management system. ■Involved ■Partial Involved □not Involved An accident which has caused the death of 10 to 30 persons, or the serious injury of 50 to 100 persons, or the direct Serious accident economic loss of RMB50 million to RMB100 million. 62 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2010 Sustainability Report 63 Feedback Form Your opinions will help to improve our sustainability performance and the subsequent reports. Thank you for your One million work hours approximately equals to the total work hours of 500 workers in a year. The total working attention and support. Million work hours of an employee includes those for training and overtime, yet holidays, sick leave and other absences are hours excluded. 1. What is your appraisal for the 2010 Sustainability Report of PetroChina? □ Very Good □ Good □ Fair □ Poor The appearance of actions and activities of organs, including air, water, soil, natural resources, plant, animal and Environment human, as well as their relationships. 2. Which part of the 2010 Sustainability Report of PetroChina are you interested in? □ From the Chairman of the Board □ Dialogue with the President □ Energy Outlook □ Focus on 2010 □ About Us □ Stakeholders Chemical Oxygen Demand. The consumption of oxidants while processing water samples with strong oxidants. □ Sustainable Energy Supplies COD It serves as a composite index for pollutants discharged into the water body and their potential impact on the □ Safe and Clean Production and Operation environment. A higher COD represents heavier pollution of reductive substances in the water body. □ “People-Oriented” —— Employee Development □ Giving Back to Society □ Objectives and Plans Greenhouse gases are gases in an atmosphere that absorb and emit solar radiation, such as vapor, CO2, and most refrigerants. They function as the greenhouse to absorb solar radiation and heat the air inside, which make the earth 3. Which improvements would you like to be made in the 2011 Sustainability Report of PetroChina? Greenhouse gas surface warmer. The greenhouse gases in nature include: H2O, CO2, O3, CH4, N2O, CFCs, PFCs, HFCs, HCFCs and SF6, etc. 4. Do you have any advice on the further performance of social responsibilities by PetroChina? Carbon sequestration refers to the process, activity and mechanism of removing CO2 from atmosphere. Forestry Carbon Carbon Sequestration is one of effective measures to reduce greenhouse gases, which absorb CO2 in atmosphere sequestration through photosynthesis of trees and other plants, by adopting afforestation and forest management measures, and sequestrate CO2 in the woods and soils in the form of biomass. 5. Your occupation or identity? □ Public Official □ Consumer □ Employee □ Investor Occupational Ailments caused to a worker by exposure to occupational health threats in his/her working environment, such as □ Scholar □ Partner □ CSR-related Institution □ NGO diseases dust, radioactive substance and other poisonous or harmful substances. □ Media □ Community Representative □ Other 6. If a reply is required, please give the contact information (Your personal information will be used for contact only) A series of health examinations for professionals in an industry aimed at preventing occupational health threats Occupational and improving the health of employees. Occupational health surveillance includes occupational health checks, Name Tel. health management of occupational health archives, etc. Occupational health examinations are conducted before filling E-mail Mailing address surveillance the position, during work, and while leaving the position. It also includes follow-up health examination after one has left the position and emergency health examination. Person, group or organization that has direct or indirect stake in an organization because it can affect or be affected by the organization’s actions, objectives, and policies. In a narrow sense, Stakeholders include investors, employees, customers, and suppliers, etc. Along with social development, Stakeholders in a broad sense occurs, which include: Stakeholder creditors other than shareholders, employees, consumers, suppliers and other trading partners; government authorities, local residents, local communities, media, and environment protectionists; and even the objects that are You may also log on the website of the Company and download the electronic version of reports for previous years directly or indirectly affected by the enterprise operation activities such as natural environment, future generation, and non-human species. An economic development mode to minimize consumption of coal, oil and other high-carbon energies and achieve Low-carbon win-win effect between socioeconomic development and environmental protection, through technical innovation, economy system innovation, industrial transition and new energy development, guided by the concept of sustainable development. 2006 Corporate Social 2007 Corporate Social 2008 Corporate Social 2009 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report Responsibility Report Responsibility Report Responsibility Report STAMP Administration, Secretariat of Board of Directors PetroChina Company Limited 9 Dongzhimen North Street, Dongcheng District Beijing, 100007 P.R.China 66 Energize . Harmonize . Realize
