Sustainability Report 2010 Browsability TABLE OF CONTENT How to read this report................................................................................................................4 Looking toward the Future Messages from the Presidents...................................................................................................6 Passion to fly and serve Editorial........................................................................................................................................... 10 Aviation: Threats & Opportunities TAM Business and sustainability............................................................................................ 16 Serving with passion Clients Clients.............................................................................................................................................. 26 Passion to Fly Employees Employees...................................................................................................................................... 36 Wings to Fly Suppliers Suppliers......................................................................................................................................... 56 Growing wings Society Society............................................................................................................................................. 62 Free flight Environment Environment................................................................................................................................. 74 Increasingly higher flights Investors Investors......................................................................................................................................... 94 Masthead......................................................................................................................................128 3 How to read this REPORT Clients Each section of this Report is indicated by Icons of Millennium Development Goals and Global Pact to which it refers. This material was elaborated based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3) evaluation guidelines and the IBase Table was adopted as a socio-environmental indicators 3 Navigation Bar Content of this report is organized by sections differing in icons and colors, according to indication on the side. Employees Suppliers Society 1 organization model. Both the GIR Content Index and IBase Millennium Development Goals Social Balance Sheet are presented at the end of this report. Environment Investors GRI www.globalreporting.org/AboutGRI/WhatIsGRI 4 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is an organization responsible for the development of the Sustainability These same publics are represented by icons, which indicate their relation with the action presented in this report. Reports model most used in the word. GIR is committed to continuous improvement and environment investors society clients suppliers employees promoting application of this model worldwide. 2 Global Compact IBASE www.ibase.org.br IBase Table (developed by the Brazilian Institute of Social and Economic Analyses) is a model of social statement annually published by companies gathering a set of information on projects, benefits and social action oriented to stakeholders. reached partially not reached ongoing reached 4 5 MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENTS Looking toward the futurE HISTORICAL YEAR Gladstone Campos / Realphotos Gladstone Campos / Realphotos You hold in hands the seventh Annual Among our accomplishments last year, I proudly emphasize Sustainability Report of TAM S.A., regarding out the first experimental flight in Latin America with the use the year of 2010. of biofuel in a commercial aircraft, a milestone in the Brazilian aviation history. Last year we had great conquers and we engage every effort into building And yet in 2010, we launched our first Socio-Envionmental Bid, even more solid company. Amidst which structured the screening of projects supported by our other accomplishments, we have made company. Therefore, all request for support we have received, in a milestone move towards the future Brazil and abroad, now must go through the same assessment announcing the intent to merge with LAN; process. a movement aligned with aviation industry consolidation trend. From 2011, our socio-environmental investments will be focused The year 2010 is a milestone in the consolidation in projects helping tourism development and environment We have had substantial organization In this report, we present TAM initiatives for you of our role as a global dimension Airline Company. preservation. We support actions led by competent and active changes, which came to reaffirm our to learn about our work oriented to the goal of On May 13th, we entered into the Star Alliance, the persons, in projects from North to South of Brazil and in other commitment to improving governance being among global airline companies leading the global leading airline network, and on August 13th counties, examples of how socio-environmental furtherance can and creation of a large corporation of sustainable management process – in constant search we announced our intents agreement for the merger be more than just resources donation. multibusiness related to aviation. We now for economic, social and environmental balance. We with LAN, which will result in the incorporation of count with a well prepared structure to hope our experience will be useful for you. LATAM Airlines Group. In this report you will learn about paths we have gone through in handle with opportunities and challenges. order to accomplish our mission of being the people’s preferred It was year marked by intense increment of the airline company. A financially healthy company caring about the We drafted important plans for the following Brazilian airline sector. With the economic growth, environment and people living in this world. years and we have this critical message valorization of the Real currency and increase of for our company: the need to improve economic power in the internal market, many process and control of costs, rendering our persons have started traveling by airplanes. In order actions more efficient from a more accurate to adapt to such scenario, we launched a retail management methodology. Marco Antonio Bologna project, which major idea is the pet phrase “TAM is TAM S.A. CEO for all”. The purpose of this action is offering services adapted to all different passenger’s profiles. Líbano Barroso TAM Linhas Aereas President 6 7 Selene Valentini FAST FACED PATH Gladstone Campos / Realphotos The year of 2010 was a landmark in the Multiplus Fidelidade history. Less than one year after the business unit creation – originated from the Program TAM Fidelidade – in February we went public with negotiation of our stocks in the Novo Mercado BM&FBovespa. We ended the year grossing R$1.1 billion and profit of R$ 118,4 millions, enhancing our sales by 20% with a strategy going through the increase of partner companies, nowadays composing a market of around 8 million enrolled costumers. We also expanded our partners’ base to generate penetration for the reward membership and increase in the costumer points accumulation speed. We have established a new technological platform enabling management of loyalty programs of partner companies with the purpose of outsourcing operation of their frequent costumer relation programs, as it took place with TAM Fidelidade. Ever since the Captain Rolim initiative to trade business cards with clients, which generated a huge databank, on November 1993 it was created the first airline loyalty program in Brazil: the TAM Fidelidade Program. In 2010 we enabled this network to contribute with social development: all customers are able to donate points to a philanthropic entity. You can find these and many other news in this complete and comprising material, which was created with all of our dedication for you to learn more about our actions in the year 2010. Come on in, and make yourself at home. Eduardo Gouveia Multiplus Fidelidade President 8 9 EDITORIAL Selene Valentini “First of all, I wish to thank you for choosing TAM. This is a reason for me and for the company to be proud. Rest assure that we will make everything in our power to made this and future travels a safe, conformable and smooth one”. Captain Rolim 10 11 Passion to FLY AND TO SERVE MERGERS & Acquisitions TAM S.A. is a corporate incorporated in May 12, 1997, which corporate purpose is mainly to have Nome TAM S.A. To show its environmental, social and financial In 2010 Pantanal Linhas Aereas (company acquired in 2009) direct interest in capital of companies dedicated performance of 2010, TAM has carried out a public and its businesses were completely integrated into the to air transportation activities. Employees 29,193 survey with representatives of its major stakeholders TAM S.A. work structure. The company’s airways network Aircrafts 151 groups, tracing a materiality matrix guiding in the was reformulated and enhanced, increasing from seven to The Company is controller of: choice of its report content. See the materiality matrix twenty cities by the end of the year. In August, Pantanal Landing & Takeoffs 303,496/ano on page 125. has its logo updated achieving a modern visual in line with • TAM Linhas Aereas S.A. (“TLA”); Grossing R$ 11,79 billions TAM group’s identity. In December, company’s flights were • Transportes Aéreos del Mercosur S.A. (“Mercosur”); Other than self-declared Application Level C, according eligible for Multiplus points in the TAM Fidelidade program. • TP Participações Ltda.; Passengers 34,5 millions to GRI guidelines, TAM will count with the entity official • Multiplus S.A. (“Multilpus”). assessment due to voluntary material application. In Also in 2010, TAM S.A. effectively acquired all issued shares • Pantanal Linhas Aereas S.A. (“Pantanal”) addition, the report will be delivered to the United of TAM Milor (TAM Milor Táxi Aéreo, Representações, Marcas Nations in compliance with the Global Compact e Patentes S.A.) based in São Paulo. The company is owner Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM Owner of the largest Brazilian airline1, which in demands, which the company is signatory, enhancing of TAM brand and related, which are used by TAM S.A., TAM 2010 flew 303 thousand stages and registered this report credibility. Linhas Aereas and other affiliated companies. With such around 830 landing and take-offs daily. Last year acquisition, company now controls TAM brands integrating it reached 19 international direct destinations and Since 2009, TAM stated to work in enhancing them in the company’s assets by means of TAM Milor 89 national destinations with regional partner transparence of its actions, as well as developing and investments. “We are incorporating the Brazilian 17th most companies. In 2010 the company carried 34,5 publishing its successful cases and organizing new valuable brand and first in the airline sector into our assets million passengers. GRI indicators, which will be enhanced, implemented – according to recent publication of Interbrand, a global and monitored throughout the year of 2011 to then be branding consultancy”, says Marco Antonio Bologna, TAM presented in the following TAM report. S.A. President. In 2010 TAM reached its 34th anniversary and grossed R$ 11,79 billion, TAM Fidelidade program For additional information on TAM S.A. or any of its subsidiaries, completed 17 years with 7,6 millions members2. please access the company’s website www.tam.com.br, as well The company ended 2010 with over 28 thousand as investors relation channel http://tam.riweb.com.br/. For any employees and 151 aircrafts, the largest passenger doubt, please refer to TAM Sustainability area through email Do you want to learn about TAM’s sustainability aircraft fleet in the history of Brazilian airlines. trajectory? Access previous years reports at: sustentabilidade.tam@tam.com.br. http://tam.riweb.com.br/Tam/show.aspx?id_canal=1156#11 1. Number of passengers carried. Source: National Civil Aviation Agency 12/2010 – www.anac.gov.br 2. Number referring to 2010. 12 13 Scope of Information Assessed Information This report comprises the financial year of 2010 All data were assessed and organized Sustainability and (January 1st through December 31st, 2010). For detailed Directors responsible for the examined areas. These TIMELINE information on the company economic performance, information were assessed by relevance. refer to the TAM Corporate Governance Annual Report. 2010 2009 Content presents action of TAM S.A. (or simply TAM), Official entry in the Star Alliance June: Creation which comprises 04 brands and 03 subsidiaries of Multiplus according to the company structure herein below: tam 2008 Fidelidade organIZATION CHART 2007 Disclosure of the branding study with promotion and launching Acquisition of Pantanal Linhas Launching of the with a new brand Aéreas TEP and others unlocking value strategy, para descobrir valor em 2006 TAM Board of Directors First studies for branding review negócios internos 2005 TAM S.A. TAM S.A. begins Investiments from shares 1996 to be publicly Lapsa (Linhas Aereas 1998 traded at Bovespa Paraguaias) was acquired, A330 arrival. In December 10th, (São Paulo Stock Multiplus Fidelidade currently TAM Airlines. São inaugural flight to Miami, first Exchange) Board of Directors Paulo – Asunción flights outbound international route TAM Airlines TAM Pantanal Multiplus Fidelidade initiated from Brazil 2001 Foundation of the (former TAM Linhas Aereas Linhas Aereas Services Academy Mercosur) and Technology Center in São Carlos Centro Tecnológico São Carlos TAM Viagens TAM Cargo 12/07/1976 1999 Controller company and investments from shares Companies composing the Holding (TAM Linhas Aereas, TAM Airlines and Pantanal presided by Líbano Barroso; Multiplus presided by 1961 Captain Rolim Flight to Paris Board of Directors is required for publicly traded companies Eduardo Gouveia) Taxi Aéreo Marília establishes TAM is launched founded by ten (Transportes Aéreos Holding, which president is Marco Antonio Bologna Company young pilots Regionais) Business Unit 14 15 AVIATION: THREATS & Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM OPPORTUNITIES “Aviation is effectively one of the most complicated business that you’ve ever heard; we offer at wholesale a product consumed in retail and focus on three of the worst requirements that a business normally has: intensive management, intensive energy and intensive capital. If any of these variables is already a challenge, picture all three together!” Captain Rolim 16 17 Aviation and tam Business and sustainability Sustainability6 themEs FOR 2011 Society Occupancy10 Civil aviation is major facilitator of economic Aviation is the safest and most efficient public development. Around the world this sector has been transportation7. There is no better alternative for long through constant economic, environmental and social distances and over geographic barriers transportation. Fact challenges. Airline companies are surrounded by The wide range of air transport services offers freedom In an intensive capital industry as aviation, full such issues as: catastrophes from climate changes3 to travel to different countries, regions and continents, Selene Valentini use of assets is critical for profitability. With a and possible replacement of transportation, facilitating cultural and educational experience large proportion of fixed costs, low occupancy on privileging cheaper means or transportation with less exchange. Many peripheral communities would be aircrafts means elevated unit costs. environmental impact4. isolated without access to air services. According to the International Air Transport Economy Deadlock Association (IATA)5, air transportation sustainable This industry foments economic development, According to IATA10 data, average passenger development decisively depends on technology and propitiating and improving the access to regional and occupancy rate has fallen throughout 2010, operation improvement developed by manufacturers global markets. The activity is a key factor for some however above pre-recession levels until and suppliers, airline companies and regulation bodies business, as export and tourism, generating jobs December. (government and agencies), which must work together around the world. Aviation also expressly moves world in order to incorporate a better comprehension of economy (air transportation industry generated 32 Action process and interactions determining the impacts. million jobs worldwide and its global gross is estimated TAM has been looking for balance in order to in US$ 554 billions)8. render occupancy rate and demand-supply ratio beneficial to its business but also to not have Environment an impact on consumers’ market with prices Improvement on environmental performance has overwhelmingly high. In addition, the company been an ongoing concern in the aeronautic industry. shall be prepared for a sudden market heat up Energy performance of new aircrafts is generally similar with great events taking place such as the Soccer to the fuel consume of modern cars and, in some World Cup and the Olympic Games. cases – depending on speedy and distance -, even to high-speed trains. It is not unusual to fund aircrafts 10. Source: IATA Annual Report, 2011 consuming less than 3 liters per passenger for 100 kilometers9. 6. Source: IATA International Air Transport Association 7. Source: Roger Ford in Modern Railways magazine 3. Source: Aviation-Weather Disaster Risk Reduction 8. Source: IATA Annual Report, 2011 4. Source: Consumer behaviour in tourism 9. Source: Fuel Efficiency – http://www.iata.org/whatwedo/environment/Pages/fuel_efficiency. 5. Source: IATA Annual Report, 2010 aspx 18 19 Environment11 Safety12 Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM Finances13 Fact Fact Air transportation is an industry consuming large Fact In 2010, accident rate with aircrafts was the amounts of fuel. The small profit margin and fuel costs second lower in the aviation history. Airline continue to operate a descendent companies had a 0.61% accident rate (as Deadlock pressure on income. Although revenue measured in hull losses per million flights). High consume of fuel elevates gases emission have gone up to US$554 billion in This is equal to one accident for every 1.6 into the atmosphere, which can leverage the 2010, growing over one third on 2009 million flights. greenhouse effect contributing to global results, i.e. US$66 billion, revenue per warming. passenger is still unable to recover preDeadlock recession indexes. 2010 accident causes assessment evidenced the following data: Pilot manipulation 30% of accidents. Greenhouse gases (GHGs) are gas substances absorbing part Runway excursions 26% of accidents. Deadlock of infrared radiation, mainly issued by the earth’s surface and rendering difficult its release into space. Maintenance events 11% of accidents. Revenues from premium fares, brand This prevents excessive heat loss towards the space, keeping (maintenance´s team segment less sensitive to price, reached Earth warm. The increase of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere errors) only three quarters of its pre-recession has leveraged this natural phenomenon causing increase in temperature (climate change). Ground damage 10% of accidents. performance. The travel business Source: IPCC collapse has “melted down” this category seats sale. The industry seeks to understand what to do to keep a balance between safety and efficiency in the screening of over 2 billion passengers per Action Action year. “UN General-Secretary, Ban Ki-moon, TAM sought to reinvent its business, TAM joined the round table discussions (with government and companies), promoted by Action commended aviation as a role model. The readapting routes, improving its efficiency and mainly downsizing costs regulatory bodies in order to compose the global TAM established the Safety Management segment is currently the only one to present in order to adapt to the new consumer panel to combat aviation emissions, setting forth System (SMS), which integrated processes the commitment to: into a quality system aiming at the continuous bold proposes to combat greenhouse gas market demand. The target-public restructuring and price reengineering improvement by means of accident prevention emissions throughout the world.” were part of this reform package. 1. improve fuel efficiency an average of 1.5% and risk assessment processes. annually to 2020; 2. cap liquid carbon emissions with carbonneutral growth from 2020; 12. Source: IATA 13. Source: IATA 3. achieve a 50% reduction in net CO2 emissions by 2050 compared to 2005. 11. Source: IATA 20 21 aviaTION IN NUMBERS14 9.8 CO2 million tons Companies saved 3.8 million 76% 2% CO2 C tones of CO2 in 2007 and 6 Globally, the Over 33 million people are The global aviation O2 million tones in 2006 by simply average occupancy employed worldwide in industry produces CO 2 shortening routes around of aircraft is around 3-5 years aviation activities and related tourism. Of this, 5.5 million 82% around 2% of all human-induced CO 2 CO 2 the world. 76%, greater than other forms of With certification expected at the beginning of 2011, it is estimated people work directly in the A jet aircraft coming off carbon dioxide that the first drops of sustainable transport. the production line today aviation industry. is about 80% more fuel (CO2) emissions. 628.000.000 t aviation biofuel could be making was the amount of their way into commercial flights efficient per seat km than in 3 to 5 years. tons of CO2 produced one delivered in the 1960s. by flights in 2010. Globally, humans have produced over 1.500 km 21st in the world 1.5 billion 30 billion tons of CO2. CO Around 80% of aviation CO2 If aviation were a country, it The aviation industry ¼ CO 2 2 emissions are emitted from would rank 21st in the world in Almost a quarter of terms of gross domestic product consumes about 1.5 airline companies’ 1715 CO CO 2 flights of over 1,500 kilometers, (GDP), generating $425 billion for which there is no practical billion barrels of Jet operating costs is airlines operate a fleet of 23,000 2 alternative mode of transport. of GDP per year, considerably 35% A-1 fuel annually. spend in fuel: 23%. aircrafts serving 3,750 airports larger than some members of While air transport carries Proportion shall through a route network of the G20 (and around the same around 5% of the volume of increase even more millions of km managed by 160 size as Switzerland). world trade shipments, it is as fuel prices are air navigation service providers. over 35% by value – meaning increased. 3 liters that goods shipped by air are Bio = CO2 < 80% 21o The new Airbus A350, very high value commodities, Biofuel have been Boeing 787 and often times perishable or identified as excellent Bombardier CSeries candidates to help the 23% US$1.3 trillion aircraft use less than time-sensitive. industry to achieve its In order for the aviation 3 liters of jet fuel 1 industry to reach its target The aviation industry was goals. They can reduce per 100 passenger of 1.5% average fleet fuel the only global sector to aviation fuel carbon kilometers. This 2.2 billions efficiency per annum present a united plan for footprint within 80% matches the efficiency By the end of 2010, more from now until 2020, this reducing its emissions to regarding its full life cycle. of most modern than 2.5 billion passengers amount will be spent in governments at the 2009 compact cars. Copenhagen Climate Talks. were transported by airline 12 thousand new aircrafts. companies around the world. 14. Sources: www.enviro.aero; IATA Economics, ATAG Beginner’s Guide to Aviation Efficiency, IPCC, ICAO, United Kingdom Department for Transport, Oxford Economics Study Aviation: the Real World Wide Web, Airbus, Boeing, ATAG Beginner’s Guide to Aviation Efficiency, ATAG report The Social and Economic Benefits of Air Travel, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), IATA, ATAG, BBC News, AERO modeling system. 15. Figures for aircraft are worldwide. Data related to other transportation means are United Kingdom averages. 22 23 LEADERSHIP FOR SUSTAINABILITY STAKEHOLDERS MAP TAM plays the role of leader in its market, “It is a daily exercise, a moving target and working to establish a sustainable culture a permanent goal, which parameters are paving the way of its business and the adjusted all the time. Our challenge is entire society. to follow this changes and assure they ESS • EMPLO rs and are comprised on the company’s growth • Co PLOY YE ES r e s s M ake s u rers n n With business across the value chain, plans.”, says Rita Moreno, Company’s nt • St roller EM • P pinio s ers, i ake fam • O liance l ( fin anc the company is based on management Sustainability Coordinator. • Se h i • A Os arket rvic • Sup older ly • NGock M ) practices using technologies and e p pli s s r e • Di ovide rs • S t alysts gencie products aligned to sustainability rec rs an vel A tor s • Tra principles, a brand differential and Clients PLOYEES EMPLOYEE consequently a reference to other CLIENTS companies. Employees S• Suppliers Instead of promoting punctual and EM S• Society sparse programs, in 2010 the company EM sought to continue with its sustainability “[Sustainability is] a daily exercise, YE E • Government P ES Environment inclusion process into the management a moving target and a permanent EM PL • Surrounding YE O Communities LO structure, enhancing its action scope Investidors paving the entire business. The 2010 goal, which parameters are • Trade Organizations campaign focused on raising awareness adjusted all the time.” Rita Moreno, • Airports • Competitors and engaging employees, mobilizing Sustainability Coordinator. • Regulatory Agencies clients and suppliers, as well as • Certification restructuring process and behavior. Agencies 24 25 CLIENTS Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM “If we could continuously transform our airplanes into an immense red carpet where people would feel differentiated, as we intend, we surely would be given a step forward in our client relation, ever so important in our lives and in the life of TAM.” Captain Rolim 26 27 Selene Valentini ENTERTAINMENT SERVING WITH PASSION clients & CONVENIENCE TAM Linhas Aereas ended 2010 with 43.3% market share Client satisfaction is one of the main pillars supporting TAM nas Nuvens, the best in the domestic market and 84.6% in the international a successful business and loyal clients are essential for lines operated by Brazilian airline companies. The leadership in this business. But how would a company TAM S.A. counts with several communication company flies to 89 different destinations in the national evolve from merely satisfied clients to absolutely loyal channels with its clients in different territory from agreements executed with regional clients? This is the matter guiding TAM to base relation businesses. TAM Viagens network counts companies. More than 34.5 million passengers were with its clients. with the Guia Viajante (Traveler’s Guide) carried in the period. magazine; Multiplus counts with the Multiplus Fidelidade website; Pantanal TAM is Top Of Mind Linhas Aereas counts with the VoePantanal website; cargo division counts with a remembered airline website having the same name – TAM Cargo; TAM Linhas Aereas was the most and TAM Linhas Aereas counts with TVs, th year in a row. AcNPS TAM 16 company by Brazilians for the four major brand awareNewspapers, videos, audios, games, pocket cording to Folha’s Top of Mind, the INDICATOR , the com pany received 39% books, shopping catalog and magazines, all ness award in the country of mentions. named as TAM nas Nuvens. Marketing DirecAccording to Manoela Amaro, TAM TAM nas Nuvens, magazine is alwa ys base d on the Spirit to Serve tor, the company (www.tamnasnuvens.com.br/), for instance, passengers and to seek ing to offer the best service to be their preferred airline com pan y. prints 150 thousand magazines and it is freely distributed in the company’s national and international flights. The publication 16. Fonte: Site Mercados & Eventos was chosen the best in the category around the world, in September 2010. “Activities carried out in all areas are “Receive the Passenger Choice Awards is portrayed in each issue”, emphasizes a great honor and it makes us extremely Marketing Director, Manoela Amaro. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 happy and proud.” Manoela Amaro, “Receive the Passenger Choice Awards is a great honor and it makes us extremely Score Marketing Director. happy and proud” affirms Manoela. 16. NPS (Net Promoter Score) is a mechanism evidencing clients’ loyalty index of an organization. Source: www.netpromoter.com. 28 29 Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM COMMUNICATION & SOCIAL NETWORKS clients Completing this virtual service menu: The year of 2010 assured TAM a TAM Blog, TAM Youtube channel, TAM groundbreaking award: UOL’s Top of Mind Museum and TAM Kids website, as well as Internet, as the spontaneously mosta TAM APP Talk to the President Goals: remembered airline company by internet (it enables to consult and receive on users. This year, TAM has launched several one’s mobile ticket fares, TAM Viagens APP: Iphone • encourage contact and improve clients’ application. client communication channels through itineraries and special conditions to relation the web, which once again shows the redeem Multiplus Fidelidade points). • recover clients lost company innovation. SERVING WITH PASSION clients • provide with information of the company regarding each aspect of the service Clients are able to contact TAM within • follow-up internal actions adopted for 140 characters (@TAMAirlines). The At TAM, the tool promoting the closest contact with clients is the matters requiring correction company’s twitter account has over 200 Talk to the President, which contributes for the constant improving thousand followes17 and is one of the of the company. many forms a client can interact with the company. Multiplus also has a microblog (@PontosMultiplus), account with over 4 Answers19 INDICATOR Created in 1991, Talk to the President was though with the thousand followers18. 120% purpose of advising the Captain Rolim to answer contact from clients largely made during TAM flights boarding in Congonhas. 100% 100 100 100 100 100 97,9 92,7 TAM Linhas Aereas is also present 80% 87,9 81,3 at facebook (http://www.facebook. 75,0 60% com/#!/pages/TAM-LinhasThere are currently 125 employees exclusively dedicated to the service 60,1 40% A%C3%A9reas/113145902033665), page around the world. This group services more than 42 thousand contact 29,0 29,0 with over 7 thousand fans. monthly, seeking to watch over clients’ satisfaction. It was registered, 20% 33,3 33,3 in 2010, more than 500 thousand contact via telephone, fax, internet 0% and letters, each one individually answered. Information gathered on 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 clients’ comments are used on decision making and corrective and in the company on Procon (Bureau of Consumer Protection) preventive action within the company. in Justice linear (in the company) 19. Annual comparative of complaints and critiques received and answered/assisted. 17. Valores de 05/2011 18. Valores em 05/2011 30 31 Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM QUALITY TAM IS MANAGERS clients investors clients FOR ALL The Quality Managers program was created in 2009 with TAM counts with approximately 250 trained managers. In 2010, TAM evidenced a change in the the purpose of structuring a leadership network able to Training program approaches aspects such as continuous passengers’ profile, with the migration of promote best customer service practices and to raise process improvement, NPS (Net Promoter Score) bus travelers to air transportation, mainly awareness of its teams for service quality. The Quality methodology and decision-makers identification. Each in trips exceeding 800 kilometers. A major Managers program was initially focused on flights and manager has the mission of promoting quality culture factor for market enhancement was the airport teams, and in 2001 was expanded to other fronts: among its team and to take the essence of the spirit to improvement of Brazilian economy in the Call Center, CCOA, Inner Maintenance, Talk to the President, serve to every front-line. last few years, which increase consumer Technical Crew and Ramp. TAM CLIENTS power in the country. COUNCIL clients The company believes that great part of the air transportation sector growth for the following years will come from Class C and Established since 2012, the program is a discussion forum with D Brazilians flying for their first time. Before members chosen among TAM Fidelidade Card holders having a history such perspective, company launched in of contacts with the Talk to the President service. August a retail project based on surveys clients OMBUDSMAN AND QUALITY COMMITTEE Created in 2007 through an initiative of Council members, CATAMshowing the strategic importance of clients flying basically for leisure purposes. Confraria dos Amigos da TAM ( TAM Friends Fellowship) – it promoted monthly dinners organized by the clients with the participation of the Offering quality service at competitive prices With the purpose of taking TAM high management projects collaborating to the improvement of services. president, vice-presidents and directors of the company. seeks to shows that TAM is a company for all. even closer to decisions affecting clients’ lives, the Follow-up of actions is continuously carried out by This principle is fully aligned to its Mission: Ombudsman and Quality Committee was created in means of indicators, such as NPS (Net Promoter Score) TAM intends to enhance and provide the clients council with more “To be the people preferred airline with joy, 2010. Every two months the team has the purpose of and complaints and compliments index as received by voice, strengthening its bonds with such group in 2011. creativity, respect and responsibility”. The discussing the most important issues, according to the Talk to the President service. signature of the campaign “Você vai. E vai de the clients’ point of view, proposing action plans and TAM” (You go. And you will go with TAM) was launched with the new project. 32 33 Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM SPECIAL PASSENGER PACKAGES investors clients MANUAL investors clients In October, TAM Viagens, TAM tourism operator TAM has a special product for its clients: the Passenger completed 12 years with 600 travel package options for Manual – a brochure explaining – simply and “The client is the greatest asset of our ormore than 200 destinations. In 2010 the company sold dynamically, information that might help TAM clients ganization and therefore we aim at underover 320 thousand packages. before, during and after boarding. standing and providing with due value to its interests, its way of life and its culture. This The tourism operator continues investing in product approach follows Captain Rolim vision to exniches to offer even more tailored customer assistance. The material presents notion on: tend the “red carpet” in each assistance”, says In addition, the company offers promotional prices for particular packages, encourages national tourism, • check-in RED Training Manager, Melissa Lourenço. events, employee discounts and others. • documents • flight attending time CARPET investors clients Among trainings approached, namely: • TAM Fidelidade program With services of international scope oriented to transport and tourism, • on board management • procedure with luggage (shipped and carry on) TAM services clients of all around the world, presenting several cultural • proprietary public attention upon aircraft • luggage with forbidden boarding differences. The company is member of the Star Alliance – network boarding • safety tips grouping 27 of the world largest airline companies, which together • cultural differences • health tips operate over 21 thousand flights daily. • special meals Customer Assistance INDICATOR • procedure for delays and cancels • food culture 120% TAM values and respect diversity, concerned about offering best services 100% with quality and proper assistance, always attentive to the several forms 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% of behavior. Therefore, the company has prepared a special training for its 80% 97.9% 87.9% employees, teaching them how to deal with different customs in order to 60% 75.0% decrease cultural shocks during service renderer. 60.1% 40% In addition to contacting with major cultural characteristics presented “The client is the greatest asset of our 29.0% 33.3% 29.0% 33.3% organization and therefore we aim at 20% by the client, employees receive guidance on how to deal with every behavioral particularity, developing their sensitiveness and flexibility. 0% 2009 2008 2007 2006 Training also comprises different physical conditions and special needs, understanding and providing with in the company on Procon (Bureau of Consumer Protection) teaching also how to contour delicate situations, such as passengers under due value to its interests, its way of in Justice Linear (in the company) the effect of alcohol. life and its culture”. Melissa Lourenço, Training Manager. 34 35 EMPLOYEES Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM “This has been a standard in my relation with people. I always bear in mind that as we can value the “prime of the home”, peacefully life with their defects and emphasize their virtue, we will be managing an important side of recognizing each individual merits.” Captain Rolim 36 37 Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM employees LEADERS PASSION TO FLY TRAINING PROGRAM Human talent is fundamental for the Number of employees20 In October 2010, it was launched the INDICATOR company’s success, and therefore Leaders Training Program, oriented to TAM endeavor to retain and develop 30.000 train leaderships with target-public of professionals having Passion to Fly supervisors and managers. Cargo and 25.000 and Serve and able to contribute for Airports were the first to participate the company’s sustainable growth and 20.000 and this initiate will be extended to all Top Of Mind in competitiveness. 15.000 employees company’s areas. Human Resources 10.000 21 According to the Organizational Human 5.000 Development area, content offered in the Mission of TAM Management of with Estadão HR Top programs is intended to develop leaders People and Knowledge 0 TAM Linhas Aereas was awarded 0. Clau dio Cost a, Vice -President of the engagingly acting and able to promote 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 of Mind 201 ple and Knowledge, Providing with value and 20. Comparative of employee number at the end of the period, among years between company’s Management of Peo concept learned and implementing the cate gory “HR Head”. 33 development to people 2003 and 2010. received the award in best practices, improving even more of the 13th ann ual Hum an Resources award winners capabilities of participants. perpetuating the Spirit to Serve ber 14th , at HSBC celebration were announced in Octo with enthusiasm and competence, Brasil in São Paulo. Selene Valentini creasing a management culture such as this are only making TAM reason of proud of all According to the VP, achievement of all and recognition is associated to it. possible with the dedication s’ acco mpl ishm ents. “I receive the direct result of team tion. I seize this mothis award with great joy and emo yone working with ment to dedicate this award to ever the VP. Human talent is me in this journey ”, affir med fundamental, TAM ncy of TAM ManClaudio Costa took the Vice -Preside wled ge in February 2010. agement of People and Kno endeavor to retain and His purpose has bee n of dev elop ing stra tegies, poli. The manager is develop professionals cies and methodologies of the area the team s’ high stanalso responsible for maintaining having Passion to Fly dard, assuring the pres ence of qua lifie d prof essionals, current needs, as proper structures and process for and Serve. well as the company’s expansion goa ls. e Notícias 21. Source: Agência Investimentos 38 39 Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM TRAININGS employees Each month some employees are In 2010, over 28 thousand hours of training, nominated by their managers according courses, speeches and staff competences to merit for above average performance. updating were carried out in all unities Internal Relationship Committee evaluates of TAM in Brazil and abroad, comprising Trainings22 nominations and selects best candidates. employees of all areas. INDICATOR A voting held by the company’s high 400.000 362.078 management and popular vote defines the TAM emphasized two aspects: technical and 350.000 best candidate of the month. At the end of managerial training of operation areas and 300.000 the year a popular and high management 241.224 employees qualification. “Trainings assure 250.000 voting defines who is the best of the year. 193.559 the company uniformity in services quality 200.000 151.119 because tams are in frequent training, able 150.000 The 2010 winner was flight attendant Kelly and willing to constant challenges presented 100.000 Cristina Acencio Kumagai (Loren), who was in the daily basis of the work environment”, 50.000 nominated in February due to an assistance says Carolina Duque, Organizational Human 0 offered to a passenger insisting on showing Development Director. 2009 2010 2009 2010 gratitude towards her. No. of Employees No. of hours/employee trained 22. Program of education, training, advisory. From the left to the rights: Caroline Duque, Maria Cláudia Amaro, Kelly Cristina Acencio Kumagai (Loren), Líbano Barroso and Manoela Amaro. “Employees nominated are examples of the Professional Development Spirit to Serve, which must be practiced not only from the inside to the outside – with In November 2010, TAM held its first Development Week, event which gathered “Trainings assure the company EMPLOYEE OF THE YEAR employees our clients – but also within”, days Claudio Costa, Vice-President of the Company’s over 8 thousand national and international uniformity in services quality.” says Management of People and Knowledge. based employees in lectures. Carolina Duque, Organizational TAM established the Employee of the Year and Employee of the Month “This action emphasizes how important programs for all front-line and back-line national and international based people working everyday with the Spirit to In total, the event schedule counted with Human Development Director. employees of companies TAM Linhas Aereas, TAM Fidelidade and TAM Serve are”, comments Costa. 400 hours and 150 lectures regarding Viagens. career given by renowned professionals approaching several issues: personal The program was created to be used as an additional tool to value and finances, diversity, personal image, recognize employees standing out in the performance of their activities, communication, interpersonal relationship going beyond compliance with requirements of their positions. among others. 40 41 Selene Valentin APRENDIZ IN THE WINGS OF INCLUSION society employees Society Employees LEGAL Started in 2007, the program seeks to fully The company also participates with resources donations The Program Aprendiz Legal (Legal Apprentice) is include professionals with impairment (PIs). As a to NGOs and Institutions oriented to the aid of such focused on educating and preparing low-income multidisciplinary program, Wings of Inclusion concerns public, emphasizing the work with Apae SP, Apae Santo adolescent professionals (14 to 24 years of age). about: André, Instituto Mara Gabrilli and Instituto Rodrigo This action is supported by the spirit of Brazilian Mendes. The founder of this last institute sporadically labor and childhood and adolescence protection Mapping: mechanism mapping special needs versus writes to the Diversity Column of the magazine TAM laws. available positions, it identifies best placement for each Cloudsnas Nuvens. professional; The youngster receives ongoing training and TAM is negotiating with SRTE/SP and trade monitoring of the Management of People area Recruitment and Selection: seeks the professional in the organizations answering for Professionals with and from manager of the area he is assigned. market by means of personnel recruitment companies’ Impairment in order to set forth a commitment with references, internal references or partner NGOs. goals, legal and social demands for this public. The program is constituted by regular theoretical Professionals with impairment training and application of practice tutored by the Occupational Health Assessment: identification of the Quantidade de PCDs manager of the area which apprentice is assigned professional needs and its skills to hold such position; 1199 according to its behavior and skills profile. It INDICATOR 1116 contributes for the apprentice professional Training: when required, professional goes through a development meeting the company’s needs. training program for knowledge and skill development 781 such as professional behavior, team work, logical, Types of Impairments 2010 658 670 576 “I’ve gathered great things. The course if the first reasoning, financial education; informatics; Portuguese 482 521 step, now it is up to us. The work market is very 3% 371 411 language; among others elaborated as a daily learning; 3% 331 329 364 demanding and I’ve never believed in what I INDICATOR could do. Today I am more prepared and I am in Awareness: professional follow-up in the work 31 39 37 Law School”, says the apprentice Jessica Ramos da 41% environment, taking into account its needs and raising 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Mota, youngster graduated by the program. awareness of the group regarding the matter; NO. Quota NO. PIs 52% Retention: and yet, TAM concerns on retaining employees in order to justify and perpetuate investments made. 1% Rehabilitated Visual Physical Mental Hearing 42 43 DIVERSITY AT TAM23 DIVERSIFY TO GROW STRONGER employees 30.000 INDICATOR Black & Mixed Race 28.193 Gender Age Range In Paraguay, TAM pilot is the only female INDICATOR INDICATOR 9% pilot to command an Airbus aircraft 25.000 24.315 24.282 17% TAM values diversity among its employees. The 20.473 company purpose is that variety and sociability of ideas, 20.000 16% Letizia Ruiz, 35 years old, is the first characteristics or elements different among themselves 37% Paraguayan female pilot with commercial 15.000 within the group contributes to its strengthening. 13.159 license and IRF (Instrument Flight Rule) 9.637 63% license commanding TAM Airbus 319, 320 10.000 8.215 By the end of 2010 TAM S.A. counted with 28,193 5.872 and 321 aircrafts. 4.145 5.068 5.044 58% professionals divided into teams: Administration, 5.000 1.589 Assistance, Crew, Coordination and Maintenance. The 395 578 “I told my brother that I wanted to be a flight 0 Up to 25 years 26 to 36 years company endeavor to develop guidelines and actions 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Male Female 37 to 45 years Over 45 years attendant because they are very beautiful bringing closer and establishing identification among NO of employees NO of Black & Mixed Race women. But he said no: “No, you should be employees, irrespectively of the area which they work. employees a pilot”. I doubt him because only men were Ethnicity Turn over pilot. However, he insisted that I could be “We understand that diversity is related to the respect 1% 1% a pilot and added “You will be the first one, of each employee’s individuality. Development of INDICATOR 7% Letty”, remembers her. 4% INDICATOR capabilities requirement to the business growth and success is associated to this issue”. Carolina Duque, TAM is awarded with the Letizia began her pilot career in 1993 with 18% 16% Organizational Human Development Director. a civil aviation license, first degree of the Camélia da Liberdade employees profession. In 1995 she entered in Lapsa airline, first as a flight attendant to then in 1996 be accepted as pilot. After this, she da Liberdade TAM received in 2010 the Camélia 76% 77% continued to study and was able to conclude pers onal ities standing award with 15 companies and “Diversity is related to the respect out by defense of racia l equ ality in Braz il. The airline flight time required to finally receive its staff as black Up to 4 years 5 to 10 years commercial license, in 1998, and became of each employee’s individuality.” stood out for counting with 10% of Yellow White 11 to 20 years Over 20 years and mixed race citizens in all leve ls. Mixed Race Indigenous pioneer within Paraguayan aviation. Carolina Duque, Organizational tro de Articulação Black This award is promoted by the Cen 23. Source: Management of People and Knowledge Human Development Director. de Populações Marginalizadas, a gove rnment organization with 21 years of exist ence . “I doubt him because only men were pilot.” Letizia Ruiz, first Paraguayan pilot. 44 45 Banco de Imagens Marketing TAM INFATUATED WITH Participation of Employees/Actions Promoted LIFE funcionários 1% EMPLOYEES CLUB TAM employees 1% INDICATOR 2% 3% Infatuated with Life, TAM quality life 3% program, celebrated its eighth anniversary 5% General Lectures in 2010. It operated under responsibility of Pregnant/Mothers Meeting TAM Employees Club is a free employees OtherS the Work Safety, Health and Environment association channel in charge of 12% Deep Running Management (SHE) and with the support organizing sports and recreational 42% Ecological Walks and Sports of a multidisciplinary team composed by activities within the company. The unit Gym several sectors, including TAM Employees promotes Soccer championship, Soccer BABY ON BOARD Sports Events Club. Lectures in the Sand, Basketball, Futsal and Street employees 14% Express/Reflex./Shiatsu massage Run. Focused in wellness culture and health Social Events management, action seeks to promote With eight years tradition, the “Baby on Board” is already well-known at Among cultural and environmental 18% tools and examples of best practices Base: 2010 TAM. It’s a pregnant women meeting, oriented to pregnant employees activities one finds Music Festivals, City on health and quality of life promotion. and employees’ wives. In 2010, the event opened women and their Tours, visits such as the XIX Ecological Specific programs and punctual actions are companions was held in partnerships with AMIL -, which through the Circuit of Cardoso Island (State Park offered in: physical and emotional health, culture, citizenship and leisure; and work HEALTH employees program MAMA in Company (Maternity Assistance Model), promoting lectures by expert on several issues associated to maternity. presenting great diversity of fauna and flora in virgin portions of the Atlantic environment. Forest. Since 2009 the program counts with its own team for the “The idea is to offer all main information on pregnancy and baby management of educational actions with the purpose of creating primary care. Breastfeeding, dipper changing and first bath are The Employees Club also promotes a culture of health, safety and wellness. subjects approached in a practical way for future mothers and their parties to employees, such as the companions”, tells Marco Cantero, SHE Manager. traditional June Fest. 2010 big event was Among themes and activities developed, i.e.: the II TAM Employees Club Cup, which took place simultaneously to the South • Street run group Africa World Cup. • Awareness on diseases (Diabetes, respiratory diseases, cholesterol) CULTURAL CONTESTS employees clients • Vaccination campaigns (measles, influenza H1N1, Yellow Fever) Cultural actions take place throughout the year, distributing prizes and fun to • Lecture with experts (health, quality of life) employees and clients. TAM grants tickets for promoted or sponsored events • Campaigns to combat diseases (Dengue, AIDS, H1N1 flu) , concerts (such as Ivete Sangalo), movie sessions at CINE TAM, travels with • Blood donation companions, international travels, among others. • Women’s Health 46 47 TAM ETHICS employees suppliers Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM “TAM Code of Ethics aims at helping those somehow To voice ones concern or clarify any doubt regarding having relations with the company in adopting an behavior breaching the TAM Code of Ethics, the ethical posture in their daily activities. company makes available a particular reporting channel – Channel of Ethics, which can be accessed at the following address www.eticatam.com.br. According to TAM Compliance Management, Cristina All Ethical Guidelines defended by TAM are Engler Unger, Channel of Ethics is a safe and efficient outlined in detail in its Code of Ethics, namely: tool in maintaining company’s value “We seek to enchant our clients, treat all people with respect, encour1. Undue Payment aging fair labor practices, other than acting vigorously 2. International Commerce to avoid conflict of interests. Therefore, we keep a 3. Money Laundering Prevention culture in which ethic is recognized, valued and taken as 4. Privacy an example to all”, says Unger. 5. Suppliers Relation 6. Client as Government 7. Competition Protection Law 8. Environment, Health and Safety 9. Labor Practices 10. Conflict of Interest “We seek to enchant our clients, 11. Financial and Commercial Liability treat all people with respect, 12. Negotiation with internal and classified information encouraging fair labor practices, 13. Intellectual Property other than acting vigorously 14. Information Security to avoid conflict of interests”. Cristina Engler Unger, Compliance Management. 48 49 ORGANIZATIONAL SAFE employees suppliers ENVIRONMENT WORK suppliers clients employees “Results have helped us on The year of 2010 inaugurated the Global Organizational Environment Survey at TAM. “The purpose was to learn what In 2010, TAM initiated a new safety management process making decisions required each employee thinks about our work environment. It was a upon measurement of operating risks in order to assure to have more motivation great opportunity for everyone to express their opinion and perpetuity of the company, and above all employees’ safety indicate what is doing well and what needs improvement”, integrity. “We don’t want to know who and engagement.” Claudio explains Claudio Costa. Vice-President of Management of made a mistake, but what Costa. Vice-President of Peoples and Knowledge. Accident frequency rate is calculated from the following caused the error to correct the Management of Peoples and formula: Survey completely confidential and online, it was opened to situation” Commander Harley Knowledge. the voluntarily participation of all employees with over 14 No. of work accident with employee’s absence x 1.000.000 thousand respondents of all levels and areas, emphasizing the FR* = 100% participation of Multiplus employees. Man-hours worked *FR* = Frequency Rate 100 INDICATOR TAM S.A. Results Frequency Rate24 Factors x Companies 80 15,0 INDICATOR 13,0 60 12,30 12,07 11,89 11,85 11,56 11,31 11,16 11,24 11,22 11,06 11,19 10,88 11,0 11,33 11,54 11,56 11,49 10,59 10,98 10,42 11,00 10,82 10,86 10,99 10,38 10,18 10,18 10,55 9,93 9,79 10,02 10,04 40 9,0 9,74 10,29 9,33 9,42 8,79 7,0 65 59 56 54 52 51 51 48 48 46 20 Satisfaction Transparence Leadership Health, Safety, Communication High Career and Values Remuneration Work 5,0 and appreciation Quality of Life Leadership Development and Benefits Conditions Jan Fev Mar Abr Mai Jun Jul Ago Set Out Nov Dez ACAF FR 2010 Goal ACAF FR ACAF FR Pantanal (61%) TAM Airlines (63%) TAM Linhas Aereas (54%) Accrued Frequency Rate Accrued Accrued 2010 2009 2008 TAM S.A. (54%) Multiplus Fidelidade (48%) TAM Viagens (50%) 24. Performance of Accidents Frequency Rate with Employee’s leave (ACAF) – TAM 2010 50 51 Selene Valentini Selene Valentini National Safety Commission Formed by Safety, Health and Environmental Management Department (SHE), Infrastructure and Training, the group aims to integrate, consolidate and monitor prevention programs in accidents in the company and present to Corporative Safety Commission (CSC) the macro development of operational safety in the company, maintaining risks in acceptable levels. SMS Safety and Safety Management Security (SMS) is a quality system based on Life Quality accidents prevention processes and risk management analysis. The system establishes more effective and efficient safety management Safety, Health and Environmental Management in the company, creating a sustainable environment, preserving Department (SHE) is responsible for environment and ensuring quality, security and health for clients, internalization of culture in safety in the employees and contractor. company. “Change a culture means to transform slowly Before and after and solidly the point of view of people some topic, no matter what the subject is. Talking At TAM, safety is crucial not only during flight. Before and after each about culture is to talk about habits, ways trip, a series of performed resources and activities seeks for preventing to see situations, manners to do things” accidents. “Historically, 90% of labour related accidents are related to tells Dr. Marco Cantero, Safety, Health and unsafe behavior and only 10% to the condition in which they happen”, Environmental Management Manager. affirms Dr. Marco Cantero, Labour, Health and Environmental Safety Manager. 52 52 53 Selene Valentini Prevention Gladstone Campos / Realphotos Searching for a suitable labour environment and in Accidents conditions for full physical, mental and emotional well-being of its employees, these preventive programs and health and security promotion are applied since Now, airport instructors, loads and ramp contracting of employee. A pilot-project was executed have basic accreditation for prevention in together with company managers and it should be accidents in Cenipa (Center of Investigation extended for others employees. and Prevention in Aeronautical Accidents). Instructors have done a course managed by entity – and sponsored by company – in Vila Safety Olimpia campus at Universidade Anhembi Morumbi, in Sao Paulo, between November TAM’s Flight Safety department is particularly oriented 8th and 12th. towards safety in flights. This area aims to guide and coordinate activities of a Investigation and Prevention Security With this education, the staff is ready to System on Aeronautical Accidents in the company and Support spread in its classes the best practices for its interfaces with other equivalent/similar entities in prevention in occurrences, incident and activities related to Flight Safety. A support service directed to airport staff which aeronautical accidents. optimize applied resources, in addition to coordinate “There’s a big difference between error and violation: nimbly and real-time the contingency regarding to “Change culture means to transform when a crew member makes a mistake, error is inherent safety in the operations. Security to human being, we can correct it. We don’t want to slowly and solidly the point of view of know who made the mistake, but what caused that This staff centralizes and clarifies all base doubts related people about such topic, no matter For over 10 years, TAM manages and error to find a solution”, tells Commander Harley, to various issues about required documents to make commands critical situations related responsible for Safety, one of SMS base in TAM. international trips, making the interaction easier with what the subject is. Talking about to corporative security by Security Immigration departments in Brazil and other countries culture is to talk about habits, ways to Department. In 2010, Security Training staff in which company works. formed a great number of people. From see situations, manners to do things”. January to October, 17.414 people were Dr Marco Cantero, Safety, Health and trained, among company employees and Environmental Management Manager. contractors. This represents about 65% of effective of the company. 54 55 SUPPLIERS Gladstone Campos “A traditional proverb very used in football says: ‘if it’s not broke, don’t fix it’. I like to be innovator about marketing postures and daily actions in the company, I try to always be conserver when I treat people, in the relationship with friends, clients and also with suppliers.” Captain Rolim 56 57 Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM SALES WINGS TO FLY suppliers CHAMPIONS TAM knows that, besides managing carefully its own To keep a closely and safe relationship with its TOP TAM 2010 meeting, performed in Buzios business, should administrate closely the possible supply chain, TAM uses many resources, like specific (RJ), distributed R$ 1.5 million in awards impacts its supply chain can perform. This management communication channels, trainings of employees for travel agents and the most outstanding is a continuous challenge, which can aggregate or responsible for establishment of these relationships, consolidators in TAM ticket sales. The subtract value to the services of company. legal mechanism, among others. event, the largest national tourism award, concluded its 12th edition in 2010. Companies seeks to establish a partnership with From 2011, TAM should enlarge its relationship with suppliers, searching for corporative and citizenship ethics with balanced commercial relationships, which strategic suppliers, searching for improvement in its processes and reduction in social and environmental FRANCHISEE GATHERED suppliers employees “The travel agents and consolidators are crucial for tourism development and also represent a value for every single of parts involved in impacts, extending the discussions about chain, its for our growth. TOP TAM awarded this work, the negotiation. impact in the company and adjustments, necessary vs. TAM Viagens tourism operator performed its first convention in recognizing the worth of this partnership as possible, to be performed. 2010 designated to meet its franchisees. Two-day event took place a big fraternization” declares Paulo Castello at Buzios, cost of Rio de Janeiro State, had as mot the network Branco, Planning and Commercial Vicelabour system. President. “Together in Network. In the network we are stronger. In the Selene Valentini network we go further” was the main subject of meeting, with presence of main operator managers and 72 franchisees all over the country. Totally, the event counted on about 130 participants – including franchisee employee body members. “The travel agents and consolidators are crucial for The purposes of the event were to define goals to 2011, present tools offered by TAM Viagens and its franchisees and also to offer tourism development and also guidance about brand use and operator language. The forecast is for our growth” Paulo Castello to reach, until in the end of 2011, 200 franchisees. Branco, Planning and Commercial Vice-President. 58 59 Selene Valentini TECHNICAL SUSTAINABLE CLAUSES suppliers society environment suppliers TRAINING TAM elected a legal mean for sustainable relationship The sustainable clauses aim to: In September 2010, Alta (Asociación measure establishment together with suppliers, Latinoamericana y del Caribe de Transporte instituting good rules for conduct. Eradicate child labour Aéreo) and MRO (Technological Center) Eradicate forced labour received operators and suppliers for speech Created from TAM’s Code of Ethical Guideline, clauses Fight against discrimination and harassment cycles and discussion towarded to technical related to sustainability are present in the contracts Health and security aviation issues. celebrated by the company since 2007. These standards Respect rights of labour relationship Gladstone Campos / Realphotos aim to minimize damages in environment, to ensure Fight against corruption The meeting, performed in TAM Museum protection for human rights, reduce costs (through Comply with fiscal and legal obligations auditorium, in São Carlos (SP), aims to resource efficiency), reduce generation of residues and Manage environmental impacts provide change of experience among make value for brand. Reduce residues, reusing and recycle TAM MRO employees, technicians of affiliated air companies to Alta in South America and representatives of manufacturers of aeronautical components. TECHNOLOGICAL From 2011, TAM should enlarge its relationship “The focus of the event is to gather environment suppliers CONDOMINIUM with strategic suppliers, searching for operators and suppliers in speech cycles and discussions about technical issues improvement in its processes and reduction in of our labour routine, providing best TAM has created a technological condominium in Sao The condominium was projected within the strictest social and environmental impacts, extending integration among professionals and Carlos (SP) inside of MRO Business Unit – Maintenance, standard for environmental preservation, taking very productive experience changes” Repair and Overhaul (TAM Technological Center). advantage from MRO infrastructure – which, by its the discussions about chain, its impact in tells Operation and Maintenance ViceThere are 22 lots of 18 thousand square meters to Environmental Police, to search for ensuring that the company and adjustments, necessary vs. President, Ruy Amparo. house installations of several companies. According to production process doesn’t damage the environment possible, to be performed. TAM’s Maintenance and Operation Vice-President, Ruy and the community. Efforts are forwarded to reduce Amparo, companies don’t need to be suppliers for TAM, even more the impact on environment. but should act in the same aerial sector. 60 61 SOCIETY Selene Valentini “If we want more fair society tomorrow, it’s required to sow today the labour and construction virtue, because only work can produce richness.” Captain Rolim 62 63 COMMI TMENT WITH SOCIET Y RAISING WINGS Dreams in the Instituto Rodrigo Mendes clients society baggage clients employees The contrast between economic Social company strategy is planned to serve development and social impacts checks a stakeholders that relates, first of all, and share between • Autonomy and self-worth: acknowlProject performed by Rede Turisol impleSince its foundation, the direction given dilemma to be treated in the business: which two main principles: edgment of potential and own skills, ments a communitarian tourism model in to Institute actions are based on beattitudes companies should have to live valorization of creative and authorship Paraty (RJ), in which participants of produclief that art is a powerful tool for social process, incentive to the development tive chain are repositioned. Its traditional together in harmony with social progress Relationship with interest publics transformation, considering that diverof personal projects; know is upside, and entrepreneurship is and responsibility? Investment in socio-environmental initiatives sity and richness of the results obtained encouraged by products and services. for those who practice them. Based on its labour background, it’s noticed that • Professional life: discovery of new proAnd it’s not different with aviation. The Among actions, donations, contributions and projects fessional perspective in areas demandThis strategy calls Projeto Bagagem and these results consist of the following associal aspects refer to creation of values for developed and/or financed by companies with focus ing knowledge in art and inclusive seeks to preserve cultural habits, besides pects: education and financial return of stuimproving local family income, generating stakeholders and to aviation contribution for on communities and in efforts in socio-economic dents who develop a personal poetry an income alternative for traditional compractices which promote social and cultural development of a society as a whole are highlighted. • Formation: development of artistic by sales of its works.] munities and also valuing culture, tradition enrichment. skills, improvement of creation capaciand environments in which these commuties, organization and communication, For more information, please access: nities are living in. large comprehension about content which permeates in the inclusive educawww.institutorodrigomendes.org.br Selene Valentini For more information, please access: tion and its unfolding; Stakeholders several publics which has a www.projetobagagem.org relationship with the company. TAM seeks to establish a relationship of closeness and partnership with community. Its strategy of relationship is based on knowledge of its own business to auxiliary Multiple actions society clients and strength this public. Multiplus Fidelidade launched a program Casa Hope is 100% initiative philanthropic for session of points for beneficent entities. institution, founded in 1996, which offers The pilot, in 2010, was a partnership with biopsychosocial and educational support Casa Hope. Clients who wish can request for wanting cancer carrier children and for ransom of the points from several moteenagers and those with transplanted dalities and transform them into donations bone marrow, kidney, liver, and its comfor entity. panions coming from Brazil or from other South American countries. 64 65 Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM Selene Valentini TAM VOLUNTEER employees society TAM collectively volunteer program is deeply connected to Spirit of Serving of the company, being rescued Initiatives are quite varied, including education programs with in several actions throughout of the year. Employees focus on entrepreneurship, accomplishment of dreams and campaigns for goods taking, like shelter and donation. from national and international units participate, of all hierarchic levels, benefiting people and communities directly from social activities. Volunteer is an social actor and transforming agent, who provide unpaid services in benefit of community; VOL UN TEE RS Gladstone Campos giving its time and knowledge, performs a work drive for solidarity, meeting not only others need but also to Wish Masters fulfillment own personal motivation. employees & Youth society employees society TAM Volunteer25 Kassia Emily, 9-year old girl, vict im of a cancer which blinded her before 1 year old, had Youth from 15 to 17 years old, low inco a wish: pilot an airme families, make coursplane. Gustavo Manzini Santos, es managed by TAM employees who Flight and Pricing Anaare volunteer, to help in lyst in Revenue Management is volu professional prepare of community yout nteer at NGO Make a hs around Congonhas INDICATOR 17% Wish, told Kassia’s wish to TAM. (SP). Courses are conferred in TAM Serv 24% ice Academy. Kassia was taken to flight simulato “Works like these which contribute r, where she was the for youth education with pilot, with all devices at her touc less resource and help them to have h disposal. She made a concrete opportunities to visit in preparing aircraft, tried all gain its space in required labour mar 8% airplane dependences, ket”, tells Matheus Piccelli knowing all “caresses” available volunteer, Energy Coordinator. (spaces, pillows, support for meal, light and sound control) . For Tamires Machado de Oliveira, stud 51% ent, the course was very For more information, please acce important. “I’ve even had a job inter ss: view”, she tells. www.makeawishbrasil.com.br For more information, please access: www.jasp.org.br Make a Wish TAM Museum Junior Achievment Campaigns 25. Proportion of participants by promoted activity 66 67 Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM RIDE FOR TAM RID E FOR LIF E society LIFE society society MUSEUM Books flying TAM makes its operational structure available for transportation of people and items for auxiliary of Reopened in June 2010, after large reform, TAM thousand books society. In 2010, 2178 organs, tissues and recipients Museum counts on the approval of being the TAM has transpor ted about eight Europe History, were transported for packaging of biological material. largest world aviation museum maintained by and ten thousand documents on ism for School of Arts, a private company. The space came from desire Art, Social Science and Tour y (EAC H) from Sao Paulo UniIn partnership with National Notification, Captivation to prevent aviation history and exhibition of this Science and Humanit ). Wei ghti ng alm ost 9 tons , the materiversity (USP and Organ Distribution Center – CNNCDO – TAM history for future generations, under realization of Euro pea n University, al was in Miguel de Cervantes transports freely human body organs and tissues. Rolim and João Amaro Capitains. tran spor ted until Sao in Valladoid, Spain, and Paulo by TAM Carg o, TAM was Load Unit . The service aims to help National Transplant System Coordination, performing activities expected in SUPPORT FOR TAM Museum is the most complete in the world “One of the goals of our compan rele ase of y is to contribute cult ure in our counAdministrative Rule of your creation. CALAMITY SITUATIONS society and the hugest in South Hemisphere. The museum with education and has: sor the transtry. It was a great pleasure to spon Company still offers logistic support to organ In 2010, TAM performed special actions to help calamity victims, as the ry” tells Pau lo Castello portation of such rich libra captivation staffs, involving transportation means and earthquake in Haiti and floods in Alagoas and Pernambuco. Company • More than 20,0002 area and Allia nces Vice -Pre sident. Branco, Commercial other needs, in highest parameters of service quality. granted tickets to transport doctors and volunteers, besides promoting • 96 aircrafts among pioneers, classic, jets and fighter transportation of foods, remedies, hygiene products, mattress, among other aircraft, majority in plenty conditions for flight items, for victims of affected area. • Parts • Simulators About 19 tons of donations were transported from Sao Paulo Government • Multimedia tunnel and International Committee of Red Cross from Rio de Janeiro for • TAM Kids space Pernambuco and Alagoas, and 13 tickets conceded for transportation of • Propulsion space RIDE FOR LIFE society volunteers for Haiti. • Control Tower Transportation of patients • Fashion space TAM Museum in NUMBERS • Wing dedicated exclusively for TAM evolutionary • Visitors (1st phase) – 82,000 trajectory. TAM donated more than R$ 1 million in regions, for locality within company route. • Visitors (2nd phase – June 2010) – 69,056 tickets for transportation of patients in • Students (2nd phase) – 7,675 TAM promotes monitored visits for several public medical treatment. It’s required to show a medical document Paid – 4,679 Free 2,996 interested in knowing space: students, professors, which confirms transportation needs, and Ticket cession is done for patients who the solicitant will pass for socio-economic employees, ONGs; elder and youth. • Schools served (2nd phase) 239 need air transportation for achieving evaluation. Paid 151 Free 88 treatments which don’t exist in its Total of Visitors – 151,056 68 69 Selene Valentini SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT society Environment The support focus is on projects which aim to: TAM reserves about 2% of its EBITDA for support to socio-environmental initiatives, with annual periodicity. Social Investment26 INDICATOR • develop activities connected to Tourism; This allows to calculate and to plan carefully the • i mprove production, handcraft practices 100% contributions based on expected profit to the company. 90% with cultural attributions; 80% • professional and business improvement, With intention to maintain diversification of Social 70% like hospitality courses, management and Investment, TAM has adopted a differentiated 60% for improvement of service offers (food, focus every single year from institutionalization of 50% hospitality, leisure, among others); 40% sustainability in the company. • planning of sustainable use of touristic 30% 20% territory by local community, as well as 2006 Employment and profit generation, local 10% mobilization and organization for touristic sustainable development and environment; 0% activity management; 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 Professional training for youths and deficient • strength the groups organized which Others Fight against hungry and food security Sports and protection for environment; Health and sanitation Culture Education produce goods and/or provide services 2008 Health, environment, education, professional connected to touristic activity; 26. Distribution of Private Social Investment throughout of years. training for youths and deficient; • aggregate value for destinations operated 2009 Environment, education, professional training directly by TAM; for youths and deficient and heath; Contributions for society27 • m itigation of impacts in greenhouse gas 2010 Accomplishment of first public notice for 45 emissions, and which bring innovation in financial support. 40 Biofuel issue; INDICATOR 35 • conservation of environment and From 2011, TAM’s investment and social acting, 30 contribution for fauna and flora protection besides follow-up in social projects supported by and which encourage the concept for R$ MM 25 the company, will be performed by People and 20 sustainable development. Knowledge Management area. In addition, projects 15 supported will be selected with application of one 10 Regulation. 05 00 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Tendency line 27. Amount of contributions, in R$. 70 71 Please, find below the main projects supported by TAM, in order to help communities: Name Description Acting Area Site Name Description Acting Area Site ASSOCIAÇÃO JUNIOR Nonprofit educative association, which seeks to awake Financial education www.jabrasil.org.br FUNDAÇÃO O Partnership seeks to sensitize people about importance of Brazilian NaBiodiversity www.fundacaogrupoboticario. ACHIEVEMENT entrepreneur spirit in youths in the schools. BOTICÁRIO tional parks. The goal is to encourage ecotourism in these areas, besides org.br ADEC Association in Consumer Defense and Contributor seeks Dissemination of Concept www.adec.org.br informing passengers about Brazilian Natural Patrimony value. to guide citizens about its rights INSTITUTOAYRTONSENNA Institute towards formal education (alphabetization, speedy of learning, Education senna.globo.com/ ALFABETIZAÇÃO Nonprofit Civil Society Organization and public use Education www.alfabetizacao.org.br/site/ technology and school management) and to complementary education institutoayrtonsenna/br/home.asp SOLIDÁRIA which adopts a simple model of initial, innovator and alfasol.asp (sport, communication, art and sustainable development). low cost alphabetization, based on partnership system INSTITUTO ETHOS NGO created with goal to mobilize, sensitize and help companies to manDissemination of www.ethos.org.br with several society sectors. age its business in socially responsible way. Concept AMIGOS DO BEM Nonprofit non-governmental institution, with main Education www.amigosdobem.org INSTITUTO FAÇA PARTE Civil society organization with goal to promote culture of volunteers, Volunteer www.facaparte.org.br goal to contribute for hungry and misery eradication in encouraging participation of youth as active part of making a more fair Northeastern Outback by educational means and selfsocially nation. sustainable projects which favor social development of INSTITUTOMARAGABRILLI Nonprofit organization which develops and executes projects which Valorization of Diversity institutomaragabrilli.org.br needy population. contribute for improvement of life quality for deficient people. / Sports ASAS DO SOCORRO NGO which acts in the country with purposes to offer loHealth www.asasdesocorro.org.br INSTITUTO RODRIGO Nonprofit organization committed with construction of an inclusive Valorization of Diversity www.institutorodrigomendes.org.br gistic support through air transportation to attendance MENDES society by art programs and communitarian development ASSOCIAÇÃO JUNIOR Nonprofit educative association, which seeks to awake entrepreneur spirit Financial education Não disponível ASHOKA World nonprofit organization, pioneer on social innovaEntrepreneurship www.ashoka.org.br ACHIEVMENT ASSUNÇÃO in youth in the school. tion, work and support to social entrepreneur – people LETTRE D’AMAZONIE Association which seeks for human promotion and development in Latin Communitarian www.lettre-amazonie.org with creative and innovative ideas to encourage transAmerica through studies, research, commerce, construction of schools, development formation with large social impact hospitals, clinics, etc. ASOLEU Nonprofit institution which coordinate donations for Health www.asoleu.org.py MAKE A WISH Non-governmental organization which seeks to concretize desires of Volunteer www.makeawish.org.br/ helping children with cancer and leukemia 3-to-18-year old children who have its life endangered by serious disease, BRAZIL FOUNDATION Nonprofit association which capture resources in Communitarian www.brazilfoundation.org seeking to enrich human experience with hope, strength and happiness. Brazilian Community resident in USA to support social development MUSEU TAM Non-governmental institution which seeks to preserve in Aviation memory Culture www.museutam.com.br/smt/jsp/ projects in Brazil. through conservation, restoration, purchase and change of parts of historic, default.jhtml# BVS&A Social and Environmental Stock Exchange (BVSA) is a Communitarian www.bovespasocial.com.br artistic and documentary value. program pioneer released by BOVESPA to increase funds development PROJETO BAGAGEM NGO which aims to create a Solidarity Economy Network of communitarSustainable tourism www.projetobagagem.org for educational projects of Brazilian NGOs. ian tourism in Brazil. CASA DO GESTOR Institution managed in associative way by independent Technology for education casadogestor.com.br REPÓRTER BRASIL Project seeks to decrease through communitarian education and Education www.reporterbrasil.com.br consultant group, which seeks to produce and disESCRAVOS NEM PENSAR communication the number of teenagers allured for slave work in seminate technologies for human management and Agricultural Amazonian Border. development, contributing for constructive participaSOS MATA ATLÂNTICA NGO which seeks to defend remainder of Mata Atlântica, value physical Environment www.sosmatatlantica.org.br tion of managers and companies in society, especially in and cultural identity of human community. Brazilian context VI SEMANA DE Event oriented to call Society’s attention for possibilities of inclusion of Valorization of diversity Not available CASA HOPE Biopsychosocial and educational support entity Education and Citizenship www.hope.org.br VALORIZAÇÃODAPESSOA physical deficient. It seeks to ensure for excluded people the citizenship to patients with cancer and its companion from COM DEFICIÊNCIA which is granted by Constitution, providing the opportunity to call socithroughout of Brazil ety attention for inclusion of people with deficient. ENDEAVOR Encouraging Entity to entrepreneurship, searching to Entrepreneurship www.endeavor.org.br build big companies, creating new markets and generating jobs. 72 73 ENVIRONMENT Selene Valentini “Man is the only animal which got to develop on Earth exactly because he retains an infinity capacity of knowledge and, when memorizing them, exercise them to not to make old mistakes”. Captain Rolim 74 75 Selene Valentini PRESENT INVESTMENTS, FUTURE RETURNS BIOCOMBUSTÍVEL World worry about climatic changes and uncertainty of suppliers investors Environment oil supply have made companies to search for solutions which allows to decrease energetic consumption and favor use of alternative and renewable energy source. Selene Valentini Among proposed solutions to maintain Aviation sector has less options for fighting against aviation grow-up in an economy for low climatic changes due dependency on fuels. The carbon emissions is using biofuel. Although uncertainty of price, as well as emergent regulations this industry has already produced solutions around greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions related to from algae and camelina, these raw material fossil fuel, has made air companies to invest large sums are not adapted for Brazilian reality. of money in Research and Development of alternative fuels. In October 2008, TAM, getting its role within Brazilian and world aviation, TAM’s environmental strategy is divided into three main started an organization of a group to work sources for mitigation of impacts of its business on together in search of biomass solution for environment: Brazilian aviation. • reduction on greenhouse gas emission (big impact on One of the points which influenced the company); company in the choice of project was the • reduction on residue emission in the whole company; recognized capacity of Brazil to develop • protection of biodiversity. alternative energetic sources. This, Biofuel: recent tests made by several sector companies show that new biofuel connected to knowledge in aeronautic generation works. In addition to progress reached in Research and Development, 2010 or 2011 certifications are one real possibility with best efficient and potential technologies, can result in significant gain fuel for emission reduction in until 80%.28 for environment. 28. Source: IATA, 2010 76 77 BRAZILIAN P&D suppliers investors environment suppliers investors environment TECHNOLOGY TAM searched a culture which gathers the best features Together with other companies and partner for production of biofuel. Existing in spontaneous way in organizations which follow with TAM in this infertile soil and unfavorable climate to major of traditional food cultures, nettlespurge can be considered one of Nettlespurge is a shrub or a tree with until 4-high meters, small flowers, greenish yellow, whose fruit is a capsule with World Highlight suppliers investors Environmen t innovator project, the first step was given for creation of a Brazilian aviation biofuel platform. the most promising oleaginous of Southeast, Midwest three dark smooth seeds, where tender white almond, rich up). In May, in IATA in oil, is found. nable Aviation Fuel User Gro and Northeast of Brazil, for substitution of oil kerosene. TAM is also in SAFUG (Sustai presented. The The goal is, in long-term, to substitute until 20% eles, nettlespurge project was It’s highly resistant to diseases and insects don’t attack meeting performed in Los Ang ing avia tion biofuel of kerosene from oil by new kerosene. This will na as one of most promis it, because it segregates caustic latex, which run off from entity considered Brazilian fau bring great advantages for environment: it will pulled or injured leafs. raw-material in the world. be possible to reduce from 65% to 80% of carbon Comunicação Interna TAM emission from company flights. “The option is for nettlespurge because its features of tropical clenched plant, which doesn’t compete with food TAM is also the creator of Brazilian Alliance production, needs low water to be produced and can for Aviation Biofuel (ABRABA), an association restore soil in erosion process. In addition, plant can be formed by great Brazilian air companies, airplane cultivated in familiar agriculture” affirms Libano Barroso, manufacturer, research companies, biofuel President from TAM Linhas Aereas. FIRST FLIGHT suppliers investors environment producer associations, govern representatives, fuel producer companies, among others, aiming Studies with nettlespurge were started by Michigan to promote public and private initiatives which Technological University together with UOP/Honeywell, In November 22th 2010, TAM performed, for the first time in Latin America, an search for development and certification of attesting its qualities and TAM proposes to participate in experimental flight with biofuel in commercial aircraft. Something which starts biofuel for application in aeronautic industry. The productive biokerosene chain of aviation produced from to be a part of Brazilian Aviation History. initiative was released in May 10th 2010. the plant. In experimental project, an Airbus A320 took off from International Airport Tom From 2011, big piece of work will be to build and Energy Supply Manager of the company, Paulus Figueiredo, Jobim, in Rio de Janeiro, and flied over Brazilian air space over Atlantic Ocean participate in dynamic productive chain, in which explains: “viability study project, both for agricultural field for 45 minutes, returning from source point. In total, 18 people were on board, this biokerosene is not so viable than conventional and industrial process, will be fundamental for scaling among TAM technician and executives involved in the project. kerosene for aviation. The solution should be environment, social, economic impacts of expansion of commercially viable and sustainable. “We want biokerosene and its commercialization in the country”. “Test is part of a project to reduce Greenhouse Gas Emission in company flights”, to be a company which flights more highly and Paulus describes. to contribute with society” Libano Barroso tells, President from TAM Linhas Aereas. 78 79 Selene Valentini CDP investors environment Since 2006, TAM is a signatory member of the Carbon The CDP is one of the major global projects that Disclosure Project (CDP) with a commitment to report combine corporate social responsibility, fighting against on measures to control (direct and indirect) emissions of climate change, and participating on financial market Greenhouse Gases. with the performance of the largest banks, insurance Calculations were performed from IPCC companies, and pension funds. data (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) and accredited sources, providing the basis for the accomplishment of a clear GHG INVENTORY suppliers investors environment and explanatory study about CO2 emissions, presenting in details where they can be INDICATOR significantly reduced the first step for a In 2010, TAM held its third GHG Emission Inventory Total emissions (.1000 tCO2e)30 sustainable enterprise. (Greenhouse Gas Generators) according to the Flight Emissions (1.000 tCO2e)29 standards of the GHG Protocol (www.ghgprotocol.org/). 8.000,00 8.000,00 In 2010, TAM has also initiated its In this inventory, they analyzed the power consumption participation in the Carbon Efficient Index INDICADOR in the company facilities and offices, daily commutes, 7.000,00 7.000,00 (ICO2), the result of a partnership between and especially flights of all company routes. The BNDES and BM&FBOVESPA. The purpose of 6.000,00 6.032,42 6.000,00 assessment of these factors demonstrated the “carbon 5.432,94 the index is to stimulate the measurement of 5.411,32 footprint” of TAM S.A. 5.056,03 greenhouse gas emissions by companies in 5.000,00 5.041,76 5.000,00 the Brazilian corporate environment aiming “The inventory elaboration is one of TAM sustainability 4.000,00 4.000,00 at its further mitigation, also offering to strategies because it is an instrument that allows the investors concerned with issues relating to characterization and understanding of its emissions. This 3.000,00 3.000,00 climate change one additional instrument enables the deployment of consistent actions to reduce for the investment analysis. and offset the organization emissions, which should 2.000,00 2.000,00 integrate the planning, implementation, and operation of business activities, also contributing to a sustainable 1.000,00 1.000,00 development of the company,” said Rita Moreno, 0,00 0,00 Coordinator of Sustainability and Culture Management. 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 2010 Total emissions of flights Total emissions – scope 1. 29. tCO2e Tons of CO2 equivalent. 30. tCO2e Tons of CO2 equivalent. 80 81 Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM A BETTER ADMINISTRATION employees suppliers investors environment For the second year in a row, TAM has received the award for the best administration of Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM aviation fuel in Latin America. Fuel Conservation in numbers In the 14th Armbrust Awards (December 2010), TAM has been recognized as the best company FUEL in Latin America in the administration of CONSERVATION employees suppliers investors environment How much does1 kg cost? aviation fuel. 151 In aviation, fuel efficiency is directly related to the distance an aircraft can 1 kg extra load X 365 days X aircrafts “We are very pleased with this award because be flown, to the amount of cargo that it can carry and most importantly, (1 year) (TAM fleet) it represents the public recognition of TAM to a better environmental performance. quality and expertise in the management of = such a strategic input, as well as a recognition TAM is working on measures to combat high operational costs linked to R$ 39.717,09 for the efforts and professionalism of the staff fuel consumption and byproducts, and a proper planning and correct execution of the flight is of fundamental importance, thus minimizing responsible for the daily relationship with emissions either directly or indirectly associated to fuel consumption. the aviation fuel industry,” highlighted Paulus Figueiredo, Power Supply Manager. How much did TAM spend in fuel in 2010?32 Weight = fuel burning31 R$ 3.451.200.000,00 The amount of fuel used in the trajectory of a flight is roughly proportional to the drag of the aircraft. The greater the drag, more fuel must be burned. “[This is] the public recognition of In order to reduce this value, technicians, researchers, and engineers devote TAM quality and expertise in the management of such a strategic much attention to the development of an aircraft. Its weight is also important. The greater the number of kilos into an aircraft, $ $ $ $ the higher the lifting force necessary to move it through the air which also input”, Paulus Figueiredo Power increases its drag. Drag and weight are two key areas where industry is concentrated to get an overcoming in order to improve its efficiency. Supply Manager. 31. Source: Beginner’s Guide to Aviation Efficiency – www.enviro.aero/aviationefficiency. 32. Source: Demonstrações financeiras em 31 de dezembro de 2010 Site TAM RI. 82 83 Gladstone Campos / Realphotos Fuel Conservation Facts Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM • Operation actions: Started in TAM in 2008, the Fuel Conservation Project • Reduction of Carbon Emissions (CO2): a strict control continuous improvement of flight (fuel conservation) reached the mark of 84,624,842 liters of the remaining fuel onboard in order to establish a information (Flight Plan); preserved until 12/2010. These are small changes in the high operational efficiency and reduction in fees paid presentation of concepts and results on company routine that allow reducing fuel consumption. due to emissions. There is an estimated amount of $ Fuel Conservation in room classes; 30 million per year to be paid to the European Union implementation of concepts in the group In 2009, they were the focus of the program: on-ground due to the emission of CO2. of commercial crew; consumption (fuel employed when the aircraft is on the elaboration of a manual of FUEL POLICY; Accumulated Gain (R$ MM)32 ground with the tail engine running) and the reduction • Weight reduction: application of FUEL CONSERVATION of fuel consumption from engine washing. reduction of drinking water on aircraft; 25 23,8 concepts in the CCOA (Control Center of Air exchange of aluminum cargo containers by others Operations); 19,8 In 2010, the focus was the search for a balance between made in “Ultralite”, an alloy of glass fiber with 20 correct use of NOTAMs folder (notices that INDICATOR efficiency and quality. Read some of the following thermoplastic that is 60% stronger and 30% lighter provide pilots with information on safety actions taken: than aluminum; 14,8 and operational efficiency of aircrafts); 15 reduction of employees’ luggage. reduction in luggage weight of the crew • APU 0 Project: it aims to optimize the use of APU (led overnight/ short keys); 9,7 (Auxiliary Power Unit) as a source of engine startup • Maintenance actions: 10 reduction in deviations of operating only, thus producing savings of R$ 10,647,286.32 in engine washing (compressors); procedures; 5,8 the first six months. polishing and cleaning of aircrafts; 5 continued improvement of communication 2,0 repairs and trimming of control surfaces; channels between the aircraft and the 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,9 • Integration with the Center for Air Navigation supply from external sources; company; 0 Management: it ensures the balance between the understanding of the time required for making the coordination of Fuel Conservation concepts Jan Fev Mar Abr Mai Jun Jul Ago Set Out Nov Dez capacity of operation of the Brazilian Airspace Control final decision of the supply; in other areas of the company; System and the demand of air movements in the improved availability of information in RTA. Tendency Line improvement of the quality of information country. Satellite-guided routes are shorter and in the book of the RTA records (Technical therefore they consume less fuel. 33 Values saved from the actions of Fuel Conservation. Report of Aircrafts); complete inclusion of monitoring in B767 and B777. 84 85 Gladstone Campos / Realphotos REDUCTION OF ELECTRONIC ONBOARD LUGGAGE employees environment DOCUMENT Aiming at improving working conditions of its RESULTS: clients investors environment employees, as well as the operational efficiency and 1 Estimated reduction of costs, TAM started in 2010 a specific communication with its crew. The company created reduction in fuel From March 2010, TAM established the CT-e a procedure to disengage the cabin crew of taking consumption is R$ 57.755/year. (Electronic Bill of Carriage), a document luggage in “go-and-back” flights. issued and stored electronically with legal 2 Reduction validity guaranteed by the issuer’s digital This change released the flight attendant from going to of 101.4 tons of signature and the authorization of use the airport with a luggage, pass through the check-in accomplished by the Secretary of Finance desk to ship it, wait for the suitcase in the mat after a CO emissions. 2 of the respective State. flight, thus avoiding the luggage wear and extra weight on flights. 3 Increased luggage. durability of crew In addition to reducing paper consumption, the CT-e increased operational efficiency and real-time monitoring of business operations accomplished by tax authorities. “The computerization of this process has reduced the downtime of cargoes on Selene Valentini tax posts, making compliance with legal FREEDOM! employees environment requirements quickly and effectively, while simplifying the issuance of the Bill Fabiane concludes completely in tune with TAM sustainability of Carriage,” explained Carlos Amodeo, The flight attendant Fabiane Callero approved it: “The vision: “And I didn’t mention how it was beneficial to the project of Director of Cargo. release of carrying luggage in ‘go-and-back’ flights sustainability, causing the company to stop printing numerous luggage helped so much our daily lives. Before, on some flights tags, reducing the weight in aircraft luggage compartments, optimizing such as Buenos Aires and Santiago, we had to ship it the work time of employees who printed tags and those that load and and we lost a lot of time in the return because we had to unload suitcases from the luggage compartment. And of course, this await the arrival of the suitcase at the baggage mat. On helped to preserve our luggage, once it will be less carried. Earlier, some occasions it could take up to one hour.” almost empty, it suffered unnecessary damages.“ 86 87 Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM MOBILE CHECK-IN clients investors envinroment Among the actions carried out in the MRO facility we can mention: TAM check-in is the first in South America without boarding pass printing. In September 2010, the • selective collection; company implemented a pilot project in Ribeirão Preto • waste management; and São José do Rio Preto (SP) airports, which allows • recycling; passengers to make their check-in completely paperless. • hazardous waste treatment; • aircraft waste treatment; When checking-in in the company website (www.tam. • effluent treatment for fire galvanizing; com.br) through a cell phone connected to the internet or from a computer, this creates an electronic boarding TAM • monitoring of household effluents; • environmental monitoring of surface and MRO employees clients investors environment pass with a two-dimensional bar code (2D) that can underground waters; be sent by email or SMS. The client should access the • cultivation of legal reserves; electronic card in his/ her cell phone. • Permanent Protection Area; With 10 years of existence, the MRO Business Maintenance, Repair & • control of emissions; Overhaul (TAM Technological Center) has a vast experience and great • audit of suppliers; knowledge in the aviation business, besides having a great skill in • conservation efforts of native species of clients investors envinroment EARPHONES maintaining both the aircraft and the components. plants in the region (over 100 species of animals birds and mammals). Selene Valentini Located in the city of São Carlos (São Paulo State countryside), the unit is close to many universities and research centers, providing a broad access All passengers flying TAM towards any destination of to a skilled labor force. the country can take home the headset distributed TAM’s Technological Center is in the final to give access to the audio and video programming Being an industrial plant, the MRO has a high environmental impact phase to implement the Environmental available on flights. from the production of materials with heavy waste, wastewater, and Management System according to ISO CO2 production. Therefore, TAM devotes a special attention to the 14001. This deployment should be In a pioneering initiative in the world since many environmental care of this unit. completed by 2012. international companies are going to sell this accessory to their customers TAM intends to familiarize its passengers to take an earphone in their next trip. The action began in Sao Paulo (Congonhas airport) and Brasilia, and was extended to all routes in Brazil. 88 89 Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM WASTE TAM Certifications: MANAGEMENT employees clients environment • FAR 145 certification, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to perform the maintenance of aircrafts registered in the The treatment of waste at TAM is not limited solely Selective Collection & Recycling U.S. by 2011 to the selective collection. The company has a waste • the only Brazilian airline certified by EASA management system that operates an expanded Selective collection was one of the first waste (European Aviation Safety Agency) and ANAC management of materials from selective collection management of TAM in 2002, when the program (National Civil Aviation Agency); programs, recycling of solid waste, and proper disposal was started in a pioneer way by its Human Resources • third time renewal of IOSA registry of hazardous waste, ensuring that each type of waste is Department. Some areas that have already an (IATA Operational Safety Audit) by IATA properly disposed. independent recycling and only report actions as is the (International Air Transport Association), the case of GSE (they remove and send in-flight magazines most complete international certificate for Waste management has been established in large Sao for recycling) and Cargo Terminals will be organized operational safety accepted in civil aviation Paulo airport bases (Congonhas and Guarulhos) and, in and coordinated according to all actions under the Hazardous Wastes which will be effective until 2012. 2009, the model was expanded to other bases Vitória Environment Sector supervision. • certificate from the aviation authority of (ES), Galeão (RJ), Recife (PE), Campo Grande (MS), Cuiabá Hazardous wastes, which have a high potential of environmental impact, Canada (Transport Canada Civil Aviation (MT), and Confins (MG) which began to receive the are generated mainly in the aircraft maintenance activity and also in the TCCA) to provide maintenance services management through Clima Consultoria company. processes of the Technological Center. for aircrafts and their components with registration in that country; In 2010, as an expansion of the project, about 50% of The main hazardous wastes generated are: oil cans, used oil, batteries • certified by the aviation authority of TAM bases in Brazil operated the program. And the and light bulbs that, when placed incorrectly in nature, can cause Argentina (Administración Nacional goal is that by the end of 2011 all the bases have a pollution of soil and water. To avoid this environmental impact, TAM de Aviación Civil ANAC) to provide waste management. has adopted a process to manage all this material. The management of maintenance services for the Airbuses A318, waste ranges from the correct storage of the waste generated on the A319, and A320 and their components, basis of the company, their transport and also a proper disposal. registered in that country; • DIRMAB certification to perform inspections The final destination is a very important process, so most suppliers of Presidential Aircraft, ACJ Airbus (Airbus responsible for this demand have to go through a qualification process, Corporate Jetliner) when they are audited to ensure they have all environmental permits, as well as adequate infrastructure to treat this waste. 90 91 Viva a mata 2010 34 BIODEGRADABLE environment SAFE PACKAGING clients environment The so-called “Viva a Mata” event pres ents initiatives and projects in supp mplishe d by “SOS Mat a Atlâ ntica ” ort of Foun daenvironment HABITAT the Atlantic Forest. It has been acco try in favo r of biggest event in the coun tion and reached its sixth year as the The repatriation project for wild Biodegradation, ie, a kind of domestic composting, involves the the Atlantic Forest. Since April 2010, international flights have decomposition in room temperatures and aqueous environments, animals from trafficking and on“Viva a Mata” aims to celebrate the Nati biodegradable packaging to serve food. The packaging With more than 80,000 participants, confiscations carried out by IBAMA has which are linked to the biodegradation of domestic waste, or in tion and expe rien ce water courses and environments of sewage and garbage. During promoting informa in which meals are served in the economy class (trays, al Day of the Atlantic Forest (May 27), tion of this ecos yste m, in been consolidated with very positive the decomposition process, the material behaves like a normal for the cons erva bowls for salads, and casseroles) have been replaced organic compost. exchanges among those who fight eme nt, as well as prom otresults, gaining a momentum in several ronm enta l mov from traditional plastic containers to cane-bagasse, a order to give a feedback to the envi media as an environmental procedure rest of the society. ing awareness, information, and inte biodegradable material. The development of this new Catering means the offering of food services in remote/ difficult 34. Source: Revista Ecoturismo http:// revistaecoturismo.com.br/ unprecedented in the history of wildlife material was accomplished in partnership with LSG Sky access places, as well as food services for events. management in the country. Chefs, a supplier of airline catering. Ibama The Brazilian Institute of Environment and Birds in the environment Renewable Natural Resources has the power of an environmental police and performs actions of national environmental policies. SOS MATA Atlantic Forest TAM airlifts The partnership for transport of society environment ATLÂNTICA More than 20 birds confiscated by IBanimals seized by environmental snakes to AMA in public fairs and illegal breeding authorities (IBAMA, the Federal Police, in Pernambuco State were released in Environmental Police) has been View of a Plantation in Salesópolis (SP) on 02/2010 The Atlantic Forest is one of the most biologically diverse Butantan an area of the Atlantic Forest in São Paulo State, from where they are native. The very successful in the rescue of their biomes of the world and at the same time one of the Institute ecological role, especially birds. They SOS Mata Atlantica environment trip was in a TAM flight which collaboratmost endangered, with only 7% of its original vegetal ed with the action of repatriation of this can be adapted to their habitat even cover. TAM supports “SOS Mata Atlântica” organization TAM Cargo is responsible for transInstitute. In São Paulo, before the reinafter living long in captivity. There are through the “Programa Florestas do Futuro” (“Forests of porting 24 baby rattlesnakes from troduction, the birds have been rehabilimany couples and they are breeding. Future Program”) and “Viva a Mata” (“Living Forest”). João Pessoa (PB) to São Paulo (SP). tated. “The air transport produces less The cubs were born in the capital stress on the animals once it is faster and This project is a pioneer in IBAMA city of Paraíba State, in the Screenhas lower fluctuations of temperature “Forests of Future” can be considered one of the largest once, since long, technicians and ing Center of Wild Animals, which has and noise,” explained the coordinator of participatory programs of “SOS Mata Atlântica” to restore the purpose of receive, choose and the Center for Wild Animals Screening researchers of this institution have private areas, with the proposal to bring together the send animals to Butantan Institute, of IBAMA in Pernambuco Claudio Cazal. defended the idea that animals civil society organized, as well as landowners, private a leading biomedical research cen“By road we would have certainly many could not be reintroduced in the wild industry, and government, thus supporting social and ter located in the West Region of São deaths, which is worrisome because because they do not relearn how to Paulo City. many of them are threatened with exenvironmental actions, providing technical training for defend themselves or to capture food. tinction,” said Cazal. environmental remediation. 92 93 INVESTORS “Some facts are significant in the balance sheet that we published, and the first one is the profitability of invested capital for the shareholders.” Captain Rolim 94 95 Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM INCREASINGLY HIGHER STAR FLIGHTS clients investors ALLIANCE On May 13, 2010, TAM celebrated its entry The positive scenario at the global scope added to TAM’s In the opposite direction, the demand of foreigners for into the Star Alliance, the largest global strategy of investment in overseas routes resulted in destinations in Brazil also remained significant, driven alliance in commercial aviation. Today, the an excellent period for international operations of the by the global economic recovery. In 2010, the company network brings together 27 of the major company. In 2010, the demand for travels from Brazil opened five international routes: Frankfurt and London airlines of the world which together operate to other countries proved to increase stimulated by the departing from Rio de Janeiro, Miami departing from more than 21,000 daily flights. valuation of Real versus Dollar and Euro. Belo Horizonte and Brasília, and São Paulo-Bogotá, a city to which direct flights were not yet offered. OCCUPATION clients investors The company has started to share products and services in over 1,100 destinations from 181 countries in which the organization A TAM registrou, ao longo de 2010, sucessivos recordes históricos operates. The list of benefits to customers em suas taxas de ocupação (load factor) dos voos internacionais includes baggage shipping until the final em comparação aos períodos correspondentes dos anos anteriores. destination, faster connections and the No acumulado do ano, alcançou o recorde de 79,6% no índice de convenience of over 970 VIP lounges. aproveitamento dos assentos nos voos internacionais. Por sua vez, a taxa de ocupação no mercado doméstico em todo o ano foi de Another positive point is the integration Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM 67,6%, segundo os dados divulgados pela Agência Nacional de of TAM Loyalty program to programs Aviação Civil (ANAC). of frequent passengers of all Alliance member companies. CODESHARE clients investors As a part of the process of international expansion, they signed up new codeshare agreements with the following companies: Continental Airlines (in June), ANA (in October) and U.S. Airways (in November), and their existing partnerships have been expanded with Lufthansa and Swiss Airways. In May 16 new FFP (Frequent Flyer Program) agreements were also started in addition to the 11 that were already in force, which has further expanded the benefits offered to customers of TAM Loyalty Program. In the domestic market, TAM has expanded its codeshare agreements with the regional TRIP airline (January 2010), thus offering three new domestic destinations to customers. 96 97 Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM IMPROVED GOVERNANCE employees investors clients employees investors LATAM On March 2010, TAM S.A. has undergone a process of On August 13, 2010, TAM and LAN governance improving with the share of responsibilities signed a non-binding memorandum of between the development of new businesses and air understanding (MoU) outlining the intention operations, allowing the leaders to broaden the focus on to combine their holdings into a single Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM their areas of expertise. controlling entity, LATAM Airlines Group. With new focus on air operations and multi-businesses, TAM shareholders will be offered 0.90 LATAM the main change was the appointment of executive Marco Antonio Bologna to the position of CEO for MORE ROUTES employees investors clients common shares for each TAM share. LATAM would remain listed on the Santiago Stock the holding company TAM S.A. Mr. Bologna became Exchange, as well as on the stock exchanges responsible for new business development and In line with the increased demand in 2010, TAM increased its offer with of New York (NYSE) via ADRs, and on institutional relations of the company, helping also to the expansion of the fleet for 14 aircrafts, being two A330 aircrafts, two BOVESPA in Sao Paulo via BDRs. ensure a common culture aligned with the Mission, A321 aircrafts, five A320 aircrafts and five A319 aircrafts compared to the Vision, and Values of the company. end of 2009 and the end of 2010, and not counting the ARTs. The union requires the compliance of several steps and approvals. On September 2010 Líbano Barroso, President of TAM Linhas Aereas, continued The company also continued to optimize its costs through the healthy the Company completed the due diligence to hold the command of air operations (passengers and use of its aircrafts in the domestic market, raising its offer (ASK) 13.5%. process and on October 20, TAM presented cargo), which include TAM Linahs Aereas, TAM Airlines In the international market, TAM has launched five new flights and to ANAC (National Agency of Civil Aviation) (former TAM Mercosur based in Paraguay), Pantanal Airlines, destinations in 2010. the final structure of the transaction. and also the command of TAM tour operator. Eduardo Gouveia has taken the control of Multiplus Fidelidade. TAM’s retail project aimed to reach customers of many different profiles, There are still some steps in the process, including the new emerging classes, and the company succeeded in such as signing the definitive agreement, “The decision to separate the positions of command significantly increasing the volume of passengers in off-peak hours, shareholder approval and the public offer of TAM S.A. and TAM Airlines represents an important which contributed to increase occupation rates. In the domestic market, of share exchange. TAM is confident and step towards the creation of a large corporation, having the company reached an average occupancy rate of 67.6%, while in the believes that the whole process can be air operation as its backbone. We have reached a stage international market there was an average occupancy of 79.0%. completed in 2011. of the company in which the accurate definition of corporate functions is strategic,” said Maria Claudia Amaro, Chairman of the Board of Directors TAM S.A. 98 99 BUSINESS UNITS clients employees investors Major awards received by TAM: Pantanal Linhas Aereas TAM Cargo • transport sector champion in the “Biggest and Best 2010” ranking Exame magazine; In 2010, TAM has continued exploring the growth The year was exceptional for TAM Cargo, the freight • the airline that is most remembered by Brazilpotential of Pantanal Linhas Aereas, which acquisition unit of TAM, with an increase of 18.8% in revenue ians Folha Top of Mind; was approved on March 2011 by ANAC (National Civil compared to the result obtained in 2009. It was • best Brazilian airline readers of Viagem e TurAviation Agency). The company’s route network was recorded also in the same period an increase of 28% ismo magazine; redesigned and enlarged, which increased from seven of the total weight of cargoes transported in domestic • preferred brand of Rio de Janeiro residents in to 20 cities served by Pantanal. and international markets. the category “Airlines” O Globo; Banco de imagens Marketing da TAM • 17th position among the 25 most valuable In addition, the unit has further expanded brands in the country 2010 Interbrand Ranking; Multiplus Fidelidade its infrastructure, starting the operation of • largest company in the sector of Transport and the domestic cargo terminal in Petrolina (PE), Logistics in net revenue – Valor 1000 Ranking Created on June 2009 as a business unit, Multiplus strengthening the position in the Northeast, a • best Business Class in South America Business became an independent company on October of strategic region for our business. Traveler; that year and on February 2010 it opened its capital • best airline between the UK and South America on BM&FBOVESPA. Since the opening of capital, TAM Airlines Travel Agents Choice Awards; Multiplus shares doubled in value and the company • TAM nas Nuvens is the best in-flight magazine ended 2010 with revenues of $ 1.1 billion and a profit TAM’s affiliate based in Paraguay reached in 2010 a MRO in the world APEX; of $ 118.4 million. record in sales and passenger traffic in that country, • better management of aviation fuel in Latin with 63% of market share and a significant growth in In 2010, TAM’s Technological Center, unit of MRO (Maintenance, Repair, America Armbrust Awards; occupancy rates, which reached 73%, against 65% in the and Overhaul) recorded a 7% increase in services to aircrafts, reaching 131 • latin America Deal of the Year 2009 – Air FiTAM Viagens previous year. inspections which required a total of 436,016 hours of work, 16% more nance Journal; than in 2009. • aircraft Leasing Deal of The Year – revista Jane´s On October 6 the tour operator has completed 12 Several facts have contributed for this result, such as the Transport; years with a good reason to celebrate. Betting on launching of products and services, the charter flights On December, the Technology Center accomplished for the first time the • best Report of Printed Magazine and Best Phogrowth, TAM began implementing the franchises to Florianópolis during the Summer Season 2010/2011, simultaneous maintenance of five aircrafts of customers, evidence that the tographic Work (Red Report) – CET Competimodel in 2010. The operator stores run by trade the inauguration of a daily frequency from Asuncion to facilities are fully equipped to perform maintenance services for both TAM tion 2010 Journalism. representatives go through a process of migration Jorge Newberry Airport (Aeroparque) in Buenos Aires, and for other large companies. towards the new model. By the end of 2011, TAM continuing until Rio de Janeiro, and another frequency Travels’ goal is to have 200 franchised units. to São Paulo via Ezeiza. 100 101 Selene Valentini CAPITAL INCREASE clients employees investors INDICATOR Fuel Quotation TAMM4 (R$)38 50,00 On November 5 2010, the Administration Council Increase of 25.9% reaching R $ 3,451.2 45,00 approved the capital increase of R $ 144,395,450.00 by 38,96 million, mainly by rising 12.4% on average 40,00 issuance of 5,621,634 new common shares at an issue 39,02 38,89 price per liter, which reflects the increase 35,00 38,21 value of R $ 25.69 (twenty-five dollars and sixty-nine of 28.3% in the price of the average of 30,00 cents) per common share. The issued shares are traded 23,37 WTI (West Texas Intermediate) for the year 25,00 on BM&FBOVESPA from November 8, 2010. compared to 2009. The volume consumed 20,00 Income cargoes increased by 11.9% due to an increase of 15,00 19,91 10.6% in the number of hours flown and 10,00 Increase of 18.8% reaching R $ 1,112.7 million due to an increase of 14.3% 3.7 percentage points in occupancy rates of 5,00 in domestic revenue from an increase of 23.0% in international revenue, aircrafts, which increases the weight carried. 0,00 Jan Fev Mar Abr Mai Jun Jul Ago Set Out Nov Dez despite the appreciation of real in 11.9% when compared to the average of The increase was partially offset by the the periods. increase of the average stage by 3.9% and GROSS 2010 2009 38. 2009/2010 Comparison of TAMM4 paper quotation in the São Paulo Stock the appreciation of the real compared to the REVENUE clients employees investors Exchange (Bovespa) Further Revenues U.S. dollar by 11.9% on average in the same period. ASK increased by 13.9%. Increase of 45.8% reaching R $ 1,530.7 million, due primarily to an increase Increase of 16.4% in 2010 compared with 2009, reaching International revenue of passengers of 140.8% in the line of further revenues which includes Multiplus revenue, Sales and marketing R $ 11,798.8 million, due to: expired tickets, and others. Increase of 22.4% reaching R $ 3,284.5 million due to Increase of 12.3% reaching R$ 959.8 million. Domestic revenue of passengers an increased yield by 20.1% in dollars, while the yield Regarding net revenues it showed a slight rose 5.8% in real. The increased demand in RPKs was decrease of 8.8% in 2009 to 8.4% in 2010, Increase of 7.4% reaching R $ 5,870.9 million due to a 15.6%, which combined to the increase of ASKs offer of OPERATING indicating a saving of scale in marketing rising demand of 17.2% in RPKs33, combined with the reduction in yield of 8.4%. The offer in ASKs34 grew 6.0% rose its occupation fees by 6.6 percentage points to 79.0%. As a result, the RASK in U.S. dollars increased EXPENSES costs, since these expenditures increased at rates lower than the increase in revenue per 13.5%, bringing the occupancy rate by 2.1 percentage 31.0%, while in real it increased 15.4%. The demand ASK which increased 1.6%. points to 67.5%. With the combination of these factors, for passengers between Brazil and abroad remained Increase of 8.9% to R $ 10,401.7 million in 2010 compared to R $ 9,555.6 RASK35 decreased 4.9% to R $ 12.60. significant and consistent, reflecting the cumulative million in 2009. The increase is mainly due to the increase of fuel expenses, load factor of 79.0% in the year, a history record. sales and marketing, personnel, depreciation, amortization, and reversal of 35. RPKs: (Revenue Passenger Kilometers) this statistic value is obtained by the sum of miles traveled by each paying passenger. the additional tariff. CASK decreased 1.5% to $ 14.50 and CASK excluding 36. ASK: (Available Seat Kilometers) or Available Seat/Kilometers. fuel expenses decreased 7.7% to R $ 9.70. 37. RASK: Revenue per ASK, or passengers carried per mile. 102 103 Selene Valentini Leasing of aircrafts, engines, and equipment Outsourced Services Other expenses Reduction of 14.3%, reaching R $ 471 million, primarily Reduction of 1.8% reaching R$ 773.3 million, reflecting a Increase of 8.7%, reaching R $ 809.3 million due to the appreciation of Real against the U.S. Dollar saving of scale as a result of continued efforts to reduce as a result of the growth of the company’s by 11.9% average in 2010 versus 2009, offset by the costs. ASK decreased by 11.1%. operations. ASK decreased by 1.7%. increase of an aircraft classified as operating leasing (excluding the ATR-42s). ASK decreased by 22.5%. Rates for takeoff, landing, and air navigation Movement in market value of fuel byproducts Increase of 4.0% reaching R $ 609.4 million due to an Personnel increase of 6.5% in the number of stages and 10.6% Gain of $ 36.6 million in 2010 against R $ in kilometers flown in the period, partially offset by 316.9 million in 2009. Increase of 17.3%, reaching R $ 2,328.4 million due to the appreciation of 11.9% in real against the U.S. the wage rearrangement at the end of 2010 by 8.75% dollar, impacting prices on international flights. ASK and a 14.8% increase in the number of employees in decreased by 5.9%. the period. The increase in staff occurred as a result of the growth of the company’s operations. ASK Depreciation and amortization RESULTS increased 6.1%. Aircraft insurance Increase of 16.2% reaching R $ 699.8 million mainly by adding 13 new aircrafts to its fleet classified as financial leasing. The increase was partially Net financial income Reduction of 18.4% reaching R $ 52.0 million primarily offset by the appreciation of the real against the dollar in 11.9% average in Maintenance and repairs (except personnel) due to the appreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar 2010 versus 2009. ASK increased 5.1%. Financial income of R $ 102.4 million in by 11.9% average in 2010 versus 2009. The decrease was 2010 against a revenue of R $ 1,371.3 Reduction of 4.4%, reaching R $ 612.3 million, mainly partially offset by an increase of fleet (plus 14 aircrafts, million in 2009. due to the appreciation of the real against the dollar excluding ATR-42), an increase of 13.6% in the number Reversal of additional tariff on average by 11.9% against the year 2009 and the of passengers carried and a 6.5% increase in the number increase of total flight hours in 10.6%, partially offset of stages performed in the year. ASK decreased 26.1%. On September 2010, the Brazilian Superior Court of Justice definitively Net profit by the company’s fleet of 14 aircrafts (excluding ATRruled as “res judicata” the matter releasing company from payment of an 42), and the increase of average stage by 3.9%. ASK additional tariff calculated at a rate of 1% on the amount of flight fares Net income of R $ 668.9 million due to the decreased by 13.5%. of all tickets sold for regular domestic lines. In light of this event, TAM data presented earlier, which represented reversed the accounting provision made for this purpose and recorded a a margin of 5.9% in 2010 compared to a reversal of expenses of R $ 364.9 million in its operating expenses. margin of 12.8% in 2009. 104 105 RISK FACTORS investors • The company’s business, financial condition, results of operations • Substantial fluctuations in fuel prices or a reduced and perspectives, as well as the market price of its ADSs and preferred availability of sufficient quantities of fuel may adversely TAM S.A. is under pressure from different levels and • To discourage a potential buyer and TAM competitor; shares may be adversely affected by changes in Federal Government affect the Brazilian civil aviation industry and its intensities, so the investment in preferred shares policies, as well as general economic factors, among which we can businesses in the event of cost increases cannot or ADSs involves a high degree of risk. Company’s • Loss of management personnel and other key include, without limitation: be readjusted to the price of fares or if the hedge business, financial condition, and results of operations personnel due to agreement uncertainties; agreements of fuel become more expensive. can be materially adversely affected by any of these a. national economic growth; risks. • Costs and expenses: b. inflation; • Companies in the airline industry have significant a. regarding the proposed combination and integration c. interest rates; fixed costs that can impair the ability to achieve their The market price of preferred shares or ADSs can decline of commercial operations of TAM and LAN; d. fluctuations in exchange rates; strategic goals. due to any of these risks. The risks described below are b. TAM and LAN may not be able to fully realize the e. exchange control policies; those that the company currently understands that can anticipated benefits of the proposed combination. f. fiscal policy and changes in tax laws; • TAM S.A. relies heavily on automated systems and any affect it in a significant way: g. liquidity of capital markets and local loans; failure of these systems could harm the business and • The proposed combination will involve an exchange h. government control of the activity of production and oil refining, and financial results 1. Risks Related to the Proposed Combination of TAM offer for shares of cancellation of registration in the i. further political, diplomatic, social, and economic events in Brazil or with LAN Stock Exchange under the Brazilian Law, according to affecting Brazil. • The company’s failure to implement its growth strategy which there would be a statutory squeeze-out if the may affect operating results and the market value of its • Non-completion of the proposal by: suitable requirements are met. 3. Risks Relating to Business and the Civil Aviation Industry preferred shares and ADSs. a. breach of precedent; b. non-consent and release of regulatory authorities or 2. Risks Related to Brazil • The aviation industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic • Insurance costs can increase substantially because conditions that adversely affect the companies; conditions and in continued negative economic conditions that are of possible terrorist attacks, jeopardizing the financial • The Federal Government has exercised and continues likely to continue to affect operating results and the ability to obtain condition and operational results. • Reduction or elimination of benefits of the proposal in to exercise significant influence over the Brazilian financing on acceptable conditions. case of: economy. Political and economic conditions in Brazil • The company can not obtain all aircrafts and parts in a. a delay in the completion of the proposed combination; have a direct impact on businesses, on the company’s • The regulatory structure of the Brazilian aviation industry is a timely manner, which can cause the interruption of b. no completion of the proposed combination, causing financial condition, on the results of operations and undergoing some changes and it is not yet possible to assess the the operation of certain aircrafts due to unplanned or negative impact on TAM share price; their perspectives, as well as on the market price of results of these changes on the business and results of operations unscheduled maintenances. ADSs and preferred shares of the company. • Competition in the domestic and international civil aviation is increasing, and the Federal Government may intervene in the domestic market. 106 107 SIGNATORIES & ACCOUNTABLE PARTIES suppliers employees investors • The reputation and financial performance of • The sale of significant amounts of ADSs or preferred airlines may be affected by any accident or incident shares may cause the increase of the market value of involving its aircrafts. TAM S.A. ADSs and its preferred shares. Eradication of Slave Labor • The business can be adversely affected by • Brazilian securities markets are relatively volatile and TAM has signed the National Pact for the Eradication of Slave Labor in decreases in the activities of the airline industry illiquid. It is therefore possible that there is no ability to Brazil, which seeks to implement tools for the business sector and the caused by terrorist attacks, wars or epidemics, which sell the preferred shares underlying ADSs at the price Brazilian society do not market products from suppliers that employ slave may affect travel behavior or increase expenses. and time desired. labor. • TAM’s operations are often affected by factors • Changes in Brazilian tax laws may have an adverse The movement was established in 2003 by Repórter Brasil and the outside the control, even by airport congestions in impact on the taxes levied on the sale of preferred International Labor Organization which conducted extensive research to airports, adverse weather conditions, and increased shares or ADSs. show how goods produced from slave labor were included in the Brazilian security measures. and global economies. • The Brazilian Government may impose exchange • The successful implementation of the company control mechanisms and significant restrictions on The National Pact for the Eradication of Slave Labor is the only of this strategy depends partly on maintaining a high rate international remittances of real and may adversely kind in the world, an initiative that already has 220 companies, trade of daily aircraft utilization, making the company affect the ability of shareholders convert and remit associations, and civil society organizations that have a turnover of more especially vulnerable to delays. dividends, distributions or the proceeds from the sale of than 20% of Brazilian GDP. preferred shares of the company and its ability to make 4. Risks Related to Preferred Shares and ADSs dividend payments to non-Brazilian investors, reducing Until the National Pact could be created, the combat system of slave the market value of its preferred shares or ADSs. labor has not involved the business sector. Studies of the National Pact • TAM S.A. has a well-defined group formed by some and the supply chain made it possible to fight against slavery through its of its major shareholders, who hold the power to • If the company does not keep the registration statement commercial bias. With them, society can reach those who profit by means direct the affairs of the company and their interests and any exemption under the Securities Act is available, of a restriction of other people freedom. may conflict with the interests of other shareholders. the U.S. holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights with respect to preferred shares. • Preferred shares have no general voting rights. • There may be a dilution of the economic value of investment in shares of the company. 108 109 society investors Human Rights 1) Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally TAM was one of the first signatories and the first airline to join the proclaimed human rights; and Declaration of Corporate Social Responsibility and Human Rights 2) Make sure their own corporations are not sponsored by the Ethos Institute and the Special Secretariat for On June 25 2008, TAM was the first airline in complicit in human rights abuses. Human Rights of the Brazilian Government, strengthening its South America to join the Global Compact, sustainability policy and its commitment to contribute to the social an initiative of the United Nations (UN) in Work development of the country. order to align policies and business practices 3) Businesses should uphold the freedom of to goals and values universally accepted. The association and the effective recognition Signatory companies of this declaration commit themselves to make initiative reinforces TAM’s commitment to a of the right to collective bargaining; every effort to put human rights in the first place, thus ensuring sustainable development and the standards 4) The elimination of all forms of forced or the sustainability of the country’s development. And for that, they for the ethical management of the company. compulsory labor; state that they are committed to the implementation of action plans 5) The effective abolition of child labor, and leading to a progressive improvement of the indicators of social The Global Compact brings together ten 6) The elimination of discrimination in responsibility that reflect human rights policies, such as: universal principles derived from the respect of employment and occupation. Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Declaration of the International Labor • the promotion of gender equality in the workplace; Organization on Fundamental Principles Environment • the promotion of race equality in the workplace; and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on 7) Businesses should support a • the eradication of slave labor in value chains; Environment and Development and the precautionary approach to environmental • the inclusion of people with disabilities; UN Convention Against Corruption. The challenges; • support for the promotion of the rights of children, adolescents, and youth. initiative currently has more than 5,200 8) To undertake initiatives to promote a participants in 120 countries. higher environmental responsibility, and Launched in 2006, the Pact has 185 companies and 29 signatory 9) To encourage the development and corporate entities. There are four main areas, potentially diffusion of environmentally friendly influential and able to generate positive technologies. changes: Against Corruption 10) Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 110 111 Controller Liability Dec 31, 2010 Dec 31, 2009 Jan 1, 2009 (Adjusted) (Adjusted) Current Suppliers 522,364 430,982 486,095 BALANCE SHEET FOR THE YEAR Financial liabilities 1,572,093 1,244,685 910,153 Salaries and social charges 466,831 307,607 317,951 ENDED IN 31 DECEMBER 201039 Deferred income 1,801,181 1,698,321 1,105,719 (Amounts expressed in thousands of Reais –R$, unless otherwise indicated) Taxes, charges and contributions payable 308,189 179,662 163,856 Income tax and social contribution payable 14,339 5,952 Controller Interest on own capital and dividends 152,293 233,985 599 Derivative financial instruments 20,574 235,727 1,021,928 Asset Dec 31, 2010 Dec 31, 2009 Jan 01, 2009 Other current liabilities 135,658 123,696 149,091 (Adjusted) (Adjusted) Current 4,993,522 4,454,665 4,161,344 NonCurrent Cash and cash equivalents 113,913 131,952 46,222 Financial assets at fair value through 125,905 288,989 361,914 Financial liabilities 5,786,848 5,924,737 7,178,873 profit and loss Derivative financial instruments 15,286 6,288 107,057 Trade accounts receivable 2,000 Deferred income 66,420 100,169 369,210 Interest on own capital 169,539 223,001 47,057 Provisions 204,271 666,573 947,800 Taxes recoverable 42,790 35,852 26,650 Refinanced taxes payable under Fiscal Recovery Program 416,675 319,671 Deferred income tax and social contribution 86,719 Expenses on following financial year 343 403 809 Other non-current liabilities 237,472 173,946 282,992 454,490 680,197 482,652 Non-current 6,813,691 7,191,384 8,885,932 Deferred income tax and social 15,531 15,164 15,769 contribution Total of Liabilities 11,807,213 11,646,049 13,047,276 Related Parties 16,504 18,714 Net Equity Judicial Deposit 174 Capital and reserves attributed to shareholders of TAM S.A. Other non-current assets 41 877 Share Capital 819,892 675,497 675,497 Investments on controlled companies 2,450,028 1,337,497 325,694 Capital Reserves 120,605 99,244 88,783 Profit Reserves 895,592 402,141 Net Assessment Adjustment 585,824 113,746 135,680 2,482,237 1,371,416 342,340 Accrued Loss (610,694) 2,421,913 1,290,628 289,266 Total on Net Equity 205,478 3,408 4,234 Total of Assets 2,936,727 2,051,613 824,992 Total of liabilities and net equity 2,627,391 1,294,036 293,500 39. For the complete and commented financial statement, access: www.tam.riweb.com.br and access all 2010 reports. 112 113 Controller Consolidated Consolidated Dec 31, 2010 Dec 31, 2009 Dec 31, 2010 Dec 31, 2009 Dec 31, 2010 Dec 31, 2009 (Adjusted) (Adjusted) (Ajustado) Revenue 11.378.691 9,765,506 Operating activity cash flows 1,002,438 587,165 Operating Expenses (18,894) (4,020) (10,401,678) (9,574,548) Tax paid (83,579) (83,429) Results of equity in controlled 675,821 1,271,134 Interest paid (282,058) (312,633) Operating profit before fuel derivative fair 656,927 1,267,114 977,013 190,958 Net cash generated by operating activities 636,801 191,103 value variations Cash flow of investment activities Fuel derivative fair value variations 36,585 316,852 Investment in restricted cash (18,935) (79,370) Net cash flow of acquired investment – Pantanal (9,044) Operating Profit 656,927 1,267,114 1,013,598 507,810 Resources received from fixed/intangible asset l 27,028 35,869 Acquisitions of fixed asset (84,613) (334,896) Financial Revenues 33,776 33,755 1,774,489 2,412,686 Acquisitions of intangible asset (135,639) (135,296) Financial Expenses (49,123) (53,704) (1,672,103) (1,041,414) Acquisitions of intangible asset from TAM Milor including TAM Brand (98,444) Deposits in guarantee Profit before income tax and social 641,580 1,247,165 1,115,984 1,879,082 Reimbursements 15,657 60,697 contribution Deposits made (9,485) (27,922) Aircraft prepayment Income tax and social contribution (4,160) (387) (447,054) (630,623) Reimbursements 150,486 Reimbursements (216,254) Fiscal year net profit 637,420 1,246,778 668,930 1,248,459 Net cash used on investment activities (379,243) (480,918) Attributed to Companies shareholders 637,420 1,246,778 Participation on non controllers 31,510 1,681 Profit per share (common and preferred) in R$ Basic 4.22 8.30 Diluted 4.20 8.29 114 115 Consolidated Controladora Consolidado 2010 2009 2010 2009 Dec 31, 2010 Dec 31, 2009 (Adjusted) Revenues Cash flows of financing activities Services sales 11,798,783 10,139,141 Other Revenues 66 93,668 91,875 Disposal of shares in treasury 3,355 Provision for doubtful debtors (17,912) (5,733) Net resources received in public offer of Multiplus controller shares 657,048 66 11,874,539 10,225,283 Shares issuance resources related with TAM asset acquisition Inputs acquired by third parties Cost of services rendered (1,091) (3,558,587) (3,343,940) Milor 72,963 Material, energy, third party services and others (13,212) (1,521) (2,861,756) (1,546,067) Paid dividends – TAM S.A. (233,325) Paid dividends to non controllers shareholders – Multiplus and (9,078) (13,212) (2,612) (6,420,343) (4,890,007) Mercosur Short term and long term loans Gross value-added (13,212) (2,546) 5,454,196 5,335,276 Additions 69,602 236,581 Retentions Payment (179,939) (70,714) Depreciation and amortization (699,769) (621,108) Debentures Net value-added produced by the entity (13,212) (2,546) 4,754,427 4,714,168 Capitation 592,686 Payment (166,666) Received in transference Senior Bonus Equity 675,821 1,271,134 Financial Revenues 33,776 33,755 1,774,489 2,412,686 Capitation 502,298 Financial Leasing – principal payment (534,470) (567,649) Total value-added to distribute (retained) 696,385 1,302,343 6,528,916 7,126,854 Value-added distribution 696,385 1,302,343 6,528,916 7,126,854 Net cash generated by (used on) financing activities (320,510) 693,202 Staff Net increase (reduction) on cash and cash equivalent (62,952) 403,387 Direct Remuneration 4,555 1,371 1,620,085 1,455,896 Benefits 4 185,025 128,893 FGTS 130 112,620 99,426 Cash and cash equivalent on period beginning 1,075,172 671,785 Cash and cash equivalent on period ending 1,012,220 1,075,172 Taxes, rates and contributions Federal 9,515 490 1,778,472 1,963,025 Additional information to cash flow: State 32,327 44,840 Activities of financing and investments not affecting cash and cash Municipal 441 29,614 3,940 equivalent Third party’s capital remuneration Aircraft acquisition by financial leasing 989,212 181,201 Rentals 42,821 471,118 549,792 Financings capitation 255,073 Others 1,499 53,704 1,630,725 1,632,583 Acquisition of “TAM” brand paid in shares 71,444 Remuneration on own capital Interest on own capital 24,998 24,998 Proposed dividends 151,387 211,724 151,387 211,724 Retained profits 486,033 1,010,056 486,033 1,010,056 Non-controller shareholders participation 31,510 1,681 116 117 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS used and reasonability of accounting estimates made by financial statements, only referring to the evaluation of investments in To Officers and Shareholders the board, as well as evaluation of financial statements controlled companies by the equity method, whereas for IFRS purposes TAM S.A. presentation as a whole. We believe that audit evidence it would be cost or fair value. obtained is sufficient and proper to ground our opinion. We have examined individual financial statements of statements free of relevant distortions, irrespectively of Other Matters TAM S.A. (“Company” or “Controller”) corresponding being caused by fraud or error. Opinion on individual financial statements Statements of value-added to the balance sheet of 31 December 2010 and related statement of income, comprising results, net equity Independent Auditors Liability In our opinion, aforementioned individual financial We have also examined individual and consolidated statements mutation and cash flow for the financial year ended this statements properly present, in all relevant aspects, of value-added (AVS), referring to the financial years ended on 31 date, as well as summary of major accounting policies Financial statements based on our audit, carried out the equity and financial position of TAM S.A. as of 31 December 2010, which presentation is required by Brazilian Corporate and other explanatory notes. according to the Brazilian and International audit December 2010, performance of its operations and its Law for publicly traded companies and additional information by standards. These standards require meeting ethical cash flows for the financial year ended on this date, IFRS, which do not require AVS presentation. These statements We have also examined consolidated financial requirements by the auditor and that the audit is according to accounting practices adopted in Brazil. were subjected to the same previously expressed audit procedures statements of TAM S.A. and its controlled companies planned and carried out with the purpose of achieving regarding all relevant aspects of financial statements considered as a (“Consolidates”) comprising the consolidated balance reasonable safety on financial statements free of Opinion on consolidated financial statements whole. of 31 December 2010 and related statement of income, relevant distortions. comprising results, net equity mutation and cash EIn our opinion, aforementioned consolidated financial flow for the financial year ended this date, as well An audit involves execution of procedures selected statements properly present, in all relevant aspects, São Paulo, February 25th 2010. as summary of major accounting policies and other in order to obtain evidences regarding values and the equity and financial position of TAM S.A. as of 31 explanatory notes. disclosures presented on financial statements. December 2010, performance of its operations and its PricewaterhouseCoopers Procedures selected depending on the auditor’s criteria, cash flows for the financial year ended on this date, Independent Auditors Management liability on financial statements including risk assessment of relevant distortions on in accordance with International Financial Reporting CRC 2SP000160/O-5 financial statements, irrespectively of being caused by Standards (“IFRSs”) issued by the International The Company’s management is liable for elaborating fraud or error. Accounting Standards Board – (IASB) and accounting and properly presenting individual financial statements practices adopted in Brazil. Carlos Alberto de Sousa according to accounting practices adopted in Brazil and In this risk assessment, auditors considers internal Accountant CRC 1RJ056561/O consolidated financial statements in accordance with controls relevant for the elaboration and proper Emphasis International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) presentation of the Company’s financial statement to issued by the International Accounting Standards Board plan audit procedure most proper according to the As described on Note 2.1 (b), individual financial – (IASB) and accounting practices adopted in Brazil, as circumstances but not to express an opinion on these statements were elaborated according with accounting well as other internal controls the Company determined Company’s internal controls efficiency. An audit also practices adopted in Brazil. For TAM S.A. these practices as required to enable elaboration of these financial includes evaluation adaptation of accounting policies are different from IFRS, applicable to separated 118 119 IBase ANNUAL SOCIAL BALANCE / 2010 1 -Basis of calculation 2010 Amount (Thousand Reais) 2009 Amount (Thousand Reais) Net revenue (NR) 11,378,691 9,765,506 Operating result (OR) 1,013,598 621,531 Net payroll (NPRL) 2,328,428 1,985,171 2 -Internal social indicators Amt. (tho) % on (NPRL) % onNR Amt. (tho) % on (NPRL) % onNR Meals 182,374 7.83% 1.60% 166,466 8.39% 1.70% Social charges 469,258 20.15% 4.12% 422,761 21.30% 4.33% Private pension plan 27,090 1.16% 0.24% 23,611 1.19% 0.24% Health 33,754 1.45% 0.30% 19,837 1.00% 0.20% Safety and medicine at work 2,716 0.12% 0.02% 1,856 0.09% 0.02% Education 3,080 0.13% 0.03% 5,427 0.27% 0.06% Culture 553 0.02% 0.00% 2,363 0.12% 0.02% Training and professional devel7,963 0.34% 0.07% 17,402 0.88% 0.18% opment Children’s' day care faculties 1,269 0.05% 0.01% 633 0.03% 0.01% Profit shares 100,168 4.30% 0.88% 30,381 1.53% 0.31% Others 53,312 2.29% 0.47% 31,583 1.59% 0.32% Total Internal social indicators 881,537 37.86% 7.75% 722,320 36.39% 7.40% 3 – External Social Indicators Amt. (tho) % on (NPRL) % onNR Amt. (tho) % on (NPRL) % onNR Education 1,584 0.16% 0.01% 2,022 0.33% 0.02% Culture 28,858 2.85% 0.25% 21,756 3.50% 0.22% Heath and sanitation 1,382 0.14% 0.01% 2,166 0.35% 0.02% Sport 2,883 0.28% 0.03% 1,053 0.17% 0.01% Food safety 49 0.00% 0.00% 21 0.00% 0.00% Others 3,804 0.38% 0.03% 1,684 0.27% 0.02% Total of contributions for the 38,560 3.81% 0.34% 28,702 4.62% 0.29% society Taxes (excludin social charges) 1,095,103 108.04% 9.62% 1,589,044 255.67% 16.27% Total External social indicators 1,133,663 111.85% 9.96% 1,617,746 260.28% 16.57% 4Environmental Indicators Amt. (tho) % on (NPRL) % onNR Amt. (tho) % on (NPRL) % onNR Investments related to the com5,627 0.56% 0.05% 4,484 0.72% 0.05% pany's prodution/operations Investments in external programs 269 0.02% 0.00% 264 0.04% 0.00% and/or projects Total Environmental indicators 5,896 0.58% 0.05% 4,748 0.76% 0.05% Selene Valentini 120 121 6 Relevant information regard2010 Amount (Thousand Reais) 2011 Goals ing management citizenship Relationship between higher 0 0 and smaller salaries Nº of total work accidents 1143 1143 Social environmental projects directors directors and all employees directors directors and all employees Recording the definition of “annual does not have goals does not have goals developed by the Company managers managers goals” to minimize residues, the reaches from 51% to 75% reaches from 51% to 75% were defined by: consumption in general in the proStandards of safety and health directors and all employees all + CIPA directors and all employees all + CIPA duction/operation and to increase reaches from 0 to 50% reaches from 0 to 50% at the Company were defined managers members managers members the effectiveness in the use of reaches from 76 to 100% reaches from 76 to 100% by: natural resources, the company Regarding the union freedom, is not follows the incentives is not follows the incentives 5 Indicators of the functional area 2010 2009 the right of collective negoinvolved rules of OIT and follows OIT involved rules of OIT and follows OIT tiation and to the internal Nº of employees at the end of the 28,193 24,282 representation of employees, period the Company: Nº of admissions during the period 6,640 2,772 Private pension includes: directors directors and all employees directors directors and all employees Nº of outsourced employees 393 541 managers managers Profiting sharing includes: directors directors and all employees directors directors and all employees Nº internships 64 82 managers managers Nº of employees over 45 years 2,554 2,555 When the Company selects supare not conare are demandare not conare are demandNº of women working at the 10,927 9,193 pliers, the same ethical, social sidered recommended ed sidered recommended ed company responsibility and environmental standards: % of women on leadership duties 33.58% 34.00% Regarding the participation is not supports organizes and não se apoiará organizes and Nº of African Brazilian working at 5,872 5,044 of employees on volunteer involved incentives envolverá incentives the company programs, the Company: % of African Brazilian on leader16.00% 10.00% Nº of total complaints and at the Company at Procon at justice na empresa no Procon at justice ship duties consumer's critics: 105,315 3,156 10,622 96,048 3,156 10,622 Nº of employees with deficiency or 582 526 % of complaints/consumer critat the Company at Procon at justice na empresa no Procon at justice special needs ics assisted or solved: 100% 62% 58% 100% 62% 58% Total added value to be distribIn 2010: 6,258,916 Em 2009: 7.173.620 uted Distribution of added value 28.2% government 29.4% collaborators 28.4% government 23.4% collaborators (DAV) 1.5% shareholders 32.2% third parties 8.7% retained 3.3% shareholders 30.4% third parties 14.5% retained 7 Outras Informações TAM S.A. CNPJ: 01.832.635/0001-18 Business sector: transportation and logistic services. UF: SP. Details, projects and comments are mentioned at the company’s Management Disclosure and Analysis, which are part of the financial statements. Responsible for information: Guilherme Cavalieri and Rita Moreno Phone: 5582-7210 responsabilidade.social@tam.com.br. This Company does not uses child or slave labor, has no involvement with prostitution or the sexual exploitation of children or adolescents, nor it is involved with corruption. 122 123 TAM MATERIALITY MATRIX TAM made a public consultation to define its Materiality Matrix based on themes VERY IMPORTANT suggested by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 17 15 09 07 05 03 02 01 IMPORTANT 13 04 The process compares subjects considered 10 06 important by the company with those MEAN 28 22 18 11 08 considered relevant by the group of major 40 36 26 12 stakeholders. The content of this report was 45 23 21 19 16 LITTLE 32 based on themes considered proprietary. Each quadrant represents the relevance degree themes achieved in this process that must be renewed each two years because 57 44 29 24 14 47 38 34 subjects considered very relevant may lose 30 64 53 41 37 33 25 20 interest throughout time. 27 43 39 52 42 54 51 Numbers indicate importance degree of 56 49 48 35 31 60 each theme and they are listed in the Report 50 Reference Table – GRI (G3), on page 126. 65 63 62 61 59 55 46 67 66 58 124 125 Indicators Responded Not Responded Materiality Pages EN22 • 26 88, 89 GRI CONTENT INDEX – GRI G3 EN23 EN24 • • 60 52 EN25 • 63 EN26 • 10 72-91 This report was elaborated in EN27 • 31 Guidelines Responded Not Responded Pages EN28 • 30 1.1 • 2-8 accordance with methodology and EN29 • 49 72-91 Definition of the Report guidelines of the Global Reporting EN30 • 14 70, 71, 90, 91 Content HR01 • 17 58 Initiative (GRI G3). Based on 2.1 – 2.10 • 10-15 HR02 • 22 104-106 Organizational Profile information presented and material HR03 • 44 3.1 3.8 • 16-23 organization, TAM declares to be a HR04 • 32 3.10 3.12 C level. HR05 • 36 Parameters for the Report HR06 • 9 4.1 4.4 • 24,25,122,123 HR07 • 3 After assessment of references, a HR08 • 20 4.14 4.15 Governance, Commitments internal consultation was carried HR09 • 65 out with stakeholders with specific LA01 • 11 38, 44, 45 and Engagement LA02 • 29 45 knowledge on themes covered LA03 • 57 46, 47 Indicators Responded Not Responded Materiality Pages EC01 • 4 110-121 by indicators. The table below LA04 • 28 presents items approached and LA05 • 56 EC02 • 7 19-21; 107-109 LA06 • 22 50-53 EC03 • 23 related pages where information is LA07 • 13 50 EC04 • 58 displayed40. LA08 • 6 39-41 EC05 • 42 LA09 • 40 EC06 • 35 LA10 • 19 40 EC07 • 43 42, 43 LA11 • 24 39, 40 EC08 • 23 60-71 LA12 • 37 41 EC09 • 52 LA13 • 21 96 EN01 • 26 81-84 LA14 • 44 EN02 • 27 PR01 • 63 EN03 • 9 83 PR02 • 55 EN04 • 15 PR03 • 66 EN05 • 2 80-85 PR04 • 67 EN06 • 5 72-79 PR05 • 12 26-35 EN07 • 3 72-79 • PR06 EN08 • 50 PR07 • 53 EN09 • 59 PR08 • 48 31 EN10 • 46 PR09 • 47 EN11 • 51 SO01 • 45 60-71 EN12 • 26 90, 91 SO02 • 25 EN13 • 38 90, 91 SO03 • 41 EN14 • 39 69-71, 80, 81 SO04 • 16 EN15 • 62 SO05 • 64 EN16 • 1 78, 79 • SO06 54 EN17 • 18 78, 79 SO07 • 34 EN18 • 1 75-84 SO08 • 47 EN19 • 8 75-79 EN20 • 18 75-79 40. Items not present are not proper or not considered irrelevant to the reality of the airline. EN21 • 61 126 127 MASTHEAD General Coordination Rita Moreno Work Group of the Sustainability Report Adriana Vera e Silva, Carolina Duque, Cristina Tavelin, Daisy Souza, João Vinicius B. Nascimento, Jorge Helito, Marco Cantero, Marina Taniguti, Matheus Picceli, Monica Baldani, Paulus Figueiredo, Rennan Silva, Selene Valentini, Suzana Michelin Ramos e cerca de 60 outras pessoas envolvidas e engajadas Editorial Concept Agenda Sustentável Writing and Edition Agenda Sustentável Design and Layout Studio Battistella (www.studiobattistella.com.br) Photography Reference on images 128 129
