C The power of water Annual report 2010 www.snpower.com OVERVIEW Hydropower contributes to sustainability The Norwegian hydropower industry has a long and proud tradition and is still one of the world’s largest producers of hydropower. When produced responsibly, hydropower production also impacts positively on local communities, beneﬁts the local infrastructure, creates jobs and contributes generally to sustainable regional development. Using the energy of ﬂowing water, without depleting it, means all hydropower projects meet the deﬁnition of renewable. 1 140 1 752 MW MUSD Total MW Net Total Assets 2010 installed capacity 2010 SN POWER 1 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS Content OVERVIEW Key ﬁgures 3 Message from the CEO 4 Key events 6 OUTLOOK Drive and innovate 10 The power of water 12 Our social responsibility 14 OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS South America 18 South Asia 24 Southeast Asia 30 Africa & Central America 34 ORGANISATION Board of directors report 46 Accounts 52 Notes 58 5 000 GWh 427 12 SN Power’s total Total number of SN Power is present GWh Annual Mean employees in SN with ofﬁces in 12 Generation Power countries Our business at a glance SN Power is a commercial investor and developer of hydropower projects – the only one in the world to operate excluSouth sively in emerging markets. SN Power was established in 2002. Its owners are the America Norwegian state entities Statkraft (60%) and Norfund (40%). BRAZIL PERU SN Power opened an ofﬁce ARCATA in Rio de Janeiro in 2008 Installed capacity (MW): 5 AAO (GWh): 37 SN Power ownership (%): 100 CHILE CAHUA LA CONFLUENCIA Installed capacity (MW): 43 Installed capacity (MW): 158 AAO (GWh): 280 16 plants 100 years + AAO (GWh): 672 SN Power ownership (%): 50 SN Power ownership (%): 100 GALLITO CIEGO LA HIGUERA Installed capacity (MW): 37 SN Power current Norwegian experiInstalled capacity (MW): 155 AAO (GWh): 150 number of operaence of develoAAO (GWh): 761 Potential power supply ting hydropower ping, owning and Potential power supply (people)* 190.000 plants operating hydro(people)* 254.000 SN Power ownership (%): 100 power plants SN Power ownership (%): 50 LA OROYA TOTORAL WIND FARM Installed capacity (MW): 9 Installed capacity (MW): 45 AAO (GWh): 65 AAO (GWh): 109 SN Power ownership (%): 100 427 1 140 Potential power supply (people)* 36.000 SN Power ownership (%): 80 MALPASO Installed capacity (MW): 54 AAO (GWh): 200 Number of Net installed caCOLMITO SN Power ownership (%): 100 employees in pacity with a mean Installed capacity (MW): 60 SN Power annual generation AAO (GWh): 350 PACHACHACA of 5.000 GWh SN Power ownership (%): 50 Installed capacity (MW): 9 AAO (GWh): 43 SN Power ownership (%): 100 The estimates are extracted from Norfund PARIAC Installed capacity (MW): 5 AAO = average annual output Central AAO (GWh): 24 SN Power ownership (%): 100 America YAUPI Installed capacity (MW): 108 COSTA RICA AAO (GWh): 800 SN Power ownership (%): 100 SN Power opened an ofﬁce in Costa Rica in June 2010 CHEVES Installed capacity (MW): 168 AAO (GWh): 837 SN Power ownership (%): 100 LEARN MORE /snpower.com South Asia INDIA NEPAL SRI LANKA NORWAY ALLAIN DUHANGAN KHIMTI I ASSUPINIELLA Installed capacity (MW): 192 Installed capacity (MW): 60 Installed capacity (MW): 4 SN POWER AAO (GWh): 800 AAO (GWh): 350 AAO (GWh): 17 HEAD OFFICE Potential power supply SN Power ownership (%): 57,1 SN Power ownership (%): 30 (people)* 1.717.000 SN Power ownership (%): 43 KIRNE BELIHULOYA Survey license granted to Installed capacity (MW): 2 MALANA expand Khimti in a new AAO (GWh): 10 Installed capacity (MW): 109 plant SN Power ownership (%): 30 AAO (GWh): 375 Potential power supply TAMAKOSHI (people)* 730.000 At 880 MW the plant would SN Power ownership (%): 49 nearly double Nepal’s installed capacity Southeast Asia THE PHILIPPINES SINGAPORE AMBUKLAO SN Power has an ofﬁce in Installed capacity (MW): 105 Singapore AAO (GWh): 332 SN Power ownership (%): 50 VIETNAM BINGA Installed capacity (MW): 124 SN Power opened an ofﬁce AAO (GWh): 419 in Hanoi, Vietnam in April Africa SN Power ownership (%): 50 2010 MAGAT SOUTH AFRICA Installed capacity (MW): 381 AAO (GWh): 929 SN Power opened an ofﬁce Potential power supply in May 2010 (people)* 1.799.000 SN Power ownership (%): 50 Vision SN Power’s vision: Powering development through renewable energy. OVERVIEW About SN Power ABOUT THE COMPANY SN Power and its subsidiaries Strategy SN Power is a renewable energy had 427 employees worldwide at company that invests in emerging year-end 2010. 584 people were markets. SN Power was established employed through non-consoliSN Power’s overall business concept is to develop, build, in 2002. Its owners are the Norwedated joint venture companies in acquire, own and operate sustainable hydropower projects gian state entities Statkraft (60%) which SN Power is a partner. More in emerging markets on commercial terms. and Norfund (40%). The company’s than 5 000 people were employed This positions SN Power at the intersection of two global mega vision is to become a leading at the construction projects where trends: the growth in emerging markets and in renewable hydropower company in emerging SN Power is an investor. energy. SN Power plans to increase its equity generation markets, contributing to economic capacity from 1 140 MW to over 2500 MW by 2015. This growth growth and sustainable developAs part of the Statkraft Group, SN is envisioned through the construction of new hydropower ment. Power has a strong industrial founprojects and through the acquisition of existing assets. This dation that builds on more than ambition includes the development of 700 MW of generation capacity in Africa and Central America, in which SN Power will SN Power has invested more than 100 years of developing, owning hold 51 per cent. The owners of SN Power have committed USD 1100 million in equity through and operating hydropower in Norcapital to fund the company’s ambitious expansion. acquisitions and the development way. Statkraft is the largest renewof new hydropower projects in Asia able energy company in Europe Key to SN Power’s strategy is the company’s aim to be a and Latin America. Currently, SN with about 57 TWh in annual eleclong-term industrial investor, capitalizing on Norwegian and Power is involved in hydropower tricity production. In 2010, Statinternational hydropower competence and expertise, and to and wind generation in the Philipkraft’s gross operating revenues seek a controlling inﬂuence in all business activities. pines, Nepal, India, Chile, Sri Lanka reached 28.8 billion NOK. It is part of SN Power’s vision to contribute to sustainable and Peru. Hydropower projects are development through its investments. All projects we enter under construction and/or assessNorfund is a Norwegian developinto should have minimal adverse impact on society and the ment in Peru, Brazil, Nepal, India, ment ﬁnancial institution (DFI) environment, and yield positive beneﬁts for both local Vietnam and the Philippines. SN which invests risk capital in proﬁtcommunities and society at large through the increased Power’s share of installed capacable private enterprises in Africa, generation of renewable energy. ity in these operating plants and Asia, Latin America and the Balconstruction projects amounts to kans. Through Norfund, SN Power 1 140 MW, and an annual mean has access to signiﬁcant experience generation of almost 5 TWh. A new and expertise in conducting investcompany was established in Januments in emerging markets. ary 2009 to focus on hydropower development in Africa and Central America. SN POWER 3 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Mission Core values OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS SN Power’s mission: SN Power’s core values: To become a leading hydropower COMPETENCE: using knowledge and company in emerging markets, contributing experience to achieve ambitious goals to economic growth and sustainable and be recognized as a leader. development. RESPONSIBILITY: creating value while showing respect for employees, customers, the environment and society. INNOVATION: thinking creatively, identifying opportunities and developing effective solutions. Key ﬁgures UNIT 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 GROSS POWER PORTFOLIO Net installed capacity MW 838 667 630 630 383 169 Net installed capacity under construction MW 300 292 320 284 160 160 Gross production, actual GWh 4 250 3 800 3 435 2 162 1 200 845 Net production (SN Power share) GWh 2 858 2 700 2 492 1 470 813 652 FINANCIAL Gross operating revenue MUSD 114 119 161 79 51 24 Income from associated companies MUSD 84 31 28 31 3 3 Cash and cash equivalents MUSD 297 347 192 134 121 78 Equity MUSD 1 305 1 215 863 802 304 167 EBITDA MUSD 29 46 60 37 23 3 Net earnings after tax MUSD 53 41 52 47 11 -1 Cash ﬂow from operational activities MUSD 32 17 38 30 15 -1 Equity investments from SN power MUSD 107 6 111 425 61 54 New equity MUSD 281 79 409 81 118 Interest bearing debt/equity ratio 1) % 24 26 36 23 28 20 Return on equity after tax 2) % 4 3 6 6 5 -0 Equity ratio 3) % 76 75 70 77 72 75 HUMAN CAPITAL Employees Number 427 466 479 415 220 122 Sickness absence % 1.5 1.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 1.5 Total recordable injury rate – Operations 3 1 4 N/A N/A N/A Total recordable injury rate – Projects 4 6 16 N/A N/A N/A ENVIRONMENT Environmental ﬁnes MUSD 0 0 0 0 0 0 Carbon dioxide emissions TONNES 744 3 498 2 992 269 400 400 1) Long-term and short term liabilities to ﬁnancial institutions / Total equity 2) Net income for the year / Average equity 3) Equity / Assets 4 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS Gaining and breaking ground 2010 was a year of consolidation and continued expansion in all strategic areas. Milestones were reached at both an operational and strategic level, safety indicators improved signiﬁcantly and the company was encouraged by the increasing awareness of the Message from SN Power employer brand in our international ﬁeld of business. the CEO The main challenges ahead, as a respected developer and producer of hydropower, are now to sustain further growth and to promote efﬁciency in all core regions. With three major plants about to complete the tion, through preparation and socio environcost-, timeand management-intensive develmental considerations, to operation. Tor Stokke opment and construction phase, the forwardCEO looking cash ﬂow situation was also positively Elsewhere, business also continued to gather impacted. Net proﬁt was up, year on year, and momentum. In the Philippines, progress was this, plus new injected capital from our owners made at the Ambuklao plant. High market spot will give the company maneuverability to pursue prices and provision of ancillary services to the new investments. grid contributed to strong results. On the African continent, the SN Power AfriCA organisation was PROJECT HIGHLIGHTS strengthened, with activities centred around In Chile, plants La Higuera and La Conﬂuencia, negotiations concerning both greenﬁeld and were inaugurated by President Piñera in October rehabilitation projects in Panama and Southern thereby making the strategic transition from conAfrica. During 2010 we also opened ofﬁces in struction to operation, as did the Allain section of Costa Rica and Vietnam with other key markets Allain Duhangan in India. In Nepal, the Khimti plant in view. celebrated ten years of successful operation. Permeating all activities in 2010 was an even In Peru, ﬁnancial close was secured for Cheves, tighter grip on health and safety issues. Despite one of few hydropower projects to be develthe regrettable fatality early in the year at the oped in the country during the past ten years. Allain Duhangan site, there was a signiﬁcant Cheves is fully owned by SN Power and repreimprovement in safety indicators and damage sents a huge opportunity for us to showcase mitigation remains a constant priority, with our breadth of competence from project initiatransportation a key focus area. SN POWER 5 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS “I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all our employees and shareholders who make the development of projects that are so resource intense and complex possible.” TOR STOKKE CEO STABLE GROWTH new CEO started at the end of the year, and it In ﬁnancial terms, while the ﬁgures for 2010 was announced in March 2011 that the succesﬁrst appear modest, they also reveal the undersor will be Torger Lien. lying strengthening of our situation. For 2010, net proﬁt, in round ﬁgures, was MUSD 50 milLOOKING FORWARD lion, plus, effectively, MUSD 20 million that was Looking ahead to 2011 and beyond, economic written off to project development and a further growth in emerging markets is expected to 30 million expensed to business development. accelerate, but at different rates. We must thereWhen the Ambuklao and Portillo branch profore adapt our own growth plans accordingly, jects come into operation in 2011, four major but conﬁdently, secure in the knowledge that hydropower projects will recently have made we are now well-positioned to help meet the the important transition to operations, thereby demand for more renewable energy. No longer releasing capital for future investments. a newcomer, SN Power is steadily, but surely, building a reputation as a reliable, responsible COPING WITH THE UNEXPECTED partner, with our null tolerance to corruption, At an organisational level, the company continexperience and solid backing helping new doors ued to strengthen its multicultural workforce to open all the time. and to streamline its governance system and decision-making process. This was also put to the test. The test highlighted the strength of our project and management teams in keeping focused on business as usual despite having to cope with the unexpected. In June 2010, President and CEO Øistein Andresen was injured in a cycling accident. With so many projects at a critical phase of development, his subsequent three month absence could have been signiﬁcant. TOR STOKKE What’s more, during his recuperation he was CEO invited to join Statkraft’s own corporate management team as Executive Vice President, International Hydropower. It is testimony to both his leadership and the organisation’s strength, that the effect on SN Power’s business was minimal. He returned to SN Power in November 2010 as chairman of the Board. The process to ﬁnd a 11 million people 1.2 tonnes CDM In 2010, the homes of SN Power’s four almost 11 million people registered CDM projects were powered by have the potential to electricity from issue carbon credits OVERVIEW SN Power’s plants. amounting to more than 1.2 million CERs annually. Key Events 1.17 million work hours 745 000 2010 The SNAP organisation in the Philippines demonstrated excellent HSE Funds in NOK (USD 130 000) raised by employees at Statkraft performance with Magat and SN Power following Plant achieving a record 1.17 the devastating earthmill man-hours without Lost quake that hit Haiti in Time Injury (LTI) from April January. 2007 to December 2010. 2010 JANUARY MARCH APRIL This was the year when several of our major projects came into operation both in Asia and Latin America. In addition, many prospects were identiﬁed January 20: The President March 24: The Norwegian April 6: SN Power’s Repreand assessed and, as of Chile, Michelle Bachelet, Ambassador to Nepal, sentative ofﬁce in Hanoi, inaugurates SN Power’s ﬁrst Thor Gislesen, hands over Vietnam opens. The Hanoi a result, there are now wind farm located in Canela, a 635 kW mini-hydropower ofﬁce’s purpose is to conseveral signiﬁcant new near Santiago. Totoral conplant from Himal Power duct business development tributes around 100 GWh of Limited (in which SN Power and identify growth opporventures in the pipeline. electricity to the Chilean is the majority owner) to the tunities in the Vietnamese central grid each year, reKhimti Rural Electric power market. ducing some 65 000 tons of Co-operative (KREC). CO2 emissions from the air. Fatal accident on transmission line in India 4 thousand GWh March 8: A subcontractor employee at the Allain Duhangan hydropower project deeply sorry for this tragic accident. “The safety of our workers is our main concern, in India, suffers a fatal head injury. He and one accident is one too many,” said Nepal’s Khimti I had fallen from a transmission tower CEO Øistein Andresen. “We are working plant has generated while working on the transmission line. continuously to strengthen HSE work, over 4 thousand SN Power’s senior management and this accident shows that we can GWh since 2000. immediately went to the site when the never rest in our efforts to provide a accident became known. SN Power is safe workplace for our employees.” SN POWER 7 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS Norway Cup July 19: SN Power, in conjunction with BBK and Statkraft, invites a team of 11 fourteen-year-old boys from Nepal to participate in the world’s largest soccer tournament, Norway Cup. The Cup takes place each year in Oslo at the end of July. Many of the team members were travelling outside their village for the ﬁrst time. Power to July 2: SN Power and the International Finance Corporation (IFC) enter into a Joint Development Agreement to provide sustainable renewable Vietnam energy in order to meet Vietnam’s growing demand for electricity. Seen here signing the agreement, are Bernard Sheahan, IFC Director for Infrastructure, and Erik Knive, Executive Vice President at SN Power. JUNE SEPTEMBER SEPTEMBER OCTOBER June 7: Himal Power Limited September 16: The Allain September 30: SN Power October 26: SN Power’s two (HPL), SN Power’s daughter part of the Allain Duhangan decides to invest USD 400 large Chilean hydropower company in Nepal, celeproject starts to produce million (approximately MNOK plants are inaugurated. brates its tenth year of electricity. The rated output 2 350) in the 168 MW Cheves Together, “La Higuera” and successful operation of the of the plant’s two turbine hydropower project in Peru “La Conﬂuencia” will con60 MW Khimti I Hydropower generators is approximately after a PPA contract was tribute with more than Project. This is the ﬁrst pri200 MW when operating at signed with the Peruvian 310 MW of clean energy, vate sector project in Nepal, full capacity. This greenﬁeld state. Construction begins enough to supply more than and contributes over 15% of run-of-river project is in 2011, and will be ﬁnalised 900 thousand Chilean the national electricity expected to meet the power in 2014. households with renewable output. shortages in the northern electricity. region of India. Local Earth Day celebration Green wind April 5: Close to 150 participants and volunteers from December 7: The 45 MW local communities conduct a clean-up drive within the Totoral Wind Farm in Binga and Magat dam reservoirs in the Philippines and Chile is registered as a their vicinities on the initiative of SN Aboitiz Power Clean Development (SNAP, a joint Venture between SN Power and Aboitiz). Mechanism (CDM) project CEO Emmanuel Rubio says the efforts are part of the with the united Nations company’s corporate social responsibility programme Framework Convention on as well as a declaration of support to Earth Day. Climate Change (UNFCCC). LEARN MORE /snpower.com 8 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS SN POWER Outlook About 80 per cent of energy today is provided from coal, gas and oil. Concerns over a volatile fossil fuel market and the imperative environmental consequences of thermal energy sources have placed emphasis on sustainable energy policies that include the signiﬁcant development of renewable energy supplies. Yet the largest source of renewable energy comes from a proven technology, hydropower. Forecast for global 49 % energy increase by 2035* Projected increase in 54 % global hydroelectricity increment* No. 1 Hydropower has the best CO2 performance of all power generating technologies * Source: IEO (International Energy Outlook) 2010, published by US Energy InformationAdministration, July 2010 LEARN MORE /snpower.com 10 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS Drive and innovate With proﬁtability a prerequisite in order to create jobs, buy services, pay taxes and continue to invest and grow, how does SN Power, operating exclusively in developing countries, with the challenges this poses, achieve success? How is a balance of risk and reward maintained and managed? Erik Knive, SN Power’s Executive Vice President, For several reasons, 2010 was an interesting SN POWER GROSS CONSOLIDATED Southeast Asia explains: ”Our bottom line is year. Major greenﬁeld projects have transitioned OPERATING REVENUES 2006–2010 helping to better the living standard and develfrom development to operation and several (MUSD) opment potential in areas where many still do upgrade and rehabilitation projects were com200 not have access to a reliable source of electricpleted or are close to completion. The company ity – powering development through renewable also entered, or continued preparation for, entry 160 energy. Proﬁt comes as a result of doing this into new markets. While the operating structure well.” in each country is adapted to the local market 120 situation, there are common aspects of business Since the company started in 2002, the busistrategy: 80 ness context in many regions has evolved considerably. Knive comments: “So have we. The • Build on competitive advantage 40 fundamentals are our know-how and experience SN Power is known for its leading competence in hydropower projects around the world and and experience in project development, structur0 06 07 08 09 10 through experience, expansion, acquisitions and ing and ﬁnancing. The focus is now also on addselected partnerships, we have evolved from ing to this, further down the hydropower value there. But, as the markets in which we operchain, in areas such as operations, through best ate continue to deregulate and further open practice methodologies and global standardisaup to private investment, then the competition tion. An established reputation in regions such SN Power’s gross operating revenues the increases. But this is a good thing. It keeps us on as Chile and the Philippines provides also a last ﬁve years have improved steadily, with our toes and to continue to succeed, we must solid springboard into adjacent markets, with an all-time high for the year 2008. both drive and innovate.” the company able to capitalise on its proven SN POWER 11 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS 10 years Children part-take in the Khimti 10 year anniversary in Nepal credibility. High ethical, environmental and CSR as are relationships with government bodies standards are also leveraged in securing new and NGOs. business opportunities. • Exploit synergies • Develop relationships Synergies can be exploited, both in terms of Recognised as a reliable business partner with project execution and business expansion. The robust principles and high standards, SN Power goals are world class project execution and seeks to develop its strategic operational partentry into adjacent and new markets, many of nerships. These are based on shared business which are deﬁned by their current interconnecethics, core values, complementary skills and tion to existing markets. business alignment. Close cooperation with multilateral institutions like the IFC and other • Risk management development institutions, who enjoy the credit In order to fulﬁl its ambitions, SN Power will take LEARN MORE /snpower.com rating of their host countries, is also important, risk, but only where there is a thorough under12 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS bn Number of people without 1.6 access to electricity standing of it and where it can be controlled. A for example, are under evaluation, for the comrisk management framework and a systematic mercial opportunities they provide. approach to monitor and control risk are in place. Moreover, investment activities are based • Proﬁtability on the principle that no country or region will Equity investments in developing countries are negatively inﬂuence the investment opportuninot guaranteed. However, the provision of clean, ties of other regions. renewable electricity usage to rural communities acts as a catalyst for development. With govern• Diversiﬁcation and innovation ments turning to independent power producers With its solid understanding of market fundafor help, SN Power’s position, at the intersection mentals, SN Power will continue to diversify and of two megatrends – growth in emerging marinnovate. New services in the areas of transmiskets and in renewable energy – is validated. The sion, energy management and power trading, risks, rewards and proﬁts beneﬁt all. GWh 2 600 000 Total technically feasible potential in The power of water South America Over 1.6 billion people the world over, more than a quarter of the GWh world’s population, still lack access to electricity. Without access 7 700 000 to modern commercial energy, poor countries can be trapped in a Total technically vicious circle of poverty, social instability and underdevelopment. feasible potential in Asia In addressing this imbalance, the worldwide for energy from renewable sources. The most demand for primary energy will increase by 49% signiﬁcant and viable of these non-polluting GWh between 2008 and 2035, with emerging econoalternatives is hydropower. Hydropower has the 1 200 000 mies accounting for almost all this additional best CO2 performance, highest energy efﬁciency demand. However, while fossil fuels will remain rate and longest lifespan of all power generaTechnically feasible potential in Africa the dominant source of energy, their share in tion technologies. the energy mix is falling due to the demand 13 Today hydropower supplies around 1/6 of the • Helps ﬁght climate change worlds total electricity supply but the potential The hydropower lifecycle produces no air polfor further investments to increase this is enorlutants and shows the best greenhouse gases HYDROPOWER POTENTIAL IN ASIA mous. Most of this potential is in Latin America, (GHGs) emission performance of all power genIn operation Asia and Africa, SN Power’s home markets. eration technologies. By offsetting GHG emis17.4% sions from gas, coal and oil ﬁred power plants, Unexploited According to the World Bank, the total economihydropower can help slow global warming. technically feasible cally feasible potential hydropower capacity Where replacing fossil-fuelled generation, acid 40.7% in developing countries exceeds 1 900 GW. An rain and smog can be reduced. estimated 70% of this (1 330 GW), nearly four times the current installed capacity of Europe • Contributes signiﬁcantly to development Unexploited and North America, is not yet exploited.* Hydropower facilities bring electricity, roads, technically and industry and commerce to communities, thereby economically feasible 41.9% WHY HYDROPOWER? developing the economy, improving access to Hydropower provides a clean, ﬂexible, long term health and education, and enhancing the quality Source: Journal on hydropower and dams 2009 – recent hydropower and relatively low cost supply of energy. The of life. generation as a percentage of total GWh/yr potential to develop it is also greatest in the regions where energy supply deﬁcits are high. • Contributes to freshwater storage HYDROPOWER POTENTIAL Hydropower reservoirs collect rainwater, which IN SOUTH AMERICA Beneﬁts of hydropower can then be used for drinking or irrigation. In operation 24.6% • Flexible, reliable supply Hydropower facilities offer operational ﬂexibil• Long term investment Unexploited ity, because water can be stored in reservoirs Hydropower projects can beneﬁt several gentechnically feasible and released when most needed, thus responderations. They have low operation and main40.2% ing to ﬂuctuating electricity demand. Hydrotenance costs and can easily be upgraded to power can also be produced in a broad range of incorporate the latest technologies. project scales and types. Unexploited • Multiple uses for stored water technically and • Supports other renewables Reservoirs can also be used for drinking, irrigaeconomically feasible 35.2% Flexibility and storage capacity means it can tion, protection from dry periods and to stop support the use of intermittent renewables such glacier ﬂooding. Source: Journal on hydropower and dams 2009 – recent hydropower generation as a percentage of total GWh/yr as wind or solar power. However, while hydropower undoubtedly plays • Price stability an important role in the energy and sustainable HYDROPOWER POTENTIAL Unlike fuel or natural gas, hydropower is not development strategies of developing countries, IN AFRICA subject to market ﬂuctuations. developing natural resources in rural areas also In operation has its challenges. Social and environmental 8.8% • Improves grid stability and reliability. impacts are inevitable. They can, however, be Unexploited technically and Unexploited While it takes a long time to start a coal or mitigated. Good governance at a national and technically economically feasible 57.8% nuclear plant and other renewable sources lack international level are also prerequisites to sucfeasible 33.4% the same supply guarantee, a hydropower plant cessful sustainable development as are thorcan ramp up to maximum output rapidly and ough strategic assessments prior to any investpredictably. This makes hydropower well-suited ments being made. to meeting changing loads and providing ancillary electrical services to the electricity grid, maintaining the balance between electricity Source: Journal on hydropower and dams 2009 – recent hydropower supply and demand. generation as a percentage of total GWh/yr * Source: Directions in hydropower report, World Bank Group, March 2009 14 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS “At SN Power, the comOur social mitment we have to CSR is the glue, if you responsibility like, that binds our operations together.” In order to bring long term, tangible and sustainable beneﬁts to the communities and markets where hydropower is generated, social and environmental issues must receive bottom line attention. Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is a strategic and integrated aspect of project development and needs to be applied from an inside-out perspective. SN Power believes this is the only way to ensure that the beneﬁts created are fairly shared amongst all stakeholders and that the value created is long term. “At SN Power, the commitment we have to MULTI-PROGRAMME SUPPORT CSR is a crucial aspect of our success and IN NEPAL reputation. It’s the glue, if you like, that In July, Himal Power Ltd (HPL) celebrated ten binds our operations together,” says Elsbeth years of operation at the Khimti I hydropower Tronstad, SN Power’s Executive Vice President, plant near Kathmandu. During this time elecCommunication and SR. tricity has been provided to over 4 600 rural households through this 635KW mini plant. An The beneﬁts to regional development that additional 3 800 households are now being hydropower generation brings, go far beyond added and another 400KW power plant has a contribution to domestic power generation been planned. Infrastructure created durand water management. Multiple opportunities ing the implementation of rural electriﬁcation ELSBETH TRONSTAD arise for local economic and social development programmes has been handed over to the EVP, COMMUNICATION in the areas of welfare, health services, educaKhimti Rural Electric Cooperative (KREC), a AND CSR tion, training and skills sharing. In the belief that member-owned and democratically managed monetary compensation for those affected by cooperative. plant construction can tempt rural-to-urban migration to already overcrowded cities, SN HPL has also supported several schools in the Power is ﬁrmly committed to creating sustainlocal districts of Dolakha and Ramechhap, with able growth and long term development at the the Khimti Project School showing excellent local level. This involves initiating or becomresults in the School Leaving Certiﬁcate exams. ing involved with projects and programs that Other projects relating to drinking water, sanitawill improve living conditions, provide better tion, bio-gas, agriculture and forestry, income jobs and improve the prospects of the local generation training, women’s empowerment and population. irrigation have also been supported. Long before plant construction or rehabilitation One example is the Halua Khola Irrigation Sysstarts, CSR-related issues are researched and tem which supplies the village of Gogantar, with 55 evaluated then integrated into SN Power’s project management system PROMAS, before the process and methodology for the entire value approximately 100 households, with water for agriculture. chain of the project is deﬁned. FLOOD WARNING SYSTEM Number of CSR projects allocated IN THE PHILIPPINES by SN Aboitiz SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IN 2010 In 2010, the Philippines’ weather forecasting Power (SNAP) While CSR activities are on-going, here are some agency and Norway’s water resources and of the highlights of 2010. energy directorate (NVE) signed an agreement SN POWER 15 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS ABC Meeting at the nursery site at Allain Duhangan in India’s Kullu district. for the improvement of the ﬂood forecasting and be identiﬁed and used as a platform to support warning system (FFWS) for Magat Dam, aimed local education and to serve the community. at reducing ﬂood damage to downstream communities. SN Aboitiz Power (SNAP) will handle TOURISTS RESCUED IN INDIA the information, education and communication At the Allain Duhangan plant in the Kullu district aspects of the project. of Himachal Pradesh in India, a team of people showed their spontaneous concern for the welINFORMATION SHARING fare of others when in October some 2500 tourAlso in 2010 SNAP and Social Action for Develists became stranded by snow in the mountains. opment Center (an Ifugao province-based nonFollowing a request from the local administragovernment organisation) entered into a parttion a team consisting of a doctor, engineers, nership to implement a program in the Magat 4x4 vehicles and snow clearing equipment condam area that will provide viable alternatives to ducted a successful rescue operation providing unsustainable practices and protect watershed medical attention and ensuring safe passage areas from further denudation. A second local down the mountain project, will equip ﬁshermen and farmers with techniques aimed at more efﬁcient water use, With CSR so ingrained in the SN Power business especially through the dry season, while susmodel, a win-win situation arises. Locally, social taining productivity of farmlands and ﬁshpond and economic standards are improved and SN operations. Power creates a healthy business culture which also adds to the company’s credibility as a seriSCHOOL MAKEOVER IN THE ous long term investor in the region. All of this PHILIPPINES can be leveraged for further future and sustainAlso in the Philippines, three elementary schools able growth. in the Benguet region received a makeover from SN Aboitiz Power Group (SNAP) in time for the opening of the 2010-2011 school year. SNAP employees joined teachers and parents and other community residents in volunteering to clean and paint the schools, with materials donated by SNAP, beneﬁtting some 750 pupils. Due to the success of this ”School Brigade” project, SNAP has now decided to make this an annual programme. Each year, together with host communities, a new recipient school will 16 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS SN POWER Operations and locations With its long term investment strategy and commitment to safeguarding the environment and delivering values to host communitiues, SN Power seeks to exploit its competitive advantage in a number of markets. SN POWER 17 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS 21 Number of plants in SN Power’s portfolio 12 Number of countries where SN Power has ofﬁces 1 140 5 000 MW GWh Total installed Total GWh Annual effect Mean Generation in 2010 LEARN MORE /snpower.com SOUTH AMERICA Operations and 0pportunities in South America “With the inauguration and start up of two major hydropower plants, as well SN Power’s only wind farm in Chile, long term funding for a 168 MW greenﬁeld project secured in Peru, and business development activities in Brazil, 2010 was a series of milestones,” says Nils M. Huseby, Executive Vice President, South America. “It was a signiﬁcant year for us,” he continand investments, to consolidate its operations. ues, “as we made the transition from project The reliability centered maintenance (RCM) development and construction, to operation. strategy was introduced and signiﬁcant steps For 2011, our aim is to use the strong base we taken to optimise the workforce through implehave in Chile and Peru to continue to grow and mentation of remote control. to expand into other markets. At the same time we must maintain a ﬁrm focus on operational KEY 2010 ACHIEVEMENTS efﬁciency and proﬁt.” Chile Nils Morten Huseby In the O’Higgins region of Chile, the run-of-river EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, SOUTH AMERICA Chile, with its stable economy, well-functioning plant La Higuera supplies 155MW of renewable electricity market and stable outlook is a core energy to the Chilean national grid from the market for SN Power. With the start-up of three Tinguiririca river. La Conﬂuencia, SN Power’s key facilities in 2010, the focus was twofold, second run-of-river plant in the same river will the initiation of operation and management best supply a further 158 MW. The total of more practices, alongside the pursuance of further than 310 MW of clean energy they contribute is growth opportunities. enough to supply more than 900 000 Chilean households with renewable electricity. The In 2010 the Peruvian market experienced reductwo hydropower plants, in which USD 800 miltions in wholesale power prices and, while the lion has been invested, will reduce Chile’s CO2 economy is growing fast, with a 6% per annum emissions by more than 900 000 tons per year, GDP growth forecast to 2015, efﬁciency is a key the equivalent of removing more than 250 000 challenge here too. In its ﬁrst year operating vehicles from circulation. Both plants were inauas SN Power Peru S.A since the merger of the gurated by Chile’s president Sebastián Piñera, in operating companies Cahua and Electronandes, October 2010. the company undertook signiﬁcant restructuring SN POWER 19 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS “2010 was a signiﬁcant year for SN Power, as we made the transition from project development and construction, to operation.” NILS MORTEN HUSEBY EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, SOUTH AMERICA Conﬁrming his country’s ambitious growth TARGETS FOR 2011 plans for renewable energy, in his inauguration Chile speech the president revealed that; “Chile has For all operations in Chile the focus will be on an ambitious goal of combining an economic proﬁtable operations and commercialisation of growth of 6% per year, while at the same time the existing portfolio. The company will also reduce the country’s CO2 emissions by 20 % by actively seek new growth opportunities. 2020. In order to reach these goals, we need 12 100 MW of new energy capacity installed by Peru the end of this decade”. A key focus in the Peruvian market will be the start of the construction phase at Cheves which More than 14 000 people beneﬁted from the is expected to employ more than 700 local construction through direct and indirect jobs, workers. Furthermore, continued efforts will contributing to the regional, local and national be undertaken to improve operations efﬁciency development. The developer and owner of the at existing plants. This will be sought through two plants is Tinguiririca Energía, a joint venbenchmarking and the implementation of best ture between Australian Paciﬁc Hydro and SN practices. Power. In 2007 Tinguiririca Energía established the Tinguiririca Participa program. Through this Brazil initiative, projects identiﬁed by the community As the second largest producer of hydroelectricin the areas of health, education and community ity in the world, Brazil represents a signiﬁcant development are funded. 98 projects have so far growth potential for SN Power. The key goal for been funded, to the beneﬁt of the 6 000 people 2011 is to see the company establish a foothold that live in proximity of the plants. in Brazil, through the acquisition of a hydropower asset. Peru In September 2010 SN Power announced it is to invest MUSD 400 in the hydropower project Cheves in Peru, an investment secured by IFC backing in December. Cheves is one of the largest hydropower plants to be developed in the country in recent years and represents a cornerstone in Peru’s goal to exploit its signiﬁcant untapped renewable energy resources. 20 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS SOUTH AMERICA Chile SN Power has been present in Chile since 2004, and is currently engaged in the operation, construction and development of renewable energy projects through joint venture companies with local and international partners. During 2010 health, safety and Plants environment has continued to be a top priority of management LA CONFLUENCIA which has diligently worked with the joint venture companies to LA HIGUERA TOTORAL WIND FARM ensure this area receive the focus required. COLMITO TINGUIRIRICA ENERGÍA Power Purchase Agreements with a local La Higuera and La Conﬂuencia distribution company Chilectra and in the spot SN Power and Australian-based Paciﬁc Hydro market. Limited have two hydropower projects in completion in the Tinguiririca Valley, 250 km To mitigate the market risks associated with southeast of the capital Santiago. The 50/50 dry periods, Tinguiririca Energía constructed LA CONFLUENCIA AND LA HIGUERA joint venture is called Tinguiririca Energía. a 58 MW dual fuel back-up turbine called For the projects a 55 km high voltage transmission line and a 25 km medium Construction of the La Higuera plant started Colmito in 2008. The Colmito plant is located voltage transmission line were required. in October 2005. During the fourth quarter in central Chile. Although hydrology has been of 2010, La Higuera commenced to generate drier than normal due to high fuel prices, the revenue while still undergoing completion unit has hardly been dispatched and genertesting. ated most revenues from capacity payments in 2010. Construction of the 158 MW La Conﬂuencia plant started in 2007 and the ﬁrst phase On 26 October 2010, President Piñera of Chile started operations in the early part of 2011 (who came into ofﬁce March 2010) and other while the balance of the facility will commence senior members of the Chilean government later the same year. Together, the two plants joined the boards of SN Power and Paciﬁc Hydro will contribute approximately 1400 GWh/year as well as many guests and the Tinguiririca to the Chilean central grid. team for the inauguration of the two facilities. This activity marked an important step in ensurThe power produced by La Higuera and ing the energy demand of Chile is met into the La Conﬂuencia is sold through long-term future. SN POWER 21 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS 1 st 370 MW 45 MW La Higuera is Chile’s La Conﬂuencia, La Higuera andColmito’s Capacity of the 1st CDM registered total of 370 MW enough to supply more Norvind wind farm hydropower plant than 900 000 Chilean households with electricity TRAYENKO Hidroeléctrica Trayenko S.A., 80%-owned by TOTORAL WIND FARM SN Power and 20%-owned by its Chilean partner Totoral Wind Farm is located in the central Centinela comprises four hydropower projects in region of Chile. This coastal location is one the windiest regions in Chile. the Los Rios region of Southern Chile. NORVIND Construction of SN Power’s ﬁrst wind farm was completed and the facility put into operation in early 2010. The unit is held in a special purpose company, Norvind, 80%-owned by SN Power and 20%-owned by Centinela. The 45 MW Totoral wind farm is located approximately 300 km north of Santiago in a semi-desert area on the coast. 2010 saw a successful ﬁrst year of operations with annual generation of 70 GWh. The wind farm was formally inaugurated by Chile’s then President Michelle Bachelet on 20th January 2010. 22 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS SOUTH AMERICA Peru SN Power has been established in Peru since 2003 when the company acquired 100 per cent of the shares in Cahua S.A., a Peruvian hydropower company. In 2007, SN Power further strengthened its presence in the country through the acquisition Plants of Electroandes S.A. ARCATA CAHUA GALLITO CIEGO LA OROYA OPERATING PLANTS a total installed capacity of 271 MW, all conMALPASO Following the acquisition of Electroandes S.A., nected to the central grid. Four of these producPACHACHACA PARIAC a process was undertaken to consolidate the tion centres are former Electroandes plants, YAUPI management structure and operations of SN which were built to supply energy for the minCHEVES Power in Peru. This was completed 1 January ing sector. These are located in the provinces 2010, when the two operating subsidiaries, of Junin and Yauli in the Central Andean region, Cahua S.A. and Electroandes S.A. were merged at altitudes of up to 4 000 meters above sea to form SN Power Peru S.A. Since then the main level. The Cahua plants are scattered around the focus has been on developing a common platcountry. SN Power has undertaken numerous form based on shared values and principles, as activities to optimise commercial and technical CAHUA Cahua is located 200 km to the north of Lima. well as extracting synergies from the merged operations, such as refurbishment and the reorThe plant has an annual output of 280 GWh. operation. A strong and efﬁcient organisation ganization of resources at the plants. has been built up, to take on the operation and maintenance of existing plants and to develop CONCESSIONS new business opportunities. SN Power Peru also holds a number of both permanent and temporary concessions for the Major activities undertaken in 2010 include development of greenﬁeld hydropower proautomation and remote control projects relating jects in Peru with a total of 500 MW. The most to the four largest power plants coupled with advanced project is the 168 MW Cheves project capacity and capability optimisation of the existwhich will have an expected mean annual gening portfolio. These projects are expected to be eration capacity of 837 GWh when completed completed during 2011. in 2014. Construction of the Cheves project started in 2010, after SN Power reached ﬁnan13 FACILITIES cial close for the MUSD 400 project. SN Power SN Power Peru has thirteen hydropower faciliPeru is focused on being a responsible develties grouped in eight production centres with oper, and supports a number of local comSN POWER 23 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS 9 439 MW 2 436 400 GWh MUSD Number of SN SN Power Peru SN Power Peru Investment in Power hydropower total installed total annual Cheves project in plants in Peru capacity output September 2010 munity initiatives, ranging from education and health to livelihood development and environAVERAGE ANNUAL OUTPUT OPERATING REVENUES 2007–2010 (GWh) 2007–2010 (IN MUSD) mental management. 2 000 150 > Arcata hydropower facility is located in the Arequipa region in southern Peru, at a height of 120 4,500 meters above sea level. It consists of four 1 500 plants with 5 MW of total installed capacity. 90 > Cahua is a 43 MW hydropower plant located 1 000 about 200 km north of Lima on the Pativilca 60 River. > Gallito Ciego is a 37 MW hydropower 500 plant located 600 km north of Lima. This plant is 30 situated downstream of the Gallito Ciego dam, which is primarily used for irrigation purposes. 0 07 08 09 10 0 07 08 09 10 The dam is operated by the water authorities. > Pariac hydropower facility consists of three plants with a combined capacity of 4.9 MW. Pariac is located in Peru’s Ancash region just outside the city of Huaraz and takes water from YAUPI The Yaupi HPP is the plant with the largest the Pariac River. > La Oroya is a hydropower capacity in SN Power Peru. It is located at plant located in the Yauli province, at a height 1,328 masl in the village of Yaupi. of 3,694 meters above sea level. The plant consists of three generation units with a total capacity of 9 MW. > Malpaso is a hydropower plant located in the Yauli province, at a height of 3,870 metres above sea level. The plant has four units and a total installed capacity of 54.41 MW. > Pachachaca is a hydropower plant located in the Yauli province, at a height of 4,031 metres above sea level. The plant consists of three generation units with a total capacity of 9 MW. > Yaupi is a 108 MW hydropower plant located in the province of Junin. This is the largest hydropower facility in SN Power Peru’s portfolio. SOUTH ASIA Optimism and opportunities in South Asia Established as an SN Power region in 2009, the company is currently present in the markets of India, Nepal and Sri Lanka and investigating opportunities in Bhutan. Working closely with local partner Tata Power since October 2009, activities in India in 2010 centred around transitioning the Allain Duhangan project to commercial operation, and, at an organisational level, around health and safety issues. In Nepal, ten years of operation was celebrated at the Khimti plant and the Tamakoshi III project was progressed. Foto “South Asia, in particular India, Nepal and The combination of partner Tata Power’s local Bhutan, represent tremendous growth knowhow and experience, combined with opportunities; India an electricity hungry and SN Power’s expertise in project development, underserved market and Nepal and Bhutan at construction and ﬁnancing, puts SN Power in their nascent phase with more than 100 GW a position of strength as further deregulation Knut Reed of undeveloped potential. SN Power is further is anticipated along with the opportunities this ACTING EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, SOUTH ASIA strengthening its foothold in the region and brings for private investment. invests with a long term perspective,” says Knut Reed, Acting Executive Vice President, KEY 2010 ACHIEVEMENTS South Asia. India At the Malana base load plant, work continThe demand for hydropower in South Asia conued to enhance the capacity from 109 MW to tinues to escalate as governments seek to reduce 112 MW, with completion expected in 2011. power deﬁcits while exploiting the economic and social advantages of sustainable energy. India is The safety of our employees continues to be one of the largest and fastest growing electricity at the forefront of all activities, but in spite of markets in the world, with peak demand expected this, in March 2010 a fatality occurred at the to grow from 118 GW in 2009 to 218 GW by Allain Duhangan Transmission Line project. 2017 and total generation capacity expected to While an investigation conﬁrmed the man was increase from 160 GW to 290 GW by 2017. In wearing personal protection equipment and Nepal, only 700 MW has been developed with a safety equipment was in place, safety measpotential of more than 45 000 MW. ures, procedures and routines continue to be SN POWER 25 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS “Safety measures, procedures and routines continue to be of the utmost priority.” KNUT REED ACTING EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, SOUTH ASIA of the utmost priority. With “no injuries to anybring a wealth of direct and indirect beneﬁts to goals will include the negotiation of a Project one, ever,” the goal at all operations; on-going Nepal. A ﬁnal decision whether it will be built Development Agreement for the Tamakoshi III measures includes more training, best practice has yet to be made as this depends on the project and Kirne in 2011. sharing and audits to further improve the health social-economic stability of Nepal. and safety culture. In Bhutan, which is a tenth of the size of In November 2010, the 60 MW Khimti I plant Norway, but with the same hydropower potenIn July 2010, commercial operation started at celebrated 10 years of successful operation. tial, SN Power continues to explore and prepare the Allain part of the Allain Duhangan hydroWith a mean annual generation of 350 GWh, it for commercial opportunities that may arise. power plant. Operation at the Duhangan part provides over 17% of Nepal’s electricity supply. is expected to start in 4Q 2011. This project Through a rural electriﬁcation project, a total has also been granted credits under the Clean of 4,600 rural households have now been proDevelopment Mechanism (CDM) and is among vided with electricity with an additional 3,800 the largest hydropower plants in the world to in the process of being added. SN Power has a be registered. 57.1% ownership stake in plant operator Himal Power Limited. In October 2010, showing spontaneous concern for the welfare of those around them, a At Kirne, a 67 MW project that will utilise the team from the Allain Duhangan plant rushed to existing Khimti I infrastructure, the Environmenthe rescue of 2500 tourists trapped by snow, tal Impact Assessment was continued in 2010 ensuring their safety, welfare and safe passage and reached its ﬁnal stages. down the mountain. TARGETS FOR 2011 The relationship with Tata Power was also furIn India, SN Power production targets – ther cemented during 2010, with several new together with Tata Power – are 2 000 MW by business prospects actively pursued on the 2015 and 4 000 MW by 2020. At both Malana back of our respective expertise, shared ethical and Allain Duhangan the focus will be on framework and growth ambitions. operation and maintenance to optimise revenue streams. Best practice procedures and interNepal national standards will continue to be impleIn March 2010, SN Power completed the feamented. In terms of health and safety at all sibility study and Environmental and Social facilities, “No injuries to anyone ever” remains Impact Assessment of the Tamakoshi III project the constant goal towards which all improveand the detailed engineering phase is now ments and mitigation strive. underway. Once operational, the 880 MW, 2 700 GWh hydropower plant is expected to In Nepal, the political situation permitting, key 26 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS S 800 GWh 375 GWh Average annual Average annual output of the Allain output of the Duhangan plant Malana plant SOUTH ASIA India SN Power entered the Indian market in 2004 when it acquired 49% of the shares in Malana Power Company Limited (MPCL), where Indian LNJ Bhilwara Group is the majority owner. In October 2009 SN Power signed a partnership agreement with Tata Power Corporation to develop new hydropower projects in the South Asia region. MALANA HYDROPOWER PLANT Construction of Malana Hydropower Plant was Malana Hydropower Plant utilises the water commenced in January 1999 and included sevfrom the Malana river in the state of Himachal eral Indian contracts for civil works. BHEL supPradesh. Water is collected at the plant’s intake, plied major electromechanical works. The plant consisting of a barrage head regulator, a desilter was commissioned in July 2001. Plants and a small concrete dam reservoir. It is then transferred via an underground headrace tunnel The project provided considerable employment ALLAIN DUHANGAN and steel surface penstock into the powerhouse for the local population during the construcMALANA at Chauki village. tion phase. Presently 96 people are employed at the site, most of them recruited from local Malana is operated as a base load plant during communities. the summer and rainy season (June-October), and as a peaking plant the rest of the year. ALLAIN DUHANGAN The plant helps meet power shortages in the HYDROPOWER PLANT northern region, presently estimated at about The Allain Duhangan Hydropower Limited 1500 MW. (ADHPL) is a greenﬁeld run-of-river project with no dam attached. The high head underground ALLAIN DUHANGAN The project is among the largest CDMregistered hydropower projects. Below: Underground powerhouse under construction. OPERATING REVENUES AVERAGE ANNUAL OUTPUT 2007–2010 (IN MUSD) 2007–2010 (GWh) 50 400 40 300 30 200 20 100 10 0 07 08 09 10 0 07 08 09 10 SN POWER 27 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS SOUTH ASIA Sri Lanka power plant utilises water ﬂows from a comSN Power holds a 30% stake in bination of glacial snowmelt and monsoon Nividhu Private Limited, which rains. The 192 MW hydropower plant lies at the conﬂuence of Allain and Duhangan rivers in the owns and operates the AssuKullu district of Himachal Pradesh. pinella and Belihuloya hydroAllain Duhangan will operate as a base load Plants power plants. plant during the summer and rainy season ASSUPINIELLA The Assupiniella plant is located North East of BELIHULOYA (June-October), and as a peaking plant the rest Colombo, and generates an average annual outof the year. put of 17 GWh. Construction work commenced in May 2003 and was completed in September Construction of Allain Duhangan Hydropower 2005. During construction phase, the project Plant was commenced in January 2005. Comprovided employment opportunities for the mercial operation started in July 2010 for Allain local communities and continues to do so durand is scheduled to start in fourth quarter 2011 ing operation. Commercial operations started for Duhangan. The project has been granted in November 2005. There are currently about credits under the Clean Development Mecha15 people employed at the site, many of them nism (CDM) and is among the largest hydrorecruited from the local community. power projects to be registered under the CDM, ASSUPINIELLA Assupiniella is a 4 MW run-of-river UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. hydropower plant providing renewable The Belihuloya plant is a 2.1 MW run-of-river The process of issuance of certiﬁed emission energy to the Sri Lankan grid. plant providing renewable energy to the Sri reductions (CERs) under CDM has been initiated Lankan grid. The plant utilises water from the and the CER credits are expected by the end of Belihuloya River to supply renewable energy 2011. to the grid in Sri Lanka. Belihuloya is located south-east of Colombo and has been operating The project provides signiﬁcant employment since 2002. The plant generates an average opportunities for local communities and also annual output of 10 GWh. contributes to develop the infrastructure in the Kullu district. Construction work at Belihuloya commenced in April 2000 and was completed as planned, both with respect to cost, time and quality. Commercial operation started in May 2002. There are currently 13 people employed at the site, many of them recruited from the local community. 28 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS SOUTH ASIA Nepal SN Power entered Nepal in 2006 through the acquisition of Statkraft’s majority share in Himal Power Limited (HPL), which operates the Khimti I 60 MW run-of-river hydropower plant. SN Power is currently carrying out project development and Plants feasibility studies for an expansion of this plant in addition to KHIMTI I a much bigger (880 MW) plant in the Tamakoshi valley. KHIMTI I KIRNE As a majority owner of HPL (57.1%), SN Power In January 2009, SN Power was granted a is the operator of the Khimti I hydropower plant survey license by the Government of Nepal to which supplies almost 17% of Nepal’s total elecconduct a feasibility study and environmental tricity output. impact assessment for 67 MW Kirne hydropower project which utilises excess water in the Khimti HPL is also engaged in several community Khola during the wet season, via the existing development programs in the area surrounding water conveyance system of Khimti I HydroKHIMTI I Khimti. These include: rural electriﬁcation of power Plant. Khimti I is a run-of-river hydropower plant with a capacity of 60 MW and an annual eventually over 8 000 households; commuproduction of 350 gigawatt hours. nity managed small hydropower generation; Currently, Khimti I only uses about half of the support for enterprise development; support available water in the headrace tunnel during for irrigation; drinking water and other rural the wet season. The Kirne hydropower plant infrastructure projects; operation of a local plans to utilise the additional ﬂow and the school for 400 children and a clinic catering investment will nearly double the wet season to more than 12 000 local patients annuenergy production with minimum negative envially. HPL is currently collaborating with the ronmental impacts. The feasibility study of the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), project was completed in November 2009 and through the Khimti Neighbourhood Developthe environmental impact assessment is at its ment Project, to incorporate a community ﬁnal stage. mobilisation approach in the local development programmes. TAMAKOSHI III Signiﬁcant progress has been made in 2010 On 27 November 2010, Khimti I plant in the feasibility studies of the Tamakoshi III celebrated its 10th year of successful operation. hydropower project which has been optimised SN POWER 29 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS 350 GWh 67 MW 2 700 15% GWh Khimti I total Kirne total Tamakoshi III total Khimti’s percentannual output installed capacity future annual age of Nepal’s output electricity output at 880 MW, and in April 2010, the Government of Nepal amended the survey license to reﬂect AVERAGE ANNUAL OUTPUT OPERATING REVENUES 2007–2010 (GWh) 2007–2010 (IN MUSD) this change. The technical feasibility study has been com400 40 pleted and the environmental and social impact assessment (ESIA) report has been submitted to 300 30 the Government for approval. The survey license for the Nepal side of the transmission line has 200 20 been obtained and the feasibility study and ESIA will begin soon. “Tamakoshi Vision”, a comprehensive community development program in the 100 10 Tamakoshi Valley has been formulated. 0 07 08 09 10 0 07 08 09 10 As in all SN Power projects, taking the social and environmental aspects of project development into consideration from an early stage is key. Throughout 2010 SN Power has worked closely with national and local stakeholders to ensure KIRNE The project has a capacity of 67 MW. The that community concerns are integrated during Kirne project shares resources with the project planning and that a plan for sustainexisting Khimti 1 hydropower plant. able local development is developed. This work has translated into further reﬁnement of the Tamakoshi Vision. SOUTHEAST ASIA Prominent pioneer in Southeast Asia Business in Southeast Asia continued to prosper in 2010 with strong continued growth in the Philippines and presence established in Vietnam. The outlook for 2011 is positive with Laos a country to watch. According to Erik Knive, Executive Vice Presihowever, performance recorded was above dent, Southeast Asia: “2010 was a good year. forecast. With a net proﬁt of MUSD 76.7 for Milestones were achieved at existing assets SN Power’s Philippine operations, the Philippines in the Philippines, where our relationship with contributed substantially to SN Power’s overall Foto exclusive partner Aboitiz Equity Ventures (AEV)/ proﬁt. Key to this success was the sale of ancilAboitiz Power (AP) continues to prosper, growth lary services to the local grid, necessary to help prospects in Vietnam and Laos were progressed maintain safety and reliability in the transmisand a new initiative was launched in Singapore.” sion of electric power. Magat is one of the few hydropower plants in the Philippines that can be KEY 2010 ACHIEVEMENTS used to provide ancillary services and therefore The Philippines makes a valuable contribution to the country’s Erik Knive Operating as SN Aboitiz Power (SNAP), the joint main power grid. EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, SOUTHEAST ASIA venture company set up with AEV/AP, SN Power attributes its continuing success in the PhilipAt the 75 MW Ambuklao plant, currently underpines to its balanced commercial strategy and going rehabilitation and upgrade, the year also willingness to innovate. In addition to the role as got off to a challenging start. An unprecedented owner and operator of three major hydropower volume of silt and sediment in the headrace plants, the company capitalised in 2010 on its tunnel, caused by a typhoon in October 2009, know-how to be the ﬁrst private provider of made the planned technical solution for plugancillary services. In addition, around 34% of ging it untenable. However, the team came up revenues now come from trading on the spot with a viable alternative solution, which, while market, with the Philippines among the ﬁrst complex, was implemented quickly and on emerging economies to have a deregulated schedule, with high standards of health and power market. safety maintained throughout. From early March to mid-June, the 381 MW Binga, among the oldest hydropower plants in Magat plant suffered a shutdown due to the country, continued to operate with excelextremely dry weather. By the end of 2010 lent availability and in April 2010 work started SN POWER 31 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS “SN Power plans to leverage its success in the Philippines and other markets to play a similar pivotal role in Vietnam’s power market.” ERIK KNIVE EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, SOUTHEAST ASIA to upgrade the plant. Completion is expected in the-art operation of existing assets, continue 2014. In the three years since SNAP took over the rehabilitation work at Binga and start full operation, new input, tools and improved peroperation of Ambuklao. Other focus areas will formance have increased the availability of the include the pre-construction and construction plant to over 95%. of the 90 MW expansion project at Magat. All opportunities to acquire additional assets and Singapore In 2010 SN Power launched its independent power producer administrator Global Services initiative, an internal consulting (IPPA) contracts, as a result of the government group designed to attract, develop and retain continuing the privatisation process, will also be global expert resources. The Global Services pursued. We have also established a greenﬁeld team will work on issues such as quality assurdevelopment program. ance and training to improve the quality of services provided to contracted employees on Vietnam a global basis. Energy demand in Vietnam is expected to continue to grow at a high pace over the next Vietnam years from 86 TWh in 2009 to over 260 TWh SN Power aims at becoming an industrial by 2020. During 2011, a country manager will investor in Vietnam within the next two years. be appointed and investment opportunities furDemonstrating long term commitment to the ther progressed. As the power sector is beeing market, a representative ofﬁce was established reformed and deregulated, SN Power plans to in Hanoi in March 2010. As a ﬁrst step acquisileverage on its success in the Philippines and tion prospects will be evaluated with greenﬁeld other markets to play a similar pivotal role in opportunities to follow. Vietnam’s power trial market by 2011. In June 2010, SN Power signed a Joint DevelopLaos ment Agreement with IFC InfraVentures. The SN Power continues to pursue investment partnership, called SN Power Vietnam, an 80:20 opportunities in Laos with a thorough market structure with SN Power in a majority position, is study underway and aims to close its ﬁrst currently looking into several interesting acquitransaction by the end of 2011/early 2012. The sition targets. company also backs regional power sector integration through the creation of a Mekong power TARGETS FOR 2011 pool between Laos, Thailand and Vietnam, simiThe Philippines lar to the Nordic model, to encourage long term In the Philippines, in conjunction with AEV/ growth in the region. AP, SN Power will continue to ensure state-of32 sn power Annual report 2010 overview outlook operations and locations organisation our results southeast asia The Philippines Since SN Power and Aboitiz Equity Ventures (AEV)/Aboitiz Power (AP) formed the 50–50 joint venture company SN Aboitiz Power (SNAP) in 2006, the company has acquired three major hydropower plants on Luzon, making SNAP among the largest private Plants renewable energy companies in the Philippines. Ambuklao Binga Magat Magat hydropower plant to generating hydroelectric power, provides SNAP acquired the 360 MW Magat hydropower irrigation water for ca. 85 000 hectares of plant, the largest in the Philippines, in 2007. agricultural land and plays an important role In 2010 SNAP increased this to 381 MW, leavin flood regulation. In 2010 The Philippines’ ing the plant with extra capacity to capitalise weather forecasting agency and Norway’s on ancillary services. In 2010, 53 per cent of water resources and energy directorate (NVE) revenues came from sales of 843 GWh reserved signed an agreement for the improvement of the ancillary services. 316 GWh was traded on the flood forecasting and warning system (FFWS), Philippine spot market, WESM, representing 26% aimed at reducing flood damage to downstream of revenues. In addition, 357 GWh accounting communities. SNAP will handle the information, MAGAT The 381 MW Magat hydropower plant has for 20% of revenues came from sales of bilateral education and communication aspects of the a strategic role in Luzon, the Philippines. contracts. project. SNAP has an established stakeholder engageAlso in 2010, Magat received its third straight ment program and actively supports a range Safety Milestone Recognition (SMILE) award of projects that benefit local communities. Two from the Department of Labour and Employnew ones were launched in 2010. SNAP and ment for recording over 1 173 000 man-hours Social Action for Development Center (an Ifugao without lost time incident (LTIs) since takeover. province-based NGO), jointly implemented a Magat furthermore maintained the Certification program to protect watershed areas from furto Occupational Health and Safety Assessther denudation. Project Daloy Magat will equip ment Series (OHSAS) 18001:2007 it received fishermen and farmers with techniques for more in 2009, and passed its first ISO 9001:2008 efficient water use, while sustaining productivity Certification­Audit. In addition, the plant of farmlands and fishpond operations. received its Certificate of Compliance from the Energy Regulatory Commission, a certificate Magat is a multi-purpose dam which, in addition valid for five years. SN POWER 33 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS 381 MW 124 MW 105 MW 1 173 000 Magat total Binga total installed Ambuklao total Man-hours without lost installed capacity capacity (under installed capacity time incident at Magat rehabilitation) (rehabilitation) between 4/2007–12/2010 AMBUKLAO AND BINGA cost and capital expenditure for the expansion HYDROPOWER PLANTS of both Ambuklao and Binga is estimated at OPERATING REVENUES In 2010, SNAP continued to focus on the fullMUSD 299. 2007–2010 (IN MUSD) scale rehabilitation of Ambuklao and Binga in the Benguet province. On completion, their comIn July 2010, the SNAP rehabilitation team faced 250 bined capacity will increase by 50 MW, Ambukchallenges in plugging the existing headrace lao from 75 to 105 MW and Binga from 100 to tunnel at the Ambuklao plant, caused by an 200 124 MW. Ambuklao has not been operational unexpected volume of sediments in it com150 since 1999 due to major earthquake damage pounded by the effects of a typhoon in 2009. suffered in 1990. The solution found was to build a new extended 100 headrace tunnel to allow water to ﬂow through In 2010, Binga generated 197 GWh of power to the new turbines. This work is expected to be 50 traded on the WESM, while 201 GWh was used completed and the plant to become fully operafor sales and provision of ancillary services. This tional again during 2011. 0 07 08 09 10 corresponds to a breakdown of 53% and 33% of revenues for spot and ancillary services respecIn December 2010, Binga posted 978 000 mantively. An additional 68 GWh, representing 14% hours without LTIs and also received the 2010 of revenues, came from sales of bilateral conSafety Milestone Recognition (SMILE) award. The tracts. plant was also conferred with the Conﬁrmation of Certiﬁcation to the standard set in the OHSAS In March 2010, the implementing agreement 18001:2007 and the Certiﬁcate of Compliance AVERAGE ANNUAL OUTPUT for the Indigenous Peoples’ accord of 2009 from the Energy Regulatory Commission. 2007–2010 (GWh) was signed. As a result, the use and administration of certain areas near the Binga plant were As a condition of the Environmental Compliance 2 000 turned over to the indigenous community of Certiﬁcate held and a key feature of the PhilipBarangay Tinongdan. This resolved 50 years of pine environmental impact assessment system, 1 500 conﬂict between National Power Corporation a Multi-Partite Monitoring Team (MMT) for both (NPC) and the local population. A similar impleAmbuklao and Binga were established in 2010 1 000 menting agreement is also being prepared for to monitor the projects. In addition to SNAP and Ambuklao. the Environmental Management Bureau, the MMT is composed of government agencies, local 500 In April 2010, work began to upgrade the Binga government unit and stakeholders. plant. As the plant is in operation the four units 0 07 08 09 10 will be upgraded one unit at a time, with completion expected in 2014. Total rehabilitation africa and central america From pioneer to player Despite continued structural and political constraints in some parts of the continent, Africa has shown good economic progress over the past few years. While new power generation capacity has been difficult to finance, there is also an urgent need to develop additional capacity generation. SN Power AfriCA spent 2010 in negotiations to constraints in some parts of the continent, pursue entry in several key markets primarily the Southern African region has shown good through a combination of greenfield projects economic progress over the past years. With its Foto and rehabilitation, with acquisitions also prioricentral geographical location, and interconnectised as and when opportunities arise. In Central tion with the East African grid at an advanced America, a region also managed by SN Power stage of planning, some selected countries AfriCA, Panama remains the prime focus. are expected to play a strategic role. The SubSaharan countries current installed electric “Considerable ground was covered in Africa and power capacity is about 50 000 MW. The total Einar Stenstadvold Central America during 2010, which helped the useable hydropower development potential Chief Executive Officer, company transition from pioneer to player,” for the Sub-Saharan countries is more than SN Power AfriCA says Einar Stenstadvold, Chief Executive Officer, 1 000 TWh/year. SN Power AfriCA. “By the end of the year several key contracts were in the latter stages of negoCentral America has a hydropower potential of tiation, putting the company in a strong position 22 000 MW, of which approximately 4 000 MW for 2011.” has been developed. For SN Power AfriCA, 2010 was only the comIn late July 2010, the first substation of the pany’s second complete year of operation. Set Central American Electrical Interconnection up to pursue sustainable hydropower business System­(SIEPAC) opened in Costa Rica with a opportunities throughout Africa and Central substation in Panama opened shortly afterAmerica, initial activities have focused on estabwards. Once the whole 1 800 km transmission lishing local presence and evaluating project line is fully operational, it will include 15 suband partnership options, specifically in Panama, stations and, with a capacity of 300 MW. This Costa Rica and in Southern Africa. will create a regional electricity market in Central America. As a result, the overall cost of elecDespite continued structural and political tricity in the region can be expected to drop as a sn power 35 Annual report 2010 overview outlook operations and locations organisation our results “In only its second full year of operation, SN Power AfriCA activities in 2010 essentially centred around establishing local presence and evaluating project and partnership options, specifically in Panama, Costa Rica and Southern Africa.” einar stenstadvold Chief Executive Officer, SN Power AfriCA result of efficiency gains of having an integrated In South Africa, which dominates the southern energy market. region in terms of both demand and expected growth, SN Power AfriCA will continue to Key achievements in 2010 evaluate­opportunities in the market with In January 2010 Norwegian energy companies plans to establish local presence as soon as BKK and TrønderEnergi joined SN Power and is feasible­. Norfund as owners of SN Power AfriCA, with a combined ownership stake of 39%. Overall SN Power AfriCA’s goal is to build a portfolio of 700 equity MW by 2015. In Mai 2010, SN Power AfriCA opened its regional office in Central America in the Costa Rican capital of San Jose. Throughout the year, SN Power AfriCA continued negotiations surrounding its first project in Central America as part of a strategic alliance formed in 2009 with the Panamanian Credicorp Group. As a result of this cooperation, SN Power AfriCA acquired a controlling interest of 50.1% in the Bajo Frio project. Bajo Frio is a greenfield hydropower project which is at an advanced development stage and is planned for completion in 2013. Construction is due to start in May 2011 and will include a 58 MW hydropower plant with an open canal, dam and two power houses. Targets for 2011 In Panama, the prime focus for 2011 will be construction of the Bajo Frio hydropower plant with rigorous control of health and safety issues. In Southern Africa, SN Power AfriCA will continue to assess joint venture and acquisition prospects with a view to strengthening its strategic­position in the region. 36 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS SN POWER Organisation SN Power complies with international corporate governance practices. We are committed to transparency and openness throughout our business and have integrated corporate responsibility and sustainable development into our governance structures and procedures. SN POWER 37 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS 427 Number of SN Power employees 17 Number of SN Power nationalities 60% 40% Share of Statkraft Share of Norfund ownership in ownership in SN Power SN Power LEARN MORE /snpower.com 38 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS Management team Tor Stokke Erik Knive Knut Reed Jan Erik Felle CEO EVP, SOUTH-EAST ASIA ACTING EVP, SOUTH ASIA ACTING CFO BACKGROUND BACKGROUND BACKGROUND BACKGROUND Over 15 years’ experience in CFO Substantial international experiExtensive executive experience Nine years’ experience in the positions at major Norwegian and ence in business development. from several industries and broad audit branch of Pricewaterhouseinternational companies includHas worked with start-ups and international experience. Has Coopers mainly from public secing ExClay International, Raufoss operational entities within multinalived and worked abroad for 15 tor companies and energy sector. ASA and Posten Norway BA. Has tional telecom industries, service years, predominately as top manHe has also worked on several also worked as a consultant and providers, international ﬁnance ager. Prior to joining SN Power consulting assignments in the has also worked extensively with institutions and government 2 years ago, worked for Dyno same company related to IFRS strategy and business developministries in the USA, Asia, Europe Nobel, Telenor and Blom where implementation, cost allocation ment, including merger and and the Middle East. Prior to joinmain focus was international and training of new hires. Jan Erik acquisition and change manageing SN Power he gained executive growth and expansion. joined SN Power in September ment processes. experience from Norconsult Tele2007. matics and Teleplan, having been Knut holds a degree (honours) in Tor holds an MSc in business and responsible for global business Civil and Structural Engineering Jan Erik holds an M.Sc from Norﬁnance from Lund University development and all European from University of Manchester wegian School of Management and a post-graduate business and Asian operations. (UMIST). (BI) and is State Authorized Public qualiﬁcation from the Norwegian Accountant. School of Business Administration Erik holds a BSc in Business Manand Economics. agement from the University of New Orleans and a GMP from the Harvard Business School. SN POWER 39 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS Elsbeth Tronstad Nils Morten Huseby Jarl Kosberg Nicolas Delaunay EVP, COMMUNICATION AND CSR EVP, SOUTH AMERICA EVP, PROJECTS AND OPERATIONS EVP, STRATEGY AND M&A BACKGROUND BACKGROUND BACKGROUND BACKGROUND Came to SN Power from position Extensive international experiOver 24 years’ experience headCame to SN Power from worldas Executive Director for Commuence in energy and ﬁnance. Prior ing up business units and comleading shipbuilder Aker Yards nication at NHO (Confederation to joining SN Power, Nils was panies and from the execution of where, as VP Business Developof Norwegian Enterprise) and has VP of the Norwegian Futures large international projects. Prior ment he worked on strategic previous ten years’ experience and Options Clearinghouse, to joining SN Power, Jarl was development and global investfrom ABB, working with oil, gas responsible for new business with Aker/Kværner and Exxon. He ment opportunities including and petrochemicals. She has also development. He has also been spent eight years living abroad acquisitions, spin-offs and held positions in NORAD and DNV. an associate with McKinsey & Co on various international assigndivestments. Prior to that his and has held various international ments in Eastern Europe, America career spans from trading and Elsbeth has a political science positions with Shell International. and Asia. shipping operations with Geogas background from the Univerand Shell/Bergesen, to business sity of Oslo and she has twice Nils Morten holds an MSc in Jarl holds a Masters degree in development and commercial held positions in the Norwegian Mechanical Engineering from the Mechanical and Naval Engistrategy for Norsk Hydro. He has Government, most recently for Norwegian Institute of Technology. neering from the University of worked in Ecuador, the Persian the Deputy Minister in the NorTechnology in Trondheim (NTNU) Gulf, India and Singapore. wegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. and a Business & Administration degree. Nicolas has an MSc in Mechanical Engineering, a 1st Class Merchant Marine Captain degree, an MBA from Theseus EdHEC and has a post-graduate degree from the Harvard Business School. 40 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS Corporate governance SN Power complies with international corporate governance It is the joint intention and purpose of the shareholders that SN Power shall be a going concern practices and its principles are based on the Norwegian Code and shall be independently viable in all possible of Practice for Corporate Governance (NUES). Non-compliances aspects. The shareholders shall exert their indiare attributable to the fact that SN Power is not a publicly listed vidual best efforts to make the company viable and proﬁtable. company as it is owned by Statkraft and Norfund, and restrictions contained in the Articles of Association. The company’s long term goal is to have an annual payout ratio of at least 40% of net proﬁt. A statement concerning follow-up of the items 2. Business See note 23 for more information about the in the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate SN Power’s Articles of Association state that: management of the capital structure and note Governance is given below. “The object of Statkraft Norfund Invest AS is, 19 for shares and shareholder information. alone, or through participation in or cooperation 1. Corporate governance statement with other companies, to plan, design, construct 4. Equal treatment of shareholders and The basis for the board of SN Power’s corporate and operate energy production facilities, undertransactions with related parties governance work is the Norwegian Code of take ﬁnancial and physical energy trading, and 60% of the shares in SN Power Invest AS are Practice for Corporate Governance. operate businesses which are naturally associowned by the state-owned enterprise Statkraft ated with the same”. AS and the remaining 40% by the Norwegian The code has been applied to the extent permitinvestment fund for developing countries ted by the company’s organisation and ownerSN Power Invest AS is registered in Norway NORFUND. The Shareholder Agreement, dated ship. Non-compliances are attributable to the and its management structure is based on 22nd of December 2008, deﬁnes the treatment fact that SN Power is not a publicly listed comNorwegian company law and the Limited Comof shareholders and transactions with related pany, that it is owned by Statkraft and Norfund, panies Act. In addition, the company’s Articles parties. as well as restrictions contained in the Articles of Association, vision, values, code of conduct, of Association. The non-compliances relate to corporate governance policies and ethical guideSee note 25 for further information about non-discrimination of shareholders, tradability lines are guiding for the company’s business. related parties. of shares, the annual general meeting, nomination committee, the corporate assembly, and A summary of the vision, values, and code of 5. Freely negotiable take over. conduct can be viewed at www.snpower.com. N/A, shares are not traded in the open market. SN Power’s policy for corporate governance 3. Share capital and dividend 6. General meeting establishes the relationship between the comSN Power Invest AS has a share capital of thouThe shareholders exercise supreme authority pany’s owners, board of directors, and managesand USD 476 768 divided among 26 710 343 over SN Power Invest AS through the annual ment. shares, each with a face value of NOK 100 . general meeting. In accordance with the Articles SN POWER 41 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS of Association the annual general meeting shall publicly listed, SN Power Invest does not have 12. Remuneration to executive employees be held annually before the end of June. an audit committee nor a compensation commitThe salary and other remuneration of the CEO tee. The board will undertake an annual evaluare decided by a convened meeting of the In accordance with the Articles of Association ation of its own performance. The purpose of board. The remuneration of other executive of SN Power Invest AS the annual accounts and the evaluation is to improve board effectiveness. management is decided by the CEO, based on a auditor’s report hall be presented and the folThe chair will act on the results of the perforstructure agreed by the board to enhance value lowing issues dealt with and decided: mance evaluation by recognising the strengths creation by the company through shared goals. and addressing the weaknesses of the board. • Adoption of the income statement and balThe annual general meeting determines the The board reviews the CEO’s performance in ance sheet, including the allocation of proﬁt or remuneration of the board members. meeting agreed goals and objectives on an the covering of any loss annual basis. • Adoption of the consolidated income stateSee Report from the Board of Directors for more ment and consolidated balance sheet information about the work of the board of See note 9 for information about the remunera• Other issues in accordance to the law or the directors. tion to executive employees. Articles of Association lie with the general meeting 10. Risk management and internal control 13. Information and communication SN Power’s investments are made in emerging SN Power emphasises open and honest com7. Nomination committee markets in Asia, Africa and Latin America, and munications with all its stakeholders and places N/A. There is no nomination committee. are to a great extent exposed to high level of the greatest focus on the stakeholders who are risk in terms of their future return. SN Power is directly affected by SN Power’s business. The 8. The corporate assembly and board of continuously working to improve its methods information the company provides to its owner, directors, composition and independence for risk management to measure, mitigate, and lenders and the ﬁnancial markets in general Pursuant to the Norwegian Public Limited Liabilmanage this risk exposure. shall permit an evaluation of the company’s ity Companies Act, SN Power Invest AS does not underlying values and risk exposure. To ensure have a corporate assembly as it has fewer than Comprehensive risk analysis techniques coverpredictability, the owner and the ﬁnancial mar200 employees. ing ﬁnancial, economical, social, environmental, kets shall be treated equally, and information and political factors have been established in shall be communicated in a timely manner. SN SN Power Invest shall have up to 8 directors. the company’s project management system. Power’s ﬁnancial reports shall be transparent, Four directors, including the chairperson, are The methods identify risk at an early phase in and provide the reader with a broad, relevant nominated by Statkraft, two are nominated by valuation process and implement appropriate and reliable overview of its strategies, targets Norfund, and two directors are elected by the mitigation plans which are monitored through and results, as well as its consolidated ﬁnancial employees of SN Power Invest in accordance the projects. performance. with the regulations of the Norwegian Companies’ Act. The directors shall be elected for periAs part of the Group’s internal control system, 14. Take-over of the company ods of two years. Statkraft’s corporate audit function assist the SN N/A. Shares not traded. Power board and management in making an indeThe board members are evaluated on the basis of pendent and impartial evaluation of the Group’s 15. Auditor their expertise and independence. The board shall key risk management and control procedures. The annual general meeting appoints the audifurthermore be independent of the company’s Statkraft’s Corporate Audit shall also contribute tor based on the board’s proposal and approves executive employees. The current challenges facto ongoing quality improvement in internal manthe auditor’s fees. The auditor serves until a ing the company are taken into consideration in agement and control systems. The annual corponew auditor is appointed. The external auditing establishing the composition of the board. rate audit report and auditing plan for the coming contract is normally put out to tender at regular year shall be laid before the board. intervals. 9. The work of the board of directors The board has established rules of procedure for Risk management and internal control has been The board has meetings with the external audithe board of SN Power Invest AS that lay down further discussed in the Report from the Board tor to review the annual ﬁnancial statements guidelines for the board’s work and decision-makof Directors and note 3. and otherwise as required. The board evaluates ing procedures. The board’s tasks are described the external auditor’s independence and has in general by Norwegian company law and the 11. Board remuneration established guidelines for the use of the extercompany’s Articles of Association. The rules of The board’s remuneration is not related to the nal auditor for consultancy purposes. In accordprocedure also deﬁne the tasks and obligations of company’s results. ance with the requirement to maintain the audithe Chairman and CEO in relation to the board. tor’s independence, SN Power will only make See Parent company note 3 for information limited use of the external auditor for tasks Due to its size and that SN Power Invest is not about the board remuneration. other than statutory ﬁnancial audits. 42 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS Board of directors Anne Vera Skrivarhaug Halvor Fossum Lauritzsen Hilde Bekier-Larssen Mark Davis BOARD MEMBER BOARD MEMBER BOARD MEMBER BOARD MEMBER EXTERNAL POSITION EXTERNAL POSITION EXTERNAL POSITION EXTERNAL POSITION Vice President Market Analysis Vice President CSR and EnvironVice President Business Control Investment Director Renewable and member of Statkraft Investment, SN Power, elected by the Asia, SN Power, elected by the Energy, Norfund ment Committee employees employees BACKGROUND BACKGROUND BACKGROUND BACKGROUND Senior management positions Formerly adviser to the CEO of Former director of the interFormer ﬁeld engineer for Schlumat Norfund and ECON Analysis. Statoil, manager in Statoil’s gas national department of the berger in Brazil and Indonesia, Postgraduate director, EDRC, Unimarket analysis department. Red Cross and senior adviser to consultancy roles at PA Consultversity of Cape Town. Member of Held several board memberships the United Nations. Director of ing and McKinsey and senior the board of Tronder Power Ltd. (Naturkraft, TEV, Skagerak Kraft, various global relief operations product manager for Hilti AG in Windsea, Norwegian Gas union). and former CEO of Response Liechtenstein. Centre Group AS. Member of the boards of Scan Water AS, Fibrex Technology AS, Never.no AS and Compact AS. SN POWER 43 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS SN Power’s two owners, Statkraft and Norfund, nominate directors to represent them on the board of the company. Four directors, including the board Chair, are nominated by Statkraft, two are nominated by Norfund. In addition, two directors are elected by the employees of SN Power. Øistein Andresen Eli Skrøvset Egil Reinhard Gjesteland Tore Haga CHAIR BOARD MEMBER BOARD MEMBER BOARD MEMBER EXTERNAL POSITION EXTERNAL POSITION EXTERNAL POSITION EXTERNAL POSITION Executive Vice President, InterSenior Advisor Statkraft AS Chairman of the Board of Senior Vice President Internanational Hydropower, Statkraft BACKGROUND Directors of Gjesteland tional, Statkraft. BACKGROUND Member of the boards of BKK, Consulting AS. Member of the BACKGROUND Previously CEO of SN Power from Statkraft Development, Statkraft board of Umoe Solar AS Former senior management posi2002 to June 2010. Held previous Energi, Småkraft, Energy Future BACKGROUND tions with Aker AS, the Kværner positions at Akershus Energi, StatInvest and Secora AS. Former project director at Statoil Group and Lindorff Holding AS. kraft, ABB and the Norwegian Ski Member of the boards of Theun Association. Former senior management posiHinboun Power Company Limited, tions at Statkraft. Nordic Hydro Power AB, Asia Power Invest AB, and Fuglesangs Limited AS. . 44 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS SN POWER Our results SN Power delivered its best result ever in 2010 and continued to expand on its growth initiatives in all strategic areas. Net proﬁt amounted to MUSD 53, up from MUSD 41 in 2009. The main drivers behind the strong result are high prices and provision of ancillary services in our joint venture companies in the Philippines. SN POWER 45 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS Total recordable injury 30 % (TRI) frequency reduction in our projects 1 752 MUSD Total Assets 53 MUSD 114 MUSD Net Proﬁt Operating Revenues LEARN MORE /snpower.com 46 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS Board of directors’ report 1. Highlights the Allain Duhangan site in India, we are pleased included in the line item “Income from invest> Financial results to see that the safety indicators have improved ments in associated companies and joint SN Power delivered its best result ever in 2010 signiﬁcantly in 2010. From April 2007 to Decemventures” in the proﬁt and loss statement. and continued to expand on its growth initiaber 2010 1 173 000 man-hours without lost • A decision was made to not continue the tives in all strategic areas. Net proﬁt amounted time incident (LTI) were recorded at Magat in development of the projects in Trayenko, to MUSD 53, up from MUSD 41 in 2009. The the Philippines. At Binga, since SNAP took over Chile and a write down of MUSD 24 has been main drivers behind the strong result are high operations there in July 2008, over 978 000 recognized in 2010. prices and provision of ancillary services in our man-hours without LTIs were recorded at the • A full year operation of Totoral wind farm joint venture companies in the Philippines. end of December 2010. (Norvind) in Chile. • Approximately MUSD 11 in lower proﬁt from > Production starts in 2010 >Joint development agreement with Internaour Peruvian operations where the main reaIn January 2010 SN Power inaugurated its ﬁrst tional Finance Corporation (IFC) in Vietnam son is a large off taker closing down its prowind farm, the 45 MW Totoral wind farm in Chile. In July 2010 SN Power and IFC entered into a duction. The consequence for SN Power Peru joint development agreement to provide sustainwas to sell the power on the spot market at In July 2010 the Allain part of the Allain able renewable energy in order to meet Vietlower prices in 2010. Duhangan project in Himachal Pradesh, India nam’s growing demand for electricity. started to produce electricity. The rated output The group’s operating revenues decreased to of the plant’s two turbine generators is approxi> Ten years of success for Khimti in Nepal MUSD 114 (MUSD 119), and the main reasons are mately 192 MW when operating at full capacity. In June 2010 Himal Power Limited (HPL), SN lower operating revenues from Peru due to lower This ﬁrst run-of-river project in the area will help Power’s subsidiary company in Nepal, celachieved prices on the spot market in 2010, mitigate power shortages in the northern region ebrated its tenth year of successful operation partly offset by revenues from the ﬁrst full year of India. of the 60 MW Khimti I hydropower project. This of operations by the Totoral wind farm (Norvind). is the ﬁrst private sector project in Nepal and Personnel cost, depreciation and other operating In October 2010 the two Chilean hydrocontributes over 15% of the national power costs increased by MUSD 44. Of this, MUSD 24 power plants La Higuera and La Conﬂuencia production. is related to a write down of the Trayenko prowere inaugurated. Together the projects will jects in Chile, and the remaining MUSD 20 cost contribute with more than 310 MW of power to 2. Finance increase stems from operating the Totoral wind the grid, enough to supply more than 900 000 The SN Power group generated a net proﬁt of farm and increased headcount and activity level Chilean households with renewable electricity. MUSD 53 in 2010, compared with MUSD 41 in in business development in holding companies. 2009. Net proﬁt after minority interest increased > Investment decision for Cheves project from MUSD 33 in 2009 to MUSD 52 in 2010. The SN Power’s business model is to a large extent in Peru most signiﬁcant single items affecting the proﬁt built on joint ventures with local partners and In September 2010 SN Power decided to invest and loss statement are: these investments are not consolidated but MUSD 400 in the 168 MW Cheves hydropower accounted for under the equity method in our project in Peru after a power purchase agreement • Income from investments in our Philippine joint ﬁnancial statements. Income from investments was signed with the Peruvian state. Construction venture companies amounted to MUSD 77 in in associates increased from MUSD 31 in 2009 begins in 2011 and will be ﬁnalized in 2014. 2010. This is MUSD 60 higher than in 2009, to MUSD 84 in 2010, and includes our operating due to high prices and provision of ancillary assets in Philippines, India, Sri Lanka and also >Improved safety performance services. These investments are accounted our joint ventures in Chile. As a result of the Despite the regrettable fatality in early 2010 at for according to the equity method and thus above mentioned effects, the earnings before SN POWER 47 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS ﬁnancial items and tax increased by MUSD 6 to cial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by project to ensure improved management control MUSD 69 in 2010. the EU. The SN Power Group’s presentation and follow-up by the HSE department. currency is USD. Net ﬁnancial items were MUSD -14 in 2010 Overall, the health and safety performance of compared with MUSD -11 in 2009. The lower STATKRAFT NORFUND POWER SN Power’s projects improved in 2010. The Total result derives mainly from other ﬁnancial INVEST AS Recordable Injury (TRI) frequency was reduced income, ﬁnancial expenses and interest costs. The parent company Statkraft Norfund Power by 30% in projects and the TRI rate for operating Tax expense in 2010 is MUSD 3, a decrease from Invest AS (SNPI) recorded an operating loss plants in 2010 remained within targeted levels. 2009 of MUSD 8. The reason is lower taxable of MUSD 19 compared to a loss of MUSD 17 The overall performance improved signiﬁcantly proﬁt in Peru as well as a merger that provided in 2009. Net ﬁnancial items were MUSD 3 and is aligned with good international standard. the Peruvian companies with the ﬁnal year of (MUSD 0) and the loss after tax was MUSD 15 a concessionary tax rate. This tax concession in 2010 (from a loss of MUSD 17). In order to reinforce SN Power’s emphasis on expired in 2010. HSE, during 2010 a program was launched in Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS and order to train all personnel in HSE awareness. The group’s assets totalled MUSD 1 752 per SN Power Holding AS have issued various guarIn addition to a general training session for 31 December 2010 (MUSD 1 655), of which antees to subsidiaries, associated companies all employees, business development, project MUSD 297 (MUSD 347) is cash and cash and joint ventures, refer to notes 14 and 23 in execution and operations personnel have particequivalents, and MUSD 42 capitalized as project the SN Power Group ﬁnancial statements. The ipated in dedicated workshops highlighting the development. The group’s interest bearing debt board has proposed that no dividend will be speciﬁc HSE issues and mitigation principles relamounted to MUSD 358 (MUSD 353), while paid, and has proposed the following coverage evant to their respective part of the value chain. equity amounted to MUSD 1 305 (MUSD 1 215). of the net loss for the year in Statkraft Norfund Signiﬁcant effects in the balance sheet comPower Invest AS: 4. Operations 2010 pared to 2009 are an increase in ﬁnancial ﬁxed The diversiﬁcation of SN Power’s operations into assets as a result of net increase in investment Net loss for the year MUSD -15 several markets proved beneﬁcial in 2010. Overin associates of MUSD 120. This is mainly due to all, the Group’s operational assets continued to Total allocated from other equity MUSD -15 new investments, strong results and currency deliver good results. conversion in the Philippines and increased long term receivables to associated companies in It is the opinion of the Board of directors that the Operations in the Philippines delivered very good Chile of MUSD 34. Fixed and intangible assets ﬁnancial statements provide a true and fair view results because of spot market operations and show a slight decrease this year as investments of the Group’s ﬁnancial performance during the provision of ancillary services related to stain ﬁxed and intangible assets are offset by 2010 and its ﬁnancial position on 31 December bilising the grid. In Peru, more power had to be depreciation and write-off. 2010. According to the Norwegian Accounting sold in the market at lower average spot prices. Act, the board conﬁrms that the ﬁnancial stateOperations in India, Nepal and Chile performed The group’s net cash ﬂow from consolidated ments have been prepared based on the goingas expected, although with signiﬁcant local varioperating activities in 2010 was MUSD 32 concern assumption, and that it is appropriate ations in hydrology and market prices compared (MUSD 17). The increase in cash ﬂow from operato use this assumption. with a normal year. The Group management contions is mainly due to a full year of operations tinues to implement measures to contain costs. for our wind park Totoral (Norvind) and changes 3. Health and safety in current assets. These positive effects have The health and safety of SN Power’s employees Four greenﬁeld power plants commenced been reduced due to lower results in Peru. Net and the employees of contractors and consultoperations in 2010. The Totoral wind farm was cash used in investing activities in 2010 was ants working for SN Power is a key priority. Our inaugurated in January and the La Higuera and MUSD 106 (MUSD 182), largely spent on investobjective is to meet current international health, La Conﬂuencia hydropower plants in Chile were ments in tangible and intangible assets, loans and safety and environmental (HSE) standards in all inaugurated in October. The two hydropower equity contributions to associated companies. In our activities. plants generate about 1 400 GWh in an average addition the group received dividends from assoyear and are developed in a 50/50 joint venture ciates and joint ventures on MUSD 21. Cash ﬂow Despite these ambitions, one fatality occurred between SN Power and Australian-based Paciﬁc from ﬁnancing activities in 2010 was MUSD 25 in 2010. In March 2010, a contractor employee Hydro. The 192 MW Allain Duhangan project (MUSD 318). There was no injection of equity from died as the result of a fall from a transmission in India, which is developed together with the the owners in 2010 (MUSD 281 in 2009). line tower at the Allain Duhangan project in India, LNJ Bhilwara Group, commenced operation in where SN Power is a minority owner. SN Power’s July 2010. Further, in Peru the Cheves project INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL senior management closely followed the accireached ﬁnancial close at the end of the year REPORTING STANDARDS (IFRS) dent investigation to ensure that the root cause and pre-construction has started. The company The consolidated ﬁnancial statements are preof the accident was revealed. The investigation continued to improve its HSE performance on pared in accordance with International Finanresulted in a reorganization of that part of the construction projects. 48 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS Overview of revenues, EBITDA and net proﬁt 2010 2009 (MUSD) Revenue EBITDA Net proﬁt after Net proﬁt after minority share minority share Peru 65 34 14 22 Nepal 33 25 10 10 Chile 13 10 -1 Holding companies and other effects 3 -40 -55 -31 Associated companies and joint ventures 84 31 Income statement 114 29 52 33 PERU SN Power Peru (100%) 2010 2009 Chile – Norvind and La SN Power is the ﬁfth largest electricity proHiguera (100%) 2010 2009 Energy Production GWh 1 433 1 602 ducer in Peru, operating eight hydropower Energy Production GWh 255 0 Revenues MUSD 65 86 plants with a total of 271 MW and 1 599 GWh Revenues MUSD 32 4 mean annual production. SN Power Peru has EBITDA MUSD 34 52 EBITDA MUSD 21 9 also a signiﬁcant transmission business, with over 700 km of high voltage transmission lines and 25 substations. As of 1 January 2010 the CHILE BRAZIL company operates as SN Power Peru S.A folSN Power entered the Chilean market in 2004 Business development initiatives continued lowing the merger of the operating companies and is involved with the operations and develduring 2010, through the subsidiary SN Power Cahua and Electroandes. opment of several hydropower projects and Energiá do Brasil Ltda., which is headquartered operation of the company’s only wind farm, in Rio de Janeiro. The Peruvian market has experienced a reducTotoral. tion in wholesale power prices as a result of THE PHILIPPINES extensive expansion of gas ﬁred generation Through the 50-50 Tinguiririca Energía joint SN Power has played a major role in the privatibased on cheap domestic gas. This has affected venture with Paciﬁc Hydro, SN Power had two zation of the Philippine power sector, and has SN Power Peru as the company has sold sighydropower projects under construction in the acquired three major hydropower plants in the niﬁcant volumes at market prices. In 2010 the Tinguiririca Valley in Chile at the start of 2010 northern island of Luzon since its market entry company took steps to improve efﬁciency of its – La Higuera and La Conﬂuencia. in 2006. The plants are owned by SN Aboitiz operations by adopting the reliability centred Power (SNAP), a 50-50 joint venture with Aboitiz maintenance (RCM) strategy and optimizing the Operation at the 155MW La Higuera plant Power Corporation, now among the largest work force. started late 2010. La Higuera also received private renewable energy companies in the registration as a Clean Development Mechanism country. In September 2010 SN Power decided to invest (CDM) and in doing so became the ﬁrst hydroMUSD 400 in the 168 MW Cheves hydropower power project in Chile to be registered. The positive results posted in 2010 are attribproject after winning a power purchase agreeutable, in signiﬁcant part, to the provision of ment and concession in a bid process held by In October 2010 President Piñera of Chile and ancillary services to the grid. Such services are the Peruvian state. Financial close was reached other senior government members joined the essential to provide stability to the grid and in December 2010 with IFC backed funding. This boards of SN Power and Paciﬁc Hydro for the ensure the integrity of energy supply. At the is the IFC’s ﬁrst investment in Peru’s power geninauguration of the two facilities. La Conﬂuencia 380 MW Magat hydropower plant, the largest eration sector. Construction begins in 2011 and is expected to start operations early in 2011. in the country, ancillary services accounted for is expected to be ﬁnalized in 2014. The plant Together, the two plants will contribute approxi53% of gross revenue and SN Power’s plants will be fully owned by SN Power. mately 1 400 GWh/year to the Chilean central in the Philippines are uniquely positioned and grid. designed to provide such essential services Cheves is one of very few hydropower projects to the electricity system. The majority of the developed in Peru in the last decade and thereA decision was made to not continue the develpower generated by the plant is traded on the fore represents a milestone in the country’s opment of the Trayenko projects, and a write Philippine Wholesale Electricity Spot Market. efforts to promote the use of largely untapped down of MUSD 24 has been recognized in 2010. renewable energy resources. During 2010 SNAP continued to focus on the rehabilitation of the Ambuklao and Binga hydroSN POWER 49 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS power plants in the Benguet province. Binga is plant. A total of 122 GWh were generated during Nepal – Himal Power Ltd. currently in operation and planned rehabilitation July – December 2010. Operation is expected to (100%) 2010 2009 will upgrade the plant one unit at a time with start in 2011 at the Duhangan site. This 192 MW Energy Production GWh 363 373 completion expected in 2014. Ambuklao has not project is being developed by Malana Power Revenues MUSD 33 34 been operational since 1999 due to damage sufCompany Ltd., as the 88% majority shareholder EBITDA MUSD 25 27 fered in a major earthquake at that time. In July and the remaining 12% held by IFC. SN Power 2010 SNAP encountered challenges in completowns 49% of Malana Power Company and LNJ ing a new extended headrace tunnel due to an Bhilwara Group own 51%. The project has also SRI LANKA unexpected volume of sediments in the tunnel been registered under the Clean Development SN Power holds a 30% stake in Nividhu Private compounded by the effects of typhoon Parma in Mechanism (CDM) and is among the largest Limited, which owns and operates the AssuOctober 2009. Rehabilitation will be completed hydropower projects to be registered. The propinella and Belihuloya hydropower plants. The in 2011. Once the whole project is complete the cess of issuance of certiﬁed emission reductions company is accounted for in accordance with combined capacity of the Ambuklao and Binga (CERs) under CDM has been initiated and the CER the equity method and contributed MUSD 0.5 plants will increase by 50 MW to a total of 229 credits are expected by end 2011. to SN Power’s earnings after tax in 2010. MW and expected annual production of 751 GWh. At existing plants, work continued at the 109 MW AFRICA AND CENTRAL AMERICA Throughout 2010 SNAP has continued its Malana base load plant to enhance the capacity The joint venture established by SN Power and strong culture of safety in the workplace. From to 112 MW. Completion is due in March 2011. Norfund, SN Power AfriCA, had its second full April 2007 to December 2010 1 173 000 manyear of operation in 2010. Activities centred hours without a lost time incident (LTI) were Through its partnership with Tata Power, in around negotiations concerning both greenrecorded. At Binga, since SNAP took over opera2010 SN Power continued to pursue new investﬁeld and rehabilitation projects in Panama and tions there in July 2008, over 978 000 manment opportunities. Southern Africa. hours without LTIs were recorded at the end of December 2010. India – Malana/ADHPL 5. People and organization (100%) 2010 2009 SN Power continues to strengthen its growth Philippines – SN Aboitiz capabilities through recruitment of talented Energy Production GWh 361 244 Power (100%) 2010 2009 people and continuously training the people in Revenues MUSD 40 34 the organization. Energy Production GWh 1 824 1 563 EBITDA MUSD 33 30 Revenues MUSD 237 106 The total number of employees in consolidated EBITDA MUSD 190 85 NEPAL companies was 427 by year-end, down from SN Power holds 57.1% of Himal Power Limited 466 in December 2009. 53 are based at the VIETNAM (HPL), which operates the 60 MW Khimti hydrocompany headquarters in Oslo, 227 in Peru, SN Power moved into Vietnam with the opening power plant with a mean annual generation 52 in Chile, 5 in Brazil, 56 in Nepal, 11 in India, of an ofﬁce in Hanoi in April 2010. First phase of 350 GWh. In November 2010 the plant cel3 in the Philippines, 3 in Vietnam and 17 in activities are looking at acquisition prospects ebrated 10 years of successful operation. Singapore. The decrease in overall number of whilst greenﬁeld opportunities will be evaluemployees is explained by merger and restrucated once local presence has been secured. The SN Power together with its HPL partners also turing of operating companies in Peru. Vietnamese market represents signiﬁcant opporholds a survey license for the Kirne project, a tunities in light of the government’s decision to 67 MW project which will utilize the existing SN Power’s non-consolidated companies had deregulate the market. Khimti infrastructure. The feasibility study was 584 employees at year-end 2010 of which completed in November 2009 and the Environ105 in Chile, 261 in India and 218 in the In July 2010, SN Power and the IFC entered mental Impact Assessment has been submitted Philippines. The decrease stems from partly into a Joint Development Agreement (JDA) to to the Nepali government for approval. completion of the Allain Duhangan project in help meet the growing demand for electricity in India, and thus lower number of construction Vietnam through renewable energy generation. In March 2010 SN Power completed the feasibilworkers on site. The JDA will enable the two parties to develop ity study and Environmental and Social Impact an investment strategy, policy, and guidelines to Assessment of the Tamakoshi III project. A Sick leave in SN Power Group 2010 amounted to address Vietnam’s growing demand for power. detailed technical assessment and negotiation 1562 days, equivalent to 1.5% of total working This is SN Power’s ﬁrst partnership in Vietnam. on a Project Development Agreement with the days. SN Power Invest AS reported 408 days of government is now underway. The 880 MW/ absenteeism due to illness, which represented INDIA 2 700 GWh hydropower plant can bring a num3.7% of total working days. The increase from In July 2010 commercial operation started at the ber of direct and indirect beneﬁts to Nepal, at 1.7% in 2009 is largely due to recovery followAllain part of the Allain Duhangan hydropower both a local and national level. ing non-work related accidents. Sick leave rate 50 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS exclusive of speciﬁc incidents are at par level or ture and indigenous peoples concerns. In 2010, mies and put pressure on the local currencies to lower than the previous year. several CSR projects were implemented. SNAP appreciate in SN Power’s key markets. entered into a six-month joint program with SN Power continues to further develop its HR the National Irrigation Administration and the The rise in oil, gas and particularly coal prices strategy to ensure recruitment and development Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources that during the last quarter of 2010 have resulted in of leaders and experts with the experience and aims to secure the productivity of farmlands and higher electricity prices, and a continued strong competence needed to match the company’s ﬁshpond operations despite climate change’s commodity environment will have a positive growth and operational needs. International impact on water supply. Furthermore, SNAP impact in SN Power’s key markets. The prices leadership skills and technical and commercial entered into two projects to curb deforestation for CERs continue to remain stable and are experience from infrastructure development and and other environmental problems through expected to continue to do so for the remaining hydropower continues to be the focal point. We community based agro-forestry. The programs of the Kyoto period until 2012. are encouraged by the increasing awareness of have an estimated budget of TUSD 101. our employer brand amongst experienced leadThe international ﬁnancial crisis is further abaters and international expertise within our ﬁeld of > In October a team from the Allain Duhangan ing, notwithstanding the turmoil experienced business. SN Power fosters a work environment plant in India rescued 2500 tourists trapped by in European sovereign debt markets, and we based on values, ethics and integrity that, in comsnow, ensuring their safety, welfare and safe see increased willingness from banks to lend bination with commercial drive and proven ability passage down the mountain. long term to infrastructure projects. Investors to deliver on challenging tasks, represents a comcontinue to show a strong interest in renewable pelling proposition for international profession> In December 2009, SN Power Peru won the energy. Several large transactions took place in als. The company does not discriminate on the ﬁrst price for its CSR Applied Tools and CSR the sector in 2010, and the activity is expected basis of gender, religion or ethnic background. Policy in the National Social Responsibility Conto continue to be strong. test organized by the NGO Peru 2021 and the Three of the eight board members are women at Pontiﬁcia Universidad Católica del Peru. SN Power is well positioned to meet the demand year end. One of eight senior management team for more development of renewable energy in members is a woman and 20% of SN Power’s > Climate order to meet the world’s energy and climate overall workforce is female, compared to 15% SN Power’s business provides low carbon challenges. in 2009. power supporting sustainable development in emerging markets. SN Power recognizes the 8. Risk management 6. Society and the role that the CDM plays as an enabler of investSN Powers ambitions as well as the nature of environment ments in renewable energy projects. A global the business makes it important to continuously Focus on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) team is actively working with the CDM and update risk pictures at all levels, and there have and the environment are important in both new carbon markets, and will further strengthen been established and implemented a compreand ongoing projects in SN Power. Mitigating SN Power’s knowledge and capabilities in our hensive global risk management framework negative environmental impacts and supporting target countries. integrated in all part of business activities. sustainable development in the communities where we operate, were key priorities for SN SN Power and its partners have obtained CDM The key risk factors for SN Power are connected Power in 2010. registration for three hydropower projects (La to ﬁnance, market, safety, external environment Higuera, Allain Duhangan and Cheves) and one and business ethics. Creating a sustainable platform in the sociewind project (Totoral). Once all plants are operaties and among our stakeholders where we are tional, they will issue CERs representing more The central treasury department coordinates and operating, founded on positive development and than 1.2 million tonnes of CO2 emission reducmanages the ﬁnancial risk associated to foreign based on a bottom up approach has proven to be tions each year. currencies, interest rates and liquidity. The most one of the competitive advantages for SN Power. important instruments in managing this area are 7. Market outlook forward currency contracts and interest rate CSR highlights include: The world economy continued its recovery durswap agreements, used mainly to hedge future > At the Khimti plant in Nepal, which celebrated ing 2010, and is expected to continue to grow in cash ﬂows related to foreign currencies and to 10 years of operation in June 2010, a total of 2011 at a rate of 4.2% (IMF). Economic growth in convert parts of loans with ﬂoating interest into 4 600 rural households have been provided with emerging markets is expected to accelerate, but at ﬁxed. The central treasury department is also electricity and an additional 3 800 households different rates for SN Power’s key markets. While responsible for the group ﬁnance policy. The are in the process of being connected to the grid. Latin America is expected to grow at a slower group seeks to optimize the capital structure in pace compared to 2010 at 4.0%, developing Asia order to maximize shareholder value and man> In the Philippines, SNAP has allocated a total is expected to grow at close to 10.0%. The dispaages its capital structure by taking up new debt, of more than TUSD 650 to 55 CSR projects covrate growth prospects and strong pressure on the controlling dividend payment to shareholders, ering reforestation, education, social infrastrucUS dollar, continue to challenge emerging econopay back capital to shareholders or issues of new SN POWER 51 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS shares. At the end of 2010 SN Power’s equity and unwanted occurrences, and these are consustaining further growth and promoting efﬁtotalled MUSD 1 305 and this corresponds to tinuously analyzed and followed up. SN Power ciency. The ambition is to achieve world class 74% of total assets. The Group’s policy is to complies with approved international standards standards for project execution and plant operaa largest possible extent to use local project on environmental issues (IFC) as well as guiding tion across our entire portfolio, and to increase ﬁnancing in all investments, and this implies that protocols from International Hydropower Assothe company’s net portfolio through a mix of lenders do not have any right to recourse from ciation. SN Power has a substantial risk expogreenﬁeld, rehabilitation and expansion projects the parent company or sister companies. Lenders sure related to potential damages to assets, as well as through mergers and acquisitions. will anyhow request guarantees from the parent production losses and third-party life and company to cover construction risk. property damages. This risk is handled through SN Power’s project portfolio is prioritized based implementation of safety barriers, emergency on markets, technology and energy price levels SN Power invests in companies with main plans and procedures as well as insurances covwith an aim to develop a balanced and riskactivities in production and sale of power. In all ering signiﬁcant damages and loss of revenues. adjusted portfolio. markets where SN Power has operations, both energy price and local hydrology are signiﬁcant SN Power emphasizes business ethics in all SN Power will continue to prioritize investments factors that will impact the ﬁnancial results. A aspects, both with employees, partners and in existing markets, while exploring opportunigeographical diversiﬁcation will to some extent contractors. The largest single risk related to ties in adjacent markets. reduce this exposure for the group. Other imporbusiness ethics is deemed to be corruption since tant instrument in managing market risks are the some of the countries SN Power operate in are Focus areas for 2011 are: shaping of commercial strategy and mix of conranked poorly on corruption indexes. To mitigate > Transition from construction to operations – tract sales and spot market sales, in addition to this risk, focus has been on the implementaachieve full operations at projects in Philippines, procedures on credit risk. In some of the countries tion of ethical values in our business principles Chile and India, and optimize the performance of where SN Power operates, the exposure to politithrough training, Code of conduct, policies and these assets. cal and economical risk is considered to be higher procedures. SN Power is very conscious on this than normal due to unstable governmental conmatter and seeks to prevent corruption in all > Continuous improvement of our construction ditions in the past or present. This risk might have aspects of its business. activities, particularly focused on the construca signiﬁcant impact on our investments. To be tion of the Cheves project in Peru. able to mitigate and minimize this risk, all markets 9. Priorities for 2011 and are subject to continuously monitoring. Country onward > Together with our business partners, pursue risk is also included in all ﬁnancial models. During the company’s eight years of operation, new investment opportunities in existing marSN Power has demonstrated its ability to grow kets, as well as entry opportunities in Brazil, Health, safety and environment are key priand the company has earned the trust and Vietnam, Central America and Africa. orities for SN Power and risks related to these respect of partners, governments, NGOs, lendareas are managed mainly by means of policies, ers and its owners. In some of its core markets, > A further strengthening of the HSE culture in detailed requirements to the HSE standard in the company has successfully transitioned from SN Power. Special HSE efforts targeted towards our investments and active follow up through investor/developer to operator/developer. transportation has been implemented in addiour representatives on the boards and owner tion to continued health and safety improveaudits. A comprehensive system has also been While leveraging its growing reputation, the ments at construction projects as well as in all established to map, record and report injuries, main challenges currently facing SN Power are SN Power’s investments and operations. Oslo, 15 March 2011 Theboard of directors of Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS Øistein Andresen Mark Davis Anne Vera Skrivarhaug Chairperson Director Director Hilde Bekier-Larssen Tore Haga Halvor Fossum Lauritzsen Director Director Director Eli Skrøvset Egil Reinhard Gjesteland Tor I. Stokke Director Director CEO 52 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP SN Power Group Income statement FIGURES IN USD 1 000 NOTE 2010 2009 OPERATING REVENUES AND EXPENSES Sales revenues 7 114 298 118 664 Cost of goods sold 8 -7 926 -9 560 Salary and personnel costs 9 -35 962 -29 874 Ordinary depreciation and amortization 12, 13 -43 388 -14 177 Other operating costs 10 -41 692 -33 447 Income from investments in associated companies and joint ventures 6 83 940 31 429 Earnings before ﬁnancial items and tax 69 270 63 035 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES Interest income 11 4 584 2 227 Other ﬁnancial income 11 5 274 15 111 Interest expenses 11 -18 158 -16 237 Other ﬁnancial expenses 11 -5 204 -12 518 Net ﬁnancial items -13 504 -11 417 Earnings before taxes 55 766 51 618 Tax expense 21 -2 521 -10 230 NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 53 245 41 388 Attributable to: Majority owner 51 644 32 518 Non-controlling interests 1 601 8 870 NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 53 245 41 388 SN POWER 53 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP Statement of Comprehensive Income FIGURES IN USD 1 000 NOTE 2010 2009 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Net gain/losses on hedging instruments 15 -3 270 -6 545 Non-controlling interests -57 220 Net gain/losses on cash ﬂow hedges in associated companies and joint ventures 6 -5 427 24 929 Currency translation differences 21 036 12 524 Non-controlling interests -25 -82 Pensions 20 1 012 -1 302 Other adjustments 1 386 -1 005 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 14 655 28 739 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 67 900 70 127 Attributable to: Majority owner 66 381 61 119 Non-controlling interests 1 519 9 008 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 67 900 70 127 54 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP Balance Sheet at 31 December FIGURES IN USD 1 000 NOTE 2010 2009 ASSETS FIXED ASSETS Intangible ﬁxed assets Deferred tax asset 21 10 412 5 502 Road and land rights 13 2 087 7 420 Project development 13 42 057 33 454 Software licenses 13 503 534 Total intangible ﬁxed assets 55 059 46 910 Tangible ﬁxed assets Land 12 10 342 6 292 Water rights 12 302 230 301 677 Plants and machinery 12 388 716 394 638 Fixtures and ﬁttings, vehicles, other equipment 12 8 682 9 552 Total tangible ﬁxed assets 709 970 712 159 Financial ﬁxed assets Investment in associated companies and joint ventures 6 529 498 409 964 Investment in shares 283 283 Long term derivatives 15 2 295 Other long term receivables 17 114 649 80 510 Total ﬁnancial ﬁxed assets 646 725 490 757 Total ﬁxed assets 1 411 754 1 249 826 CURRENT ASSETS Spare parts 619 655 Receivables Accounts receivables 16 12 980 15 759 Other receivables 17 27 328 39 431 Total receivables 40 308 55 190 Financial current assets Current derivatives 15 2 185 2 624 Total ﬁnancial current assets 2 185 2 624 Bank deposits, cash and cash equivalents 18 297 196 346 580 Total current assets 340 308 405 049 TOTAL ASSETS 1 752 062 1 654 875 SN POWER 55 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP Balance Sheet at 31 December FIGURES IN USD 1 000 NOTE 2010 2009 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY Paid-in equity 1 116 652 1 116 652 Other equity 96 212 30 699 Non-controlling interests 91 962 67 318 Total equity 19 1 304 826 1 214 669 LIABILITIES Provisions Pension commitments 20 2 128 2 776 Deferred tax 21 49 130 46 924 Non-current derivatives 15 2 321 524 Other long-term provisions 22 2 569 3 233 Total provisions 56 148 53 457 Other long-term liabilities Interest-bearing long term debt 23 318 107 315 825 Total other long-term liabilities 318 107 315 825 Current liabilities Current portion long term debt 23 38 318 37 404 Current interest-bearing debt 1 295 Accounts payable 12 009 7 369 Tax payable 21 321 Public tax payable 2 338 2 033 Current derivatives 15 2 257 95 Other current liabilities 24 16 443 24 023 Total current liabilities 72 981 70 924 Total liabilities 447 236 440 206 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1 752 062 1 654 875 Oslo, 15 March 2011 Øistein Andresen Mark Davis Anne Vera Skrivarhaug Hilde Bekier-Larssen Chair person Director Director Director Tore Haga Halvor Fossum Lauritzsen Eli Skrøvset Egil Reinhard Gjesteland Tor I. Stokke Director Director Director Director Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 56 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity at 31 December NONCONTROLLING TOTAL ATTRIBUTABLE TO MAJORITY OWNERS INTERESTS EQUITY PAID IN EQUITY OTHER EQUITY SHARE RETAINED TRANSLATION HEDGING FIGURES IN USD 1 000 SHARE CAPITAL PREMIUM EARNINGS RESERVE RESERVE At 1 January 2009 418 064 418 064 69 661 -81 602 -12 221 51 323 863 289 Transactions with shareholders Issue of share capital 58 704 221 820 280 524 Issue of share capital in subsidiaries minority share 13 545 13 545 Increased owner share in subsidiary -1 709 -4 549 -6 258 Paid dividend -6 558 -6 558 Transactions with shareholders 58 704 221 820 -1 709 -4 549 6 987 281 253 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 9 416 45 320 6 383 9 008 70 127 At 31 December 2009 476 768 639 884 77 368 -36 282 -10 387 67 318 1 214 669 Transactions with shareholders Issue of share capital Issue of share capital in subsidiaries minority share 26 406 26 406 Increased owner share in subsidiary -868 2 635 1 767 Paid dividend -5 916 -5 916 Transactions with shareholders -868 23 125 22 257 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 54 042 21 036 -8 697 1 519 67 900 At 31 December 2010 476 768 639 884 130 541 -15 246 -19 083 91 962 1 304 826 SN POWER 57 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP Cash Flow Statement FIGURES IN USD 1 000 NOTE 2010 2009 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES Proﬁt/loss before tax 55 766 51 618 Tax paid -9 235 -14 156 Ordinary depreciation 12/13 43 388 14 177 Gain/loss on disposal of ﬁxed assets 212 1 052 Difference between this year's pension expense and pension premium 364 1 072 Income from investments in associated companies and joint ventures 6 -83 940 -31 429 Effect of exchange rate changes (agio/disagio) 23 9 985 11 220 FX hedges in proﬁt and loss with no cash effect 15 -1 224 -8 843 Change in accounts receivable 2 779 209 Change in accounts payable 4 640 -5 492 Change in spare parts 36 51 Change in non-current receivables 960 -2 035 Change in other long-term provisions -664 -2 104 Change in other current assets and liabilities 9 206 1 287 Net cash ﬂow from operational activities 32 273 16 626 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES Investment in tangible and intangible ﬁxed assets 12/13 -49 578 -130 074 Realised forward exhange rate contracts recognized in balance sheet (construction cost) 15 -2 047 Investment in subsidiaries -6 269 Proceeds from sale of ﬁxed assets 4 832 Dividends from associated companies and joint ventures 6 20 894 100 Investment in ﬁnancial ﬁxed assets 6/17 -82 386 -40 983 Realised forward exhange rate contracts 15 -2 589 Net cash ﬂow from investment activities -106 238 -181 862 CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES New long-term debt 23 132 000 61 500 Paid installments long-term debt 23 -130 883 -30 710 Change in short-term debt 1 295 Payment of dividend -5 916 -6 558 New paid-in equity from non-controlling interests 28 173 13 545 New paid-in equity 280 524 Net cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities 24 669 318 301 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents -88 1 184 Net change in cash and cash equivalents -49 384 154 249 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 346 580 192 331 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 297 196 346 580 58 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP Notes to the accounts Figures in USD 1000 Note Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS, including subsidiaries (SN Power Group), is an international renewable 1 energy company with projects and operations in Asia, Africa and Latin America. The company invests on commercial terms and is committed to social and environmental sustainability throughout the business. The company’s headquarters is in Oslo. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the SN Power Group for the year 2010 were authorized for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors on 15 March 2011. The following discussion describes the most important accounting principles used in the consolidated accounts. These principles have been applied consistently to all reporting, unless otherwise stated. BASIC PRINCIPLES The consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the Group have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. The following new and revised or amended Standards and Interpretations have also been adopted in these ﬁnancial statements. Their adoption has not had any signiﬁcant impact on the amounts reported in these ﬁnancial statements but may affect the accounting for future transactions or arrangements. Applicable to Standard/ accounting periods Interpretation Title Date of issue commencing on IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2008 1 January 2010 IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial 2008 1 January 2010 Statements IAS 39 amendment Financial Instruments: Recognition and July 2008 1 July 2009 Measurement: Eligible Hedged items Improvements to IFRSs Improvements to IFRSs April 2009 1 July 2009 1 (Various Standards and Interpretations) IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements November 2006 29 March 2009 IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign July 2008 1 July 2009 Operation IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to November 2008 1 November 2009 Owners IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers January 2009 1 November 2009 1 The implementation dates for the various improvements vary; the earliest mandatory date is 1 July 2009. The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis. The functional currency of the parent company is US Dollars (USD), and the Group accounts are presented in US Dollars (USD). All values are rounded to the nearest USD thousand unless otherwise stated. CORRESPONDING FIGURES All ﬁgures in the income statement, the balance sheet, the cash ﬂow statement and additional information are presented with the previous year’s corresponding ﬁgures. The corresponding ﬁgures are based on the same principles as ﬁgures for the current period, but some reclassiﬁcations have been made to increase comparability. SN POWER 59 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS The preparation of the Group’s ﬁnancial statements requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities, at the reporting date. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Changes in estimates will be recognized in the period they occur only if applicable in that period. If changes also concern future periods, the effect is distributed over both current and future periods. However, uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes requiring a material adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset or liability affected in the future. The areas in the ﬁnancial statements of SN Power Group that are most affected by signiﬁcant accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions are: Useful life of tangible and intangible ﬁxed assets Depreciation is based on management estimates of the useful lives of the assets and their residual values. Estimates may change due to changes in scrap value, technological development, environmental and legal requirements. Management reviews the future useful lives of each component and the residual value annually, taking into account the above mentioned factors. Provisions and contingent liabilities IAS 37 deﬁnes when to recognize a provision in the ﬁnancial statements. Management must make estimates and use judgment in determining the expected probability of an outﬂow of resources and a reliable estimate of the amount. This principle has been used for provisions described in note 22. Purchase price allocation related to new investments in subsidiaries and associated companies When entering into new investments in subsidiaries or associated companies, the Group will measure the cost of the business combination according to IFRS 3. Management must use judgment in deﬁning and allocating fair values of assets, liabilities and direct costs attributable to the combination. Development costs Development costs are recognized in the balance sheet when it is probable that these will result in future economic beneﬁts. Establishing such probability involves extensive use of assessments based on previous results and experiences. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to optimize the use of equity to maximize shareholder value. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust debt exposure, the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. The Group’s policy is to a largest possible extent to use local project ﬁnancing in all investments and in the long run to keep the gearing ratio in investment companies above 50%. The gearing ratio is deﬁned as Total liabilities divided by Total equity and liabilities: TUSD 2010 2009 Total liabilities 447 236 440 206 Total equity and liabilities 1 752 062 1 654 875 Gearing ratio 25.5% 26.6% 60 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP CONSOLIDATION The consolidated ﬁnancial statements comprise the ﬁnancial statements of the parent company Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS and its controlling interests in other companies as of 31 December 2010. Elimination of transactions Intra-group balances, unrealized proﬁt, income and expenses resulting from intra-group transactions are eliminated in full. Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities where the Group has a controlling interest. Controlling interest is normally attained when the Group holds, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the voting rights and is capable of exercising ﬁnancial and operational control over the company. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. Correspondingly, they are deconsolidated from the date control ceases. The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal. The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries. The purchase method implies that the cost of acquisition is allocated to the acquired assets and liabilities according to fair value on the acquisition date. Costs exceeding fair value of identiﬁed assets and liabilities are recorded as goodwill, and judgments are made annually whether the carrying amount can be justiﬁed based on future earnings. Non-controlling interest is the share of proﬁt and equity that is not held by the majority owners. This is reported separately in the income statement and on a separate line under equity in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Functional currency is assessed for each subsidiary based on company speciﬁc indicators. The accounts of these subsidiaries are converted to the Group’s presentation currency (USD) by calculating all balance sheet items at the closing rate at the year end, whilst all income statement items are converted at the average rate for the year. Any conversion differences affecting balance sheet items are recorded directly against equity. Associated companies and joint ventures Shares in companies in which the Group exercises a signiﬁcant, but not controlling inﬂuence, and shares in companies with joint control are treated in accordance with the equity method. Signiﬁcant inﬂuence normally means that the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the voting capital. The Group’s share of the companies’ net results adjusted for amortization of excess value, are shown on a separate line in the consolidated income statement. The investments are shown in the consolidated balance sheet as ﬁxed assets, recognized at the value which equals the historical cost price adjusted for the accumulated share of results adjusted for depreciation and amortization of excess values during the period of ownership, dividend received and possible exchange rate adjustment. Any conversion differences are recorded directly against equity. The consolidated ﬁnancial statement includes the Group’s share of proﬁt or loss from the date on which signiﬁcant inﬂuence is attained and until such inﬂuence ceases. REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue comprises the fair value for the sale of goods and services, net of value-added tax, rebates and discounts. Intra-group sales are eliminated in the group accounts. Revenue is recorded as and when earned. SN POWER 61 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP (a) Power sales Revenues from power sales and transmission are recognized as income when delivered. (b) Sales of services Sales of services are recognized in the accounting period in which the services are rendered. (c) Dividend income Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive payment is established, normally when approved by the General Meeting. (d) Income from associated companies The Group’s share of the net result in associated companies is recorded in the Group’s accounts in accordance with the equity method described in IAS 28. GOVERNMENT GRANTS Grants from the government are recognized gross in the income statement and in the balance sheet. Government grants related to costs are deferred and recognized in the income statement over the period necessary to match them with the costs that they are intended to compensate. Government grants related to projects recognized in the balance sheet are presented as deferred income and recognized as income along with depreciation of the corresponding asset. EMISSION RIGHTS SN Power Group will in some cases receive emission rights through production of environmentally friendly energy and sell them to a third party. Revenue will be recognized in line with production and CERs will be recognized in the balance sheet as inventories at net realized value. Net realized value is deﬁned as sales value deducted for expected sales cost. FOREIGN CURRENCY The consolidated ﬁnancial statements are presented in USD, which is also the parent Company’s functional currency. Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency based on local operations, and items included in the ﬁnancial statement of each entity are measured using that functional currency. Balance sheet items in other currencies than the functional currency are assessed at the exchange rate at the date of the balance sheet. Exchange rate effects are recognized as ﬁnancial items. Gains and losses on hedges in net investments in foreign operations, including a hedge of a monetary item that is accounted for as part of the net investment, are recognized directly in equity as long as the hedge is deemed effective. On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative value of any such gains or losses recognized directly in equity is transferred to the proﬁt and loss along with accumulated exchange differences on the net investment. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Generally Financial instruments are initially allocated to one of the categories of ﬁnancial instruments as described in IAS 39. The different categories relevant to the SN Power Group and the management that follow the instruments recognized in the respective categories are described below. 62 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP Valuation principles for different categories of ﬁnancial instruments 1) Instruments at fair value through proﬁt or loss Derivatives and ﬁnancial instruments held for sale have to be measured at fair value in the balance sheet with corresponding change in fair value through proﬁt and loss statement. For derivatives that are hedging instruments in a hedge accounting relationship, the change in value of the effective part of the hedge, following from a change in the value of the hedged risk, is not taken to proﬁt or loss. In a fair value hedge such effects are carried against the value of the hedging object. For hedging of cash ﬂow and hedging of net investments in foreign operations such effects are taken directly to equity. Derivatives consist of both independent derivatives and embedded derivatives that are separated from the host contract and recognized at fair value as if the derivative was an independent contract. 2) Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are initially recognized at fair value including transaction costs. In subsequent periods, loans and receivables are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, so that the effective interest rate becomes equal over the term of the instrument. 3) Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value including transaction costs. In subsequent periods, ﬁnancial liabilities are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method so that the effective interest rate becomes equal over the term of the instrument. Principles for designation of ﬁnancial instruments to different categories of instruments Below is a description of the guidelines applied by the SN Power Group for designation of ﬁnancial instruments to different categories of ﬁnancial instruments in cases where an instrument can qualify for recognition under more than one category. Instruments at fair value through proﬁt or loss Derivatives must always be assessed under the category “to fair value through proﬁt or loss”. Financial contracts regarding purchase or sale of energy and CO2-quotas always have to be considered as derivative ﬁnancial instruments. Physical contracts regarding purchase and sale of energy and CO2-quotas entered into as authorized by trading, or settled ﬁnancially are considered as if they where ﬁnancial instruments and have to be measured at fair value. Physical contracts regarding purchase and sale of energy and CO2-quotas entered into according to authorization related to own requirements or provision for own production, are normally not covered by IAS 39 as long as the contracts do not contain written options in terms of volume ﬂexibility. Financial instruments included in hedge accounting Identiﬁcation of ﬁnancial instruments designated as a hedge instrument or a hedge object in a hedge account is based on the intention of the acquisition of the ﬁnancial instrument. If ﬁnancial instruments are acquired with the intention to obtain an economic hedge effect, a closer consideration of the possibilities to document a hedge account will be made. Presentation of derivatives in proﬁt and loss and in the balance sheet Derivatives not related to hedging are presented on separate lines in the balance sheet under assets and liabilities, respectively. Derivatives with positive and negative fair value, respectively, are presented gross in the balance sheet as long as no legal rights to set off different contracts exist, and such rights to offset actually will be applied in the current cash settlement following the contracts. In the latter case, the particular contract will be presented net in the balance sheet. In the income statement, changes in fair value of derivatives not SN POWER 63 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP classiﬁed as hedge accounting are classiﬁed as ﬁnancial items. Value changes in energy derivatives are presented under revenue, while value changes in ﬁnancial derivatives are presented under ﬁnancial items. INCOME TAX Tax payable for the current and prior periods is measured at the amount expected to be paid to the tax authorities in each country. The tax rates and laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax and deferred tax assets Deferred income tax is calculated based on temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities, and their carrying amounts for ﬁnancial reporting purposes. Deferred income tax assets are recognized for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁt will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilized. The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufﬁcient taxable proﬁt will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilized. Unrecognized deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognized to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable proﬁt will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the date of the balance sheet. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset within the same legal tax subject. CURRENT/NON-CURRENT An asset/liability is classiﬁed as current when it is expected to be realized or settled, is intended for sale or consumption within the Group’s normal operating cycle, is held primarily for the purpose of being traded, or is expected to be realized or settled within twelve months after the date of balance sheet. The presentation of ﬁnancial instruments in current and non-current items respectively, is made according to general guidelines for such classiﬁcation. For long-term debt, the ﬁrst year installment is classiﬁed as a short-term item. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Road and land rights Expenses for intangible assets, comprising road and land rights, are recognized at historic cost to the extent that the criteria for capitalization are satisﬁed. Development costs Development costs are capitalized only if future economic beneﬁts from the development of an intangible asset are probable, according to IAS 38. Development costs will often be capitalized when a construction project is more likely to happen than not, but before the formal investment decision has been made. TANGIBLE ASSETS Tangible assets are stated at cost, including expenses completing the asset for use, less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment in value. Borrowing costs for signiﬁcant investments are capitalized. Expenses accrued after the asset has been taken into use, such as maintenance costs, are taken to proﬁt or loss, while other expenses expected to generate economic beneﬁts are recognized in the balance sheet. Water rights are not depreciated if no right of reversion exists and the value is deemed to be perpetual. 64 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP Time limited rights are depreciated over the license period. Water rights acquired in a separate transaction are measured initially at cost. Water rights acquired in a business combination is measured at fair value based on the estimated excess earnings of the acquired power plant. The excess earnings are the difference between the after-tax operating cash ﬂow and the required cost of invested capital on all other assets used in order to generate those cash ﬂows. These contributory assets include property, plant and equipment, other identiﬁable intangible assets and net working capital for the power plant. The allowance made for the cost of such capital is based on the value of such assets and a required rate of return reﬂecting the risks of the particular assets. Depreciation is made on a straight line basis over the useful life of the asset. Useful life is assessed on an individual basis and there might be variations within the group based on given local conditions. The normal useful lives for different groups of assets are presented in the table below: LAND ETERNAL WATER RIGHTS LICENSE PERIOD PLANTS AND MACHINERY Rock-ﬁll dams, concrete dams 75 Tunnel systems 75 Rock rooms/chambers 75 Mechanical machine installations 40 Remaining technical machine parts 15 Generator (primary part) 40 Transformer (secondary part) 40 Switchgear (high-voltage) 35 Control gear 15 Electro technical auxiliary gear 15 System control centre 15 Telecommunication circuit 10 Administration building 50 Power plant (outdoor) 75 Other buildings related to operation 50 Buildings: Technical installations 30 Buildings: Teleand automatics 10-20 FIXTURES AND FITTINGS, VEHICLES, OTHER EQUIPMENT Ofﬁceand computer equipment 3 Furniture and ﬁxtures 5 Means of transport 10 Each part of a ﬁxed asset that is signiﬁcant to the total cost of the item will be depreciated separately. Residual value is taken into account when calculating the annual depreciation. Land is not subject to depreciation. Periodic maintenance is capitalized with depreciation over the time period until the next maintenance is expected to be carried out. Estimated useful life, depreciation method and remaining value are reviewed annually. When assets are sold or disposed of, the capitalized value is derecognized and any loss or gain is taken to proﬁt or loss. If new components are capitalized, the components that were replaced are removed and any remaining recognized value is recorded as a loss. LEASES A lease is classiﬁed as a ﬁnancial lease if it transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership. With ﬁnancial lease agreements, the asset is recognized in the balance sheet and depreciated. SN POWER 65 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP A lease is classiﬁed as an operating lease if it does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership. Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the leasing period. IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS Tangible and intangible assets are assessed for impairment at each reporting period and always when events occur or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. When impairment is considered, the assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separate identiﬁable cash generating units. Impairment is calculated as the difference between the assets’ carrying value and the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the highest of the assets’ net selling price and the value in use for the company. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ﬂow is discounted to the present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks speciﬁc to the asset. When it is assumed that the asset’s value is lower than its carrying value, the asset is written down to recoverable amount. The impairment amount is recognized in the income statement in the expense categories consistent with the type of the impaired asset. Previously recognized impairment loss is reversed only if there have been changes in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. The reversed amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if no impairment loss had been recognized for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognized in proﬁt or loss. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Trade receivables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ﬂows, discounted at the effective interest rate. The amount of the provision is recognized in the income statement. INVENTORIES/SPARE PARTS Spare parts purchased for use in power station operation are classiﬁed as current assets and valued in the balance sheet at the lower of weighted average historical cost and fair value. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents include bank deposits, other short-term liquid investments and bank overdrafts. Cash and cash equivalents are recognized at current values. Restricted deposits are included in cash and cash equivalents. EQUITY Proposed dividend is classiﬁed as equity. Dividends are reclassiﬁed to short term liabilities when approved by the General Meeting. PROVISIONS, CONTINGENT ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the obligation has to be settled and that a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made. Provisions are recognized with best estimate of the expenses required to settle the existing obligation at the balance sheet date. If signiﬁcant, the time value of money is taken into account when calculating the size of the provision. 66 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP PENSIONS Deﬁned beneﬁt plans A deﬁned beneﬁt plan is a pension plan that deﬁnes an amount of pension that an employee will receive upon retirement, normally set as a share of the employee’s salary. The liability recognized in the balance sheet in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans is the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognized actuarial gains or losses and past service costs. The present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the balance sheet date is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outﬂow using a risk free interest rate. The obligation is calculated annually by an independent actuary using the linear accruals method. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognized in comprehensive income. Changes in the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations due to changes in pension plans are taken directly through income statement over the vesting period. Net pension assets for over-funded plans are recognized at fair value and classiﬁed as long term assets. Net pension obligations for under-funded plans and non-funded plans covered by operations are classiﬁed as long term provisions. Net pension costs for the period are included in salary and personnel costs and consist of the sum of pension earned in the period, interest costs on the estimated obligation and estimated return on the pension’s fund. Deﬁned contribution plans A deﬁned contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays ﬁxed contributions into a separate entity without further obligations after the contribution has been made. The contributions are expensed as salary and personnel costs. CASH FLOW STATEMENT The cash ﬂow statement is prepared using the indirect method. This means presenting, on the basis of proﬁt before tax, cash ﬂow from operating, investing and ﬁnancing activities. Dividend paid to shareholders and non controlling interest is presented under ﬁnancing activities. Note In September, SN Power approved building the hydropower plant Cheves in Peru. The power plant will 02 have an installed capacity of 168 MW. The investment frame is MUSD 402, and completion of the power plant is expected in 2014. MAJOR TRANSACTIONS IN 2010, POST Generation of power at La Higuera started up in October 2010. The plant is located in Chile, and has a BALANCE DATE TRANSACTIONS total capacity of 155 MW. In the beginning of February 2011 La Higuera had damage on one of their two turbines which will involve a larger repair (a warranty issue). In July 2010 production started in the Allain part of the 192 MW water plant Allain Duhangan in India. SN POWER 67 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP In 2010 it was decided not to continue development of the licenses in the Chilean project company Trayenko. The projects were offered for for sale, and based on received bids a write-down of MUSD 24 has been booked in the income statement for 2010. Note SN Power’s strategic goals and ambitions as well as the geographical and cultural diversity in the coun03 tries of operation, makes it important to continuously update risk pictures at all levels. The company has a risk management framework in place, which includes policy and risk appetite, structure, methodology, skills, knowledge, culture and tools. This framework is applied to projects in all life cycles, both to new FINANCIAL, POLITICAL AND MARKET RISK developments in construction and acquisition as well as for operating entities. POLITICAL AND HYDROLOGICAL RISK SN Power’s main area of commitment is in regions of the world which have experienced considerable political and economic instability, both now and in the past. The risks posed have a substantial impact on the company’s investments. For evaluation of political risk, the Global Insight risk factor at country level is used. This enables SN Power both to have the best possible overview of risk before making an investment decision, and continually to monitor risks in the companies in which it has invested. The company is evaluating equity insurance against political risk on a case to case basis. SN Power has a risk exposure related to potential damages to assets, subsequent production losses and third party life and property damages. This type of risk is handled through different technical, organizational and administrative risk reducing measures as well as insurances covering severe damages and loss of revenues. The company invests in enterprises where generation and sale of electricity are the principal activities. Access to water and general hydrological conditions will signiﬁcantly affect the production and the prices that can be obtained in local hydropower markets, and thereby the group’s cash generating capacity. This means that the group’s results could vary signiﬁcantly from one year to another. A geographical diversiﬁcation will to some extent neutralize this risk. SN Power’s investment strategy is to pursue active ownership. In this context, the company maintains a high focus on optimizing the balance between contractual and spot market sales whenever possible. Electricity markets vary widely in their level of deregulation. Big differences exist in this respect, not only between Asia and Latin-America, but also between the various countries in these regions. CREDIT RISK Credit risk is deﬁned as the risk of a party to a ﬁnancial instrument inﬂicting a ﬁnancial loss on the other party by not fulﬁlling its obligation. Maximum credit risk exposure (TUSD) 2010 2009 Account receivables 12 980 15 759 Other receivables 27 328 39 431 Cash and cash equivalents 297 196 346 580 Other long term receivables 114 649 80 501 Derivatives long term assets 2 295 Derivatives current assets 2 185 2 624 Total 456 633 484 904 Credit risk related to account receivables and other receivables in SN Power is limited by the fact that customers and counterparts are in different markets and in many cases are governmental institutions. 68 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP On the other hand, customers are few and large and we operate in emerging markets where counterpart risks might be assessed to be higher. Other long term receivables consist primarily of receivables from joint ventures (MUSD 110.5). SN Power’s partners have similar receivables. The assessment of credit risk is part of the valuation of the joint venture. To control credit risk related to cash and cash equivalents, SN Power have a ﬁnance policy that regulates the maximum exposure per counterpart. Aging of account receivables is presented below, and all overdue account receivables are assessed to be collectible. CURRENT TUSD RECEIVABLES LESS THAN 90 DAYS MORETHAN 90 DAYS TOTAL RECEIVABLES Accounts receivables 3 176 4 523 5 281 12 980 Other receivables 27 328 27 328 LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risk is deﬁned as the risk that SN Power will encounter difﬁculties in meeting obligations associated with ﬁnancial liabilities. Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS’s ﬁnancing is based on equity. Both construction projects and operational activities are ﬁnanced on the basis of non-recourse project ﬁnancing. SN Power is extending limited and capped guarantees primarily during project construction phase. The following table sets out the installment proﬁle by maturity of the Group’s ﬁnancial commitments. TUSD 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 AFTER 2020 TOTAL Fixed interest rate External loans in subsidiaries 21 988 2 432 24 420 Floating interest rate* External loans in subsidiaries 16 330 9 709 129 345 9 990 10 146 10 313 10 492 10 600 10 806 11 028 70 569 299 328 Loan from Statkraft 34 294 34 294 Interest payments Calculated interest payments 12 319 11 437 10 502 9 425 9 488 9 240 8 558 7 783 6 992 6 196 11 194 103 135 Total liabilities 50 637 23 579 174 141 19 415 19 634 19 553 19 050 18 383 17 798 17 224 81 763 461 177 Credit risk exposure Restricted cash 120 728 120 728 Account receivables 12 980 12 980 Other receivables 27 328 27 328 Other long term receivables 114 649 114 649 Total assets 40 308 114 649 120 728 275 685 Net -10 329 91 070 -53 413 -19 415 -19 634 -19 553 -19 050 -18 383 -17 798 -17 224 -81 763 -185 492 * Original principal amounts without considering interest swaps MARKET RISK Market risk is deﬁned as risk that the fair value or future cash ﬂow of a ﬁnancial instrument will ﬂuctuate because of changes in market prices. Market risk comprises three types of risks: currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk. SN POWER 69 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP Currency risk SN Power Group’s presentation currency is USD. The investments in Chile, Peru and Nepal have USD as their functional currency, the investments in India have INR, and the Philippines have PHP. Holding companies in Norway and Singapore have USD as functional currency, the Brazil subsidiary has BRL, and SN Power AfriCA has NOK. For SN Power returns will be affected by the exchange rate between USD and the investment currency. The various subsidiaries and afﬁliates in which SN Power invests are also subject to ﬂuctuations between local currencies and USD. This especially applies to Latin America, where the pricing mechanism for electricity is partly tied to variations between local currencies and the USD. In most cases, the companies also have their ﬁnancing in USD. SN Power Group makes use of currency swaps and forward contracts to hedge part of the currency exposure related to the investments in subsidiaries and afﬁliated companies, in addition to signiﬁcant cash ﬂows in foreign currency. The following table shows the sensitivity of ﬁnancial instruments to a reasonable possible change in material currencies for the Group (consolidated companies), with all other variables held constant: INCREASE/ DECREASE EFFECT ON PROFIT CURRENCY RISK CURRENCY IN CURRENCY RATE BEFORE TAX (TUSD) 2009 PEN +10% 4 308 2009 PEN -10% + 4 308 2009 NOK +10% + 2 195 2009 NOK -10% 2 195 2010 NOK +10% + 4 662 2010 NOK -10% 4 662 Material currency changes in associated companies will also have consequences on the income statement through application of the equity method for such investments. This is especially valid for the Philippine companies with functional currency PHP and 31% of the debt denominated in USD. Interest rate risk SN Power Group is exposed to interest rate risk through ﬁnancing and customer portfolios held by the different consolidated, associated companies and joint ventures. Interest rate exposure related to the subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures’ debt ﬁnancing is secured through interest rate swaps for a major part of the loans. SN Power’s ambition for the Group’s interest risk is to minimize interest costs, reduce ﬂuctuations in these, and limit changes in the value of the Group’s net debt. The Group’s total debt exposed with ﬂoating interest rates, exclusive associates and joint ventures, are MUSD 105. The following table shows the sensitivity of ﬁnancial instruments to a reasonable possible change in interest rate for consolidated companies in the Group, with all other variables held constant. The positive effects from increased interest rate are due to the Groups total amount interest-bearing debt is larger than interest-bearing debt with ﬁxed rate. INCREASE/ DECREASE EFFECT ON PROFIT INTEREST RATE RISK EXPOSURE IN INTEREST RATE BEFORE TAX (TUSD) 2009 +1% + 1 774 2009 -1% 1 774 2010 +1% + 727 2010 -1% 727 70 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP Note SN POWER AFRICA 04 In January 2010, a share issuance was done against Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS, Norfund, BKK Produksjon AS and Trønderenergi AS. In addition, Norfund sold shares to BKK Produksjon AS and Trønderenergi AS. After the share issuance and sale of shares, Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS’ ownership is CHANGES IN THE GROUP’S STRUCTURE 45,9% (reduced from 51%), Norfund’ ownership is 19% (reduced from 49%), BKK Produksjon AS’ ownership is 18,32% and Trønderenergi AS’ ownership is 16,79%. Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS voting right is still 51%, since Norfund also has B-shares without voting rights. SN Power AfriCA has in 2010 invested 6 MUSD in Fountain Intertrade Corporation, a joint venture in Panama, and is in ﬁnal negotiations purchasing a controlling share in a hydropower company in Africa. BRAZIL SN Power Energia do Brasil Ltda has in 2010 been sold from SN Power Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd to SN Power Brasil AS. Also, as part of the development of a wind project in Brazil, two project companies has been bought; Central Eólica São Raimunda Ltda and Central Eólica Garrote Ltda to a cost price of MUSD 1.4 and approximately MUSD 1.2 in excess value beyond book value in the companies. Wind power is no longer a part of SN Power Group strategy and the project has been offered for sale. RESTRUCTURING IN PERU As a part of the planned restructuring in Peru, the companies Empresa de Generacion Electrica Cahua S.A and Electroandes S.A were merged as of 1 January 2010. Electroandes S.A. is the acquiring company and has changed name to SN Power Peru S.A. In addition, Inversiones Electricas de Los Andes S.A.C has merged with SN Power Peru Holding S.R.L as of 1 February 2010. SN Power Peru Holding S.R.L is the acquiring company. The merger is not treated as a business combination and has not affected consolidated ﬁgures. INDIA In July 2010 the subsidiary SN Power India Pvt. Ltd was established. The company will continue the business development in the region. SN POWER 71 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP Note 05 SUBSIDIARIES The following subsidiaries are included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements: DATE OF ESTABL./ BUSINESS VOTING OWNER COMPANY ACQUISITION OFFICE MAIN OPERATION PARENT COMPANY SHARE SHARE Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS 26 June 2002 Oslo, Norway Investment SN Power Holding AS 27 May 2003 Oslo, Norway Investment Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS 100.0% 100.0% SN Power AfriCA AS 13 January 2009 Oslo, Norway Investment Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS 51.0% 45.9% SN Power Brasil AS 7 April 2010 Oslo, Norway Investment Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS 100.0% 100.0% SN Power Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd 12 Aug 2003 Singapore Investment SN Power Holding AS 100.0% 100.0% SN Power Global Services Pte. Ltd 26 March 2009 Singapore Investment SN Power Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd 100.0% 100.0% SN Power Holding Peru Pte. Ltd 26 August 2003 Singapore Investment SN Power Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd 100.0% 100.0% SN Power Holding Chile Pte. Ltd 12 August 2003 Singapore Investment SN Power Holding Singapore Pte.Ltd 100.0% 100.0% SN Power International Pte Ltd. * 12 August 2003 Singapore Investment SN Power Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd 100.0% 100.0% SN Power ACA Pte. Ltd 25 September 2009 Singapore Investment SN Power AfriCA AS 100.0% 100.0% SN Power Energia do Brasil Ltda 31 December 2007 Rio de Janeiro, Brazil Investment SN Power Brasil AS 100.0% 100.0% Central Eólica São Raimundo Ltda. 11 March 2010 Fortaleza, Brazil Investment SN Power Energia do Brasil Ltda 100.0% 100.0% Central Eólica Garrote Ltda. 11 March 2010 Fortaleza, Brazil Investment SN Power Energia do Brasil Ltda 100.0% 100.0% SN Power Peru Holding S.R.L ** 07 October 2003 Lima, Peru Investment SN Power Holding Peru Pte. Ltd 100.0% 100.0% Empresa de Generacion Electrica Power plant under Cheves S.A 01 June 2007 Lima, Peru construction SN Power Peru Holding S.R.L 68.7% 68.7% Empresa de Generacion Electrica Power plant under Cheves S.A 01 June 2007 Lima, Peru construction SN Power Peru S.A 31.3% 31.3% SN Power Peru S.A*** 17 October 2007 Lima, Peru Power production SN Power Peru Holding S.R.L 100.0% 100.0% SN Power Chile Inversiones Eléctricas Ltda 09 December 2004 Santiago, Chile Investment SN Power Holding Chile Pte. Ltd 100.0% 100.0% SN Power Chile Inversiones Electricas SN Power Chile Tingueririca y Cia. 17 December 2004 Santiago, Chile Investment Ltda 99.9% 99.9% SN Power Chile Inversiones Electricas SN Power Chile Valdivia y Cia. 15 February 2006 Santiago, Chile Investment Ltda 99.9% 99.9% Power plant under Hidroelectrica Trayenko S.A 17 January 2006 Santiago, Chile construction SN Power Chile Valdivia y Cia. 80.0% 80.0% Norvind S.A 06 August 2007 Santiago, Chile Power production SN Power Chile Valdivia y Cia. 80.0% 80.0% SN Power India Pvt Ltd 27 July 2010 New Dehli, India Investment SN Power Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd 100.0% 100.0% Himal Power Ltd 01 March 2006 Kathmandu, Nepal Power production SN Power Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd 57.1% 50.7% * SN Power Holding Brazil Pte. Ltd has changed name to SN Power International Pte. Ltd. ** Inversiones Electricas de Los Andes S.A.C merged with SN Power Peru Holding S.R.L with effect from 1 February 2010. *** Empresa de Generacion Electrica Cahua S.A and Electroandes S.A merged with effect from 1 January 2010. Electroandes S.A. is the acquiring company and has changed name to SN Power Peru S.A. 72 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP Note 06 ASSOCIATED COMPANIES AND JOINT VENTURES The following associated companies and joint ventures are included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements: DATE OF ESTABL./ VOTING OWNER COMPANY ACQUISITION BUSINESS OFFICE MAIN OPERATIONS PARENT COMPAN SHARE SHARE Nividhu (Pvt) Ltd * 27 October 2003 Colombo, Sri Lanka Power production SN Power Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd 30.0% 30.0% Malana Power Company Ltd * 17 June 2005 New Dehli, India Power production SN Power Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd 49.0% 49.0% Allain Duhangan Hydro Power Ltd * 17 June 2005 New Dehli, India Power plant under Malana Power Company Ltd 88.0% 88.0% construction SN Aboitiz Power – Magat Inc 29 November 2005 Manila, Philippines Power production SN Power Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd 40.0% 40.0% Manila-Oslo Renewable *** 29 November 2005 Manila, Philippines Investment SN Power Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd 16.7% 16.7% Enterprise Inc. SN Aboitiz Power Benguet Inc 29 November 2005 Manila, Philippines Power production/ SN Power Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd 40.0% 40.0% rehabilitation SN Aboitiz Power Hydro Inc ** 29 November 2005 Manila, Philippines Investment SN Power Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd 40.0% 40.0% SN Aboitiz Power Nueva Ecija Inc ** 14 January 2009 Manila, Philippines Investment SN Power Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd 40.0% 40.0% SN Aboitiz Power Pangasnan Inc ** 14 January 2009 Manila, Philippines Investment SN Power Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd 40.0% 40.0% SN Aboitiz Power Cordillera Inc ** 14 January 2009 Manila, Philippines Investment SN Power Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd 40.0% 40.0% SN Aboitiz Power RES Inc ** 23 December 2009 Manila, Philippines Investment SN Power Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd 40.0% 40.0% Fountain Intertrade Corporation 04 October 2010 Panama City, Panama Investment SN Power ACA Pte. Ltd 50.0% 50.1% Hidroelectrica La Higuera S.A 03 June 2004 Santiago, Chile Power plant under SN Power Chile Tinguerirca y Cia. 50.0% 50.0% construction Hidroelectrica La Conﬂuencia S.A 23 Sepember 2004 Santiago, Chile Power plant under SN Power Chile Tinguerirca y Cia. 50.0% 50.0% construction * The companies with a diverging ﬁnancial year are: 31 March for India and Sri Lanka. The ﬁgures speciﬁed in the note represent the calendar year. ** Companies without activity. *** Manila-Oslo Renewable Enterprise has a 60% owner share in SN Aboitiz Power Magat Inc, SN Aboitiz Power Benguet Inc, SN Aboitiz Power Hydro Inc, SN Aboitiz Power Nueva Ecija Inc, SN Aboitiz Power Pangasnan Inc, SN Aboitiz Power Cordillera Inc and SN Aboitiz Power RES Inc. None of the companies are listed. Book value associated companies and joint ventures FOREIGN CURRENCY ADDITIONS/ SHARE OF TRANSLATION GAIN/LOSS BOOK VALUE COMPANY COUNTRY BOOK VALUE 2009 DISPOSALS PROFIT/LOSS DIVIDENDS DIFFERENCE ON HEDGES 2010 Nividhu (Pvt) Ltd Sri Lanka 1 259 473 5 1 737 Malana Power Company Ltd India 47 624 12 196 4 055 63 875 Allain Duhangan Hydro Power Ltd India 53 925 -5 786 -115 48 024 SN Aboitiz Power – Magat Inc Philippines 114 013 51 187 -21 100 6 462 -2 758 147 804 Manila-Oslo Renewable Enterprise Inc Philippines 29 593 8 265 119 1 316 13 39 305 SN Aboitiz Power Benguet Inc Philippines 54 160 33 110 25 548 3 113 1 426 117 357 Fountain Intertrade Corporation Panama 5 912 5 912 Hidroelectrica La Higuera S.A Chile 51 971 2 566 -731 53 807 Hidroelectrica La Conﬂuencia S.A Chile 57 418 210 -3 378 54 251 Consolidating effects -2 574 -2 574 Total 409 964 47 287 83 940 -21 100 14 836 -5 427 529 498 SIGNIFICANT MOVEMENTS IN BOOK VALUE ASSOCIATED COMPANIES AND JOINT VENTURES In the Philippines it is expected that the rehabilitation of the hydropower plant Ambuklao will be completed in 2011. SN Power Group’s share of the proﬁt in Magat and Benguet (Binga and Ambuklao) was MUSD 76.6. Magat and Benquet have in 2010 had a negative effect on equity on MUSD -1.4 due to cash ﬂow hedges. SN Power Group’s share of foreign currency translation differences of MUSD 10.9 is caused by a strengthening of PHP against USD. The companies in The Philippines has PHP as functional currency. SN POWER 73 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP In Chile, the La Higuera plant entered into operation at the end of 2010, and contributed to the Group’s result with MUSD 2.6. The La Conﬂuencia plant is expected to enter into operation during ﬁrst half of 2011. La Conﬂuencia has in 2010 had a negative effect on equity on MUSD -3.4 due to loss on cash ﬂow hedges. In India, the Allain Duhangan hydropower plant (Allain) entered into operation in July 2010, and had a negative contribution in 2010. Allain Duhangan is a 88% owned subsidiary of Malana and has until 2009 been shown as part of Malana in the table above. From 2010 Allain Duhangan is shown as a own item in the table. Malana’s investment in Allain Duhangan is adjusted for in the opening balance respectively with MUSD -54 for Malana and MUSD 54 for Allain Duhangan. SN Power Group’s share of the proﬁt in Malana Power Company was MUSD 12, and a foreign currency translation difference of MUSD 4.0 is caused by a strengthening of INR against USD. The Indian companies have INR as functional currency. Financial information from associated companies and joint ventures(100%) * COMPANY ASSETS LIABILITIES REVENUE NET PROFIT Nividhu (Pvt) Ltd 6 518 1 174 2 188 1 578 Malana Power Company Ltd 301 205 83 651 32 687 24 890 Allain Duhangan Hydro Power Ltd 441 311 329 937 7 383 -13 418 SN Aboitiz Power Magat Inc 653 707 323 925 174 396 102 373 Manila-Oslo Renewable Enterprise Inc 241 333 5 547 4 490 713 SN Aboitiz Power Benguet Inc 689 729 410 634 62 990 51 095 Hidroelectrica La Higuera S.A 505 596 399 977 54 572 5 132 Hidroelectrica La Conﬂuencia S.A 437 301 328 799 561 420 * Assets and liabilities are converted to USD using the closing balance rate per 31 December 2010. Revenue and Net Proﬁt are converted using average rate for 2010. The ﬁnancial information are adjusted from local reporting to comply with IFRS in the group reporting. Note BY BUSINESS AREA 2010 2009 07 Power sales 113 163 117 211 Services 1 067 1 245 SALES REVENUES Gain on disposal of assets 68 208 Total 114 298 118 664 BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET 2010 2009 Norway 1 067 103 South America 80 422 85 442 Asia 32 809 33 119 Total 114 298 118 664 Note 2010 2009 08 Purchase of electric power 1 662 2 271 Transmission costs 4 831 5 570 COST OF GOODS SOLD Other production costs and fees 1 433 1 719 Total cost of goods sold 7 926 9 560 74 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP Note SALARY AND PERSONNEL COSTS 2010 2009 Salary expenses 26 733 20 600 09 Social security costs 2 595 2 491 Pension costs other 177 177 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSES, MANAGEMENT REMUNERATION AND AUDIT FEE Pension costs (note 20) 1 873 1 834 Other personnel costs 4 584 4 772 Total salary and personnel costs 35 962 29 874 THE AVERAGE NUMBER OF MAN-YEARS 2010 2009 SN Power Group consolidated companies 427 466 SN Power Group associated companies and joint ventures (100%) 584 784 Total 1 011 1 250 EXPENSED MANAGEMENT REMUNERATION 2010 NOK 2010 USD 2009 USD Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Salary 1 930 319 276 Paid pension premium 223 37 36 Other 154 25 20 Total Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 2 307 382 332 Executive Management Team Salary 10 442 1 728 1 445 Paid pension premium 917 152 119 Other 3 234 535 661 Total Executive Management Team 14 593 2 415 2 225 Total remuneration CEO and Executive Management Team 16 900 2 796 2 557 Executive Management Team have deﬁned members and consists of 7 people in addition to the CEO. The Executive Management Team has a supplementary pension scheme with a right to a pension of 66% of the salary from 12G up to 20G from the age of 65 years. The plan requires 30 years vesting period and is funded by the company. The management group has no right to severance pay related to end of employment. The CEO is covered by the same bonus plan concerning all employees in Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS. The plan is limited up to 20% of salary, and the remuneration is based on yearly goal achievements. Remuneration of NOK 321 000 (USD 53 100) was paid to the Board of Directors in Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS in 2010. AUDIT FEE, SN POWER GROUP 2010 2009 Statutory audit 200 344 Other assurance services 2 7 Tax services 67 118 Non-audit services 40 109 Total fees to auditors 310 577 SN Power Group changed auditor to Deloitte in 2010. In Peru Ernst&Young was still our auditor. Their fee for 2010 was TUSD 81. SN POWER 75 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP Note 2010 2009 Leasing premises 3 260 2 915 10 External services 13 134 13 202 Travel expenses 5 737 3 876 OTHER OPERATING COSTS Insurance expenses 3 911 3 104 Fees, licenses, e.g 2 392 396 Loss on disposal of assets 3 105 350 Repairs and maintenace 1 858 2 369 Ofﬁce expenses 3 901 2 841 Other costs 4 394 4 394 Total other operating costs 41 692 33 447 Note FINANCIAL INCOME IAS 39 CATEGORY 2010 2009 11 Interest income bank Amortized cost 3 441 2 227 Interest difference on forward FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES exchange rate contracts Amortized cost 1 143 Total interest income 4 584 2 227 Gain on foreign exchange Fair value through proﬁt and loss 2 635 8 148 Forward exchange rate contracts Fair value through proﬁt and loss 1 784 6 839 Other ﬁnancial income Amortized cost 855 124 Total other ﬁnancial income 5 274 15 111 Total ﬁnancial income 9 858 17 338 FINANCIAL EXPENSES IAS 39 CATEGORY 2010 2009 Interest cost loans Amortized cost 18 158 12 485 Interest difference on forward exchange rate contracts Amortized cost 3 752 Total interest expenses 18 158 16 237 Loss on foreign exchange Fair value through proﬁt and loss 3 240 11 447 Forward exchange rate contracts Fair value through proﬁt and loss 560 197 Other ﬁnancial expenses Amortized cost 1 404 874 Total other ﬁnancial expenses 5 204 12 518 Total ﬁnancial expenses 23 362 28 755 Net ﬁnancial income -13 504 -11 417 76 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP Note FIXTURES AND FITTINGS, VEHI12 LAND WATER RIGHTS PLANTS AND MACHINERY CLES, OTHER EQUIPMENT TOTAL Book value 1 January 2009 6 297 297 677 297 459 9 660 611 093 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Additions 4 000 109 795 2 316 116 111 Reclassiﬁcation -141 128 -13 Disposals at book value -874 -178 -1 052 Depreciation for the year -5 -11 601 -2 399 -14 005 Exchange differences for the year 25 25 Book value 31 December 2009 6 292 301 677 394 638 9 552 712 159 Acquisition cost 31 December 2009 6 316 301 677 507 021 19 824 834 838 Reclassiﬁcation -141 128 -13 Accumulated depreciation -24 -112 242 -10 423 -122 689 Accumulated exchange differences 23 23 Book value 31 December 2009 6 292 301 677 394 638 9 552 712 159 Book value 1 January 2010 6 292 301 677 394 638 9 552 712 159 Additions 2 843 1 473 10 191 2 552 17 059 Reclassiﬁcation 3 203 2 557 5 760 Disposals at book value -1 991 -2 404 -649 -5 044 Depreciation for the year -5 -865 -16 266 -2 774 -19 910 Exchange differences for the year -55 1 -54 Book value 31 December 2010 10 342 302 230 388 716 8 682 709 970 Acquisition cost 31 December 2010 7 168 303 150 513 611 20 569 844 498 Reclassiﬁcation 3 203 2 557 5 760 Accumulated depreciation -29 -865 -127 452 -11 911 -140 257 Accumulated exchange differences -55 24 -31 Book value 31 December 2010 10 342 302 230 388 716 8 682 709 970 The operations of the La Oroya and Pachachaca hydropower plants, which generate 10% of the SN Power Peru’s supply, might be terminated in 2012 due to an agreement with local government. The background for this is that local government plan to use the water at the two plants for drinking water, and power production must therefore cease. No write-downs have been made in the ﬁnancial statements as of 31 December 2010, since it is expected that the local government will postpone the termination. Carrying amount for the above mentioned plants as of 31 December 2012 is calculated to MUSD 9. A provision for dismantling (TUSD 537) is made for La Oroya and Pachachaca hydropower plants. In 2010, it has been calculated deferred tax of MUSD 35.6 related to excess values on water rights in a subsidiary acquired in 2007. Previously reported net excess value is now reported gross (including deferred tax). Comparative ﬁgures have been adjusted so that the book value of water rights 1 January 2009 have increased with calculated deferred tax of MUSD 35.6. SN POWER 77 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP Note ROAD AND LAND RIGHTS PROJECT DEVELOPMENT SOFTWARE LICENCES TOTAL 13 Book value 1 January 2009 7 352 19 556 691 27 599 Additions – acquired separately 91 13 898 -26 13 963 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Reclassiﬁcation 1 17 18 Amortization -24 -148 -172 Book value 31 December 2009 7 420 33 454 534 41 408 Acquisition cost 31 december 2009 10 197 33 454 894 44 545 Reclassiﬁcation 1 13 14 Accumulated amortization -2 778 -373 -3 151 Book value 31 December 2009 7 420 33 454 534 41 408 Book value 1 January 2010 7 420 33 454 534 41 408 Additions – acquired separately 452 31 975 92 32 519 Reclassiﬁcation -5 760 -5 760 Amortization -24 -23 331 -123 -23 478 Exchange differences for the year -1 -41 -42 Book value 31 December 2010 2 087 42 057 503 44 647 Acquisition cost 31 december 2010 10 650 65 429 973 77 052 Reclassiﬁcation -5 760 -5 760 Accumulated amortization -2 802 -23 331 -470 -26 603 Accumulated exchange differences -1 -41 -42 Book value 31 December 2010 2 087 42 057 503 44 647 PROJECT DEVELOPEMENT Project development costs are capitalized only if future economic beneﬁts from the development of an intangible asset is probable. Development costs will be capitalized as part of the construction cost of the plant and depreciation will start when the asset is put into operation. Write down of MUSD 24 project development cost concerns projects in Chile. The capitalized project development cost is written down to net realizable value, sales value deducted for sales cost. The projects in Chile are laid out for sale and a binding offer is received and is used as a basis for the calculation of net realizable value. Note In September, SN Power approved building the hydropower plant Cheves in Peru. The power plant will 14 have an installed capacity of 168 MW and an expected average annual production of 837 GWh. The investment frame is MUSD 402, and SN Power is committed to contribute MUSD 152 in equity. Statkraft CONTRACTUAL COMMITMENTS AND Norfund Power Invest AS will guarantee for the equity contribution and has granted a parent company OPERATIONAL LEASES guarantee for completion of MUSD 130. SN Power has commitments related to completion of power plants under construction which is presented as associates and joint ventures in the accounts. The total investment frame for the projects (100%) is MUSD 1 275, of which remaining investments are estimated to MUSD 171. SN Power is committed to inject maximum MUSD 99 in equity to ﬁnance remaining investment in associated companies and joint ventures. The projects are located in India, the Phillippines and Chile. 78 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP OPERATIONAL LEASES: 2010 2009 Ordinary lease payments 3 260 2 915 THE FUTURE MINIMUM RENTS RELATED TO NON-CANCELLABLE LEASES FALL DUE AS FOLLOWS: 2011 2012-2016 2017 -> TOTAL Ofﬁce lease, lease of ofﬁce equipment etc 1 770 5 539 7 309 Other leases 204 407 611 TOTAL 1 974 5 946 7 920 Note FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 15 The estimated fair value amounts of the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments have been determined by the Group, using appropriate market information and valuation methodologies. There has not been identiﬁed FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS any ﬁnancial instruments where book value is signiﬁcantly different from fair value. The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents is a reasonable estimate of fair value. The fair value of derivatives is mark-to-market value issued by counterpart in the transaction (Category 2 valuation). The fair value of loans has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash ﬂow at prevailing interest rates and is not materially different from the balance sheet value (Category 3 valuation). HEDGE ACCOUNTING SN Power Group makes use of currency swaps and forward contracts to hedge currency exposure related to signiﬁcant future cash ﬂows and fair values. The forward contracts tied to net investments will be phased out during ﬁrst half of 2011 according to SN Power’s policy. SN Power Group will make use of interest swap contracts for a major part of the portefolio of loans. SN Power Peru and Norvind have entered into interest swap contracts converting ﬂoating interest to ﬁxed. Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS has a MNOK 200 loan from Statkraft AS, which is hedged against USD by a forward contract NOK/USD. The following table summarizes the Group’s hedging instruments. CASH FLOW FAIR VALUE NET INVESTHEDGES HEDGES MENT HEDGES TOTAL Forward exchange rate contracts 31 December 2009 -292 1 027 1 270 2 005 Forward exchange rate contracts 31 December 2010 -3 298 3 126 74 -98 Movement in market values of hedging instruments in 2010 -3 006 2 099 -1 196 -2 103 Realized contracts in 2010 -292 -932 -1 224 Net recorded against equity -3 298 1 167 -1 196 -3 327 CASH FLOW HEDGES: Cheves S.A has entered into foreign currency contracts to hedge the exposure related to payment for construction of the power plant in Peru. The hedged cash ﬂows appears from the payment schedule in Euro (EUR), norwegian krones (NOK) and Nuevo Soles (PEN) agreed with the contractors. To hedge the currency risk, foreign currency forward contracts between EUR/USD, NOK/USD and PEN/USD with corresponding amounts and due dates (as the payment schedule with the contractors), have been entered in to. The contracts are treated as hedge accounting and fair value (mark-to-market) of the contracts are recorded in comprehensive income until payment takes place. SN POWER 79 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP 2010 2009 Cash ﬂow hedging reserve 1 January -1 098 Movement in market value 2010 -3 006 3 442 Recognized in income statement 2010 -292 -297 Recognized in balance sheet (ﬁxed assets) -2 047 Cash ﬂow hedging reserve 31 December -3 298 HEDGING OF NET INVESTMENTS Contracts for hedging of net investments will be phased out ﬁrst half of 2011 accoring to SN Power ﬁnance policy. The interest elements of the contracts are separated and charged to the income statement. 2010 2009 Market value of net investment hedge contracts per 31 December 74 1 270 Interest element expensed in proﬁt and loss 1 289 -3 752 Note 2010 2009 Trade receivables 14 714 15 898 16 Provisions for loss on trade accounts receivable -1 734 -139 Total account receivables 12 980 15 759 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLES Note OTHER LONG TERM RECEIVABLES 2010 2009 Loan to associated companies and joint ventures 110 474 75 375 17 Other long term receivables 4 175 5 135 Total other long term receivables 114 649 80 510 OTHER RECEIVABLES 2010 2009 Other current receivables Pre-payments to suppliers 6 390 4 433 Earned but not invoiced operating income 5 954 7 477 Current receivable from associated companies and joint ventures 1 896 17 164 Prepaid tax 4 150 – Other current receivables 6 693 5 648 Settlement account VAT 1 907 4 381 Prepaid rent 134 172 Accrued interest 204 156 Total other current receivables 27 328 39 431 Note 2010 2009 Bank deposits, cash and cash equivalents 163 805 213 191 18 Bank deposits – tax restricted 703 535 Other bank deposits – restricted 132 688 132 854 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Total cash and cash equivalents 31 December 297 196 346 580 80 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP Note SHARE CAPITAL SHARE PREMIUM RESERVE PAID-IN CAPITAL Paid-in equity 1 January 2010 476 768 639 884 1 116 652 19 Paid-in equity 31 December 2010 476 768 639 884 1 116 652 SHARE CAPITAL, SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION AND DIVIDEND NUMBER OF OWNER AND SHAREHOLDERS IN STATKRAFT NORFUND POWER INVEST AS 31 DECEMBER 2010 SHARES VOTING SHARE Statkraft AS 16 026 206 60 % Norfund 10 684 137 40 % Total 26 710 343 100 % No dividends will be paid out for 2010. Note Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS has pension schemes that cover a total of 53 staff members, and com20 ply with Norwegian regulations on mandatory pension. The pension plans confers the right to deﬁned future beneﬁts, that mainly depend on the vesting period, the level of pay at retirement and the size of PENSIONS AND OTHER LONG-TERM state pension beneﬁts. These obligations are partially covered by a closed plan for 7 employees in the EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund (SPK) and through a group pension scheme with Nordea Liv. In addition, the management team have a supplementary plan. This plan confers a right to a pension of 66% of the salary up to 20G from the age of 65 years. The plan requires 30 years vesting period and is funded by the company. Actuarical gains/losses are recognized in equity, and the effect in 2010 amounts to TUSD 1 012. ASSUMPTIONS The following assumptions were used in calculating the current year’s pension costs and liabilities: 2010 2009 Discount rate 3.7% 4.4% Expected rate of return 3.7% 5.6% Regulation of salary 4.0% 4.5% Regulation of pension, Nordea 0.2% 2.1% Regulation of pension, SPK 3.0% 4.0% Regulation of base rate 3.8% 4.0% Turnover 3.5% 3.5% PENSION COSTS FUNDED UNFUNDED 2010 2009 Net present value of the current year's pension earnings 1 580 158 1 737 1 588 Interest rate and administrative costs 272 12 284 244 Gross pension costs 1 852 170 2 022 1 832 Return on pension plan assets -268 -268 -271 Amortization of passed service costs and gains/losses -217 -217 48 Administration costs 34 34 2 Accrued social security cost 277 24 301 222 Net pension costs 1 679 194 1 873 1 834 SN POWER 81 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP PENSION LIABILITIES FUNDED UNFUNDED 2010 2009 Pension liabilities 7 251 486 7 737 7 111 Pension plan assets 5 800 5 800 4 589 Calculated pension liabilities 1 451 486 1 938 2 522 Past service cost -33 -33 -67 Social security cost 155 69 224 320 Net pension liabilities 1 574 555 2 128 2 776 MOVEMENT IN ACTUARIAL GAINS/LOSSES RECOGNIZED DIRECTLY IN EQUITY FUNDED UNFUNDED 2010 2009 Accumulated amount recognized directly in equity before tax 1 January -1 185 -117 -1 302 Recognized in the period 957 54 1 012 -1 302 Accumulated amount recognized directly in equity -291 -1 302 Note TAX EXPENSE 2010 2009 Taxes payable 6 353 11 946 21 Adjustments relating to previous years -900 905 Change in deferred tax liability -2 932 -2 621 TAX Tax expense 2 521 10 230 Tax expense is related to foreign subsidiaries. TAX EXPENSE 2010 2009 Proﬁt before tax 55 766 51 618 Expected tax expense at a nominal rate of 28% 15 614 14 453 Effect on taxes of: Differences in foreign tax rates -1 958 -834 Income from associated companies and joint ventures -23 503 -8 800 Tax-free income -4 013 -5 384 Other permanent differences -973 Tax loss carried forward 17 354 10 795 Tax expense 2 521 10 230 Tax rate 4.5% 19.8% 01 JANUARY RECOGNIZED IN 31 DECEMBER SPECIFICATION OF THE TAX EFFECTS OF TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES 2010 INCOME STATEMENT OTHER 2010 Current receivables -32 -3 -35 Current liabilities -732 250 -482 Derivatives Property, plant and equipment 47 740 1 297 251 49 288 Pension liabilities Other long-term items -35 813 -424 354 Tax losses carried forward -5 519 -5 289 402 -10 406 Total net deferred tax liability/(asset) 41 422 -2 932 229 38 718 Deferred tax asset 5 502 10 412 Deferred tax 46 924 49 130 Total deferred tax in balance sheet 41 422 38 718 82 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP For 2010 it has been calculated deferred tax on MUSD 35.6 related to excess values on water rights in a subsidiary acquired in 2007. Previously reported net excess value is now reported gross (including deferred tax). Corresponding ﬁgures have been adjusted so that the book value have increased with calculated deferred tax of MUSD 35.6. TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES OR UNUSED TAX LOSSES FOR WHICH NO DEFERRED TAX ASSET/LIABILITY IS RECOGNIZED IN THE BALANCE SHEET 2010 2009 Fixed assets -102 27 Pension liabilities -335 -3 785 Other long-term items 3 396 3 220 Tax losses carried forward -97 149 -93 435 Temporary differences or unused tax losses for which no deferred tax asset/ liability is recognized in the balance sheet -94 190 -93 973 Deferred tax beneﬁt not recognized in the balance sheet is related to losses carried forward in Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS, SN Power Brasil AS and SN Power AfriCA AS. Deferred tax beneﬁt is recorded on the basis of an expectation of a future taxable proﬁt. The nature of Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS’s , SN Power Brasil AS’s and SN Power AfriCA AS’s operations imply that future proﬁts will not primarily be taxable. The beneﬁts of deferred tax accordingly cannot be justiﬁed in the foreseeable future and have not been recognized in the companies’s balance sheets. Note DISMANTLING CLAIMS TOTAL 22 Balance sheet 31 December 2009 511 2 722 3 233 New provisions 26 1 331 1 357 LONG TERM PROVISIONS AND Amount used -2 021 -2 021 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Balance sheet 31 December 2010 537 2 032 2 569 Provision for dismantling (TUSD 537) relates to a provision made for the SN Power Peru plants La Oroya and Pachachaca hydropower plants, which might be taken out of operation due to usage of the water for drinking water. Provision for claims (TUSD 2 032) is related to tax claims, custom claims, claims from regulators and restructuring cost in SN Power Peru. New provisions in 2010 derives mainly from restructuring cost regarding severance pay for employees in SN Power Peru. The reversal is mainly related to public duties and claims in Nepal. Accruals for losses has been carried out. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES In September 2009 a settlement was reached with contractor on the La Higuera project. If completion dates and other parameters in the settlement agreement are fulﬁlled, the contractor is granted a right to invoice a total of MUSD 41 to the project and to convert this amount to B-shares with preferred dividend rights and no voting rights. The existing owners have a call option expiring in 2015 to buy back the shares at a predeﬁned price. The B-shares will be converted to ordinary shares in 2015. Based on the delayed completion of the plant caused by the contractor, negations regarding the ﬁnal settlement with the contractor for La Higuera are still ongoing, including the issuance of the above mentioned B-shares. SN POWER 83 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP Note AVERAGE INTEREST RATE 2010 2009 Bond loans in subsidiaries USD 5.8% 69 930 23 Bond loans in subsidiaries PEN 6.0% 43 083 Regular loans in subsidiaries 7.4% 202 631 86 093 LONG-TERM DEBT Back-to-back loans *) 1.8% 119 500 119 500 Loan from Statkraft 3.2% 34 294 34 623 Total debt 356 425 353 229 First year installment long term debt -38 318 -37 404 Interest-bearing long term debt 318 107 315 825 *) Back to Back loan have a corresponding cash deposit as collateral. PLEDGED AS SECURITY AND RESTRICTED FUNDS The SN Power Group has only non-recourse debt used to fund investments and capital expenditures for construction and acquisition of power plants in our subsidiaries. This debt is secured by the shares in subsidiaries in certain cases, physical assets, contracts and cash ﬂows of the related subsidiary. The risk is limited to the respective subsidiary and is without recourse to the parent company, Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS, or other subsidiaries. The terms of the SN Power Group’s debt, which is debt held at subsidiaries, include certain ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial covenants. These covenants are limited to subsidiary activity and vary among the subsidiaries. These covenants may include, but are not limited to maintenance of certain reserves, minimum levels of working capital, limitations on incurring additional debt and requiring SN Power to have indirect majority in the operating phase. At 31 December 2010 and 2009, approximately MUSD 11.6 MUSD and MUSD 12.3, respectively, of restricted cash was maintained in accordance with certain covenants of the debt agreements, and these amounts were included in bank deposits, cash and cash equivalents in the group balance sheet. SN Power Holding AS has at 31 December 2010 MUSD 41.2 as deposit in Citibank and MUSD 79.5 as deposit in Santander. The deposit is a collateral for a loan on MUSD 40 from Citibank and MUSD 79.5 from Santander to SN Power Chile Inversiones Ltda. Interests of MUSD 0.3 are also classiﬁed as restricted cash. Book value of pledged assets in the group amounts to MUSD 466 and the underlying commitment amounts to MUSD 313. Investment commitments are described in Note 14 Contractual commitments and operational leases. OFF BALANCE SHEET GUARANTEES AND OBLIGATIONS 31 DECEMBER 2010 Parent company guarantees 254 076 Property rental guarantees 551 Recourse guarantees 46 913 Remaining equity commitments, subsidiaries 68 000 Remaining equity commitments, associated companies and joint ventures 99 000 Sureties 42 000 Other 1 811 Total 512 351 84 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP Note 2010 2009 Payables to employees 1 409 2 821 24 Accrued salary and vacation expenses 3 937 3 240 Accrued costs and deferred revenue 8 001 9 204 SPECIFICATION OF OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES Accrued interest cost 1 329 2 073 Provision, current liabilities 430 4 122 Other current liabilities 1 337 2 563 Total other current liabilities 16 443 24 023 Note All subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures listed in Note 5 and Note 6 are related parties of 25 SN Power. Balances and transactions between consolidated companies are eliminated in the consolidated accounts and are not shown in the note. TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES SN Power’s Executive Management Team and board are also related parties of SN Power. SN Power is indirectly owned by the Norwegian government. There has not been identiﬁed signiﬁcant transactions and balances with the Norwegian government or companies controlled by the Norwegian government. All transactions with related parties have been carried out as part of the ordinary operations and at arm’s length prices. There has not been identiﬁed signiﬁcant transactions and balances with related parties other than what is listed in this note and in note 9. The income statement includes the following amounts resulting from transactions with related parties. TRANSACTION TYPE RELATED PARTY 2010 2009 Sales revenue Statkraft Group 61 94 Sales revenue Hidroelectrica La Higuera S.A 1 073 965 Sales revenue Hidroelectrica La Conﬂuencia S.A 887 280 Sales revenue Total 2 021 1 245 Other operating costs Statkraft Group 1 190 1 307 Other operating costs Total 1 190 1 307 Interest income Statkraft Group 107 294 Interest income Total 107 294 Interest and other ﬁnancial expenses Statkraft Group 1 236 1 273 Interest and other ﬁnancial expenses Total 1 236 1 273 SN POWER 85 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – SN POWER GROUP The balance sheet includes the following amounts resulting from transactions with related parties. TRANSACTION TYPE RELATED PARTY 2010 2009 Bank deposits, cash and cash equivalents Statkraft Group 50 657 Bank deposits, cash and cash equivalents Total 50 657 Accounts receivable Statkraft Group 32 22 Accounts receivable Hidroelectrica La Higuera S.A 77 709 75 814 Accounts receivable Hidroelectrica La Conﬂuencia S.A 32 144 166 Accounts receivable Allain Duhangan Hydro Power Ltd 68 1 904 Accounts receivable SN Aboitiz Power Magat Inc 1 285 1 313 Accounts receivable Manilla – Oslo Renewable Enterprise, Inc 1 187 4 247 Accounts receivable SN Aboitiz Power Benguet Inc 45 10 976 Accounts receivable Total 112 470 94 442 Accounts payable Statkraft Group 539 Accounts payable Total 539 Other short term liabilities Statkraft Group 383 532 Other short term liabilites Total 383 532 Long term debt Statkraft Group 34 295 34 727 Long term debt Total 34 295 34 727 86 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – STATKRAFT NORFUND POWER INVEST AS Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS Income statement FIGURES IN USD 1000 NOTE 2010 2009 OPERATING REVENUES AND EXPENSES Sales revenues 2 5 529 3 470 Total operating revenues 5 529 3 470 Salary and personnel costs 3 11 205 9 278 Ordinary depreciation and amortization 6 437 320 Other operating costs 4 12 724 11 161 Total operating costs 24 366 20 759 Operating proﬁt/loss -18 837 -17 289 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES Financial income 5 6 578 13 116 Financial expenses 5 -3 233 -13 154 Net ﬁnancial items 3 345 -38 Proﬁt/loss before tax -15 492 -17 327 Tax expense 8 NET PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE YEAR -15 492 -17 327 SN POWER 87 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – STATKRAFT NORFUND POWER INVEST AS Statement of Comprehensive Income FIGURES IN USD 1000 NOTE 2010 2009 Net gain/losses on hedging instruments 11 -1 197 -7 423 Pensions 7 1 119 -1 302 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax -78 -8 725 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax -15 570 -26 052 88 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – STATKRAFT NORFUND POWER INVEST AS Balance Sheet at 31 December FIGURES IN USD 1000 NOTE 2010 2009 ASSETS Fixed assets Intangible ﬁxed assets Project development 6 3 197 2 132 Software licences 6 36 88 Total intangible ﬁxed assets 3 233 2 221 Tangible ﬁxed assets Fixtures and ﬁttings, vehicles, other equipment 6 319 357 Total tangible ﬁxed assets 319 357 Financial ﬁxed assets Investment in subsidiaries 9 981 768 898 526 Total ﬁnancial ﬁxed assets 981 768 898 526 Total ﬁxed assets 985 320 901 104 Current assets Receivables Accounts receivable 89 247 Intra-group receivables 12 24 114 7 938 Current derivatives 1 858 2 297 Other receivables 1 668 1 305 Total receivables 27 730 11 786 Cash and cash equivalents 10 55 101 170 638 Total current assets 82 831 182 424 TOTAL ASSETS 1 068 151 1 083 527 SN POWER 89 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – STATKRAFT NORFUND POWER INVEST AS Balance Sheet at 31 December FIGURES IN USD 1000 NOTE 2010 2009 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY Paid-in equity Share capital 11 476 768 476 768 Share premium reserve 11 639 884 639 884 Total paid-in equity 1 116 652 1 116 652 Retained earnings Other equity 11 -91 510 -75 940 Total retained earnings -91 510 -75 940 Total equity 1 025 142 1 040 712 LIABILITIES Provisions Pension commitments 7 1 443 2 522 Total provisions 1 443 2 522 Other long-term liabilities Interest-bearing long term debt 12 34 294 34 622 Total other long-term liabilities 34 294 34 622 Current liabilities Accounts payable 1 363 1 189 Intra-group payables 12 919 530 Public tax payable 711 477 Other current liabilities 4 278 3 476 Total current liabilities 7 271 5 672 Total liabilities 43 009 42 815 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1 068 151 1 083 527 Oslo, 15 March 2011 Øistein Andresen Mark Davis Anne Vera Skrivarhaug Hilde Bekier-Larssen Chair person Director Director Director Tore Haga Halvor Fossum Lauritzsen Eli Skrøvset Egil Reinhard Gjesteland Tor I. Stokke Director Director Director Director Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 90 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – STATKRAFT NORFUND POWER INVEST AS Statement of Changes in Equity at 31 December FIGURES IN USD 1000 NOTE SHARE CAPITAL SHARE PREMIUM OTHER EQUITY TOTAL EQUITY At 1 January 2009 418 064 418 064 -49 888 786 240 Transactions with shareholders Issue of share capital 11 58 705 221 820 280 525 Transactions with shareholders 58 705 221 820 280 525 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax -26 052 -26 052 At 31 December 2009 476 768 639 884 -75 940 1 040 712 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax -15 570 -15 570 At 31 December 2010 476 768 639 884 -91 510 1 025 142 SN POWER 91 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – STATKRAFT NORFUND POWER INVEST AS Cash Flow Statement FIGURES IN USD 1000 NOTE 2010 2009 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES Proﬁt/loss before tax -15 492 -17 327 Ordinary depreciation 437 320 Forward exchange rate contracts in proﬁt and loss with no cash effect 11 -758 -8 546 Difference between this year’s pension expense and pension premium 7 72 817 Effect of exchange rate changes 12 -328 6 289 Change in accounts receivable 157 -28 Change in accounts payable 174 -23 Change in intra-group accounts -15 787 17 796 Change in other current assets and liabilities 637 -4 726 Net cash ﬂow from operational activities -30 887 -5 427 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES Investment in tangible and intangible ﬁxed assets -1 411 -326 Investments in subsidiaries -83 242 -112 162 Proceeds from realized forward exchange rate contracts 11 -2 589 Net cash ﬂow from investment activities -84 653 -115 078 CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES New paid-in equity 280 525 Net cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities 280 525 Net change in cash and cash equivalents -115 540 160 020 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 170 638 10 615 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 55 101 170 638 92 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – STATKRAFT NORFUND POWER INVEST AS Notes to the accounts Figures in USD 1000 Note SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 1 The ﬁnancial statements have been presented in compliance with regulation regarding simpliﬁed IFRS dated 21 January 2008. The ﬁnancial statements consist of income statement, statement of comprehensive income, balance sheet, cash ﬂow statement and notes to the accounts. ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The ﬁnancial statement gives a true and fair view of assets and liabilities, ﬁnancial position and result. CLASSIFICATION Assets and liabilities related to the normal operating cycle are classiﬁed as current assets and current liabilities. Receivables and liabilities not related to the normal operating cycle are classiﬁed as current if they are of a short-term nature, normally due within one year. Shares and other investments not intended for continued use or ownership are classiﬁed as current assets. Other assets are classiﬁed as ﬁxed assets and other liabilities as long term liabilities. REVENUE RECOGNITION Sales of services are recorded as income when delivered. Other operating revenue is recognized to the extent that it is probable that the economic beneﬁts will ﬂow to the company and the revenue can be reliably measured. FOREIGN CURRENCY Functional currency for the company is USD. Foreign currency monetary items are translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet. Foreign currency gains and losses are reported in the income statement under the line items ﬁnancial income or ﬁnancial expenses. The company makes use of currency swaps and forward contracts to hedge part of the currency exposure related to investments in subsidiaries and associated companies in the SN Power group, and hedges are made against USD. The currency contracts are valued at fair value based on the spot element of the contracts and recorded as hedging instruments. The ﬂuctuation in value due to changes in exchange rates is recorded directly against equity. The interest element of the contracts are separated and charged to the income statement. INVESTMENTS Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for using the cost method. The investments are recorded at the acquisition price of the shares. When it is assumed that the asset value is lower than its carrying value, the asset is written down to recoverable amount. Previously recognized impairment loss is reversed only if there have been changes in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. Dividends from subsidiaries are recognized when earned and not in the year when payment takes place. If an appropriation exceeds the proportion of retained proﬁt after acquisition, the excess amount represents a repayment of invested capital, and the appropriation is deducted from the value of the investment in the balance sheet. TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS Tangible ﬁxed assets and intangible assets are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and write-downs. Tangible ﬁxed assets and intangible assets with limited useful lives are depreciated over the expected useful life. Tangible ﬁxed assets and intangible assets are written down if the balance sheet value exceeds the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of net sales value and the SN POWER 93 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – STATKRAFT NORFUND POWER INVEST AS present value of future cash ﬂows expected to be generated. Write-downs are reversed if the basis for the write-down is no longer present. Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development costs related to project development are capitalized only if future economic beneﬁts from the development of an intangible asset is probable, and if the costs can be invoiced down to the project company. Development costs will often be capitalized when a construction project is more probable than not, but no formal investment decision has yet been made. LEASING Leasing agreements are classiﬁed as ﬁnancial or operational based on the actual content of the agreement. Agreements transferring substantially all the ﬁnancial rights and obligations related to the leased object to Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS are classiﬁed as ﬁnancial. Other lease agreements are classiﬁed as operational and the annual leasing fee is charged to expense as a leasing expense. TRADE RECEIVABLES Trade receivables are measured at realizable value. Provisions are made for bad debts. INCOME TAXES The tax charge is calculated from the proﬁt (loss) before tax and comprises current taxes and the change in deferred taxes. On basis of an interpretation from Department of Finance, the taxes are calculated on basis of NOK as functional currency and not USD as in the ﬁnancial statements. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated in accordance with the liability method without discounting and provided for all differences between the carrying amount in the balance sheet and the tax base of assets and liabilities, and for unused tax losses. Deferred tax assets are recognized only when it is expected that the beneﬁt can be utilized through sufﬁcient taxable proﬁts from expected future earnings. PENSION COST Pension liabilities related to deﬁned beneﬁt plans are measured at the net present value of future pension beneﬁts earned at the balance sheet date and calculated on the basis of assumptions for, among others, the discount rate, expected future wage growth and pension adjustments. Plan assets are measured at fair value. Net pension liabilities related to under-funded plans are recorded as provisions, while the net assets of over-funded plans are recorded in ﬁnancial ﬁxed assets. Net pension expense, which is gross pension expense less the expected return on plan assets adjusted for past service cost and the effects of changes in estimates, are included in salary and personnel costs. Changes in pension liabilities due to amendments in pension plans are included in net pension expense over the vesting period or immediately if the beneﬁts are immediately vested. Changes in pension liabilities and plan assets, due to changes in and deviations from the calculation assumptions, are recorded in equity. In the case of pension plans that are deﬁned as contribution plans for accounting purposes the premiums are charged to pension expenses for the period. CASH FLOW STATEMENT The cash ﬂow statement is prepared using the indirect method. Cash and cash equivalents include cash, bank deposits and other monetary instruments with a maturity of less than three months at the date of purchase. 94 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – STATKRAFT NORFUND POWER INVEST AS Note BY BUSINESS AREA 2010 2009 02 Services 5 529 3 470 Total 5 529 3 470 SALES REVENUES BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET 2010 2009 Norway 847 590 South America 49 1 214 Asia 4 633 1 666 Total 5 529 3 470 Note SALARY AND PERSONNEL COSTS 2010 2009 03 Salary expenses 8 043 6 135 Social security costs 1 277 1 019 Pension costs (note 7) 1 357 1 832 Other employee beneﬁts 302 127 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSES, MANAGEMENT REMUNERATION AND AUDIT FEE Other personnel costs 226 165 Total salary and personnel costs 11 205 9 278 THE AVERAGE NUMBER OF MAN-YEARS 2010 2009 Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS 45 42 Remuneration to leading employees The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer received a salary of TNOK 1 930 (TUSD 319), paid pension premium of TNOK 223 (TUSD 37) and other renumeration of TNOK 154 (TUSD 25) in 2010. Average rate 2010 is used when conversion of NOK to USD. There are no contingent liabilities related to end of employment. Remuneration paid by Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS to its Directors in 2010 amounts to NOK 321 000 ( USD 53 100). AUDITOR 2010 2009 Statutory audit 74 79 Other assurance services Tax services 65 Non-audit services 11 Total fees to auditors 139 90 SN POWER 95 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – STATKRAFT NORFUND POWER INVEST AS Note 4 OTHER OPERATING COSTS 2010 2009 Leasing premises 776 911 External services 5 408 4 280 OTHER OPERATING COSTS Group services 228 431 Travel expenses 2 474 2 446 Other costs 3 838 3 094 Total other operating costs 12 724 11 161 Note 5 OTHER FINANCIAL INCOME 2010 2009 Group contribution 1 860 Interest income 115 522 FINANCIAL ITEMS Interest income on foreign exchange contracts 1 143 968 Gain on foreign exchange 577 5 271 Gain on settlement of foreign exchange contracts 2 126 Change in market value on foreign exchange contracts 758 6 355 Total other ﬁnancial income 6 578 13 116 OTHER FINANCIAL EXPENSES 2010 2009 Interest expenses Statkraft loan 1 091 1 107 Loss on foreign exchange 732 6 828 Other ﬁnancial expenses 131 140 Change in market value on foreign exchange contracts 1 283 Interest expenses on foreign exchange contracts -3 5 078 Total other ﬁnancial expenses 3 233 13 154 FUNCTIONAL CURRENCY Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS’s functional currency and reporting currency is USD. Note 6 TANGIBLE ASSETS FURNITURES, OFFICE FIXTURES OFFICE EQUIPMENT TOTAL Acquisition cost 1 January 2010 560 349 909 FIXED ASSETS Additions 97 4 101 Disposals Acquisition cost 31 December 2010 656 353 1 010 Accumulated amortization at 31 December 2010 -366 -325 -691 Book value 31 December 2010 291 28 319 Amortization for the year 83 56 139 Estimated economic life 3-10 yrs 3-10 yrs Depreciation method linear linear 96 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – STATKRAFT NORFUND POWER INVEST AS PROJECT SOFTWARE INTANGIBLE ASSETS DEVELOPMENT (*) LICENCES TOTAL Acquisition cost 1 January 2010 2 132 277 2 409 Additions 1 311 1 311 Disposals Acquisition cost 31 December 2010 3 443 277 3 720 Accumulated amortization at 31 December 2010 -246 -240 -486 Book value 31 December 2010 3 197 36 3 233 Amortization for the year 246 52 298 Estimated economic life N/A 3 5 yrs Depreciation method N/A linear *The category Project developement above includes capitalized costs on projects that has a probability of more than 50% of being carried out, but where the formal decision has not been made yet. When the formal decision to carry out the investment has been made, the costs will in most cases be invoiced and capitalized in the project developement company. Note Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS has pension schemes that cover a total of 46 staff members, and 07 comply with norwegian regulations on mandatory pension. The pension plan confers the right to deﬁned future beneﬁts, that mainly depend on the vesting period, the level of pay at retirement and the size of state pension beneﬁts. These obligations are partially covered by a closed plan for 7 employees in the PENSIONS Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund (SPK) and through a group pension scheme with Nordea Liv. In addition, executive employees have a supplementary plan. This plan confers a right to a pension of 66% of the salary from 12G up to 20G from the age of 65 years. The plan requires 30 years vesting period and is from 2007 funded by the company. Actuarical gains/losses are recognized in equity, and the accumulated effect in 2010 amounts to TUSD 184. ASSUMPTIONS The following assumptions were used in calculating the current year’s pension costs and liabilities: 2010 2009 Discount rate 3.7% 4.4% Expected rate of return 5.6% 5.6% Regulation of salary 4.0% 4.5% Regulation of pension 0.2% 2.1% Regulation of base rate 3.8% 4.0% Turnover 3.5% 3.5% PENSION COSTS FUNDED UNFUNDED SPK 2010 2009 Net present value of the current year’s pension earnings 1 032 129 180 1 341 1 588 Interest rate and administrative costs 112 9 149 269 244 Gross pension costs 1 143 139 329 1 611 1 832 Return on pension plan assets -145 -112 -257 -271 Amortization of passed service costs and gains/losses -217 -217 48 Administration costs 23 3 26 Accrued social security cost 144 20 31 195 222 Net pension costs 1 165 158 34 1 357 1 832 SN POWER 97 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – STATKRAFT NORFUND POWER INVEST AS PENSION LIABILITIES FUNDED UNFUNDED SPK 2010 2009 Pension liabilities 3 480 352 2 990 6 822 6 860 Pension plan assets 2 784 2 744 5 528 4 589 Calculated pension liabilities 696 352 246 1 294 2 268 Past service cost -33 -33 -67 Social security cost 98 50 35 182 320 Net pension liabilities 795 402 247 1 443 2 522 MOVEMENT IN ACTURIAL GAINS/LOSSES RECOGNIZED DIRECTLY IN EQUITY FUNDED UNFUNDED SPK 2010 2009 Accumulated amount recognized directly in equity before tax 1 January -434 -117 -751 -1 302 Translation effects 4 1 7 13 Recognized in the period 473 53 581 1 106 -1 302 Accumulated amount recognized directly in equity before tax 31 December -184 -1 302 Deferred tax related to acturial gain/loss recognized directly in equity Accumulated amount recognized directly in equity after tax -184 -1 302 Note 2010 2009 08 Proﬁt before tax -15 492 -17 327 Expected tax expense at a nominal rate of 28% 4 338 4 852 Effect on taxes of: Permanent proﬁt and loss differences between USD accounts and tax accounts in TAX NOK translated to USD at average rate 2010 -1 592 11 964 Exchange rate effect of closing balance rate vs. average rate (of the above) 100 1 494 Permanent differences -57 -64 Change in market value on foreign exchange contracts 217 2 468 Tax loss carried forward -2 778 -20 110 Group contribution -523 Changes in temporary differences 295 -603 This year’s tax expense 0 -0 Tax rate 0% 0% 2010 2009 Fixed assets -121 -119 Pensions -1 443 -2 522 Tax loss carried forward -90 493 -81 343 Temporary differences 31 December -92 057 -83 984 Tax rate 28 % 28 % Deferred tax asset 31 December Deferred tax asset is recognized based on an expectation about a future taxable proﬁt. Based on Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS’s operations, future income will primarily not be taxable. Accordingly, deferred tax asset can not be utilized in 2010 and have not been recognized in the company’s balance sheet. Tax loss carried forward at 31 December 2010 amounts to NOK 527 747 977. 98 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – STATKRAFT NORFUND POWER INVEST AS Note The following subsidiaries are included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements: 09 DATE OF BUSINESS COUNTRY OF REGISTRAMAIN PARENT VOTING OWNERSHIP COMPANY ESTABL. OFFICE TION OPERATIONS COMPANY SHARE SHARE 27 May InvestStatkraft Norfund SN Power Holding AS 2003 Oslo Norway ment Power Invest AS 100.0 % 100.0 % SUBSIDIARIES 13 JanuInvestStatkraft Norfund SN Power AfriCA AS ary 2009 Oslo Norway ment Power Invest AS 51.0 % 45.9 % 07 April InvestStatkraft Norfund SN Power Brasil AS 2010 Oslo Norway ment Power Invest AS 100.0 % 100.0 % Shares in subsidiaries are recorded in accordance with the cost method in the balance sheet of Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS. COMPANY PAID-IN CAPITAL NOK PAID-IN CAPITAL USD SN Power Holding AS 5 484 374 000 945 921 553 SN Power AfriCA AS 162 945 000 26 710 265 SN Power Brasil AS 56 483 000 9 136 002 Note GUARANTEES: 10 Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS has on behalf of associates and subsidiaries granted guarantees for a total amount of MUSD 303 pr 31 December 2010. Guarantees related to projects under development amounts to MUSD 49 for associated companies and MUSD 237 for subsidiaries. The company has also a GUARANTEES, CASH AND CASH premises rent guarantee amounted to MUSD 0.5. EQUIVALENTS CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS: 2010 2009 Cash bank deposits 54 463 170 164 Restricted bank deposits – witholding tax employees 638 474 Total cash and cash equivalents 55 101 170 638 Note SHARE CAPITAL SHARE PREMIUM OTHER EQUITY TOTAL EQUITY 11 Equity 1 January 2010 476 768 639 884 -75 940 1 040 712 Pensions 1 119 1 119 Foreign currency translation effects on forward exchange rate contracts -1 197 -1 197 SHARE CAPITAL, SHAREHOLDER This year’s net proﬁt/loss -15 492 -15 492 INFORMATION AND FX HEDGE CONTRACTS Equity 31 December 2010 476 768 639 884 -91 510 1 025 142 Nominal value per share is NOK 100. All issued shares have equal voting rights and are equally entitled to dividend. No dividend will be paid out for 2010. FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTRACTS Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS makes use of currency swaps and forward contracts to hedge part of the currency exposure related to the investment in subsidiaries and associated companies in SN Power Group. As a result of the changed ﬁnance policy in the Group, new investments will not be hedged without a closer evaluation. SN POWER 99 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – STATKRAFT NORFUND POWER INVEST AS The currency contracts are valued at fair value based on the spot element of the contracts and recorded as hedging instruments. Variations in the value of the contracts owing to changes in exchange rates are therefore not recorded in the income statement but directly against other comprehensive income. The interest element in the contracts is separated and charged to the income statement. For 2010 this amounted to TUSD 1 143. 2010 2009 Forward exchange rate contracts at 1 January 2 297 -1 416 Forward exchange rate contracts at 31 December 1 858 2 297 Movement in market values of forward exchange rate contracts -438 3 712 Movement in market values of forward exchange rate contracts recognized in income statement 758 8 546 Movement in market values of forward exchange rate contracts recorded against other equity -1 197 -4 833 Movement in market values of forward exchange rate contracts -438 3 712 Movement in market values of forward exchange rate contracts recorded against other equity -1 197 -4 833 Realized contracts recorded against other equity -2 589 Net recorded against equity -1 197 -7 423 Movement in market values of forward exchange rate contracts recognized in income statement 758 8 546 Loss on realized contracts recognized in income statement -1 283 Gain on realized contracts recognized in income statement 2 126 -2 191 Net recognized in proﬁt and loss 1 601 6 355 Number Owner and SHAREHOLDERS 31 DECEMBER 2010 of shares: voting share Statkraft AS 16 026 206 60 % Norfund 10 684 137 40 % Total 26 710 343 100 % Note All subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are related parties of Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS, 12 refer note 25 of SN Power Group. SN Power’s Executive Managment Team and board are also related parties of Statkraft Norfund Invest AS. TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES Statkraft Norfund Invest AS is indirectly owned by the Norwegian government. There has not been identiﬁed signiﬁcant transactions and balances with the Norwegian government or companies controlled by the Norwegian government. All transactions with related parties have been carried out as part of the ordinary operations and at arm’s length prices. There has not been identiﬁed signiﬁcant transactions with related parties other than what is listed in this note and in note 3. 100 SN POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – STATKRAFT NORFUND POWER INVEST AS INTERCOMPANY SHORT TERM RECEIVABLES 2010 2009 SN Power Holding AS 21 311 SN Power Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd. 222 6 127 SN Power Peru Holding S.R.L 8 51 SN Power Peru S.A. 125 SN Power Chile Inversiones Electricas Ltda. 1 193 1 248 Norvind S.A. SN Power India Pvt. Ltd. 505 Himal Power Ltd. 456 21 SN Power Global Services Pte. Ltd 161 46 SN Power Africa AS 258 320 Total 24 114 7 938 INTERCOMPANY SHORT TERM PAYABLES 2010 2009 SN Power Peru Holding S.R.L 1 SN Power AfriCA AS 35 SN Power Holding AS 813 93 SN Power Holding Singapore 64 32 SN Power Global Services Pte. Ltd 6 130 SN Power Chile Inversiones Electricas Ltda. 275 Total 919 530 INTEREST-BEARING LONG TERM DEBT 2010 2009 Statkraft AS 34 294 34 622 Total 34 294 34 622 SN POWER 101 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OVERVIEW OUTLOOK OPERATIONS AND LOCATIONS ORGANISATION OUR RESULTS – STATKRAFT NORFUND POWER INVEST AS (Translation from the original Norwegian version) To the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of Statkraft Norfund Power Invest AS INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL audit. We conducted our audit in accordOpinion on the financial statements for the STATEMENTS ance with laws, regulations, and auditing group We have audited the accompanying finanstandards and practices generally accepted In our opinion, the financial statements of cial statements of Statkraft Norfund Power in Norway, including International Standthe group give a true and fair view of the Invest AS, which comprise the financial ards on Auditing. Those standards require financial position of the group Statkraft statements for the parent company and that we comply with ethical requirements Norfund Power Invest AS as at 31 Decemthe financial statements for the group. The and plan and perform the audit to obtain ber 2010, and of its financial performance financial statements for the parent comreasonable assurance about whether the and its cash flows for the year then ended pany comprise the balance sheets as at 31 financial statements are free from material in accordance with International Financial December 2010, the income statement, the misstatement. Reporting Standards as adopted by EU. statement of comprehensive income, the statement of changes in equity and cash An audit involves performing procedures REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND flow statement for the year then ended and to obtain audit evidence about the amounts REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS a summary of significant accounting poliand disclosures in the financial statements. Opinion on the Board of Directors’ report cies and other explanatory information. The The procedures selected depend on the and the coverage of the loss financial statements for the group comprise auditor’s judgment, including the assessBased on our audit of the financial statethe balance sheets as at 31 December 2010, ment of the risks of material misstatement ments as described above, it is our opinion the income statement, the consolidated of the financial statements, whether due to that the information presented in the Board statement of comprehensive income, the fraud or error. In making those risk assessof Directors report concerning the financial consolidated statement of changes in ments, the auditor considers internal constatements and the going concern assumpequity and cash flow statement for the year trol relevant to the entity’s preparation and tion, and the proposal for the coverage of then ended, and a summary of significant fair presentation of the financial statements the loss complies with the law and regulaaccounting policies and other explanatory in order to design audit procedures that are tions and that the information is consistent information. appropriate in the circumstances, but not with the financial statements. for the purpose of expressing an opinion The Board of Directors and the Managing on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal Opinion on Registration and Director’s Responsibility for the Financial control. An audit also includes evaluating Documentation Statements the appropriateness of accounting policies Based on our audit of the financial stateThe Board of Directors and the Chef Execuused and the reasonableness of accounting ments as described above, and control tive Officer is responsible for the preparaestimates made by management, as well as procedures we have considered necessary in tion and fair presentation of these financial evaluating the overall presentation of the accordance with the International Standard statements in accordance with simplified financial statements. on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, application of international accounting «Assurance Engagements Other than Audits standards according to the Norwegian We believe that the audit evidence we have or Reviews of Historical Financial Informaaccounting act § 3-9 for the company obtained is sufficient and appropriate to tion», it is our opinion that the company’s accounts and in accordance with Internaprovide a basis for our audit opinion. management has fulfilled its duty to protional Financial Reporting Standards as duce a proper and clearly set out registraadopted by EU for the group accounts, and Opinion on the financial statements for the tion and documentation of the company’s for such internal control as The Board of parent company accounting information in accordance with Directors and the Chief Executive Officer In our opinion, the financial statements the law and bookkeeping standards and determines is necessary to enable the prepaof the parent company give a true and fair practices generally accepted in Norway. ration of financial statements that are free view of the financial position of Statkraft from material misstatement, whether due to Norfund Power Invest AS as at 31 December Oslo, 15 March 2011 fraud or error. 2010, and of its financialperformance and Deloitte AS its cash flows for the year then ended in Auditor’s Responsibility accordance with simplified application of Aase Aa. Lundgaard (signed) Our responsibility is to express an opinion international accounting standards accordState Authorised Public Accountant on these financial statements based on our ing to the Norwegian accounting act § 3-9. (Norway) SN Power Head Ofﬁce Lilleakerveien 8 0283 Oslo, Norway Ph: + 47 24 06 86 20 Fax: +47 24 06 86 21 Email: info@snpower.no www.snpower.com For more information about our reporting proﬁle, check annualreport2010.snpower.com Design and production: Itera Gazette Photo: ©Plattform/Johnér (cover, 1), ©Per Mäkitalo/ Johnér (8–9), iStockphoto (12, 16–17, 36–37, 44–45), Yvonne Holth (14,18, 24, 30, 34, 38–39, 42–43). All other photos by SN Power Paper: Proﬁ Matt Copies: 2000 Print: TS trykk Ø M ERKE ILJ T M 24 16 1 TR 7 YKKERI www.snpower.com
