Ricoh Europe Sustainability Report 2011 Introduction Introduction 2 Corporate Activities 11 Environment 17 People 25 Society 29 Results Summary 35 Scope of this Report The Ricoh Europe Sustainability Report covers the operations and employees of Ricoh Europe PLC within the region of Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and is produced annually. This report relates to the fiscal year from April 2010 to March 2011. Ricoh Europe PLC is a wholly owned subsidiary of Ricoh Company Ltd. Ricoh Europe has approximately 17,000 employees working in 20 countries in the EMEA region. Ricoh’s manufacturing facilities are not part of Ricoh Europe PLC and together with partners and joint ventures are not included within the scope of this report. Further details of these activities can be found in the Ricoh Group Sustainability Report. Audited financial figures are published in the Ricoh Group Annual Report. Both reports can be downloaded from www.ricoh.com. We have completed a self-assessment of this report against the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and have allocated a “B” rating. Further details of this assessment are available in the “Results Summary” section of this report, and full details are available on our website, www.ricoh-europe.com. This report highlights Ricoh Europe’s performance during the fiscal year ended 31st March, 2011 and previous periods. The Company makes every effort to ensure the accuracy of the data included herein, but undertakes no obligation to update this data subsequent to publication. Your Feedback If you have any comments, opinions or suggestions regarding this report, please contact Ricoh Europe’s CSR Division at csr@ricoh-europe.com. Cover image: Ricoh Europe eco-board a billboard powered 100 per cent by wind and solar power 2 Introduction Chairman’s Statement Steve Saito Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ricoh Europe PLC Welcome to the fourth Ricoh Europe Sustainability Report which highlights details of our economic, social and environmental achievements during the 2010 fiscal year. It is an interesting time for European businesses, as we manage a range of challenges that are impacting the workplace now, and prepare for those in the future. These include changing demographics, an increased emphasis on sustainability, globalisation and new technologies, all of which will have an impact on the way we do business. Since our last report, we have been accelerating our focus on these challenges to help our customers be ready for the future. Our service-orientated business model means we partner with organisations to transform their business transactions and processes. We are going beyond helping customers drive down business costs, to supporting workforce collaboration and effectiveness across a business. The value we add to large and small organisations around the world is a potent combination of increased levels of productivity and profitability. As a result, businesses are more agile – able to respond to customer and market needs more quickly and effectively – and they are ready to face those challenges the future will bring. Corporate Social Responsibility is also at the heart of our company, and continues to be embedded into everything we do. Our sustainability efforts are driven by the actions of our employees, the way we manage our business and the support we offer to our customers. We have launched a dedicated Sustainability Optimisation Programme which focuses upon raising environmental awareness at customer sites and providing sustainable innovations that deliver energy and cost savings. As a result our customers can become carbon neutral across their document management processes. We believe in taking responsibility for ensuring a sustainable future for all. In the 1970s, when we began investing in our CSR programme, many did not see it as a priority. The evolution of our corporate social responsibility has progressed from going beyond simply meeting compliance regulations, to exceeding them. Today we combine ecological concerns with best business strategies to simultaneously drive sustainability and profitability. We are one of the few companies in our industry to commit to an extra long term environmental vision. By 2050 we will reduce our environmental by 88%, compared to impacts in 2000. We encourage a culture that embraces our CSR focus and we are continuing to work closely with our employees to help them recognise that all our actions can touch the lives of millions of people across the world. The launch of the new Ricoh eco-board near London, the first billboard in Europe to be powered by 100% sustainable energy, is another example of our long-standing commitment to being a sustainable business. You can read more details about the eco-board, our awards, strategy and activities inside this report. Thank you for your interest. 3 Introduction About Ricoh Europe Ricoh is a leading global provider of technology Ricoh’s core capabilities include: and services that help businesses be more productive and profitable. In recent years and Managed Document Services through a series of strategic acquisitions, Ricoh Streamlining information workflows and managing has positioned itself to become a service-oriented document processes, saving businesses time and company that transforms high transaction business money while ensuring their information security processes for our customers – continuously and sustainability goals are met. making them work better, together, for everyone’s Production Printing benefit. Offering the services, technology and support for commercial and corporate printing markets, Ricoh fuels productivity and profitability for enabling them to profit from new business. companies worldwide by developing enterprise Office Solutions scale business process solutions that bridge Designed to help businesses manage their disparate business departments, geographic document and information workflows, making the locations and technology systems. process more efficient, productive, secure, sustainable and ultimately, profitable. In streamlining document heavy processes, or IT Services managing them on behalf of its customers, Ricoh Covering all aspects of IT support – for end users, adopts an end-to-end approach, becoming a software and hardware – Ricoh frees its customers partner to its customers for the entire journey, from to focus on their core businesses, managing the IT initial consultation, to analysis, through to network for them. recommendations, training and implementation. Ricoh continues to work with its customers postTo find out more, please visit: implementation, to ensure continuous www.ricoh-europe.com improvement and success. Key Headquarters Ricoh Operating Company Supply Chain •Approximately 17,000 employees based in 20 countries •Turnover in FY2010 was €3.5 billion Ricoh South Africa Our locations in EMEA 4 Introduction Ricoh Europe’s Sustainability Strategy Ricoh has always focused on minimising its impact environmental responsibilities, and ensure we coon the world. So much so that Corporate Social exist in the communities in which we operate in a Responsibility (CSR) is ingrained in our corporate sustainable and respectful manner. values and integrated into the very heart of how we do business. Our CSR Strategy is defined in the “Ricoh CSR Charter” that was established in 2003 and The origins of Ricoh’s sustainability strategy can developed to integrate Ricoh’s core values and the be traced back to the Corporate Philosophy ten principles defined in the UN Global Compact developed over 50 years ago by our founder, into our daily activities. We take a three ‘P’s’ Kiyoshi Ichimura, in his twin vision: ‘To innovate on approach to sustainability: People, Planet and behalf of our customers and to pursue sustainable Profit. This ensures our business model is business practices on behalf of every life we touch’. maintained and continuously improved to support Today this vision remains an underlying principle in our CSR, business and environmental objectives. our business. We take a holistic approach to business, combining economic, social and environmental strategies that balance the needs of our stakeholders, enabling us to be a customer driven organisation that is innovative and profitable Planet Environmental – both now and for future generations. Protection We develop ideas to produce reliable and innovative products and services for our customers that generate profit for our shareholders. This People Profit means we add value as a business partner, Corporate Generation of provide a secure future for our employees and Social Sustainable preserve the resources of the communities around Responsibility Business us. (CSR) Results When we talk about “sustainability” in Ricoh, we are looking beyond managing our impact on the Three ‘P’s’ approach environment. For us, sustainability is about developing a business model that delivers lasting For seven consecutive years, Ricoh has been value for all stakeholders into the future. named one of the Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World – strong public With outstanding corporate success comes great recognition of our commitment to sustainability. In social responsibility. If we are to continue to grow addition to external recognition, we set tough and prosper in the future, we must strive to be a targets for ourselves. We achieved our aggressive best-practice example of corporate citizenship. Our target to reduce our CO2 emissions by 20% by the market-leading brands are dedicated to providing end of 2010 and we are on track to achieve our businesses worldwide with the advanced products long term vision to reduce environmental impact by and solutions they need to stay ahead in 87.5% by 2050. Through our Total Green Office competitive environments. We are equally Solutions, we are also helping our customers committed to fulfilling our economic, social and achieve their own targets. 5 Introduction CSR Steering Committee Supporting the UN Global Compact The Ricoh Europe CSR Steering Committee was Ricoh Company, Ltd. signed the UN Global formed in March 2008. The CSR Steering Compact (see below) in 2002 and is committed to Committee is chaired by Hank Sakai, Vice ensuring these principles are observed in all President, CSR Division, who reports directly to operations. To ensure this, Ricoh has defined the Steve Saito, Chairman and CEO of Ricoh Europe “Ricoh CSR Charter” and the “Ricoh Code of PLC. The Committee has representatives from Conduct”. These have been communicated to all Ricoh Europe Head Office and Operating employees and are expected to be actively Companies to gain a cross section of views and implemented and observed at all times. In ideas from our stakeholders and to maximise the December 2008, Ricoh Europe PLC signed the UN impact of our CSR Strategy. Global Compact to show Ricoh’s ongoing support and commitment to the development and The role of the CSR Steering Committee is to: promotion of a sustainable society.  Develop CSR policies and strategies that will effectively implement Ricoh’s CSR Charter, at both a European and local level  Co-ordinate the implementation of CSR policy and strategies across Ricoh EMEA  Agree and implement appropriate measures to report progress on the key initiatives The members of the CSR Steering Committee are: Hank Sakai (CSR Division, Ricoh Europe), Dianne McGowan (HR Division, Ricoh Europe), Greg Holder (HR Division, Ricoh Europe), James Deacon (Ricoh UK), Janice Gibson (Corporate Communications Office, Ricoh Europe), Javier Diez-Aguirre (Corporate Communications Office, Ricoh Europe), Kerstin Thies (Ricoh Germany), Martijn Wecke (Ricoh Netherlands), Mia Goetvinck (Ricoh Belgium), Patrycja Janczewska (CSR Division, Ricoh Europe), Roberto Ghibaudo (Ricoh Italy), Ko Fujioka (Ricoh Spain), Yasunori Naito (CSR Division, Ricoh Europe). The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 6 Introduction Business Excellence The RICOH Way Ricoh is a customer-centric organisation. “The RICOH Way” is a global philosophy and set Innovating and creating value for customers by of values shared amongst all Ricoh Group understanding and anticipating their needs and companies, and is the foundation of Ricoh’s daily expectations is Ricoh’s primary focus. business operations. It consists of Founding Principles, Mission, Vision and Values. The We use the EFQM (European Foundation for Mission, Vision and Values demonstrate Ricoh’s Quality Management) model as the framework to drive to provide excellence, innovation, continuous add value for customers, by defining customer improvement and value to its customers. They groups, maintaining an open and transparent define Ricoh’s commitment, dedication and dialogue, and involving customers in the behaviour as one global company. development of new and innovative services and solutions. Our customers’ experience and The Ricoh Founding Principles: perception of Ricoh’s solutions and services are The Spirit of Three Loves by Kiyoshi Ichimura, analysed, which allows us to continually improve Founder: our value proposition. “Love your neighbour”, “Love your country”, The EFQM Excellence Model is a framework that “Love your work”. can be applied to any organisation. The model measures how effectively an organisation develops Global Mission and implements its strategy, covering aspects such At the Ricoh Group, we are committed to providing as leadership, people management and excellence to improve the quality of living. development, customer focus, partnerships, process management, continuous learning and Global Vision Corporate Social Responsibility. All these aspects To be the most trusted brand with irresistible contribute towards organisational excellence, appeal in the global market. enabling the achievement of stated goals and objectives. We consider this to be a key tool for developing a sustainable business model, meeting the requirements of our customers and other stakeholders. Since 2000, Ricoh Europe has systematically used the EFQM Excellence Model to provide a holistic review of the approaches we have adopted and how effective these are at delivering our strategic objectives. The approach is used at a national level, within our Operating Companies, and at a pan-EMEA level to review our operations within the EMEA region. By 2004, our self-assessment processes were established and we began a programme to gain external recognition through EFQM’s “Levels of Excellence”. This has led to the majority of our Operating Companies being Global Values recognised through National and European To be one global company, we must care about Excellence Awards. In July 2010, Ricoh Europe people, our profession, our society and our planet. achieved a 5 star “Recognised for Excellence” We must dedicate our winning spirit, innovation across all operations in the EMEA region. and teamwork to sharpen our customer-centric focus, and we must also commit to the highest standards of ethics and integrity. 7 Introduction Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Charter To enable us to grow as a respected enterprise, all companies within the Ricoh Group must plan their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) within a consistent global framework and throughout all operations. To ensure this, the following principles are to be observed, with the proper social awareness and understanding, compliant with both the letter and the spirit of national laws and the rules of international conduct. Integrity in Corporate Activities Respect for People 1. Every company in the Ricoh Group will 6. Every company in the Ricoh Group will develop and provide useful products and maintain a working environment that is safe services, with high quality, safety, reliability and that makes it easier for its staff to perform and ease of use, while maintaining security of their duties, respecting their richly individual information and giving proper consideration to characteristics and encouraging their the environment. autonomy and creativity. 2. Every company in the Ricoh Group will 7. Every company in the Ricoh Group will respect compete fairly, openly and freely, maintaining the rights of all those connected with it, and normal and healthy relationships with political will seek to create a cheerful working institutions, government administration, environment, free of discrimination. citizens and organisations. 8. No company in the Ricoh Group will permit 3. Every company in the Ricoh Group will take forced labour or child labour, and none will responsibility for managing and safeguarding tolerate the infringement of human rights. its own information and that of its customers. Harmony with Society Harmony with the Environment 9. Every company in the Ricoh Group will, as a 4. Every company in the Ricoh Group will take good corporate citizen, actively engage in responsibility, as a citizen of the world, working activities that contribute to society. voluntarily and actively to preserve the 10. Every company in the Ricoh Group will respect environment. the culture and customs of its country or region, 5. Every company in the Ricoh Group, and all and will operate so as to contribute to their employees of each company, will seek to development. implement technological innovations that 11. Every company in the Ricoh Group will engage reflect environmental concerns and will in the fullest possible communications with participate in ongoing activities to preserve the society, seeking actively to provide proper and environment. unbiased disclosure of corporate information. For more information about Ricoh Global CSR strategy, please visit: www.ricoh.com/csr/foundation/index.html 8 Introduction External Recognition We are proud that Ricoh Europe’s activities in Corporate Sustainability have received the following external recognition: 2011  For the seventh consecutive year, Ricoh was selected as one of the Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World by Corporate Knights.  Ricoh was selected as one of the World's Most Ethical Companies for the third year in a row by the Ethisphere Institute.  Ricoh was recognised by FTSE4Good Index for meeting high standards for the eighth consecutive year. Ricoh’s environmental management approach was rated as “Best practice”.  Ricoh Italy was awarded a 5 star “Recognised for Excellence” from EFQM. 2010  Ricoh Europe achieved a 5 star “Recognised for Excellence” award from EFQM. The application covered all our operations in EMEA.  Ricoh Netherlands was awarded a 5 star “Recognised for Excellence” from EFQM.  Ricoh European Service Parts Centre was awarded a 4 star “Recognised for Excellence” from EFQM.  Ricoh Germany was awarded the prestigious Ludwig-Erhard-Preis for business excellence. The accomplishment acknowledges the excellent results achieved by doing business the Ricoh way – an approach that combines economic, social and environmental thinking. 2009  Ricoh UK Products Limited won the British Quality Foundation UK Excellence Award.  Ricoh Europe received the “Ruban d’Honneur” in the 2009 European Business Awards for “Corporate Sustainability”, recognising the impact of our activities within the workplace, the market, the environment and the community.  Ricoh Europe received the “Ruban d’Honneur” in the 2009 European Business Awards for “Environmental Awareness”, recognising the effectiveness of the policies adopted in reducing our total environmental impact and the extent to which these have been embedded into our culture. For more information about Ricoh Awards, please visit: www.ricoh-europe.com/about-ricoh/our-principles/awards/ 9 Corporate Activities 11 Corporate Activities “Our goal is to achieve the highest standards of global citizenship and compliance, both internally and across our partners and suppliers. We adopt a highly ethical approach to all our business activities, defined in our Code of Conduct, with extensive awareness and training programmes to ensure all our people understand their role in ensuring we meet these standards. Internal and external audits are used to review and continually improve the processes and controls we have established, in line with changing requirements.” Nicola Downing, Vice President, Legal Division Our Strategy Our strategy is to adopt the highest ethical standards across our business activities and our supply chain, as defined in the “Ricoh CSR Charter” and the “Ricoh Code of Conduct”. These define the standards, ethics and behaviours Ricoh Europe and our people should adopt in our daily business practices. These are supported by awareness training programmes to ensure our people understand how standards apply to their specific role. In addition, we have a rigorous Compliance Management Strategy, based on relevant legislation, regulatory standards and industry best practice. Regular internal and external audits are used to monitor compliance, ensure the validity and robustness of our processes and ensure our Management System is continuously reviewed and improved. Verification of Financial Results House in the UK and comply with the requirements of the UK Companies Act. These are compiled in line with the UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Ricoh Company, Ltd. accounts are compiled in accordance with the US GAAP. Full details of the financial performance of Ricoh Company, Ltd. are publicly available in the Ricoh Company, Ltd. Annual Report. KPMG conducts an annual audit of Ricoh Europe companies and of the consolidated annual financial results for Ricoh Europe Holdings PLC. In addition, European quarterly results are reviewed by KPMG. To ensure the accuracy and reliability of our financial reporting, all Ricoh Europe companies document their financial processes and map these to meet the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Ricoh Ricoh Europe PLC Headquarters, London Europe has also established controls to effectively manage financial risks. These processes are Consolidated annual financial results for Ricoh externally audited by KPMG to ensure compliance Europe Holdings PLC are lodged with Companies with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 12 Corporate Activities Customer Insight Ricoh Europe markets and delivers products and Specialist Surveys services directly through its National Operating People who have regular contact with us – like IT Companies (Direct Channel) and through a Managers, Account Managers, and our network of network of Distributors and Dealers (Indirect Dealers and Distributors – have a greater Channel). Our customers range from global knowledge of our products, solutions and services. accounts, like Fortune Global 500 companies, to small businesses. In addition to our daily contact, Our Operating Companies conduct regular, we use a range of surveys to gather feedback from targeted surveys to gain detailed feedback from our customer groups to help us to understand how this group, who can provide additional insight into we are performing, what additional services we how our products are working in practice. A range should develop and areas where we need to of research companies and tools are used to improve. We also ensure we ask the right collect feedback, depending on the topic, target questions to the right people. The key surveys audience and country. include: Event Driven Surveys European Customer Survey To fully understand the customer experience of a We launched a survey in 2007 to understand what specific action, we use event driven surveys. One is influencing the “decision makers” in larger example is the Service Call Survey, conducted by organisations (minimum of 50 FTE) when Marketii, an external market research company, for considering office printing solutions and suppliers. all our Operating Companies. The survey is This survey is run annually by TNS simultaneously triggered when a customer calls one of our Service across ten countries (Belgium, France, Germany, Centres and is completed within days of the call Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Sweden, being made. This provides us with an accurate Switzerland and UK). The survey gathers data on reflection of the customer experience. customer satisfaction with their existing suppliers. Complaints Management We do not like it when things go wrong, but we Customer Experience Steering Group also see this as an opportunity to learn and improve. We have processes in place to ensure European Specialist Event Driven any complaint is investigated and resolved as quickly as possible, firstly for the customer Customer Surveys Surveys Track Survey Implement Internal Improvements Performance Measures reporting the issue and secondly to ensure the same thing does not happen again. Decision Specialists End Users Maker Improving the Customer Experience Key Customer Groups This information, together with internal performance data from our Management System, Managing the Customer Experience is used to systematically improve the customer experience on a local, national and international The most recent survey was conducted in June basis. 2010. This showed that 73% of customers would recommend Ricoh and 73% would re-purchase from Ricoh. 13 Corporate Activities Total Risk Management Legal Compliance To ensure we meet the needs and expectations of To ensure our employees fully understand the our stakeholders, Ricoh has developed a number requirements of European legislation, over the past of policies and strategies to manage its corporate five years we have rolled out a comprehensive integrity. This includes legal compliance, training package for managers and sales maintaining ISO standards, managing business personnel, specifically focused on Competition and risks and upholding the Ricoh values and ethics, Contract Law. Our Legal team from across Europe defined in our CSR Charter and Code of Conduct. has run workshops on-site to explain our To coordinate our compliance and risk obligations under this legislation, with scenarios management approaches, we have developed the and case studies used to illustrate some of the “Total Risk Management” Framework. The points in more detail. In 2010, we ran more than 75 framework identifies seven key risk areas and the workshops across our European operations, with stakeholder groups affected by each. over 1000 people attending. The workshops have been supported by the Ricoh Key Risk Areas Training Academy through a web-based Management Risk Accident Risk Human Risk programme. At the end of the training, participants must complete a test to ensure they have understood the legal requirements and can apply Information Technology & Security Risk Product Risk those in a number of scenarios. So far, 2000 Total Risk Management (TRM) Framework employees have received legal training. Political & Social Global Risk Environmental Risk New laws governing bribery and ethical dealing Legal Compliance ISO Management Ricoh Code of and data protection are now in force and they have Systems Conduct a wide-reaching impact in all territories where Preventive Actions Ricoh operates. These and other existing pieces of Ricoh “Total Risk Management” Framework legislation will be a key focus for Ricoh in FY2011 as part of our ongoing compliance training The annual assessment brings together the programme. We have rolled out policy and specialist skills, experience and expertise from processes to ensure our staff are aware of the new across Ricoh Europe. This process enables us to laws and are able to continue to build strong annually review the effectiveness of our policies relationships with our customers within acceptable and strategies, minimise risk and ensure our parameters. By the end of FY11, our training practices are continuously reviewed, in line with programme will have captured all relevant the changing business environment. employees in all territories. Ricoh Europe is committed to delivering an end-toAs part of our commitment to global compliance, end service to its customers which includes we will audit our policies and standards across our consulting, ongoing process optimisation, services group and our company’s adherence to them. and technologies. To ensure a best-practice approach, we have developed comprehensive Procurement Quality Management Systems. All Ricoh Group We aim to minimise risk and maximise benefit factories and major Operating Companies have when undertaking central procurement for the gained the internationally recognised ISO9001 benefit of Ricoh. We adhere to Ricoh’s core values standard for quality management. Having reliable set out in our Environmental, Ethical and products is just one factor within the overall Corporate Social Responsibility policies during all customer experience. We provide dependable procurement activity. We work closely with our key consultancy, delivery, installation and after-sales suppliers to create relationships of mutual trust and services to ensure our customers get the right respect for the combined benefit of our respective products and services to meet their needs. organisations. 14 Corporate Activities The Ricoh Affinity Scheme builds on our supplier Information Security network to ensure that the benefits of negotiated With the development of core capabilities in competitive rates are passed onto our employees Managed Document Services, Production Printing, through employee purchasing schemes where Office Solutions and IT services, Ricoh is possible. increasingly trusted with the custody of our customers’ business information We have developed a central procurement toolkit containing key processes, template documents To provide assurance of our information security and checklists for procurement activity. It ensures performance, Ricoh is unique in its achievement of that we are meeting our stated procurement a global certification ISO27001, Information objectives throughout the procurement process Security Management”. Ricoh’s certification was from initial recognition of customer needs through established in Japan in 2004 (certificate number to post contract award, contract management and IS85241). A world-wide audit programme, benefits reporting. We report activity and benefits completed in December 2010, confirmed the to our business through a quarterly newsletter. second renewal of certification for the Ricoh Group, and marked the inclusion of the complete EMEA During the coming year we plan to focus on: region in the scope of the registered certificate.  Expanding the categories of commodity falling under group procurement arrangements to Ricoh Europe, in partnership with our Accredited realise savings and quality products and Certification Body, the British Standards Institution services for our business and to support our (BSI), is continually engaged in maintaining and customers improving our Information Security Management  Negotiating the best deals for Ricoh using System across the region. This involves change existing partners and customers where management activity to ensure that we continue to possible and appropriate which drive clear protect information as our business evolves. In benefits for Ricoh employees and customers 2010 this included the newly established Ricoh  Expanding our Affinity offering for our Sweden, as well as the relocation of the London employees Head Office in November 2010. Product Safety There are now 19 separate companies registered The health and safety impacts of our products are to the ISO27001 certificate, and two in assessed in all life cycle stages, from the development. All Operating Companies and the development of product concept, through distribution operation, Ricoh Europe Supply Chain manufacturing, marketing, distribution, customer Management, have a nominated manager use and finally collection and recycling. Ricoh responsible for developing, maintaining and Europe has developed a “Product Safety Issue continually improving the Information Security Handling Manual” and has distributed it to all its Management, in line with Ricoh Group policy. We Operating Companies. A self-assessment survey have deployed common policies, risk management was issued to make sure the manual was received, tools and security management techniques to studied, understood and applied by all Ricoh achieve consistent practice throughout the region. Companies. It is the responsibility of Ricoh Europe, The central team, based in our London Head its Operating Companies and Distributors to Office, supported and managed the roll-out ensure that this policy is applied by local programme and is now focused on ensuring the operations and any third party organisations that consistent application of Ricoh policy through provide services on our behalf. programmes of continual improvement, change management, audit and best practice sharing. 15 Corporate Activities Our next steps are:  To achieve greater efficiencies and effectiveness in protecting information across the region  To support the “focus on processes” that is a fundamental aspect of the business strategy for Ricoh worldwide  To harmonise and eventually integrate the management systems for Information Security (ISO27001), Environmental Management (ISO14001) and Quality Management (ISO9001) across the EMEA region. Whistle-blowing A whistle-blowing policy has been developed, giving all employees of Ricoh Europe access to a whistleblowing hotline. This was developed in order to further comply with Sarbanes-Oxley Act regulations which require companies to provide an anonymous whistle-blowing service for all employees to aid the prevention of fraud. All employees must have access to at least one method of reporting allegations of malpractice anonymously. Ricoh Europe’s whistle-blowing hotline reporting procedure is available to all Ricoh employees via the Intranet. It enables employees to report any instances of alleged fraud, financial malpractice or other issues that could affect the financial statements of the Company. 16 Environment 17 Environment “Let’s reduce to grow. ‘How we grow’ our business has become equally important to ‘how much we have grown’ in recent years. At Ricoh, we strongly believe that this is where our CSR policy plays its fundamental role. Our environmental conservation activities are specifically designed to reduce environmental impact not only in all our business operations, but also in our customers’ document management processes. Let’s reduce to grow together for sustainable future.” Yasunori Naito, Environmental Group Manager, CSR Division Our goals and strategy in EMEA We are committed to being a trusted business partner for our customers in both existing and new business domains by increasing their value in sustainability and reducing their environmental risk through our solutions. To fulfill this commitment we have set midand long-term environmental impact reduction goals in three areas worldwide:  Energy conservation and prevention of global warming  Resource conservation and recycling  Pollution prevention All Ricoh operations play an important role to achieve the following targets: Ricoh Global Targets 2020 2050 Energy Conservation (from FY2000 level) 30% 87.5% Resource Conservation (from FY2007 level) 25% 87.5% Pollution Prevention (from FY2000 level) 30% 87.5% Ricoh Group Mid and Long Term Environmental Impact Reduction Goals Energy Conservation and Prevention of Global Warming Ricoh Group aims to reduce the total lifecycle CO2 emissions (including emissions of the “five gasses” converted into CO2) by 30% by 2020 and by 87.5% by 2050 from the fiscal 2000 level. Resource Conservation and Recycling Ricoh Group aims to: 18 Environment Going beyond compliance Our assessment shows that 62% of the total life Ricoh activities are designed to reduce cycle impact comes from the in-use phase of environmental impact in the following two products at customer sites: categories:  Activities to reduce our own environmental The largest share of impact is when machines are impact through our Environmental being used by customers Management System o Comply with legal and standard requirements (ISO14001, RoHS, REACH, WEEE) o Capture and reduce our own environmental impact by unique tools (Environmental Accounting System, Self Sustainability Assessment Programme)  Activities to reduce our customers’ environmental impact through Total Green Ricoh: reduce environmental impact with a balanced mix of Office Solutions technology (hardware, software), services, and change management o Pre-use contribution – develop products with lowest possible environmental impact It is important to measure current environmental o In-use contribution – services to minimise impact to identify areas for improvement in impact (Sustainability Optimisation document management processes. Ricoh’s Programme) customer-centric consultancy service, the o Post-use contribution – reuse, recycle Sustainability Optimisation Programme, provides programmes unique opportunities for businesses to improve the efficiency of document workflows while at the same time taking a carbon balanced approach to Total Green Office Solutions reduce to managing information. It enables medium to large grow organisations to reduce environmental impact and We develop products with the lowest possible Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) by more than 30%, environmental impact. We do not compromise govern the sustainable performance of their productivity with less energy consumption, and we business documents, and neutralise any remaining, support our customers to change behaviours unavoidable carbon emissions. inside their organisations. The programme is a continuous improvement Ricoh: beyond Energy Star cycle consisting of five stages. First, Ricoh compliance analyses a business’s existing document 18.0 workflows and fleet, to understand the baseline 16.0 14.0 25% TCO and carbon emissions from paper and energy 12.0 consumption. Second, a plan is designed to 79% kWh <17.0 reduce TCO and carbon emissions, setting clear 10.0 8.0 kWh <12.75 6.0 4.0 kWh objectives including optimising the fleet, workflows 2.0 2.63 and end-user behaviour. Third, the plan is kWh 0 EnergyStar v1.1 EnergyStar v1.2 MP C4501 implemented. Devices with Eco Mode energyApr07-Jun09 Ricoh: Lowest TEC and lowest Since Jul09 saving settings are installed, workflows are recovery time 50 optimised, and end users are educated to enhance 45 their environmental awareness and to understand how to use the devices in the most sustainable Recovery time (sec) 40 C way – resulting in an average energy reduction of 35 30 B A 25 36%. The fourth stage of the programme involves 20 15 Ricoh MP C4501 continuous tracking of actual carbon emissions 10 2.0 3.0 4.0 TEC Value 5.0 6.0 19 Environment versus set goals. By analysing this data Ricoh can credits generated by clean energy projects in identify how each printing device is being used and which Ricoh has invested, creating a carbon implement improvements to drive further balanced printing environment. reductions in carbon emissions. The final step is to For details on the Sustainability Optimisation neutralise the remaining unavoidable carbon Programme and to download the Ricoh emissions. Businesses can offset these Sustainability Consultancy brochure, visit unavoidable carbon emissions through carbon www.ricoh-europe.com/reduce2grow Ricoh Green consultancy: Sustainability Optimisation Programme Process Analyse Design Implement Govern Neutralize Analyse Design Implement Govern Neutralize Portfolio Green Services Green Tools Green Products Chipboard cabinets Green driver Methodology verified by Progress with Ricoh Green consultancy... 88% >2,800 of consultancy green audits have engagements been conducted today include a across Europe green audit... since Q2 2009... 25% 35% TCO reduction is CO2 reduction achieved on is achieved on average after a average after a consultancy consultancy engagement... engagement... 20 Environment Customer Case Study: Logistics Award Case Study: Ricoh’s customer company Jan Krediet first Carbon sustainability programme wins top prize Balanced Printing case in Europe in prestigious good practice competition Jan Krediet is a logistics company based in the In 2011, Ricoh Europe won the top prize in the Netherlands. It was the first company in Europe to ‘EFQM Sustainability Good Practice Competition’ receive Ricoh’s “Carbon Balanced” certificate. for its customer focused Sustainability Optimisation Sustainability is a priority for the logistics industry. Programme. The Programme is a consultancy And in light of shrinking margins, increasing fuel service that helps businesses become carbon prices and international directives, combining neutral across their document management environmental activity with business efficiency is processes. Ricoh had the most online votes from essential. As such, sustainable business document the public and the EFQM judging panel of industry processes were an important focus area for Jan experts. It was announced as the winner during Krediet. the Learning Edge Conference in Brussels in June. The first step was to reduce the carbon footprint through optimisation of the machine fleet and to The awarding body sought excellent organisations gain initial benefits quickly through the ECO Mode, that have embedded sustainability within their Quick Start-up and double-sided printing. As a culture, have an ethical mindset, clear values, and result, the company also lowered its energy costs. the highest standards for organisational behaviour The next step was to compensate the remaining – all of which enabled them to achieve economic, CO2 emissions with carbon credits generated by social and ecological sustainability. Judging criteria UN certified projects in which Ricoh Company, Ltd. included demonstrating proven added value for has invested. It cost Jan Krediet just €166,88. This customers and inspiring others to become investment for neutralising CO2 emissions has innovative in their approach to sustainability. been easily recovered through savings achieved by the new, more efficient machine fleet. Ricoh fitted the criteria with its proactive approach Jan Krediet’s CO2 emissions were measured by to the environment, going beyond obligation to @Remote Green, and the total document volume aligning its activity with impact reduction and in 2010 was one million prints. profitability. With its Sustainability Optimisation Programme, Ricoh has demonstrated its focus on driving customer sustainability; raising environmental awareness at its customer sites and providing sustainable innovations that deliver energy and cost savings. 21 Environment Biodiversity: Reduction is just not enough for planet Earth Ricoh’s commitment to the environment goes beyond a vision of a sustainable future. It also includes a commitment to restoring the planet’s self-recovery capabilities by promoting biodiversity. This is why Ricoh has set “biodiversity conservation” as its fourth pillar of sustainable environmental management on top of “energy conservation and prevention of global warming”, “resource conservation and recycling” and “pollution prevention”. Biodiversity project in the Netherlands In 2010, the first edition of “Biodiversity Action Ricoh environmental conservation Handbook” was published to raise awareness among Ricoh employees. It includes a list of actions to support ecosystem recovery and avoid negative impacts on ecosystem conservation, as well as additional information on biodiversity protection. Ricoh Operating Companies in EMEA participated in a number of biodiversity activities to conserve nature in the past year. These included employees from the Ricoh Europe London Head Office taking part in a river clean-up project in South London, and employees from the Ricoh Europe office in the Netherlands helping to enhance biodiversity at Heimanshof, a local nature area. For more information about Biodiversity, visit: www.ricoh-europe.com/about-ricoh/ourprinciples/environment/biodiversity/ River clean-up project in South London 22 Environment Ricoh’s 100 per cent sustainable EcoBoard in London In June 2011, Ricoh unveiled Europe’s first ‘ecoFor more information about our Environmental board’, a billboard powered 100 per cent by wind strategy, visit www.ricoh-europe.com/aboutand solar power. The Ricoh eco-board is the first ricoh/our-principles/environment/index.aspx of its kind in Europe in having dual natural sources of power so that it illuminates only when sufficient power is collected, demonstrating our long term commitment to sustainable business. The European eco-board is located on the M4 motorway which runs from London to London Heathrow airport, the gateway to Europe. The ecoboard is powered by 96 solar panels and 5 individual wind turbines and forms a key part of Ricoh’s overall commitment to raising environmental awareness in the region. Travellers across Europe journeying into the heart of London will pass the eco-board which carries Ricoh’s Managed Document Services message – our sustainable approach to streamlining business processes and document workflows. The European eco-board joins Ricoh’s solar powered billboard launched in Times Square, New York last year, and a solar powered billboard launched in Sydney, Australia, in July 2011. Find out more at www.ricoh-europe.com/eco-board Ricoh eco-board in London 23 People 25 People “We embrace diversity, offering an environment where employees can be innovative, create new value, feel challenged, have a sense of achievement and grow through their work. We offer our people a learning culture where they are able to share ideas openly and work in an autonomous setting to move new ideas forward. The Institute of IT Training (IITT) has consistently recognised Ricoh’s Academy, which has won many awards in recent years, including Training Department of the Year in 2010 and 2011.” Greg Holder, Vice President, HR Division Our Strategy “The RICOH Way”, Ricoh’s global philosophy and set of values, promotes a customer-centric approach based on our commitment to the highest standard of ethics and integrity, a winning spirit, innovation and teamwork. Ricoh’s vibrant culture provides the opportunity for us to build on our strengths, and continually develop skills to anticipate and provide for the changing needs of our customers. Ricoh employees are encouraged to achieve their full potential, and to have personal development plans that link directly to the organisation’s goals. Through an open culture which embraces diversity and encourages innovative thinking and sharing of ideas, our people are empowered to play their part in transforming Ricoh’s business, and the business transactions of our customers. Through the Ricoh Academy, we develop and deliver a blended-learning approach, including online and classroom based training for our people and partners that is recognised by the Institute of IT Training (IITT) as amongst the best in the industry. We promote an open dialogue with our people, through forums like our European Employee Forum and annual Employee Survey, and use this input to actively engage our people in continuously reviewing and improving our people management strategies and processes. In addition, Ricoh promotes the continued professional development of employees through integrated learning and development programmes, and equal opportunities for all employees. Ricoh Europe Employee Forum To actively encourage an open dialogue with our employer of choice” and to attract the highest employees and their representatives, Ricoh calibre of talent to Ricoh. Europe established the European Employee Employees are nominated or elected by their peers Forum in 1996 under the European Works Council to become members of the local Employee Forum Directive. This allows us to share our plans for the or Works Council, based on local requirements, future, and ensure our people understand Ricoh’s meeting a minimum of twice per year. In the business strategy and goals. It gives our majority of EU-based Operating Companies, this employees an opportunity to share their views and provides a forum for dialogue and consultation concerns through qualitative feedback directly to between senior management and employees. European Senior Management. This approach Employee representatives from each country are underpins our overall objective of being “an invited to sit on the European Employee Forum, 26 People which meets annually with senior management. As gave a clear view of what is important to our Ricoh Europe has expanded, newly acquired employees. At a European level, members of our companies have been invited to establish local Executive Board sponsor improvement projects, arrangements – or continue with existing based on the priorities identified from the survey. arrangements – and to also join the European Improvement teams are also established by local Employee Forum. management to encourage employees to get involved and introduce new activities that will Minutes of the employee forums are distributed to increase internal engagement. In February 2011, employees through a range of communications we conducted the fourth annual survey to review channels, including the Intranet. Senior the impact of the improvements that had been management appreciates the opportunity and the implemented at a local, national and pan-European value of appropriate consultation, and the two-way level. dialogue is encouraged. As a result, there are many examples where initial plans have been Our survey consists of 25 attribute questions, improved following employee feedback. including topics such as leadership, communications, working conditions and personal development, focusing on what it feels like to work for Ricoh. The online questionnaires are distributed Employee Engagement in 14 different languages to ensure everyone is Research shows that employees can be satisfied able to participate in their native language. without being engaged. The term “satisfaction” implies a level of contentment with the current In the 2011 survey, the question “I’m satisfied situation; a passive state. The term “engagement” working for Ricoh” achieved the score of 3.7 out of implies active involvement. Employees who are 5. This compares favourably with the industry “engaged” with the organisation will actively benchmark figure of 3.4, provided by TNS, our contribute new ideas, innovative ways of working survey partner. and drive the business forward. They want to learn and improve; both themselves and their surroundings. They want to make the organisation perform better. To generate a culture of continuous Ricoh Code of Conduct improvement within a company, we recognise that The Ricoh Code of Conduct defines the it is important to actively engage our people in behaviours, values and ethics we will maintain as these activities (see diagram below). an employer and expect all our employees to follow in their day to day activities. It is distributed to all employees and we have included a question • Customer focused Loyal • Increased satisfaction in the Employee Survey to check that people • Brand ambassadors • Increased loyalty • “Can do” attitude Customers • Increased sales understand how the Code of Conduct applies to their job. The Code of Conduct defines our policies relating Engaged People Happy Shareholders to the CSR Charter, including political donations, corruption and any type of discrimination. Any infringement of the Code of Conduct is dealt with • Invest in customer service • Invest in training through our disciplinary process, in line with local • Attract & retain talent legislation. Virtuous circle In February 2008, we ran the first Employee Engagement Survey for all Ricoh Europe employees. It provided a baseline of our position at the start of a process of company integrations and 27 People Learning and Development We offer our people a learning culture where they We have established two electronic learning can access learning and development platforms, “WICE” and “eLinc”, to develop the skills opportunities to support their continued and knowledge of our people. These learning professional development. Training, networking programmes can also help employees achieve and various open forums encourage employees to internationally recognised certifications: share ideas openly and work in a collaborative  WICE provides dedicated self learning and setting to move new ideas forward. Not only do we online training packages for our technical recognise the importance of appropriate learning service engineers to develop their knowledge and development as a means of improving on the latest products, technology and employee contribution to Ricoh’s goals, but we software actively encourage continuous improvement and  eLinc is focused on our service and sales force, personal development of our employees to help providing online courses to develop product them achieve their immediate and longer-term knowledge and other skills career objectives. We support employees to:  obtain appropriate professional qualifications We are constantly developing and updating our and experience to enhance performance and learning and development programmes, courses grow in their current role, or for their further and content to meet the changing needs and development demands of our business, employees and  develop new techniques, knowledge and skills customers. We have been working in partnership in their specialist field, and anticipate trends in with the Institute of IT Training (IITT) in developing the broader environment our standards and have an accreditation  undertake appropriate training and programme in place across our major training developmental assignments to fulfil their organisations. potential. Our continuing focus is to ensure our employees Through the Ricoh Academy, we offer an are equipped with the appropriate skills, integrated approach to learning and development, competencies and personal development, to better which includes online and classroom-based serve our customers’ needs in a rapidly changing training courses across the EMEA region. environment with an increased emphasis on eLearning platforms and tools allow us to address consulting, project management and change a much larger audience with the most current management skills. information in a very short time in comparison to traditional classroom learning. A blended learning Ricoh’s Learning and Development professionals approach reduces the need for travel and therefore have a broad range of external accreditation and the overall CO2 footprint. Our eLearning platforms qualifications to ensure that the highest standards are also available to Ricoh distributors and dealers of development and delivery are maintained. to ensure that their service engineers can provide the same level of expertise as our own employees. If you would like more information about working at Ricoh, please visit: www.ricoh-europe.com/about-ricoh/ricohoverview/careers 28 Society 29 Society “We work with local and national partners to support community projects and we understand that our employee time can add great value within the regions where we operate. We recognise that involvement in such projects allows our people to use their skills and expertise to benefit others within their community, and to also learn more about themselves. It is therefore our policy to enable our employees to dedicate some of their working time to make these projects happen. During 2010, more than 20% of our employees were involved in community projects all around Europe.” Hank Sakai, Executive Vice President, CSR Division Our Strategy In line with the Management Philosophy established in 1936 by Ricoh’s founder, we seek to enrich the lives of the people around us through the professional expertise we provide and our personal daily actions. We have worked for a number of years with local and national partners across Europe on projects that benefit the local community. We encourage our people to use their skills, energy and ideas to make an active contribution to society through these projects and activities. While we also provide funding for many community projects, we recognise that the involvement and engagement of our people has a far greater impact on the local community than financial contribution alone. Moving Ideas Forward We take a proactive approach to encouraging our The Ricoh Europe CSR Steering Committee has employees to become involved in the community. developed a Community Involvement Policy which As a result, Ricoh Operating Companies and Head defines standard selection criteria for Ricoh Offices are engaged in local projects that allow community projects (see below). This ensures employees to use their skills to make a noticeable consistency across Ricoh Europe’s activities within difference in the local area. Involving our people the community. increases engagement and team working. Community Project Selection Criteria To be considered for inclusion in the “Moving Ideas International Projects Forward” programme, a community-based initiative must meet at least two of the following criteria: 1. Complement the core activities and / or core values of Ricoh Europe National Projects 2. Create added value to our society:  In relation to education among young and / or underprivileged people and / or Local  By making a positive impact on the natural Community environment Projects 3. Involve our employees to increase their commitment to Ricoh Range of Ricoh community projects 30 Society Global Eco Action Day In June 2010, Ricoh participated in the fifth Ricoh green services and the natural environment. Global Eco Action Day in support of the UN World Environment Day. All Ricoh offices around the world ran carbon and energy saving campaigns in which employees were involved both at work and home. The activity fully aligns with Ricoh’s environmental commitment to reduce CO2 emissions by 1% per employee per year. All Ricoh companies across Europe organised their own environmental initiatives designed to save energy and promote environmental awareness among employees and their families, such as switching off the lights, lifts, air-conditioning, Ricoh signs, etc. Some examples of activities include:  In Germany we organised a number of environmental activities, e.g. cleaning the area around the head office which resulted in the collection of 7m3 of rubbish; offering an Global Eco Action Day poster organic menu in the canteen; cycling to client  In the UK we conducted two volunteering meetings; adjusting the settings of 30 events. The first one was held at the Forest of refrigerators to save energy; and collection of Marston Vale, Bedforshire, UK, and involved clothes and donation of 70 bags to social 33 employees removing ragwort from the services. meadows, clearing nettles and planting wild flowers. The second event was held at the Riding for the Disabled Association Millers Nook Riding School, and involved 11 employees cleaning the stables and assisting during riding lessons. Ricoh Germany volunteers collecting rubbish  In Italy we ran the campaign “Make the world better through your thinking” during which employees were invited to make donations via company green boxes. The contributions were used to maintain a green area and Ricoh UK volunteers assisting in riding lessons planting activities around the office.  In Belgium we encouraged employees to use  In the Netherlands we organised guided lunch pubic transport or car-share with colleagues, walks in a nature reserve that is located in the which resulted in reducing CO2 emissions by vicinity of houses, offices and an industrial 108kg. Total Cost of Ownership lunch zone. presentations and an Eco Quiz were  In Norway we organised a mobility week organised to raise awareness of Ricoh’s competition promoting sustainable commuting to work. 31 Society  In Spain we held a competition for the best aiming to bring London's waterways to life. biodiversity photo. In total, 120 pictures were The employees removed litter from the river submitted and displayed in the office and its banks, and pulled out invasive species competing for the Best Picture Award. such as Himalayan balsam. ‘Eco-Warriors’ encouraged staff to save energy and paper resulting in CO2 emissions being reduced by 112.62kg. Best biodiversity photo, Ricoh Spain  In France we worked with ECOLOGIC, a governmental organisation, to set up a WEEE Removing litter from the river in London (Waste of Electrical and Electronic Equipment) collection point for Ricoh  Ricoh International, Ricoh Europe employees to dispose of batteries and (Netherlands) B.V. and Ricoh Europe SCM electronic waste such as vacuum cleaners, organised a ‘Tyre pressure’ checking service TV sets and DVD players on their way to work. for employees and visitors to ensure safe On the site, the ECOLOGIC volunteers driving, reduced fuel costs and lower CO2 explained to employees the appropriate way emissions. to dispose of electrical waste and various recycling methods. As a result of the initiative, 130kg of WEEE and 24kg of batteries were collected. WEEE collection point for Ricoh France employees  46 employees from the Ricoh Europe Head Checking car tyre pressure in the Netherlands Office in London participated in the “3 Rivers Clean-up” project organised in cooperation with Thames21, an environmental charity 32 Society Other projects carried out in the 2010 financial year across Europe included: Tree planting, UK In March 2011, Ricoh UK held its second annual tree planting event. 111 Ricoh UK employees planted 4,500 trees at the forest of Marston Vale in Bedfordshire, UK. Ricoh Europe employees supporting a London Primary School Nursery makeover, Hungary In October 2010, 90% of employees in Hungary helped to renovate a local nursery school during a two day volunteering event. Ricoh UK employees planting trees Cycle to Work, Germany In summer 2010, employees in Germany participated in the fourth annual three-month “Cycle to work” campaign, encouraging employees to go by bike to work to raise awareness about the environment. 85 employees covered a distance of more than 32,000km cycling from home to work. Painting the nursery school fence, Hungary Supporting War Child, Netherlands Since 2006, Ricoh Netherlands has supported War Child, a charity that protects children affected by war, through a number of campaigns. In 2010, this included organising a clothes collection in the office, producing War Child’s annual report and 100 employees participating in a race in support of War Child. Ricoh Germany employees cycling to work Volunteering, Ricoh Europe Ricoh Europe employees participated in a number of volunteering events, including renovating the outdoor areas at Cyril Jackson Primary School, London. Other employees worked with Southfields Community College, London to educate and raise awareness of healthy eating among pupils through games and cooking sessions in support of the UN International Volunteer Day 2010. Ricoh employees participating in “Running for Peace” race in Amsterdam to support War Child 33 Society Supporting children with heart problems, Fundraising, Spain France In 2010, a European Year for Combating Poverty Ricoh France supports Mécénat Chirugie and Social Exclusion, Ricoh Spain launched a Cardiaque, a charity organisation that helps Christmas Campaign and organised fundraising children with heart diseases, through a number of activities in the office. As a result, a sum of campaigns. In 2010, employees participated in €10,000 was donated to an international charity bike races, printed press packs and posters for the organization, Caritas, dedicated to human team “Cyclists of the heart” taking part in Tour de advancement and development. France 2010, and organised a Christmas sale at the Ricoh office. Ceremony of handing over a cheque to Caritas, Spain Cycling for Mécénat Chirugie Cardiaque, France Reforestation Project, Switzerland For the second time, Ricoh Switzerland, in Art & Marges, Belgium cooperation with a non-profit foundation Ricoh Belgium supports Art & Marges Musée (a Bergwaldprojekt, organised a volunteering day to museum that promotes disabled artists) in a prevent deforestation in mountainous terrains. number of different ways, including donating printers and MFPs, and by producing catalogues, posters and educational and commercial materials. Clearing the area around the trees to allow them to grow, Switzerland To find out more about our social actions globally, Educational activity with children in the Art & Marges Musée, please visit: Belgium www.ricoh.com/csr/activity/soc_harmony/index .html 34 Results Summary 35 Results Summary Key Sustainability Indicators The following results are the key indicators used by Ricoh Europe to measure the progress of our sustainability strategies and the initiatives described in this report. Integrity in Corporate Activities Source 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 GRI Turnover (€ Billion) Internal 3.5 3.3 3.4 3.5 EC1 Committed customers TNS Survey 47% 51%* 56%** PR5 Customers who would repurchase from TNS Survey 65% 68%* 73%** PR5 us Customers who would recommend us TNS Survey 68% 68%* 73%** PR5 Overall customer satisfaction TNS Survey 65% 63%* 68%** PR5 * The study included 9 countries ** The study included 10 countries Harmony with the Environment Source 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 GRI Total recycled & reused items (parts + Internal 190,936 210,427 228,692 247,576 297,049 EN26 toners) Paper used at RE offices (Reams) Internal 181,913 137,340 161,578* 147,005 147,087 EN1 General waste (tons) Internal 3,611 1,247 1,288* 1,291 953 EN22 Toner cartridge – recycling ratio Internal 93.0% 94.0% 94.3% 95.26% 95.02% EN2 Copiers / MFPs – recycling ratio Internal 98.0% 97.0% 97.8% 93.53% 97.64% EN2 Total CO2 emissions (tons) Internal 59,469 56,530 63,819* 53,423 57,503* EN16 Year on year reduction of CO2 (tons) Internal 7,959 2,939 -7,289 10,899 -4,080 EN18 * 2008 figures have been updated following the integration of Infotec * 2010 figure has increased due to Ricoh acquisitions Respect for People Source 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 GRI Employees satisfied working for Ricoh TNS Survey 70% 68% 67% Employee resignations Internal 7% 12% 2% 6% 8% LA2 Staff receiving appraisal Internal 75% 91% 56% 64% 90% LA12 Training days per FTE Internal 3.7 4.4 3.6 2.8 3.4 LA10 Accident rate Internal 1.0% 1.4% 1.3% LA7 Number of registered WICE users (direct) Internal 4,392 4,614 5,259 5,889 6,338 LA11 Number of WICE exams passed (direct) Internal 17,847 22,545 25,916 18,724 16,362 LA11 Harmony with Society Source 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 GRI Number of employees involved in Internal 1,660 2,861 3,478 community volunteering Total volunteer hours spent in the Internal 6,702 9,983 10,591 EC8 community (during working hours) Total charitable donations Internal €424,715 €683,737 €590,591 EC8 36 Results Summary GRI Assessment This report has been self-assessed by Ricoh Europe’s CSR Steering Committee and meets the “GRI B” criteria, as it includes more than 20 relevant indicators. Full details of this assessment are available in the CSR section on our website, www.ricoh-europe.com/about-ricoh/our-principles/csr/sustainability-reporting/ Level C Level B Level A Self-Declared Yes Third Party Checked No GRI Checked No About Our Brand Moving Ideas Forward. It’s the way we communicate our brand and encapsulates everything we stand for as a business. Through our shared expertise, and track record in innovation since we started in 1936, we are able to add real business value and identify new opportunities for our customers. This in turn helps our customers achieve their goals. At Ricoh, this is what we call Moving Ideas Forward. We understand that everything in life is connected. It is through our ability to make and understand these connections, and share this knowledge, that we move ideas forward. The inspiration for this can come from anywhere and it is something we are really passionate about. We bring our Moving Ideas Forward ethos to life through our connection in sports. Through partnerships with the tennis ATP World Tour and the Ricoh Women’s British Open golf tournament we illustrate our commitment to teamwork; it is this combined focus that helps us all to succeed. If you want to learn more about our brand, please visit www.ricoh-europe.com/about-ricoh/brand-sponsorship/ Your Feedback If you have any comments or questions about this report, please contact Ricoh Europe’s CSR Division at csr@ricoh-europe.com About Ricoh Ricoh Company, Ltd. (Ricoh Company) is a Fortune Global 500 company specialising in technology and services that transform high volume, document intensive business processes into more efficient ones. This is achieved through Ricoh’s expertise in Managed Document Services, Production Printing, Office Solutions and IT Services. By working with Ricoh, businesses can streamline the way they work, become more efficient and profitable, and share knowledge more effectively within their organisations. With a global workforce of 109,014, Ricoh operates in Europe, the Americas, Asia Pacific, China and Japan. Ricoh Europe Holdings PLC is a public limited company and the EMEA headquarters of Ricoh Company with operations located in London, United Kingdom and Amstelveen, the Netherlands. In the fiscal year ended 31 March 2011, revenues from Ricoh's EMEA operations totalled ¥413.9 billion (approx US$4.99 billion). Ricoh Company's worldwide sales totalled ¥1,942 billion (approx US$23.4 billion) during the year ended 31 March 2011. 37 Corporate Social Responsibility Division Ricoh Europe PLC 20 Triton Street London, NW1 3BF United Kingdom csr@ricoh-europe.com www.ricoh-europe.com
