The best way to build annual report 2010 The best way to build We create conditions that make living, working and travelling easy, safe and healthy. We are always searching for even better ways to build – and can draw on a hundred years of experience. Our skilled personnel keep the Lemminkäinen customer promise on hundreds of construction sites in Finland and the other Nordic countries, Russia, the Baltic countries and elsewhere in the world. They’re genuinely interested in our customers’ needs and want to provide them competitive solutions. Only through customer satisfaction can we create profitable growth and ensure that our personnel have a solid foundation on which to develop their expertise. We have traditionally been a leading expert in building construction, infrastructure construction and technical building services in Finland. In the future, we will be seeking growth from renovation, Russian residential construction and Nordic infrastructure construction in particular. Our net sales totalled EUR 1.9 billion in 2010. The Group had about 8,300 employees, of which about 30% work outside Finland. Lemminkäinen Corporation’s share is listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki. Lemminkäinen as a constructor Lemminkäinen is known for its expertise in building and infrastructure construction, technical building services, and building products. Now we are moving towards renovation construction. We are enhancing personnel competency, and thereby our efficiency. Energy and material efficiency are our key areas for development. We are also investing in occupational safety and well-being. Share of Group Share of Group Business Strategic role Strengths Market position net sales operating profit Building Residential construction, business and commerInvesting capital in our own development generLocal presence, residential construction in St PeFinland’s second-largest building constructor and Construction cial premises, industrial ates profit in a favourable tersburg, life cycle models, its largest renovator. 41% 61% and logistics construction, economic climate. renovation and building insports and leisure-time formation modelling (BIM). facilities, property development, project management, contracting, and life cycle projects. Infrastructure Paving, rock and foundation A stable result whatever engineering, mineral aggrethe economic climate. An infrastructure expert that can also handle largeThe largest company in Finland for paving and a major Construction gates, and road, street and scale projects. infrastructure constructor rail construction and maintenance. in the Nordic countries. 39% 26% Technical Building The installation and maintenance of technical buildMaintenance and upkeep services generate uninterLife cycle expertise and energy-efficient solutions. One of the three largest providers in Finland. Services ing and property systems, rupted cash flow. and telecommunications network construction. 12% 5% Building Products Roofing, concrete and sports construction. Integrated into Infrastructure Construction in 2011. An extensive range of high-quality products and Integrated into Infrastructure Construction in 2011. services. 8% 8% Lemminkäinen in brief Group key figures 2010 2009 ¹) Change, % OPERATING PROFIT, EUR MILLION Net sales, EUR million 1,892.5 1,965.5 –3.7 125 of which operations abroad, EUR million 543.5 527.6 3.0 100 Operating profit, EUR million 29.0 23.2 25.0 75 Operating profit % 1.5 1.2 Result before taxes, EUR million 6.8 –10.2 over hundred 50 Result for the accounting period, EUR million 1.2 –23.8 over hundred 25 0 Earnings/share, EUR 0.02 –1.54 over hundred 06 07 08 09¹) 10 Dividend/share, EUR 0.50 ²) 0.00 NET SALES, EUR MILLION Cash flow from business operations, EUR million –37.20 64.2 over hundred 2,500 Order book, EUR million 1,226.4 1,064.5 15.2 2,000 of which unsold 135.3 103.2 31.1 1,500 of which operations outside Finland 294.3 224.4 31.1 1,000 Return on investment, % 7.0 5.4 500 Return on equity, % 0.4 –7.6 0 Equity ratio, % 35.2 30.9 06 07 08 09¹) 10 Gearing, % 104.7 110.5 Funds, EUR million 26.3 74.4 –64.7 Balance sheet, eur million Interest-bearing debt 375.5 399.1 –5.9 Gross investments, EUR million 59.6 41.5 43.6 Personnel on average 8,314 8,626 –3.6 Accident frequency: x accidents / million working hours 36.1 36.2 –0.1 PERSONNEL, ON AvERAGE ORDER BOOk, EUR MILLION 10,000 1,500 8,000 1,250 1,000 6,000 750 4,000 Non-interest-bearing debt 16.7% Non-current assets 14.7% 500 2,000 250 Interest-bearing debt 17.6% Inventories 17.6% 0 0 Equity 15.7% Funds 17.6% 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09¹) 10 ¹) As from 1 January 2010, Lemminkäinen observes the interpretation IFRIC 15 – Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate in its reporting. The comparative figures for 2009 have also been calculated in accordance with this interpretation. ²) Board of Directors' proposal to AGM. Annual report in brief GRI-guide The way we work 6 Material and energy efficiency 46 Stakeholders 54 Management skills, leadership and training 56 Occupational health-care, safety and well-being 60 Review by the GRI-table 64 President and CEO p. 8 Business sectors p. 30 Strategy 2 Lemminkäinen as Personnel and society 52 28 a constructor 2010 in brief 4 Stakeholders 54 Building Construction 30 The way we work 6 Management skills, leadership and training 56 Infrastructure Construction 34 Review by the President & CEO 8 Technical Building Services 38 Occupational health-care, safety Personnel and well-being 60 Improvement in our operating environment 10 Building Products 42 GRI-table and Global Compact index 64 competence and Strategy: Lemminkäinen's renewal continues 15 Material and energy efficiency 46 occupational wellFinancial development 2010 22 Customers 50 being p. 52 Risk management 24 Responsibility in the procurement chain 51 Corporate governance Financial statements 80 66 and management Board of Directors report 2010 82 Corporate governance 68 Consolidated financial statement 91 Board of Directors 76 Parent company financial statement 144 Executive Board 78 Corporate Financial indicators 153 Board of Director's proposal for the governance and distribution of profit 156 Lemminkäinen Auditor's report 157 management p. 66 Shares and shareholders 158 Information for shareholders and investors 160 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 1 Strategy Our goal is to renew Lemminkäinen – to unify the Group as a profitably growing construction company. We are deepening our expertise in our current businesses and are seeking growth from construction growth areas, such as life cycle models and the Russian residential market. A strong financial position gives us room to manoeuvre, so that we can develop the Group, and also improves our risk tolerance. 2 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Strategy – © Voitto Niemelä – society and personnel – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 3 2010 in brief Stronger position in the Norwegian infrastructure market Residential construction in 22.4. Infrastructure construction in Norway is one of St Petersburg our strategic growth areas. We consolidated our 16.4. Trade centre construction 5.1. position through three acquisitions – Asfalt In the autumn, we completed a Remix AS (22 April), Risa Rock AS (4 May) and 498-apartment residential location in Mesta Industri AS (17 Dec). After the last acquiSt Petersburg as a developer-contracting sition in completed, we will be the second largest project. Our next locations will be in the surfacing contractor in Norway. Ozerki region of northern St Petersburg (7 June) and on Vasily Island in the city centre (16 April). Our target is to sell as many residences in St Petersburg every year as we do in Finland. We began the Prisma expansion in Kouvola (5 Jan) and the last construction phase of the Pikkutori shopping centre in Mikkeli (5 July). We also signed a continuation agreement for the complete renovation of the Kluuvi 23.4. shopping centre in downtown Helsinki (13 July). FIGBC Directed share issue 17.3. 13.35% We offered a share issue to institutional investors Mining contracts We are one of the founding members of the Green Building Council Finland (FIGBC), a construction and property industry network dedicated to sustainable development. The network seeks to promote the consideration of sustainable development in all construction and property industry activities. 24.3. and subsidiaries' minority interest holders. The total number of new shares issued represented about 13.35 per cent of all the shares in the company after the issues. The 2,623,514 new shares subResidential construction scribed for in the share issue were recorded in the drives growth 9.6. Trade Register on 23 March 2010. In the spring, we won a quarrying contract worth EUR 5 million at LKAB's iron ore mine in Kiruna, Sweden (24 March). In the autumn, we received a further contract worth about EUR 45 million (25 Nov). We Construction was forecast to increase by two per cent in Finland in 2010. also won two construction contracts totalling EUR 10 million for the Growth is especially driven by residential construction. We began work on sevnickel/copper concentrate mine in Sodankylä, Finland (6 July). eral new residential sites in Finland, such as Kahvikortteli in the Vuosaari district of Helsinki (9 June) and the Saukonpaasi block in the Helsinki district of Jätkäsaari (21 Jan and 28 Dec). 4 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Strategy – 2010 in brief Maintenance contract in St Petersburg 100th anniversary and 11.11. Structural reorganisation 2.8. Innovation competition 15.12. We signed an agreement with OOO Stockmann SPb Centre and ZAO Stockmann for round-the-clock maintenance of technical building systems at the newly opened As of 1 January 2011, our operations will be Nevsky Centre shopping centre divided into three business sectors: Building In 2010, we celebrated 100 years of construction. In honour of our anniversary, we launched a Construction, Infrastructure Construction construction sector innovation competition, which is open to everyone in the industry. We are in St Petersburg. and Technical Building Services. Our roofing looking for new operating models, or for innovations that will improve living, working and travbusiness, which used to be part of the Buildelling. The winner will be announced in March 2011. ing Products sector, was sold; and the concrete and environment products and sports construction businesses were transferred to the Infrastructure Construction sector. Domestic bond 7.9. We issued a EUR 60 million, four-year domestic bond with an annual coupon of 4.50 per cent. The bond was used to refinance Divestment of the roofing business 15.12. the EUR 60 million syndicated loan maturing in January 2011. The bond also diversified our funding base and extended our debt maturity profile. Significant growth in the roofing business would have required substantial investments, so we decided to divest it to Axcel, a Danish private 1.11. Personnel survey equity fund. The roofing business used to be part of the Building Prod52% ucts sector. Its divestment is in line with our strategic goals: to focus on selected growth areas. In autumn 2010, we conducted our first Group-wide personnel survey. The response rate was 52%. The results have now been processed at both Group and business sector level. We will be enhancing our operations on the basis of these results and appropriate measures were includRead more ed in our 2011 action plan. www.lemminkainen.com 2010 in brief – Strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 5 The way Our operations are guided by our values, vision, corporate governance and Code of Conduct, as well as HR, work safety by Senior Vice President Corporate Responsibility and Risk Management. we work national and international legislation and regulaWe use management systems that meet the following intertions. Our goal is to grow profitably and responsibly national standards: ISO 9001:2008 (quality), ISO 14001:2004 using a long-term, sustainable approach. Continu(environment) and OHSAS 18001:2007 (occupational health and al, open dialogue with stakeholders is a fundamensafety). Our head office in Salmisaari, Helsinki, joined the WWF’s tal aspect of responsible growth. When bolstering Green Office Network in 2010. our financial position, we always consider the expectations and demands of our stakeholders. code of conduct The Code of Concuct approved by the Board of Directors in 2009 Our Code of Conduct is based on international regulations, such forms the basis of our operating guidelines for both Lemminkäinen as the UN’s Declaration of Human Rights and the Global Comand our partners. The Code covers all operations and define the way pact’s ten principles, which cover human rights, labour, the enwe all work. The Code is supplemented by more detailed guidelines, vironment and anti-corruption. We also adhere to the ILO’s emsuch as representation and sponsorship principles, which we reployment rights and principles, the OECD’s operational guidelines vised in 2010. for multinational companies and International Chamber of ComAll of our personnel must familiarise themselves with and admerce ICC recommendations. We base our operations on our valhere to legislation, regulations and guidelines. Supervisors are reues – respect and trust, constructive collaboration, and sustainasponsible for providing training and ensuring compliance. In 2011, ble growth and development. Our vision promotes the best way to we will be launching an online training programme in competition build in all operations. Our shared values support the implemenlaw and Code of Conduct. According to a 2010 personnel questation of our vision and strategy, and help us to operate with a retionnaire, 73 per cent of our employees know what to do if they sponsible, customer-oriented approach. spot non-compliant behaviour. We acknowledge our employees’ freedom to organise and RESPONSIBILITY AS PART OF THE STRATEGY their right to join professional unions and make collective labour All construction has a significant impact on the community and agreements. We do not employ child labour, nor do we deal with its activities, and the environment. As a construction expert opsubcontractors or suppliers who do. We deal support to political erating in many fields we encounter a variety of expectations in parties or ideological organisations with reservation. We do not the area of responsibility, such as energy-efficient construction, condone bribery, nor do we enter into business relationships that preventing grey economy employment and conducting subconcould lead to conflicts of interest. You can read our Code of ConGREEN tractor audits. In order to meet these expectations, responsibilduct at www.lemminkainen.com. OFFICE A WWF INITIATIVE ity needs to be part of the strategy and a natural aspect of everyTO REDUCE ECOLOGICAL FOOTPRINT day management and operational development. Our aim is to be REPORTING PRINCIPLES recognised as a proactive proponent of corporate responsibility in For the first time, our corporate responsibility reporting is based the construction industry. on the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3 recommendations. Our President and CEO is responsible for corporate responsiWe estimate that the content of our report is consistent with levbility, which is led by Senior Vice President Corporate Responsiel C reporting of the G3 Guidelines. We have chosen to report pability and Risk Management. Overall responsibility for the Group’s rameters related to the aspects of corporate responsibility which environmental issues is held by Head of Environment and Safety, are essential in our operation. In summer 2010, we conducted and by the heads of environment and/or quality at business seca self-analysis of the impact of various corporate responsibility tor level. Social responsibility is led by Executive Vice President, themes on Lemminkäinen’s operations, as well as their significance to our key stakeholders. See the table on the next page. 6 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Strategy – The way we work Percentage of certified The consolidated financial statements have been prepared MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS management systems in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards compared to Group’s (IFRS), to comply with the IAS and IFRS standards and SIC and environmental quality safety net sales 2010 in IFRIC interpretations in effect on 31 December 2010. Segment iso 14001 iso 9001 OHSAS 18001 Finland. reporting is based on management reporting, as per IFRS 8, and therefore deviates in part from the consolidated accounting prin14 4 % 17 ciples. The adjusted comparison figures for 2009 are presented % % in brackets. Environmental figures cover asphalt plants, concrete 96 production factories, ready-mix concrete production and a rooting 86 83 factory in Finland. Environmental data has been collected using questionnaires. Environmental reporting will be expanded in 2011. % % % Our HR unit collects and reports on personnel data. The personnel and remuneration data published in the financial statements has been obtained during financial reporting. We will be Site with a certified system Site without a certified system introducing a new system to provide more extensive HR data for the next year’s report. matrix Our corporate responsibility report has not been externally verified. IMPORTANCE TO CURRENT OR POTENTIAL EXTERNAL Comparisons with GRI recommendations and the UN’s Global STAKEHOLDERS IMPACT ON COMPANY Compact can be found on page 64–65. A full GRI-table and fur• Fighting the grey market economy ther information about Lemminkäinen and corporate responsibility • Motivational remuneration are available on our website www.lemminkainen.com. • Offering end-to-end solutions • Developing training and expertise • Equal rules for everyone, open internal communications, fairness and equality • A good balance between work and leisure-time • Code of conduct, political support, adhering to competition legislation, anti-corruption principles • Open, transparent reporting Lemminkäinen’s values guide all activities • Energy efficiency, renewable energy sources, reducing carbon dioxide emissions and travelling • Developing new products and services collCons • Material efficiency, waste, logistics, a b ot r u c material choices rat tive • Risk management ion • Occupational health, accidents and safety and maintaining working capacity Su • Good superivisory work and leadership st gr a i n a and • Identifying and predicting customers’ needs o b ct dev wth le e • Quality, keeping promises and sticking to e lo a n d R espru st schedules pm t en t high medium The way we work – Strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 7 We’ve focused on building the new Lemminkäinen and improving competitiveness – and we will be seeing the initial results this year. 8 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Strategy – Review by the President and CEO Review by Dear Shareholders, Lemminkäinen celebrated its centenary last year. Those hundred related to pre-recession projects realised. Our earnings were burdened by non-recurring expenses from investments in operationthe President years have seen great successes and unfortunate setbacks, but al development. Weather conditions have also taken their toll: above all determined efforts ensure continual development. maintenance projects became more complicated and our producand CEO In November 2009, we began to implement our new strategy. tion season was cut short. Our strategy’s primary goal is profitable growth, which we will We are expecting a definite improvement in our 2011 result. achieve by developing more unified working methods. Our vision The markets are recovering and both our order book and its mar– The best way to build – encapsulates our desire to be not only gin level are stronger than in the previous year. And the fruit of the most sought-after partner to our customers, but also the last year’s development and efficiency-boosting measures will best employer in the construction industry and the most appealalready be evident in this year’s result. ing investment. We have overhauled operational processes so that resources can be directed to profitable areas. We’ve also enhanced project Seeking growth after the recession management. At Group level, we are seeking cost-effectiveness The impact of the recession in the construction industry was still and best practices by standardising our working methods in, for evident during 2010. Already at the start of the year, we estiexample, support services and procurements. mated that our net sales would remain at 2009 level. We balance out economic fluctuations by spreading our conA more solid financial footing struction operations over several sectors. 2010 was a good year One of our major achievements of last year was stabilising our for all areas of Infrastructure Construction in Finland, while only financial position. We carried out a directed share issue in early residential construction recovered in the Building Construction 2010 and floated a bond in the autumn. We also worked to imbusiness sector. Situation remained difficult for Technical Buildprove cash flow management and, towards the end of the year, ing Services. Outside Finland, we achieved good results in Sweagreed on credit facilities that place us on a more solid footing to den, Denmark and Russia. further develop the company. We decided to divest our roofing business which is one of our Our year-end equity ratio – 35.2 per cent – was in line with traditional fields. Developing this business would have required our targets. substantial investments. We decided to direct these resources elsewhere. The best way to build We will continue to work on renewing Lemminkäinen. We will imStrengthening our position in growth areas prove efficient cooperation that combines all of our diverse conIn line with our strategy, we are seeking growth in Russian resistruction expertise. We will be seeking cost-effectiveness by dential construction and Nordic infrastructure construction. We harmonising our operations. We will also develop our corporate remade three acquisitions in Norway, the last of which is awaitsponsibility themes. In 2010, we invested in improving personnel ing approval from the Competition Authority. These acquisitions competence and occupational well-being in particular. This year, strengthened our position and competitiveness. we will be focusing on environmental responsibility. Enhancing We have a good reserve of plots in central locations in St Peboth our social and environmental responsibility also has a direct tersburg. In February of this year, we announced a project to conbenefit for our customers. struct over 2,000 units at our newest site. Satisfied customers and competent personnel are the best path to profitable growth, which in turn creates value for our shareholders. Profitability must BE improveD Although our business operations have shown positive signs of Timo Kohtamäki improvement, we cannot be satisfied with our result. Some risks President and CEO Review by the President and CEO – Strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 9 Improvement in During 2010, construction markets in many European countries began to recover from the paralysing impact of the ecoresidential units were built in Finland – about 8,000 more than in 2009. The number of start-ups in 2011 should remain at the our operating nomic crisis. As usual, this upturn followed an overall pick-up in same level as last year. environment the economy, as construction is usually tied to economic growth rates in general. State subsidies for residential construction will fall during 2011, but an increase in privately financed construction will According to an estimate by the Confederation of Finnish bridge the gap. Construction Industries, the value of construction output in our Start-ups in commercial and office construction have botlargest market area – Finland – increased by two per cent, comtomed out, but we are still far from the peak years, as the market pared to a contraction of almost eight per cent in 2009. There fell by about 30 per cent in both 2008 and 2009. In 2011, startwere, however, large regional variations and differences between ups in commercial and office construction are expected to remain business sectors. For example, residential construction in Finat the same level as last year. Although underutilisation rates for land experienced above-average growth, while infrastructure office premises in Finland rose, new requirements for energy and construction saw a slight contraction. space efficiency have fuelled demand for new office premises. Recovery in the construction industry is clouded by uncerIndustrial and warehouse construction declined by about 35 tainty in the economic outlook throughout Europe. In its Sepper cent in 2009 and continued to fall in 2010. However, starttember economic review, the Research Institute of the Finnish ups increased to 7.5 million m³ from 6.6 million m³ in 2009. In Economy (Etla) forecasted a GDP growth rate of 1.5 per cent in 2011, start-ups are expected to remain at the same level as in both 2011 and 2012. Etla also predicted that the Finnish econ2010. Logistics construction is the most promising section in omy would grow by up to four per cent in 2011, but expected this segment in 2011. this rate to slow dramatically towards the end of the year. Yet About one fifth more public service building projects were in these uncertain economic times, there is great variation belaunched in 2010 than in 2009. However, a rapid weakening in tween forecasts – Pellervo Economic Research estimates the financial position of municipalities will cut 2011 start-ups growth of 2.5 per cent in 2011. back to 2009 levels. Renovation has been increasing for a long time and this is exLight and shadow in pected to continue. Renovation is a significant segment – conFinnish residential construction tracts worth more than EUR 9 billion accounted for 45 per cent Building construction generates about 40 per cent of our net of all residential construction in 2009. The market rose by about sales, and Finland is by far our largest market in this sector. three per cent in 2010. In 2010, the volume of new residential construction in Finland, The market for renovation has been growing steadily for years, measured in cubic metres, totalled almost 20 per cent more than while construction of industrial and commercial premises, for exin 2009. However, this represents over a quarter fewer start-ups ample, has fallen to under half of peak-year levels. than in 2007, when the industry was at its peak. Thanks to reflationary measures in particular, renovation expeAlthough the construction industry as a whole began to rerienced growth during the recession. And growth outlooks remain cover last year, there were large variations between segments. good even after a reduction in these measures, as aging buildGrowth was driven by residential construction, and also to some ings, an increase in building stock and technological improveextent by commercial and logistics construction. There was, ments are now driving renovation projects. Pressures to improve however, little happening in office and industrial construction. energy efficiency are also having a favourable impact. Renovation Renovation construction also increased. should grow by about two per cent in 2011. Subsidies for new rental housing, low interest rates and continued consumer confidence have maintained a good level of demand for residential construction. In 2010, about 31,000 new 10 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Strategy – Improvement in our operating environment 2010 2009 net SaLeS by maRket aRea, euR mILLIon 2250 Purchases by area, EUR million 2,000 2000 1,750 Finland 834.7 851.1 1750 1,500 1500 Other Nordic countries 199 170.2 1,250 1250 Russia 72.6 47.7 1,000 1000 Other countries 79.6 87.3 750 750 500 500 250 250 Personnel expenses by area, EUR million 0 0 Finland 324.0 320.0 06 07 08 09¹) 10 Other Nordic countries 64.9 61.5 Finland russia Russia 7.0 4.5 other nordic countries other countries Other countries 19.8 20.9 Investments by area, EUR million oRdeR book by buSIneSS SectoR, euR mILLIon 1200 Finland 32.9 25.9 1,000 1000 Other Nordic countries 19.4 11.3 800 800 Russia 1.7 0.4 600 Other countries 5.6 6003.9 400 400 200 Residential construction escalates in Russia 200 0 Russia, and in particular St Petersburg, is a new growth 0 market for our residential construction. Although the Russian economy 06 07 08 09¹) 10 contracted by almost eight per cent in 2009, Russia’s GDP is esBuilding construction technical building services timated to have grown at a rate of 3.5–5 per cent in 2010. Acinfrastructure construction Building products cording to advance estimates, Russian industry grew by over eight per cent during 2010. Inflation also raised prices at a rate of about ¹) As from 1 January 2010, Lemminkäinen observes the interpretation IFRIC 15 – Agree8.5 per cent. Unemployment fell and real wages rose. ments for the Construction of Real Estate in its reporting. The comparative figures for Residential construction in St Petersburg experienced a nota2009 have also been calculated in accordance with this interpretation. ble rise in 2010 and this trend is expected to continue for at least the next two years. Sales of residences in St Petersburg rose by sian residential construction. Consultancy firm Peterburgskaya about 30 per cent in 2009 and 50 per cent more new housing ­nedvigimost' estimates that the number of new residential startprojects were launched. The prices of existing residences rose by ups will steadily increase from about 1.3 million m² in 2010 to about five per cent in 2010. about 2.5 million m² by 2013. Production would then be close to The Ministry of Regional Development’s committee for con2007 levels. struction in St Petersburg forecasts that about 13 per cent fewer Another factor fuelling growth is the Russian government’s new residences will be completed in 2011, due to the low number goal to increase per capita living space by over 40 per cent by of start-ups during the recession years. 2020. This would mean the construction of over 60,000 new The high price of oil, a prospering middle-class and a need to residences in St Petersburg per year. The government also seeks renew dilapidated building stock will maintain growth in Rusto have 30,000 residences renovated every year. Improvement in our operating environment – Strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 11 Recovery in Finnish The Nordic countries (not including Finland) generate about infrastructure construction one third of our net sales in infrastructure construction. The Danish Infrastructure construction accounts for about 40 per cent of economy has remained in fairly good shape throughout the recesour net sales, and about 55 per cent of this sum is generated in sion, and Denmark is continuing plans for motorway, railway and Finland. energy projects. Infrastructure construction will grow at an annual According to a preliminary estimate by the Confederation of rate of about five per cent in Denmark over the coming years. Finnish Construction Industries, the value of civil engineering Sweden made a dramatic increase in its investments during contracted by about one per cent in 2010, compared to about the recession, and will continue to do so. 12 per cent in 2009, when it fell at the same pace with the After the dip in 2010, markets in Norway are expected to regross domestic product. Growth segments within the industry cover. Norway is planning to continue with improvements to rail are for example railway track projects and mining operations. transport and infrastructure. Highway and energy network construction are, however, con2010’s harsh winter was a particular problem in both Norway tracting. The recovery in residential construction is also being and Denmark, where it interrupted surfacing work. The difficult reflected in foundation construction. The public sector’s weak winter also caused problems in the Baltic countries, where volumes financial position will limit civil engineering projects and infrahave also otherwise fallen and competition has remained tough. structure maintenance and upkeep. According to the Earth Construction Branch Advisory ComTechnical building services tied to mittee, the net sales of companies in the earthworks industry construction plummeted by a further fifth on early 2010, and equipment utiTechnical building services are an important strategic growth lisation rates also fell. However, net sales levelled out towards area for us. The market for technical building services at new lothe end of 2010 and favourable trends were already visible in cations follows trends in the construction market, but with a South-Central Finland. short delay – which is why the market situation will remain chalAlthough 2011 will be a slightly weaker year for civil engilenging in 2011. neering as a whole, things are expected gradually to pick up The market for technical contracts in 2010 totalled about again in 2012. 2012 will see the launch of several significant EUR 4.4 billion, of which HVAC accounted for about EUR 2.8 billarge-scale projects, but basic road maintenance is not expectlion. The overall market grew by about two per cent in 2010 and ed to increase. is forecast to increase by about three per cent in 2011. In 2010, transport construction in Finland increased to Stricter environmental and energy efficiency requirements are about 1.5 million m³, representing a rise of just under 40 per also fuelling growth in the industry. A general population increase cent compared to 2009. It is also expected to remain at this as well as population concentration in growth centres require level during 2011. Multi-storey and market square car parks new infrastructure, increased maintenance and more services. have recently been an important growth area in this sector. Outsourcing of maintenance and upkeep is also fuelling the marConstruction of stations for the Western Metro and Ring Rail ket, as are end-to-end service packages and life cycle projects. Line in the capital area of Finland will also fuel transport conIn the long term, pipe renovations and improvements in energy struction over the coming years. efficiency will generate the largest growth in volume. Nordic countries investing in infrastructure Difficulties in public finance has limited infrastructure construction in many European countries. The Nordic countries – one of our key markets – have, however, continued to make investments. read more www.lemminkainen.com/investors 12 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Strategy – Improvement in our operating environment tRend In tHe RenovatIon and neW conStRuctIon oF HouSInG, euR mILLIon GRoSS domeStIc PRoduct and conSRuctIon In FInLand, cHanGe In voLume % 8,000 12,5 12,5 10 7,000 10,0 7,5 7,5 6,000 5,0 5 2,5 5,000 2,5 0,0 0 4,000 -2,5 -2,5 3,000 -5,0 -5 -7,5 2,000 -7,5 -10 -10,0 1,000 -12,5 -12,5 0 -15,0 -15 06 07 08 09 10 11e 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 Construction renovation Gross Domestic product (GDp) Contruction year 2000 prices Source: Statistics Finland Source: Statistical yearbook, construction and housing totaL voLume oF conStRuctIon In FInLand neW HouSInG PRojectS In SaInt-PeteRSbuRG, tHouSand m 2 3,500 3500 3,000 3000 2,500 2500 2,000 2000 1,500 1500 1,000 1000 500 500 0 0 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10e 11e 12e 13e Source: Consulting agency peterburgskaya nedvigimost’ residential (new) 21% Guil engineering (renovation) 5% non-residential (new) 25% non-residential (renovation) 16% Guil engineering (new) 13% residential (renovation) 20% Source: euroconstruct 12/2010, rt Improvement in our operating environment – Strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 13 site engineer Harri Niemi Martti Ahtisaari School, Kuopio, life cycle model I’ve worked in the construction industry for over ten years, but I’ve only been with Lemminkäi­nen for just under five years. Variety and continual personal development are the highlights of my work. My tasks include quality assurance, scheduling, procurements and cooperation with designers and and subcontractors. The life cycle model includes 25 years of maintenance, which is why maintenance experts need to be consulted at the planning stage. This project has also made extensive use of Building Information Modelling (BIM) – all HEPACE, structural and architect’s blueprints have been 3D modelled. When choosing designers, Lemminkäinen made sure they were able to model the project’s entire life cycle. Lemminkäinen has employees from several different fields working on this site, and cooperation has gone successfully. Cooperation, communication and – naturally – professional skills are at the forefront of our daily work. In my job, responsibility means keeping to agreed decisions and schedules. When you’re working on a school, it’s vital to finish on time. Even a minor delay will force the school to move into temporary premises for an entire term – and finding those premises would be our responsibility. The life cycle model includes both the initial investment and a follow-up service. As part of a single contract, Lemminkäinen will take responsibility for planning and construction, as well as property services for the designated period. 14 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Strategy – Improvement in our operating environment Strategy: Our strategic goal is to renew Lemminkäinen – to create a more unified, customer-oriented construcLemminkäinen’s tion company. We believe that, by developing our renewal operating model and consolidating our expertise, we can benefit our customers, generate profitable continues growth and increase shareholder value. We want to offer our customers an even broader array of construction services. This requires us to deepen our expertise and grow our operations in our current core businesses. We are seeking new growth in technical building systems and renovation in particular. We are also looking to expand our operations in Russian residential construction and Nordic infrastructure construction markets. The foundations of our new strategy Lemminkäinen launched its new strategy in November 2009. Our main goals for the strategic period 2010–2013 are to enhance our business operations, improve our financial position and create one united Lemminkäinen through restructuring and harmonised working methods. Using this approach, we are seeking average annual net sales growth of 10 per cent, a return on investment of 18 per cent and an equity ratio of 35 per cent. We have also updated Lemminkäinen’s mission and vision statements as well as our values. Our mission is to create functional, safe and healthy conditions for living, working and travelling. We want to be a versatile expert in construction renowned for catering to the wishes of our customers and users as well as for shouldering our corporate responsibilities. The best way to build encapsulates both our vision and our customer promise. We want to understand our customers’ needs and enhance our service capabilities, so that our way of operating represents the best – and the most competitive – way to build. This requires long-term investments in our operations, capabilities and personnel’s well-being. By generating profitable growth, we will also increase Lemminkäinen’s appeal to investors. Our values guide our everyday work: Respect and trust create a foundation for constructive cooperation, and thereby sustainable growth and development. Strategy: Lemminkäinen’s renewal continues – Strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 15 Harnessing our economies of scale get growth, improving our financial position and creating a unified After the acquisitions of the 1970s and 1980s, Lemminkäinen Lemminkäinen. Each project is comprised of several sub-projects, grew into one of Finland’s largest construction Groups with a solid which in turn have their own goals, schedule and project team. A position in both building and infrastructure construction. We were steering group monitors the programmes’ progress and reports to also active in many international projects. The Tekmanni acquisithe Group Executive Board. The first sub-projects were completed tion in 2000 added technical building services to our offering. in 2010. Up until 2009, the Group comprised local subsidiaries that operated relatively independently under their own names. Each Seeking stable growth company had its own tools and way of working. This approach Bolstering our core businesses supported growth during an exceptionally long boom period. We are one of the leading companies in Finland for building conAfter the change in the markets, our previous structure and struction, infrastructure construction and technical building serway of working were no longer competitive. The recession that vices. To retain our leading market position in these fields, we began in the construction industry in 2008 provided extra immust continuously grow and develop our operations. petus for changes. Our customers’ needs also change. Many We seek to expand our offering based on our solid core comcustomers in both the private and public sectors outsourced petences. Our mining operations have, for example, grown rapidly some of their operations and sought to purchase construction in recent years. In 2008, we were able to strengthen our rock services as increasingly larger entities. engineering capabilities with the acquisition of Tolarock Oy, a company specialising in subterranean mining contracting. We are now involved in several Finnish mining projects. In 2010, we won contracts worth over EUR 55 million at LKAB’s iron ore mine in Kiruna, Sweden. Our strategic goals: improving We have been developing 3D building information modelling (BIM) for use in the steering of the design and planning process, financial position, business project management and production control. Our development development and one unified work generates added value for customers by providing them with illustrative information models that help them make decisions. BIM Lemminkäinen. also raises productivity and improves information flow between the various parties working on a project. Modelling the upkeep of a project that is under development enhances the efficiency of maintenance and upkeep. We aim to introduce modelling into all of our We realised that we had not been optimally harnessing Lemprojects over the next five years. minkäinen’s economies of scale in procurements and at our We are ready to divest businesses that cannot achieve profcustomer interface. A more unified way of working would also itable growth as part of the Lemminkäinen Group. In December improve control and predictability. Although it will take years to 2010, we announced the divestment of our roofing business to renew our structure, processes and management model, we esAxcel, a Danish private equity fund. Growing the roofing business timate that these changes will already be evident in our finanwould have required substantial investments, and we decided to cial result in 2011. focus our developmental efforts on other areas. Lemminkäinen’s strategic programme New customers in neighbouring regions We steer the implementation of our strategy using a programme Lemminkäinen’s home market comprises Finland and the other comprising five projects. These strategic development projects tarNordic countries, the Baltic countries and neighbouring regions 16 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Strategy – Strategy: Lemminkäinen’s renewal continues Vision: The best way to buildWe want to offer the best end-to-end solutions for our customers’ needs Target Why is this target important? How we intend to achieve it Improving our financial position A strong balance sheet gives us room to manoeuWe are diversifying our financing base. We are vre, so that we can grow and develop the Group, making more effective use of our working capital and also improves our risk-carrying capacity. management through, for example, better management of inventories and sales receivables. Boosting internal efficiency Boosting the efficiency of our operations increases A more centralised model for internal support serour competitiveness and makes it as easy as posvices yields savings and gives more efficient support sible for our customers to deal with us. for our business processes. We are also developing our procurements. Bolstering our core competences Our profound core competences provide a firm We are strengthening our expertise and market foundation for expansion and growth. We want position both organically and through mergers and to retain our leading market position in our home acquisitions. markets. Growth in selected strategic areas We see the potential for profitable growth in seWe are focusing our investments on areas with lected growth areas in which we have already growth potential. We are expanding our offering to demonstrated our expertise, namely renovation, existing customers and are also seeking new custechnical building services, Nordic infrastructomers. We are making acquisitions to supplement ture construction and residential construction in our expertise or strengthen our position in local St Petersburg. markets. more customer-oriented operating We want our product and service offering to be We are developing our service offering to meet our model more precisely tailored to our customers’ needs. customers’ changing needs. We are combining our This will increase customer satisfaction and genexisting services into customer-oriented service erate profitable growth. packages. Our annual management agenda and incentive plans encourage end-to-end service for customers. Strategy: Lemminkäinen’s renewal continues – Strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 17 18 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Strategy – Strategy: Lemminkäinen’s renewal continues in Russia. We need to have a sufficiently large market area to be able to profitably develop our operations in various segments of construction. It also allows us to decentralise market risks. project manager We are seeking growth in residential construction in the St Olli Niiranen Petersburg area and infrastructure construction in the Nordic Aleksandria residential construction site, countries in particular. We have succeeded in both transferring St Petersburg, our expertise to these growth markets and strengthening our loresidential construction cal resources. Our goal is to be a significant builder of quality residences for Having the chance to share my experience with the growing, prospering middle-class in the St Petersburg area. young, local builders is very important to me. By the end of the strategic period, we aim to sell nearly as many Finnish construction companies have very high residences in Russia every year as we do in Finland. Acquiring quality standards, and that’s something I think good building sites is vital for continued growth. we can pass on when working abroad. And I’ve In paving, we are among the leading companies both in Noralways tried to emphasise the importance of takway and in Denmark. In Sweden, we hold a solid position in rock ing responsibility for my work, too. and foundation engineering. We are strengthening our market Here in Russia, we have skill and expertise position through both organic growth and acquisitions. that could benefit Lemminkäinen’s other international projects. Young people everywhere are Deepening our expertise in growth areas smart and open-minded. Demand for renovations, different types of life cycle solutions and At its busiest, the Aleksandria site employed technical building services continues to rise. We are improving 350 people. About 30 of us are from Lemour competitiveness by combining expertise across our business minkäinen and the rest are subcontractors. I’m sectors and acquiring new expertise in growth areas. the only Finn on site, so it’s vital that I can speak Demand for technical building services is boosted by new Russian. You have to be able to speak the lanenvironmental and energy efficiency requirements and the more guage if you want to connect with people. common use of building automation systems. We are seeking My family lives in Lappeenranta, in Eastern solid, profitable growth in technical building services both in FinFinland, but I’d rather work in St Petersburg than land and neighbouring regions. In particular, we are focusing on in Helsinki. It’s easy to get to St Petersburg and the development of pre-emptive maintenance solutions that will I believe I can make a greater contribution here. ensure uninterrupted functionality for our customers’ systems Even though I’ve worked in Russia for a total of while also generating savings in, for example, energy costs. ten years, I haven’t got completely to grips with Demand for renovation work is being driven by the increasingly the culture yet – I still get the odd surprise here compact structure of downtown areas, aging housing stock, new and there. energy efficiency requirements and a need to adapt buildings for new uses. Lemminkäinen’s renovation operations are largely based on our profound and diverse expertise in building construction and technical building services. We are expanding our service offering to include, for example, property management and life Lemminkäinen completed a residential building with over 500 apartcycle services in which the builder is also responsible for maintements near the River Neva in St Petersburg. Russia’s burgeoning nance and upkeep for up to several decades. Developing our renodemand for middle-class housing offers significant growth potential. vation and maintenance businesses requires us to continually Strategy: Lemminkäinen’s renewal continues – Strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 19 deepen our specialised know-how and pool our broad range of exWe are honing our working methods in sales and marketing. pertise. In December 2010, we, for example, concluded a nationDeveloping customer segmentation and clarifying our offering wide frame agreement for maintenance and small repair services will also serve to boost operational efficiency. We are combining with Valio, the biggest dairy producer in Finland. The agreement our existing services and expertise into comprehensive, customer­ covers all of our business sectors. -oriented solutions. Our management agenda and incentive proRenovation, maintenance and upkeep accounted for about grammes spur our employees to provide end-to-end service. one-quarter of our net sales during the review period. We develop our internal support services to serve our business We believe that our strategic growth areas will enable us to functions with a better quality, higher efficiency and greater costachieve stable organic growth by both extending our current offereffectiveness. In addition, we are also improving and standardising ing to existing customers and seeking new customers. We will use our IT architecture. In our procurements, we are making determined acquisitions either to obtain new, complementary expertise or to efforts to employ Group agreements that will harness economies of consolidate our local market position. scale and improve the competitiveness of our business. We want to ensure that our structure and management modA strong financial position gives room for el, as well as our leadership and business development practices, development provide solid support for the implementation and achievement of We aim to strengthen Lemminkäinen’s financial position during the our strategic goals. strategic period. A strong balance sheet will give us room for deWe are developing leadership skills and human resources velopment and growth as well as lower our financing expenses. Inmanagement. Our main goals are to increase and consolidate creased solvency also improves risk tolerance and our contingency expertise in growth areas. We are also investing in occupational for economic fluctuations. The key indicators for our financial posiwell-being and good supervisory skills. In our renewal, it is crucial tion are the equity ratio and return on investment. that all personnel are familiar with our goals and are committed We are strengthening our financing base by harnessing a to achieving them. broader range of sources and instruments. We are also improving our working capital management with, for example, better manStrategy implementation in 2010 agement of inventories and trade receivables. We strengthened our expertise in growth areas in line with our strategy. In Norway, we made three acquisitions that will improve Boosting operational efficiency both our offering and competitiveness. Asfalt Remix AS speIn order to achieve long-term profitable growth and a more cuscialises in the cold milling of asphalt and Risa Rock AS in tunnel tomer-oriented approach, we must constantly develop our interblasting. Mesta Industri AS is a leading paving company and supnal ways of working. We aim to boost the efficiency and competiplier of mineral aggregates throughout Norway. The acquisition of tiveness of our operations for the convenience of our customers. Mesta Industri AS is still awaiting approval from the Competition We have systematically simplified our Group structure and Authority, which is expected to make its decision during the first reduced the number of subsidiaries. Since the turn of the year, quarter. After these acquisitions, we will be the second largest we have been operating in Finland through three business sector paving company in Norway. companies. Our brand renewal and unified corporate image are We strengthened our residential construction organisation and other concrete signs of these changes. We will be continuing to building site reserves in Russia. Sales were brisk for both completed develop our brand over the coming years in accordance with our housing units and those still under construction. At the end of the customer promise: The best way to build. We want to be seen as year, we had 184 residences under construction in St Petersburg, the most efficient, most competitive and most responsible conand construction of about 540 residential units was about to begin. struction company. We expanded our offering in technical building services to include a new coating method for piping renovations that does not 20 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Strategy – Strategy: Lemminkäinen’s renewal continues compromise existing structures. We increased our refrigeration The new operating model will include financial administration, ICT expertise throughout Finland. We are seeking growth in mainand human resources as well as communications and marketing. tenance and upkeep also in Russia. In November, we signed an The legal affairs function adopted a more consolidated operating agreement with Stockmann, a Finnish retail company, for technimodel at the beginning of 2010. The goal is to provide our busical facility servicing at their new Nevsky Centre shopping centre nesses with versatile, cost-effective, high-quality support serin St Petersburg. vices, thus enabling them to focus more on their core operations. We began development of a new business model for our renoWe updated our incentive programme to better support our vation business. Our initial tasks were to make a detailed analysis strategic targets. The new training programme for supervisors of our customers’ needs, strengthen our resources and improve will also boost strategy implementation. A total of 152 supervicooperation between business sectors. sors had already attended courses by the end of 2010. We are In early 2010, we collected a total of EUR 39.5 million implementing a Group-wide development discussion process to through an institutional share issue. In a targeted share issue support competence development. For key performers, we are carried out at the same time, some of our subsidiaries’ minority drafting personal development plans. Our working capacity risk interest holders exchanged their shares for Lemminkäinen shares. management programme already generated substantial cost The funds from the issue were used to refinance a EUR 120 ­savings in 2010. million syndicated loan originally agreed to mature in January 2011. The remainder of the loan was paid with cash funds and by issuing a EUR 60 million, four-year domestic bond, which was listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Oy for public trading. These arrangements diversified our funding base and extended our debt maturity profile. In December, we agreed on a line of credit totalling EUR 160 million through bilateral agreements with four Finnish banks. These facilities have a three-year maturity and serve as a reserve for the Domestic Commercial Paper Programme. They replace the previous syndicated EUR 150 million credit facility that was Strategy implementation is due to expire in June 2011. The new line of credit carries more supported by training, the favourable terms and conditions. In operational efficiency, our most important achievements development discussion were clarifying our Group structure and launching a new corporate process and our incentive identity as part of our Lemminkäinen brand building process. We merged more than 20 subsidiaries in Finland during the report year. programme. As of 1 January 2011, Building Products was integrated into Infrastructure Construction, leaving us with three business sectors. We harmonised our operating models in customer relations management to better serve the joint customers of our business sectors. Joint purchase agreements generated savings, particularly in non-operative procurements. We decided to launch a programme in 2011 geared towards boosting procurement efficiency. We developed a more centralised operating model for our inread more ternal support services that will be phased into use during 2011. www.lemminkainen.com/company Strategy: Lemminkäinen’s renewal continues – Strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 21 Financial 2010 was a challenging year for us. Our earnings fell short of the forecast we published early in the dential units in Finland, Russia and Sweden. Our own development accounted for 1,191 of these units (351). Due to the change in indevelopment year. The operating environment recovered slowly come recognition practices, residential construction was recognised from the recession and competition remained tight. 2010 Non-recurring expenses on boosting operational in net sales and earnings only towards the end of the year. efficiency cut into our profitability. We believe that Downturn impacted commercial construction these measures will improve our competitiveness The market for business premises took a slight turn for the better and will start to yield visible results in 2011. in the autumn. Earnings were burdened by lease liabilities related to certain projects that were started before the financial crisis, when The financial objectives of Lemminkäinen’s strategy are profitathe agreed occupancy rate seemed realistic. Now that these projble growth and bolstering the Group’s financial position: ects are being completed, the rental market is weaker and it has –– Annual net sales growth about 10 per cent been hard to find tenants for certain locations. –– Return on investment over 18 per cent –– Equity ratio at least 35 per cent A good season for infrastructure construction in Finland In the 2010 financial year, our equity ratio (35.2%) was in line The cold winter and heavy snowfall at both the beginning and end with our targets. Our net sales remained at the previous year’s of the year impacted on the volume and margins in infrastructure level and return on investment was 7.0 per cent. We believe that construction. In Finland, the work season was about two months we will achieve our financial targets during the strategy period. shorter, and in Norway even four months shorter. Earnings in NorAccording to our estimates, pre-tax profit for the current financial way were also hit by two loss-making maintenance contracts. In year will significantly improve on 2010, which will also increase spite of the slight contraction in the market, we raised our market return on investment. share in some areas of infrastructure construction in Finland and Our order book and margins were better at the end of 2010 posted a reasonable result in a challenging market. We can likethan a year earlier. In addition, the market situation is improving wise be satisfied with our earnings performance in Denmark. Our and our efficiency-boosting measures are starting to yield results. operations in Norway and the Baltic countries were at a loss. Growth and profitability Tight competition in technical building services Residential construction swings to growth In the aftermath of the recession, competition was tight in techAlthough construction began to grow again in 2010 after the downnical building services – we could not as yet benefit from the return, this growth was mainly generated by residential construction. covery in building construction, and this kept the margins weak. We started up the construction of more than 2,400 (1,441) resiDeveloping our operating model Economic goals In 2010, we merged more than 20 of our subsidiaries in our BuildReturn on investment ing Construction and Technical Building Services business sec18 tors. We will continue to streamline our structure in the first half Equity ratio of 2011, after which our operations in Finland will be carried out by 35 % three business sectors. All three operate under the Lemminkäinen brand. We also developed our internal support services to provide 10 better and more cost-effective services for our businesses. In ad% Net sales growth averaging % dition, we continued to downscale our personnel strength in line with demand. Our personnel count began to rise again towards the end of the year in step with the pickup in construction. 22 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Strategy – Financial development 2010 Financing and balance sheet net SaLeS Share issue 3,000 euR mILLIon % 30 In spring 2010, we carried out a targeted share issue for insti2,000 20 tutional investors. At that time, the minority shareholders of some of our subsidiaries converted their shares to Lemminkäinen­ 1,000 10 shares. With the funds raised from the issue, about EUR 40 mil0 0 lion, we refinanced part of our syndicated credit that was due -10 to mature in January 2011. The issue increased our number of -20 shares by around 2.6 million, or about 15 per cent. Our share liquid­ity also improved. 06 07 08 09¹) 10 Diversifying the financing structure net sales growth, % During the past two years, our interest-bearing debt has de06 07 08 09 10 creased by a quarter and the maturities of our debt portfolio have lengthened. Over half of the interest-bearing debt is non-current. PRe taX PRoFIt, euR mILLIon We were able to renew our financing arrangements thanks to the 140 120 euR mILLIon % 6 share issue and a EUR 60 million bond floated in autumn 2010. 120 100 5 In addition, towards the end of the year we agreed on a total100 of 80 4 EUR 160 million in bilateral credit facilities with four banks. They 80 60 3 60 replace a syndicated EUR 150 million credit facility that was due 40 40 2 to expire in June 2011. 20 20 1 0 0 -20 -1 Equity ratio is in line with our targets -20 At the end of 2010, our equity ratio was 35.2 per cent. This pro06 07 08 09¹) 10 vides a buffer for Lemminkäinen’s growth and development. The % of net sales share issue in early 2010, more effective cash management and new financing arrangements contributed to the increase in the equity ratio. We are continuing to improve the turnover rate of our trade receivables. RetuRn on InveStment, % 30 25 25 20 equIty RatIo, % 20 40 15 35 15 35 30 10 30 10 25 25 5 5 20 20 0 15 15 0 06 07 08 09¹) 10 10 10 5 5 ¹) As from 1 January 2010, Lemminkäinen observes the interpretation IFRIC 15 – Agreements for 0 the Construction of Real Estate in its reporting. The comparative figures for 2009 have also 06 07 08 09¹) 10 been calculated in accordance with this interpretation. Financial development 2010 – Strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 23 Risk Our risk management supports the achievement of our strategic and financial objectives. Successful specify measures that will help us predict any internal and external threat factors, while also exploring any hidden opportunities Management risk management also helps us to ensure uninterthey may contain. We also describe short-term risks in our interrupted operations. Our operations in 2010 were im reports and financial statement bulletin. particularly affected by the impact of the downturn in the construction industry, as well as financing Strategic risks risks and their management. Operating environment risks Changes in population structure as well as in financial, political and We define risks as factors that, if they were realised, would hamtechnological factors affect demand for Lemminkäinen’s services per our ability to achieve our strategic and financial objectives. and the company’s cost level. When planning our operations, we Every risk always has a known probability and impact, so by evalmonitor – and attempt to forecast – changes in our operating enviuating these attributes, we are able to determine how significant ronment, thereby minimising any associated risks. a risk is to our business. Construction, like all businesses, always involves risks that Market risks must be taken in order to improve earning potential. Once we Market risks are some of our most significant short-term risks. have evaluated the potential financial impact of a risk, we can deThe current global economic climate has led to uncertainty in our cide how best to manage it – risks can be eliminated, reduced, operating environment, which has in turn made it difficult to foreaccepted or transferred. cast future changes. Successful risk management ensures that our operations are New construction in Finland is very sensitive to economic cyconducted responsibly and in accordance with our values, while cles and is therefore our greatest market risk. We manage this providing the best possible service for our customers. risk both structurally and operationally. Operations dependent on Identifying and evaluating risks that may prevent us from residential construction in Finland account for about half of our achieving our targets is an integral part of our day-to-day busientire business. Stable demand for infrastructure construction ness and operative management. We also identify risks within balances out fluctuating volumes in domestic residential conthe project management process and the Group’s operating and struction, as do maintenance and renovation, which account for management systems. Compliance with these systems is evaluabout a quarter of our business. Although 2010 saw favourable ated as required. Lemminkäinen’s President and CEO, Executive trends in housing sales, the overall economic situation remained Board and Board of Directors are kept informed of major risks unstable. Therefore, we also take an operational approach to concerning industries, business sectors or projects, as well as of managing this market risk – we only begin construction of new any changes that have occurred in these risks. housing once a sufficient number of advance reservations have We conduct industry-specific risk analyses that seek to idenbeen made. tify key organisational threats and evaluate their significance. The rising price of bitumen also poses a risk for us, as a signifiThese analyses also assess the sufficiency of our existing risk cant portion of our net sales in infrastructure construction is genmanagement methods and pinpoint any areas for improvement. erated by paving, in which bitumen is used to make asphalt. As Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors receives a report on the main the price of bitumen is tied to the global price of oil, we manage results, as well as management’s action plans for enhancing risk the bitumen price risk with oil derivates and contractual terms. management. We have also identified other significant strategic risks: technological, regulatory and reputation risks, as well as those associLEMMINKÄINEN’S MAJOR RISKS ated with mergers and acquisitions. We have divided our risks into four categories: strategic, operative, financial and hazard risks. To manage the identified risks, we 24 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Strategy – Risk management Operative risks rate risks. By managing financial risks, we seek to reduce the Project risks uncertainty that changes in value on the financial market may Fluctuations in raw material prices and labour costs have a macause to our result, cash flow and value. The management of jor impact on construction. Unstable demand has led to sales financial risks is based on the treasury policy approved by the and price risks in our own development of residential and busiBoard of Directors, which defines the principles and division of ness premises. Unsold residences tie up capital and may thereresponsibilities with regard to financial activities and the manfore weaken Lemminkäinen’s financial position. Own building deagement of financial risk. velopment also carries a risk of whether we can set the correct price in relation to production costs and market prices. We miniInterest rate risk mise these risks by only starting new construction once a suffiFluctuations in interest rates have an impact on Lemminkäinen’s cient number of advance reservations have been made. result, cash flows and value. We seek to minimise our interest When undertaking the own development of business premises, rate sensitivity by setting the average period of interest rate fixing the premises are usually sold to real estate investors in the early term to the same level as the predicted interest rate sensitivity of stages of construction at the latest, thereby reducing sales risks. operations. We can take out both variableand fixed-rate longQuick change in markets may suddenly increase risks. term loans. The ratio of fixedto variable-rate loans can be Weather conditions also pose a risk in the construction induschanged by means of interest rate derivatives in order to minimise try. Unusual or harsh weather can weaken the profitability of our the interest rate risk. operations by interrupting or delaying projects. Organisational risks Mergers, acquisitions and expansion into new geographical areas require the management of political, cultural and legal factors. We manage the risks associated with the growth and internationalisation of our organisation by standardising operating methods and reporting systems. As Lemminkäinen’s operations are labour-intensive, the availIdentifying and evaluating ability of skilled labour is essential for our growth. In the long risks related to our targets is term, changes in population age structure affect the availability and price of labour. The loss of key personnel also poses a risk, as an integral part of our day-toour profitability largely depends on personnel’s professional skills, day business and operative expertise and commitment to both shared and project-specific management. goals. We are currently managing personnel-related risks by large input in successful recruitment, training, career plans for key personnel, and a fair and motivational remuneration scheme. Other operative risks that we have identified include contractual, IT, stoppage and malpractice risks, as well as risks associated with change management. Financial risks Lemminkäinen is exposed to financial risks, the major ones being interest rate, credit, funding, liquidity and currency exchange Risk management – Strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 25 LEMMINKÄINEN’S RISK MAP Exchange rate risk Exchange rate risks mainly arise in the form of translation and transaction risks. Translation risks occur through differences in Strategic risks Operative risks currency exchange rates when the income statements and balance sheets of our foreign companies are translated into the Group’s home currency. In accordance with the treasury poli• Operating environment risks • Project risks cy approved by Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors, we primarily protect ourselves from translation risks by ensuring that all equity • Market risks • Contractual risks funds in foreign companies are kept sufficiently small. • Technology risks • Organisational risks Transaction risks arise in foreign currency cash flow from operating and financing activities. We mainly take an operational • Regulatory risks • Change management risks approach to exchange rate risks. The remaining transaction risk is • Merger & acquisition risks • IT risks hedged by using instruments such as foreign currency derivatives or foreign currency loans. • Reputation risks • Communications risks • Stoppage risks Funding and liquidity risks • Malpractice risks In order to guarantee uninterrupted operations, we must ensure lemminkäinen access to sufficient funding under all circumstances. We must cover the liquidity required for our day-to-day operations and risk premium, and strategic projects. We seek to optimise the use of our liquid assets in funding business operations and to minimise interest and other financial costs. The Group Treasury is responsible for overall liquidity manFinancial risks Hazard risks agement and ensuring that we have adequate credit lines and a sufficient number of financing sources. The Group Treasury also ensures that our loans mature evenly over several years. Our • Liquidity risks • Occupational safety risks ­liquidity risk management is based on monthly forecasts and dai• Interest rate risks • Occupational health risks ly cash flow planning. • Currency exchange rate risks • Personnel risks Credit risk • Tax risks • Environmental risks Lemminkäinen is exposed to credit risks through all of the • Credit risks • Security risks Group’s receivables – both trade receivables and financial receivables (cash, deposits, derivatives and equivalents). We manage • Financial reporting risks • Natural disaster risks our credit risk by retaining possession of buildings, such as resi• Capital structure risks dences and office premises, until we have received payment for their construction. Capital structure risks Capital structure, capital invested in operations, and interestbearing liabilities pose a risk to profitability. The Group’s interest-bearing liabilities increase with, for example, operational ex26 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Strategy – Risk management pansion, acquisitions, and investments in production equipment, concern the pricing of individual contracts. The SAC has not inbuildings and plots. vestigated the contention that inflated prices have been charged We employ effective capital management to ensure that our for the contracts. company remains competitive whatever the economic climate. Lemminkäinen's initial position is that the claims for damages We also continually monitor our liabilities, the ratio of net debt are without foundation. to EBITDA and equity ratio. This enables us to maintain a sufThe claims will be processed in the order and schedule set by ficient risk taking-capacity and good loan servicing ability, while the District Court. also paying favourable dividends. No provisions for future expenses have been made in respect of the claims of the municipalities and the Finnish Transport Hazard risks Agency that are pending in the District Court. Environmental risks Lemminkäinen will provide information on the proceedings in The major emissions of our business are generated by our proits interim reports or in separate releases, as necessary. duction plants, construction and transport. Other environmental risks related to our operations include soil and groundwater pollution. For more detailed information on environmental issues, see the Material and energy efficiency section of the Annual report (page 46). Other significant accident risks include those associated with security and occupational health, safety and well-being. You can read more about these issues in the section Occupational health, safety and well-being (page 60). Legal proceedings Writs of summons filed at district court level by the Finnish state and a number of municipalities pose a risk. In 2009, the Supreme Administrative Court (SAC) ordered Finnish asphalt industry companies to pay an infringement fine for violations of the Act on Competition Restrictions. In February, 34 claims for damages brought by municipalities and the Finnish state (Finnish Transport Agency) are pending against Lemminkäinen and other asphalt industry companies in the District Court. The claimants contend that restrictions of competition have caused them damages. The total amount of damages sought from Lemminkäinen was in February about EUR 81 million. The claims presented in the statements of claim differ from each other as regards their amounts and grounds. The ruling rendered by the SAC in 2009 as it stands does not mean that Lemminkäinen or the other asphalt industry companies actually caused any damages to the asphalt work clients. The ruling does not concern the individual contracts that the claimants cited in support of their claims. Nor does the ruling Risk management – Strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 27 Lemminkäinen Our diverse construction expertise serves many clients, including consumers, property investors, the public sector, industrial as a constructor companies and property user-owners. Our customers value our extensive offering, expertise, reliability and flexibility. Environmental factors, such as material and energy efficiency, are becoming an increasingly significant factor in our customers’ decision-making processes. As of 1 January 2011, we operate in three business sectors: Building Construction, Infrastructure Construction and Technical Building Services. 28 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Strategy – Risk management Risk management – Lemminkäinen as a constructor – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 29 Business sector overview Lemminkäinen is one of Finland’s largest and most A clear recovery in residential construction versatile building constructors. We are seeking Building new growth from renovation and the Russian resiIn 2010, Lemminkäinen started the construction of 2,252 residential units compared to 1,444 in 2009. About 50 per cent Construction dential market in particular. of these constructions were real estate development by Lemminkäinen itself whilst and the other half were under contract. In Building Construction offers residential and commercial conthe previous year, more than two thirds of start-ups were rentstruction, industrial and logistics construction, sport and leisure al housing contracts. Apartment blocks accounted for nearly 100 facility construction, property development, project management per cent of our new real estate development. It was a good year services and management contracting, and life cycle projects. for the housing market with a total of almost 1,000 of our own Renovation already accounts for 18 per cent of our net sales. residential units sold. Residential construction has a significant Our key customer groups are homebuyers, residential and impact on the earnings performance of the entire business secother real estate investors, leaseholders and owner occupants of tor. In 2010, most new constructions were completed towards commercial premises. the end of the year, which was partly due to the low number of In 2010, Building Construction also included telecommunicaresidential start-ups in 2009. The number of start-ups in comtions network construction, which was transferred to Technical mercial property construction remained low during 2010, whereBuilding Services as of 1 January 2011. Telecommunications netas demand for logistics construction was satisfactory. Demand work construction accounted for 5 per cent of our net sales. for renovations increased compared to 2009. 76 per cent of our net sales were generated in Finland, where In line with our strategy, we are investing in renovation. Our we have a comprehensive network of 17 regional offices. 7 per strengths come from our extensive service offering, project mancent came from Russia – from residential construction in the agement expertise and a strong nationwide network of regional ofSt Petersburg area in particular – and 11 per cent from Sweden, fices. In 2010, we developed cooperation models for carrying out where we are known locally for our residential construction and renovation work with Lemminkäinen’s other business sectors. This renovation works. The remaining 6 per cent came from project year we will continue to develop and execute efficient operating contracting elsewhere across the world. models, enhance our expertise and increase the use of building information modelling (BIM). Changing needs The profitability of the business sector was satisfactory. Our operating environment is changing. Apartment blocks are in A rise in labour costs and overall expenses, combined with lower greater demand and people are moving to growth centres. The than expected user demand for commercial premises, weakened aging population, an increase in single-person households and our profitability. We were also forced to renew some contracts immigration require an even greater range of flexibility in housfor business premises that had been signed before the recession ing. New energy efficiency standards are generating demand for – with lower profit margins – after investors pulled out. And renovation. the income for certain construction projects will not be entered The structure of business and commerce is also changing and until 2011. In 2010, only income from projects begun before the its increasing focus on service provision is reducing demand for recession was recognised. traditional industrial construction. As service structures and comOur order book totalled almost EUR 700 million, which is mercial premises centre on downtown urban areas, obtaining plots about EUR 100 million more than in 2009. becomes more difficult, plot prices rise and the need for renovation increases. Life cycle solutions and other major end-to-end packages are becoming ever more appealing to the public sector. 30 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Lemminkäinen as a constructor – Building construction foreman Toni Paananen Bulevardi 6, Helsinki sustainable renovation I’m a third-generation builder, but I’ve only been with Lemminkäinen since August. In my role as a foreman, I’m a contact person for both users and the property owner. You have to keep sustainable renovation in mind from the outset, even at the planning stage. Protecting old structures completely differs from other types of renovation. And the Bulevardi 6 site poses extra challenges, as it’s at the heart of a bustling city. The neighbouring buildings are operating normally, and we have to plan our material deliveries so as not to block traffic. But adapting to surprise situations is the spice of working life – creative thinking is as important as a professional skill. Opening up intermediate floors poses the greatest challenge with regard to occupational safety. Chiselling can bring down the facing, and it’s very noisy. Dust is also a major safety risk on renovation sites. Goggles, respirators and hearing protectors are the safety equipment we can’t do without. There are about 20–30 of us on site, from different companies and different countries. Our keyword is flexibility – that’s the only way to ensure smooth cooperation between designers, users, developers and builders. Bulevardi 6 is Lemminkäinen’s flagship for sustainable renovation. The project seeks to, for example, save energy and minimise waste and transportation. Building construction – Lemminkäinen as a developer – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 31 At the end of 2010, we had 830,000 m² of floor area in untres. The park is located in Vorotynsk, just outside the industrial used permitted building volume. city of Kaluga, and about 170 kilometres southwest of Moscow. The Kaluga area is home to a substantial automotive and elecA stronger position in St Petersburg tronics industry. Residential construction in Russia is one of our strategic growth areas. Our goal is to sell almost as many new apartments a year Streamlining our operations in St Petersburg as we do in Finland. We simplified Building Construction’s corporate structure in St Petersburg is a large market in close proximity to Finland. 2010. Mergers in early 2010 reduced the number of local subsidiIts citizens are prospering, private loans are easier to come by, aries to six, and in the first quarter of 2011 all subsidiaries will be and the State is seeking to increase per capita living space – all merged into the sector’s parent company, Lemminkäinen Talo Oy. of which will generate demand for new residences for a number of years to come. The apartments that Lemminkäinen builds in St Petersburg are of higher quality than local mass production, that is, a good location, more spacious rooms and a higher standard of fixtures and fittings. We market our residential property in St Petersburg under the Lemminkäinen brand with the promise of Finnish quality. Residential construction in At the end of the year, we had a 150-unit location under conRussia is one of our strategic struction in the north of St Petersburg; this is scheduled for comgrowth areas. Our goal pletion in autumn 2011. This year, we will be starting a new 540unit location on Vasily Island in downtown St Petersburg. Some is to sell almost as many of these top-quality apartments will be fully finished to European new apartments a year in standards, while some will be left with bare surfaces for finishing by the new owners. And our design solutions pay particular St Petersburg as in Finland. attention to energy efficiency. These Vasily Island residences are scheduled for completion in 2013. As we announced in February 2011, we will also be building another 2,000 plus units at anWe have continued to streamline our operating model with a other location on Vasily Island over the next six years. greater focus on process management. These changes improve 2010 was a brisk year for the St Petersburg housing market. our level of control and make it easier for us to channel our reBy the end of the year, we’d already sold 276 of the almost 500 sources. They also enhance our cost-effectiveness and promote units that were completed in the autumn. In Russia, advance the transfer of best practices within the sector. marketing cannot begin until construction has begun, so many units are only sold after completion. A boost from BIM The Kaluga industrial park project has also progressed. A We have decided to boost the efficiency of building construction turnkey extrusion film production plant for our first customer, Ab with the aid of building information modelling (BIM). By the end of Rani Plast Oy, is scheduled for completion at the end of this year. 2011, we intend to use BIM in all of our construction projects with Marketing for the industrial park is targeted at Central European subcontracted design services. BIM boosts planning efficiency: all industrial companies. production material data can be saved in the same database, all We launched preparations for the Kaluga industrial park projparties have access to the same up-to-date project data and it’s ect in late 2007. The park’s approximately 135 hectares have easier to integrate various subsections. BIM also increases costroom for a couple of dozen production facilities and logistics ceneffectiveness. 32 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Lemminkäinen as a constructor – Building construction ¹) As from 1 January 2010, Lemminkäinen observes the inWe are broadening our BIM expertise by taking part in RYM Oy’s net SaLeS,¹ ) euR mILLIon terpretation IFRIC 15 – Agreements for the Construction first research programme. RYM Oy is a Finnish strategic centre 1400 for 1,200 of Real Estate in its reporting. The comparative figures for 2009 have also been calculated in accordance with expertise in the built environment. Its PRE (Built Environment Pro1200 1,000 this interpretation. cess Re-engineering) programme will run from 2010–2013 and 1000 ²) The figures are based on internal segment reporting to 800 management. seeks to create new ways of working and innovative business800 mod600 els for construction and design. 600 400 The results of the programme will benefit us in, for example, 400 200 the Kuopio schools life cycle project. We will be responsible for 200the construction and basic renovation of four schools and one day care 0 0 centre, as well as building maintenance and upkeep for a period of 06 07 08²) 09²) 10²) 25 years. As we are responsible for the buildings’ entire life cycles, knowledge about the construction methods and solutions used, as oPeRatInG PRoFIt,¹ ) euR mILLIon 80 well as any warranties, will assist with maintenance and upkeep 70 70 later on. You can read more about the Kuopio life cycle project 60 on 60 page 14. 50 50 40 40 New growth from renovation 30 30 Our main goals for 2011 are to improve profitability, enhance20cus20 10 tomer relations and boost operational efficiency. We will be improv10 0 ing profitability by boosting the efficiency of procurements 0 and proj­ 06 07 08²) 09²) 10²) ect management and channelling our resources more effectively. We will be increasing the efficiency of design coordination and plot acquisition in our own residential estate development, and will net SaLeS also be improving our capital turnover. We will also be looking to engage in closer cooperation with customers at the design stage, so that both residences and the residential environment will better meet users’ requirements. When carrying out renovations, we will be focusing on developing end-to-end solutions with our customers. We offer special know-how in energy efficient solutions, supplementary facility construction and life cycle models. We are also increasing our expertise in elevator installation in old buildings. In February we announced that Lemminkäinen had received a European patent for an innovation in apartment building elevation. In the patented solution, an apartment block can be elevated without removing the roof, which means that the residents can remain at home throughout the renovation period. own residential buildings 21% renovation 18% own commercial properties 9% telecommunications networks 5% Contracting services 44% other 3% Building construction – Lemminkäinen as a constructor – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 33 Business sector overview Lemminkäinen is one of the Baltic Sea region’s the Kiruna mine in Sweden and numerous mines in Finland – in major infrastructure construction companies. We Kevitsa, Elijärvi, Hitura, Talvivaara, Pahtavaara and Pampalo, and Infrastructure are the leading manufacturer and vendor of asphalt at the Suurkuusikko deposit in Kittilä. Construction and mineral aggregates in Finland. Our services include the construction and maintenance of road, A satisfactory year in Finland street and railway networks, as well as rock and The market situation during 2010 posed challenges for the Infoundation engineering. frastructure Construction business sector in Finland. The government reduced its allocations for basic road maintenance and Infrastructure Construction’s business areas in 2010 were paving, uncertainty continued to cloud the financial positions of many mineral aggregates and civil engineering. We hold a solid position: municipalities. Compared to 2009, fewer investments were we are the market leader in road paving, rock crushing and rock made and road maintenance volumes contracted. Less paving engineering in Finland. Our share of the Nordic paving market is work was ordered, too, which further intensified competition. We approximately 20 per cent. were, however, able to retain our position in a decreasing market, Our customers are road and rail administrations, cities and and we sought new growth with the launch of winter road mainmunicipalities, construction firms and property owners. We have tenance and servicing operations in Finland. 30 regional offices in Finland. We also operate in Sweden, NorMajor tunnel projects and mine construction maintained deway, Denmark, Russia, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Our operamand for rock engineering. Work progressed on the eastern tions outside Finland account for just under half of our net sales. mouth of the Ring Rail Line tunnel section in Vantaa, and in Our central laboratory tests and develops a range of paving Helsinki we continued with the Western Metro tunnel section materials. For example, we have developed a noise-reducing pavebetween the Ruoholahti metro station and the Salmisaari shorement for urban areas and a dense asphalt that protects the ground line. Major rock engineering projects included underground parkfrom chemicals and other hazardous substances. ing facilities for Finlandia Hall in Helsinki and on Hämeenkatu in In 2010, Infrastructure Construction employed an average of Tampere. We also received a substantial order for earthworks and approximately 3,200 professionals. concrete structures at the Kevitsa nickel and copper concentrate mine in Sodankylä. Expertise builds a firm foundation A recovery in building construction maintained a good level of We specialise in infrastructure construction and are able to mandemand for foundation engineering and also increased sales of age major projects. We also have a profound understanding of lomineral aggregates towards the end of the year. cal conditions and our customers’ needs. In light of the market situation, we achieved a good result in We are working as a main contractor, a subcontractor or part Finland and our order book at the end of the year was better than of a joint venture in accordance with our customers’ requirein 2009. ments. We guarantee competitive pricing for our paving operations by continually improving the efficiency of our processes. Winter delayED paving work abroad Outside Finland, we are best known as experts in road conThe long winter shortened the paving season at our foreign substruction as well as rock and foundation engineering. sidiaries by 2.5–4 months. Winter delayed the start of the 2010 We develop new businesses on the basis of our solid core season and also brought it to a premature end later in the year. compentencies. For example, our rapidly growing mine excavation The long winter, intense competition and non-recurring expenses business is based on our experience in rock engineering. In 2008, led to our first ever loss in Norway. Our paving operations in Denwe strengthened our expertise in underground mining through mark achieved a good result. the acquisition of Tolarock Oy. Strategic investments have genThe economy has recovered very slowly in the Baltic countries. erated results. We have been involved in the construction of Demand for infrastructure construction is low and competition is 34 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Lemminkäinen as a constructor – Infrastructure construction ¹) Forssan Betoni Oy, which formerly belonged to Lemminfierce. As our operations in the Baltic countries incurred a loss, net SaLeS,¹ ) euR mILLIon käinen Infrastructure Construction, became part of the we have wound down our Latvian company and have otherwise 1200 1,000 Building Products business sector as from the beginning of 2010. The comparative figures for 2009 are also in streamlined our cost structure. 1000 line with the new organisation. 800 Our projects in Sweden mainly revolve around tunnelling,800 foun²) The figures are based on internal segment reporting to dation engineering and excavation. We firmly established ourselves 600 management. 600 in the rock engineering market by breaking into a significant new 400 field: underground mining. We won contracts worth a total of400 EUR 200 55 million for excavation and construction of mining and mainte200 0 nance tunnels at the LKAB iron ore mine in Kiruna, Sweden. 0 06 07 08²) 09²) 10²) Strategic acquisitions in Norway Nordic infrastructure construction is one of Lemminkäinen’s oPeRatInG PRoFIt,¹ ) euR mILLIon 60 strategic growth areas. We are seeking profitable growth both or50 ganically and through acquisitions. In Norway, we acquired 50 ma40 jority holdings in Asfalt Remix AS, a company specialising40 in the 30 cold milling of asphalt, and Risa Rock AS, a tunnel blasting30 expert. In December, we signed an agreement to acquire the 20 in20 frastructure company Mesta Industri AS. The acquisition is still 10 awaiting approval from the Competition Authority, which10is ex0 pected to make its decision during the first quarter. 0 After these 06 07 08²) 09²) 10²) acquisitions, we will become the second largest paving contractor in Norway. net SaLeS These acquisitions also supplemented our current operations and benefited our Norwegian units by generating synergies and economies of scale. Organisational restructuring On 1 January 2011, the concrete business and sports and urban environment construction, which had previously been part of the Building Products division, were transferred to Infrastructure Construction. In January 2011, Infrastructure Construction's regional operating model was reorganized. From now on, our customers will receive all products and services related to Infrastructure Construction from a single access point. We also readjusted our focal areas. Our business areas are paving, mineral aggregates, earthworks and traffic route construction, maintenance and servicing, paving, domestic 29% mineral aggregates 11% rock engineering, foundation and civil engineering, and concrete paving, international 38% Civil engineering 22% products. The restructuring seeks to ensure an even more customeroriented approach and to improve Group-wide cooperation on Infrastructure construction – Lemminkäinen as a constructor – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 35 36 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Lemminkäinen as a constructor – Infrastructure construction customer relations management and the winning of new customers. The new structure also enables us to better evaluate the cost-effectiveness and development needs of our various Site Manager businesses. Pentti Nieminen P-Hämppi, PARKING FACILITY, Tampere Major projects starting up rOCK ENGINEERING Infrastructure is by nature a steady business with a low sensitivity to economic fluctuations. We are seeking profitable growth by, My career at Lemminkäinen began in 1988. I’ve for example, strengthening our operations in the Nordic countries. worked at several blasting and quarrying sites Our goal is for operations outside Finland to generate about half of since then, also in Sweden. I arrived at the Pour net sales by the end of the strategic period. We are also develHämppi site in 2009. Here I’m responsible for oping our non-seasonal maintenance and servicing in both Finland making sure that the project stays on schedule and our other business countries. and on budget. I’m also in charge of site resources, occupational safety, and work plan management. Building a car park beneath the city centre is a challenging, large-scale project that demands a lot from both planners and implementers. We have to make sure that our work causes as little disturbance as possible to those around us. Acquisitions in Norway And we also need to keep local residents fully insupplemented our current formed about what’s happening on site. Our strength is seamless cooperation, not operations. After these only with subcontractors and clients, but also acquisitions, we will be among ourselves. We operate responsibly, which the second largest paving means honoring agreed principles and following plans. About 60–70 people work on this site, contractor in Norway. and its vital that everyone pays particular attention to safety. All of the segments in Lemminkäinen’s Infrastructure Construction sector are represented here, Efforts to enhance the cost-effectiveness of our operations but thanks to our single access point policy, it’s will also continue. As competition intensifies, efficient processstill really easy for our customer to work with us. es and well-honed service packages will grant us a competitive edge, especially in public sector tenders. Building construction began to recover in 2010 and we expect this to lead to an increase in infrastructure construction, too. Scandinavian governments are making increased investments in new road and rail projects, and EU funding for infraBlasting work at a depth of 30 metres is usually done at night. structure construction in the Baltic countries will continue. The Blast stone is also removed at night, so as to cause as little disruption to traffic as possible. The blast stone is recycled at various economic outlook for the industry is quite favourable and will construction sites around the city. provide us with a good springboard for 2011. Infrastructure construction – Lemminkäinen as a constructor – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 37 Business sector overview Lemminkäinen is one of the three largest providers of installation and maintenance services for techTechnical nical building systems in Finland. We offer end-toBuilding Services end services that cover a property’s entire life cycle. Our service offering includes the installation of technical building systems in new and existing properties, expert services, maintenance, upkeep and renovation, and control room and emergency call out services. We also offer additional services to our industrial clients, such as production line electrification. Our most important customers include the State, cities and municipalities, construction firms, property developers, owners and users, property maintenance companies, housing cooperatives, and industry, trade and services. At their disposal are approximately 2,000 industry professionals with a range of expertise in different fields, working at 38 locations around Finland and for our Russian subsidiary Tekmen SPb in St Petersburg. Demand for end-to-end services in a fragmented market Lemminkäinen holds a 5–6 per cent share of the total market for technical building services. It’s a fragmented market – the six largest companies have a combined share of only about 20 per cent. Many small entrepreneurs operate in the industry. The industry’s operating environment is, however, in a state of flux: technology is advancing rapidly and building and information technology are becoming increasingly more integrated. Demand for highly advanced solutions and end-to-end services is forecast to rise over the coming years, as more and more customers outsource property maintenance. The market is shifting away from the implementation of project-specific solutions towards end-toend maintenance agreements. Environmental and energy efficiency requirements are becoming stricter, and ecological responsibility now carries greater weight. New construction will account for an increasing proportion of technical building services. Life cycle models, in which technical building services are a vital component, are becoming ever more widespread in the public sector. These changes in our operating environment will pave the way for new opportunities for profitable growth. We see the most significant growth potential in the implementation of end-to-services and life cycle projects, technical building services as part of 38 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Lemminkäinen as a constructor – Technical building services electrician Mika Rajaniemi airport properties, vantaa Technical Facility Services I’ve been working at Lemminkäinen since 1999, and at the airport since June 2010. Airport property maintenance involves a broad range of tasks: scheduled maintenance, monthly inspections and repairs, electrical repairs, fire alarm systems, temperature regulation, and refrigeration. I love the fast tempo of my job. Time never drags on and I face fresh challenges every day. Airports are very international environments and security is vital. Background checks are carried out on all employees and the security regulations, especially on the apron, are challenging. So having the same company take care of both technical building services and the upkeep of outdoor areas makes it easier for the customer. As well as professional skills, I also need to have good people skills and the ability to react quickly and prioritise. Responsibility in my job means sticking to schedules and maintaining high quality standards. When it comes to occupational safety, I have to pay attention to the dangers of working in high places, as well as the noise that’s characteristic to all airports. I used to maintain a single office and warehouse property, so my current job offers a lot more variety: my area contains about 20 properties, all with different technology. Lemminkäinen maintains about 20 different properties at the Helsinki-Vantaa Airport, from office buildings to aircraft hangars and a fire department. Technical building services – Lemminkäinen rakentajana – Lemminkäinen Vuosikertomus 2010 39 renovations, building and property services, and the maintenance term maintenance and upkeep agreements. We are cooperating and upkeep of building technology. even more closely with Lemminkäinen’s other business sectors, especially on end-to-end projects and renovations. A post-cyclical industry We are developing services to improve energy efficiency. We The construction industry went into recession in 2008, leading offer end-to-end ELE (energy–life cycle–environment) solutions, to a low number of start-ups in building construction – and this which determine a property’s energy consumption and pinpoint impact was still being felt in demand for technical building serpotential savings using existing equipment. In addition to our vices during 2010. Technical building services are one of the last analyses, customers can also make comprehensive agreements for stages of construction, which means demand follows fluctuamaintenance services and basic improvements. In 2010, for examtions in building construction with a delay of about a year. ple, we applied our ELE model to Teboil service stations all across Due to a challenging market situation, our net sales for 2010 Finland. Investments in technical building services soon pay for fell in comparison to 2009. Over half of our net sales come from themselves through reduced energy costs. maintenance and upkeep services and renovation. Industrial deWe implemented technical building systems at two of Finmand for technical building services remained low. In spite of inland’s first zero energy buildings – a nursing home in Järvencreased competition in the industry, we retained our market share pää, Southern Finland, and student housing in Kuopio, Central in Finland. Finland. Both locations are scheduled for completion in the first Heightened competition did, however, weaken our profitability. half of 2011. The buildings are almost self-sufficient in terms The rise in raw material prices has also affected our margins. For of energy usage. Energy to run heating and electrical systems is example, the price of copper – the primary raw material for cables generated using solar thermal collectors and geothermal heat. – rose by about 40 per cent in 2010. We were unable to comThe so-called ‘free heat’ produced by inhabitants, machines and pletely transfer this increase to customer prices. equipment is also harnessed. Our contract included the instalNon-recurring items from restructuring and downscaling lation and connection of the solar thermal collectors, as well as measures have also weakened our profitability. The prices of our harnessing the electricity collected to run the property. key raw materials are forecast to rise further in 2011. We are lookThe number of plumbing renovations carried out in apartment ing to improve the efficiency of our procurements by, for example, buildings built in the 1960s and 1970s in particular is forecast centralising purchases to harness our Group’s volume benefits. to double in the coming years. In order to improve our competitiveness as a pipe renovator, we’ve introduced a new type of surTekmanni is now Lemminkäinen facing process that’s suitable for renewing metallic water and During 2010, we simplified our corporate structure in the Techheating pipes, and also sewers. The new process means fast nical Building Services sector by merging our subsidiaries into renovations and brief water cuts. the parent company. Tekmanni Oy is now Lemminkäinen TalotekWe also strengthened our expertise in refrigeration. Climate niikka Oy and Tekmanni Service Oy is now Lemminkäinen Kiinchange is forecast to increase the need for refrigeration, even as teistötekniikka Oy. The upcoming merger of Technical Facility energy efficiency requirements are stepped up. Services into Lemminkäinen Talotekniikka Oy in 2011 will further simplify our corporate structure and boost the efficiency of joint Demand is poised to pick up operations. in both Finland and Russia We expect demand for technical building services in Finland to Energy efficiency and new services increase gradually with the recovery of residential construction. In 2010, we enhanced our expertise and operations in growth arDemand for maintenance, upkeep and renovation remains good eas. As our expertise in technical building services covers a buildand is forecast to rise further. There is increasing demand for ing’s entire life cycle, we seek to continue our contracts with longplumbing renovations in residential buildings, and end-to-end life 40 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Lemminkäinen as a constructor – Technical building services ¹) The figures are based on internal segment reporting to cycle maintenance agreements for properties are also on the rise. net SaLeS,¹ ) euR mILLIon management. All in all, technical building services are expected to account350 for an 300 increasing proportion of the costs incurred by both new construc300 250 tion and renovation. 250 200 We also expect growing demand for our services in Russia, 200 150 where we have been investing in our maintenance operations150 in re100 cent years. In November 2010, we won an extensive maintenance 100 50 agreement in St Petersburg. From the beginning of 2011, we 50 will be responsible for the maintenance of technical building systems in 0 0 the new Nevsky Centre shopping centre, which is owned by Stock06 07 08¹) 09¹) 10¹) mann, a Finnish retail company. Foreign companies will continue to be an important customer segment for us in Russia. Then again, a oPeRatInG PRoFIt,¹ ) euR mILLIon 21 general increase in construction volumes and higher quality stan­ 18 18 dards are also forecast to raise demand for maintenance services, 15 15 both for properties and building technology. 12 12 9 Strengthening our competitive position 9 6 We want to be the most sought-after supplier of technical building6 3 services in Finland, while also significantly growing our international 3 0 operations. In order to achieve our goals, we must strengthen 0 our lo06 07 08¹) 09¹) 10¹) cal expertise in Finland – we want selected special know-how to be readily available throughout the country. We are expanding our prodnet SaLeS uct and service offering, and our life cycle expertise in particular. Extensive expertise, a broad offering and a healthy cost-level – combined with continual improvements to efficiency – will not only increase our competitiveness, but also benefit our customers. Contracting in building services technology 69% Service and maintenance 31% Technical building services – Lemminkäinen as a constructor – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 41 Business sector overview In 2010 our offering included manufacturing, selling, importing and contracting services to concrete Building Products and urban environment products, and products for sports construction. We divested our roofing operations on December 2010. In the beginning of 2011 remaining business areas were transferred to Infrastructure Construction. The Building Products sector consisted of the roofing, concrete, and sports construction businesses. It also contained the logistics unit, comprising the central warehouse and transportation operations. Our key customer groups include construction firms, contractors, municipalities, cities, property and housing cooperatives, retailers, consumers and planners. The market for building products is highly fragmented. There are many products supplied by a vast array of manufacturers from small family businesses to multinational corporations. Lemminkäinen’s market share in building products and associated services varies from 5 to 40 per cent. Last year, we supplied our customers with concrete and natural-stone urban environment products, pre-cast concrete elements, ready-mixed concrete, bituminous roofing materials and waterproofing products. We also imported, distributed and offered contracting services for specialised roofing, urban environment and sports construction products. We used these products to build yards, roofs, urban environments and sports grounds for our customers. We also offered installation, repair, maintenance and advisory services throughout Finland. Although Finland is our main market area, we also have retail organisations in the Baltic countries, Poland and Scandinavia, as well as associates in Russia and Sweden. We also supplied and installed roofing materials, products for sports construction and concrete products to the rest of Europe. In Finland in 2010, we had 24 production facilities for building products and ready-mixed concrete, and 15 sales and contracting offices. A cHANGING operating environment Customers’ increasing environmental and energy awareness, combined with current legislative trends in construction, require 42 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Lemminkäinen as a constructor – Building products precast concrete worker Pekka Räsänen KAMPPI SHOPPING CENTER, HELSINKI Building Products I’ve been with Lemminkäinen for over 40 years. I joined the concrete products unit after my discharge from the army in summer 1970. During my career, I’ve alternated between a variety of sites around Finland and have also worked abroad. I’ve been on the Group’s co-determination committee for several years as both an area shop steward and industrial safety delegate. At the moment, I’m doing some floor grinding for the Kamppi Shopping Center renovations. Although I’m a staircase installation technician by trade, I’ve done a range of other things in my time, too. You can see my handiwork at, for example, the Finnish National Theatre, the Finnish National Opera, Hotel Kämp and Helsinki City Hall. One of my most unusual jobs was an urn wall for the parish of Kauniainen. We are able to tailor all of our services to our customers’ needs, from minor floor renovations to major long-term projects. Freedom and variety are some of the best aspects of my job. I’m able to work independently and meet a range of different people. Strenuous working positions are a downside. Lemminkäinen is, however, paying increasing attention to ergonomics and occupational safety. For me, our vision – ‘the best way to build’ – is most evident when all of our working processes are in order and each stage is running smoothly. Lemminkäinen is able to tailor all of our services to our customers' needs, from minor renovations to major long-term projects. Building products – Lemminkäinen rakentajana – Lemminkäinen Vuosikertomus 2010 43 manufacturers to rapidly invest in technology and building prodcaused us extra snow clearing work, which also reduced the profucts that support sustainable development. itability of contracts. Population ageing is evident in the growing demand for serThe State reduced the subsidies it grants to housing coopvices and end-to-end solutions. Previously, customers would eratives for repairs, which affected demand for building produsually buy only flagstones and roofing materials, but these days, ucts and services in 2010. The global market situation also had more and more renovations are contracted out. In order to meet an unfavourable impact on total demand and further heightened this demand, we’ve expanded our offering – and also provide competition in the industry. contracting throughout Finland. Globalisation is altering market structure and bringing interOrganisational restructuring national players and materials into our domestic market. Lemminkäinen Katto Oy, Lemminkäinen Betonituote Oy and its subsidiaries (Elemento Oy, Suonenjoen Betonituote Oy and Reasonable outlook for the industry Forssan Betoni Oy), and Omni-Sica Oy were merged as LemDemand for building products is tied to fluctuations in building minkäinen Rakennustuotteet Oy in spring 2010. construction. It’s an extensive market, which offers us growth In November 2010, we acquired Suonenjoen Sementtituote Oy’s opportunities. business to boost our production capacity for concrete elements. The outlook for the building products industry is reasonable 2010 was Building Products’ last year of operation. On 1 Janwhen you take the overall market situation into consideration. uary 2011, concrete, urban environment and sports construction Demand for new residential apartment blocks is expected to products along with the central warehouse were transferred to remain brisk in 2011, and the construction of small houses is also Infrastructure Construction. In December 2010, Lemminkäinen forecast to rise. Continued brisk demand for renovation will also divested its roofing business to Axcel, a Danish private equity increase demand for concrete and urban environment product fund. This transaction was completed on 31 January 2011. contracts. Levels for all areas except residential construction are foreContracting and expert services cast to remain low, which will in turn weaken demand for buildin the spotlight ing products to some extent. Municipalities that lost tax revenue We see the most significant growth potential for building prodduring the recession are reducing their investments in, for examucts in the production and sale of materials. Sports and urban ple, sports and urban environment construction. environment construction and their associated expert services also offer appealing opportunities. In order to harness this poHeightened competition lowers profitability tential, we are developing our maintenance operations and enerOur season for contracting and product sales got off to a late start gy-efficient solutions, expanding our range of urban environment in 2010 due to the long winter. A recovery in residential construcconstruction services, developing turnkey solutions, and offering tion fuelled demand for pre-cast concrete elements, and demand for our customers a broader range of end-to-end solutions. urban environment products was also good. The industry is moving away from new construction and towards renovation, which was evident in the increased number of yard and roofing renovations carried out by housing cooperatives. The recession intensified competition in roofing and urban environment contracting. Although we retained our market share, our margins fell on 2009. Profitability was also weakened by the rising price of our basic raw materials, such as bitumen, cement, mineral aggregates and steel. Record-breaking snowfall also 44 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Lemminkäinen as a constructor – Building products ¹) Forssan Betoni Oy, which formerly belonged to LemminoPeRatInG PRoFIt,¹ ) euR mILLIon käinen Infrastructure Construction, became part of the 14 Building Products business sector as from the beginning 12 12 of 2010. The comparative figures for 2009 are also in 10 line with the new organisation. 10 ²) The figures are based on internal segment reporting to 8 management. 8 6 6 4 4 2 2 0 06 07 08²) 09²) 10²) net SaLeS,¹ ) euR mILLIon 175 150 150 125 125 100 100 75 75 50 50 25 25 0 06 07 08²) 09²) 10²) net SaLeS roofing and waterproofing products 40% Sports construction 14% Concrete and urban environment products 46% Building products – Lemminkäinen as a constructor – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 45 Material and Construction has a huge impact on the environment. The built environment consumes 42 per Energy efficiency The European Union seeks a 20 per cent reduction in greenhouse energy efficiency cent of all energy and generates 38 per cent of all carbon dioxide emissions. The construction indusemissions and energy consumption by 2020. We are currently analysing our emissions and energy contry is also a major consumer of natural resources. sumption. Our goal is to calculate how efficiently we use energy We consider environmental responsibility to be a in our processes, and in particular in our own production, produckey area for development. tion facilities and properties. As we have a broad range of processes and operations requiring widely varying amounts of enBoth we at Lemminkäinen and our stakeholders are aware of our ergy, we are planning and implementing field-specific measures responsibility for the environmental impact of construction and to save on and optimise energy consumption. want to reduce the associated risks. In summer 2010, while determining our most influential corporate responsibility themes, Material efficiency we identified improving energy and material efficiency as a key Waste is one of the most significant environmental impacts of area for development. construction sites. For us, material efficiency means maximising material reuse and minimising our environmental waste load. We Responsibility – intend to achieve these goals by increasing the collection and rein the heart of our new strategy use of recyclable materials, and also by paying attention to fuel Corporate responsibility holds a central position in our new strateconomy and emissions from transportation. We are developing egy. We want to know the environmental impact and risks of our measures and monitoring systems to measure material recycling, operations, so that we can take them into consideration during landfill waste generation and atmospheric emissions. our decision-making. We consider the environmental business to be first and foreSaving both money and the environment most an opportunity. Two of our strategic growth areas – renovaOur energy consumption is highest in production and transportation and technical building services – can vastly improve energy tion. In addition to carbon dioxide emissions, our production faefficiency. And by recycling materials and reducing waste, we can cilities and vehicles also cause environmental loading through also make financial savings. Property maintenance also affects noise, dust, vibration and odour pollution, and sulphur oxide, niour customers’ energy usage. trogen oxide and fine particle emissions. Lemminkäinen's own In 2010, we focused on basic issues and came to a shared production facilities include asphalt and rock crushing plants, understanding of what environmental responsibility means at factories manufacturing concrete products and ready-mix conLemminkäinen. We defined key figures and measures that can crete and roofing materials. We are able to influence our energy already be systematically monitored and reported in 2011. We consumption by, for example, harnessing more environmentally aim to introduce our Group-wide environmental data reporting friendly sources of energy and employing technical solutions that system during 2011. improve energy efficiency. We also seek to use appropriate, cost-effective methods to We want to be a forerunner prevent other environmental hazards (Best Environmental PracWe are reducing the environmental impact of our operations by tices). We minimise environmental loading by using machinimproving R&D, production processes and working methods. In ery and equipment correctly, conducting regular maintenance 2010, we set developmental goals for our business’ most fundaand avoiding idling. We take extra care to protect the ground on mental environmental issues: energy and material efficiency. aprons, so as to prevent oils, fuels and solvents from contaminating the soil and groundwater. 46 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Lemminkäinen as a constructor – Material and energy efficiency Most of our production facilities operate under environmental Energy consumption 2010 2009 permits, which requires regular environmental monitoring and reTotal energy consumption, GWh 27 29 porting to the authorities. Compulsory data includes production volumes and categories, energy, fuel and water consumption, and Light fuel oil, GWh 123 132 waste volumes. Heavy fuel oil, GWh 92 110 When purchasing machinery and equipment, we favour the Natural gas, GWh 44 50 best available technology (BAT) with regard to the environment. District heating, GWh 1,0 1.6 This means the most efficient and advanced production and Total, GWh 287 322.6 cleaning processes – in terms of both technology and cost-effectiveness – and working methods that best prevent or reduce environmental contamination. calculated emissions 2010 2009 Carbon dioxide emissions (CO2), tonnes 72,800 81,900 Recycling construction waste Reporting covers Finland. Careful preparations are vital when developing material efficiency. Our 2010 reporting covers asphalt production, crushing plants, concrete and roofing material factories and ready-mixed concrete production. The figures have In order to reduce waste and material damage and losses, orders not been adjusted in proportion to production volumes. Construction and property reporting will be further developed during 2011. should be made at the correct time and in the correct quantities, The calculations use the following energy source coefficients for CO2 emissions (source: Motiva): materials should be used in precisely measured amounts, work Light fuel oil 267 g CO2 / kWh; Heavy fuel oil 284 g CO2 / kWh; Natural gas 198 g CO2 / kWh; Electricity, purchased 200 g CO2 / kWh. stages should be carefully planned in advance and employ the right tools and working methods, and construction sites should Waste 2010 2009 be kept clean and tidy. See the adjacent table for more information about our waste recycling. Landfill waste, tons 2,040 1,800 We use recycled materials whenever it’s financially and pracRecycled/reused, tons 27,450 25,020 tically viable. For example, asphalt is 100 per cent recyclable. Utilised, % 93.1 93.3 About 12 per cent of our total asphalt production used recycled Landfill waste,% 6.9 6.7 Our waste utilisation percentage also includes all the recyclable and reusable materials that we are not able to use ourselves. Demolition waste and excavated materials are not included. One of our goals for 2011 is to draw up a Group-wide material balance sheet. ENVIRONMENTAL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CHART Creating a monitoring system and reporting methods for environmental data Managing and expanding the collec­ tion and reporting of environmental data Enhancing energy and material efficiency Making environmental perspectives an aspect of Lemminkäinen’s business, and defining and implementing performance benchmarks 2010 2011 2012 2013 Material and energy efficiency – Lemminkäinen as a constructor – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 47 asphalt, which saved natural reserves of both mineral aggremaintenance agreements in which we take complete responsibilgates and bitumen. We fully equip our new asphalt plants for the ity for the property’s upkeep and energy usage. production of recycled asphalt. We also use crushed rock and We have also strengthened our refrigeration maintenance opcrushed, recycled concrete as a substitute for natural gravel. In erations and our expertise in refrigeration and cold storage solu2011, we will also be examining the fuel economy and emissions tions. Climate change is forecasted to increase the need for reof raw material transportation to our production facilities. frigeration, although solutions will have to be energy efficient. Improving environmental efficiency in the Reducing energy consumption through infrastructure built environment construction A significant proportion of a building’s environmental impact The condition of road networks and the recycling rates of asphalt arises during use – construction, maintenance and demolition paving affect both energy consumption and material efficiency. account for only seven per cent. We are continually seeking new Lemminkäinen conducts its own infrastructure R&D, and we also ways to create healthy, environmentally sound conditions for livtake part in joint projects in many fields. ing, working and travelling. When acquiring mineral aggregate reserves, we promote soluWe are enhancing the energy efficiency of our own production. tions that support sustainable development. Even at the planning Our goal is to use either renewable energy sources or, if zoning alstage, we consider an area’s potential after-use – as a site for inlows, district heating to heat our own sites. dustrial or leisure-time facilities, for example. Future legislation will steer construction towards ever more energy efficient solutions. We’ve already participated in several Playing our part in industry development low-energy and zero-energy projects. In 2010, a LEED-certified Improving environmental efficiency requires extensive cooper(Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) construction ation. We actively participate in construction industry forums project was running in Seinäjoki and a BREEAM-certified (BRE and development projects through, for example, RYM Oy and the Environmental Assessment Method) project in Espoo. CertificaGreen Building Council Finland (FIGBC). tion seeks to reduce the environmental impact of both construcRYM Oy is a strategic coordination centre for expertise in the tion and usage. built environment in Finland. The FIGBC network seeks to make sustainable development perspectives a natural aspect of all Efficiency through renovation property and construction operations. and technical building services A large proportion of buildings completed during the 1960s and 1970s will require basic renovations over the next decade. Renovations can improve the energy efficiency of existing buildings through improved insulation, the installation of heat recovery ventilation systems and the development of other energy-effiTargets for 2011 cient technical solutions. We are also continually developing new solutions for apartment block infill development. Updating our Group-wide environmental policies Building technology can have a major impact on energy efficiency. Our own studies indicate that about 5–30 per cent of the energy consumed by a standard, well-managed property is wastModelling the Group’s material balance sheet ed due to idling. We have developed a maintenance package that analyses a property’s energy consumption and offers a range of Defining the Group’s environmental indexes efficiency boosting solutions from minor savings plans to major 48 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Lemminkäinen as a constructor – Material and energy efficiency regional manager Ari Salminen zero energy building, järvenpää Technical Building Services I’m a second-generation HVAC man and I’ve always known I’d work in the construction industry. I’ve been working at Lemminkäinen for six years now. As a regional manager, I’m responsible for all the HVAC work in my area. There are currently about 30 ongoing projects. The supervisors report to me and I report to the regional director. Järvenpään Mestariasunnot Oy is building a nursing home for the elderly, which is scheduled for completion in the summer. Zero energy technology is more complex than standard HVACE. Special features of this brand-new building include liquid-based collectors in the roof, which collect energy for heating, and electrical collectors in the facade, which transfer energy into the electrical network. Two holes have also been drilled under the six-storey residential building. These are used to provide cooling in the summer and heating in the winter. Responsibility is evident in a desire for quality. More attention is being paid to occupational safety and this shows in the statistics – there have been fewer accidents. In this job, you need to be sociable and forward-thinking, and have nerves of steel. Cooperation requires you to adapt to other people’s methods – so you need good antennae, too. A varied range of projects and cooperation with different companies are the highlights of my job. In the future, legislation will steer construction towards solutions that use minimal energy. Zero-energy buildings are based on betterthan-average shell insulation and using renewable energy sources for heating. Material and energy efficiency – Lemminkäinen as a developer – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 49 Customers Our business comprises our own production, contracting, projects, services and material sales. Our curement Act also allows quality factors, such as references from previous clients, to be taken into consideration. customers value our broad offering, expertise, reliProperty end-user owners tender out contracts for commercial ability and flexibility. and business premises, sports construction and technical building systems. Winning a tender requires cost-effectiveness. A solid Our own production of residential and business premises generates reputation and good references grant a competitive edge. over 10 per cent of our net sales. We also operate as main or subHousing cooperatives and maintenance companies are our contractors for building and infrastructure construction and techcustomers particularly for our technical building services. We also nical building services. We implement project management concarry out renovations to selected sites. tracts, too. Renovation and maintenance/upkeep services are a Industrial customers order construction contracts and maintegrowing business for us – and already accounted for about a quarnance and upkeep services. Our industrial customers value special ter of our net sales in 2010. know-how and local services. Many of our customers want to outsource maintenance and Other construction companies. We also work as subcontracupkeep services and this is fuelling the service business. The tors for other construction firms in technical building services and technologisation of the built environment, which requires special infrastructure construction. know-how is just one of the reasons behind this trend. In the public We work closely with our customers to ensure that our solusector, life cycle models are becoming more widespread. In life cytions meet their needs in terms of both flexibility and cost-effeccle models, construction companies or joint ventures are not only tiveness. We arrange seminars and functions to meet with our cusresponsible for construction, but also for maintenance and upkeep tomers, and also encounter them at trade fairs and other industry – and sometimes even financing. Finding an approach that keeps events. We keep them informed of developments in our operations total costs down is a vital aspect of life cycle solutions. through, for example, our stakeholders’ magazine and newsletters. Our marketing focuses on increasing recognition of our product and Our key customer groups service offering, and complies with the ICC (International Chamber Consumers. We sell the majority of our own residential producof Commerce) marketing regulations. tion directly to consumers; only a fraction is sold through other channels. We have our own sales offices in many municipalities in Our competitive edge Finland and in St Petersburg, Russia. Location, quality and a comOur main competitive edge comes from reliability, expert personnel petitive price are the major factors that influence consumers’ deand a broad range of products and services. We operate throughout cisions. We also sell paving stones and asphalt to consumers, eiFinland and have a thorough understanding of local conditions and ther directly or through dealers. customers. And we are fast and flexible when making decisions. Property investors purchase the business premises we have We are continually developing our technical expertise and, if produced. They expect a good return on their investment, which required, are able to shoulder extensive end-to-end responsibilemphasises the importance of a good leaseholder profile and ity. We can transfer special know-how and specialised equipment long-term leases. A good location and an understanding of differto construction sites throughout Finland and the surrounding reing space requirements are other key factors. gions. And integrating our building technology expertise into our The public sector is an important client in infrastructure proficiency in building construction has never been more seamless. construction. Although we are best known for paving work, we We make continual investments in construction efficiency, also implement foundation reinforcements, tunnels and a variety such as planning, procurements and logistics, to improve the of traffic routes. And we’ve built a significant number of schools cost-effectiveness of our solutions. and public buildings. In addition to price, the Finnish Public Pro50 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – Lemminkäinen as a constructor – Customers Responsibility In accordance with our Code of Conduct, we require our partners to adhere to legislation and to Our goal is to harness the benefits of scale and to standardise our procurement practices with the help of a Group-level programme. in the follow international regulations concerning human rights, employment rights and the environment. Towards supplier network management procurement chain We work with our subcontractors and suppliers to The management of our currently complex procurement chain ensure that these requirements are being met, and fails to meet all of our requirements. So in 2010, we launched we are developing systems to monitor their activia development project to increase transparency and cost-effecties in this respect. tiveness and reduce purchase risks through more efficient supplier network management. Last year, we analysed the current situOur procurement chain consists of about 19,000 suppliers. Proation and defined our objectives. And during 2011, we will draw curements in 2010 totalled EUR 1,186 million (1,157), repreup a detailed action plan to consolidate and categorise our prosenting 63 (58) per cent of net sales. Goods and raw materials curements, and also to overhaul our procurement organisation. accounted for EUR 543 (500) million and external services for We’ve already launched evaluations and audits of 13 suppliEUR 646 (664) million. Subcontracting was the largest external ers, which account for 9 per cent of Lemminkäinen’s total purservice, totalling EUR 490 (530) million. About 30 (23) per cent chases. These supplier audits will evaluate issues relating to of procurements were made from countries other than Finland. quality, the environment, occupational safety and corporate responsibility. Our goal for 2011 is to expand our supplier audits to Our goal – consolidation and categorisation cover 20 per cent of our purchase volume. Our extensive supplier network, decentralised procurements and growing global business operations pose a challenge. However, we’ve begun to categorise and consolidate our procurements. PROCUREMENT CHAIN SUPPLIER PROCUREMENT MANUFACTURING SALES CUSTOMER CODE OF CONDUCT, VALUES, LAWS AND REGULATIONS Responsibility in the procurement chain – Lemminkäinen as a constructor – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 51 In our construction operations, our most important resource Society and is our personnel. We continually invest in personnel wellpersonnel being and seek to pre-emptively manage working incapacity risks. We develop supervisory skills, so that our supervisors are better able to manage performance and competence development. Our goal is to be the best employer. We believe that a good employer is also a good corporate citizen. 52 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – society and personnel – Responsibility in the procurement chain Responsibility in the procurement chain – society and personnel – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 53 Stakeholders The built environment affects everyone – construction has a significant social impact. We generate ployer, so we are also using large-scale surveys to monitor our corporate image in the eyes of potential employees. economic well-being and promote development A publicly listed company must communicate openly and imthrough profitable operations, investments and empartially. We engage in continual dialogue with our shareholders ployment. Our stakeholders include everyone who and the dialogue is based on our principles of investor relations. may affect our operations and everyone who may We are developing and boosting the efficiency of our partnerbe affected by them. Our key stakeholders are: our ships and procurement chains by improving quality, cost-effeccustomers, personnel, shareholders and investors, tiveness and flexibility. Networking has also enabled us to bring partners and the media. We believe that continual further specialised expertise to our service offering. You can read and proactive dialogue with these groups will be remore about procurement chain responsibility on page 51. flected in both our results and the way we work. In accordance with our Code of Conduct, we fight proactively against the grey economy. We actively monitor changes in our operating environment. We also engage in active dialogue with the media and provide Emerging topics or changes in our stakeholders’ expectations transparent, reliable and up-to-date information. Our media relamay affect our ability to operate. We need to be prepared and tions are handled both locally and through Group level. take these factors into consideration, which is why we work closely with our stakeholders. In all cooperation, we adhere to our Support for non-profit associations Code of Conduct, as well as local and international commitments When sponsoring organisations, we adhere to our Code of Conand legislation. duct and complementary sponsorship principles, which we updated in 2010. Group management holds overall responsibiliEVERYDAY COOPERATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS ty for nationwide sponsorship projects. When working with local We have identified our key stakeholders and their expectations. associations and stakeholders, each business sector is responThis year, we also determined our most influential corporate resible for those activities that are associated with its operations. sponsibility themes and, as part of this analysis, also considered Our support for non-profit organisations in 2010 totalled EUR how different stakeholders influenced our company. We want to 276 (425) thousand. We support mainly sports. We also donatengage in open, proactive and continual dialogue that will ened a total of EUR 230,000 to the Aalto University Foundation, able us to better meet our stakeholders’ expectations. To that Tampere University of Technology Foundation and Turku Univerend, we are further developing our dialogue channels, tools and sity Foundation. We made these donations after the new Univerresponsibilities. sity Act came into force at the turn of the year, allowing universiThe majority of our dialogue with stakeholders occurs locally. ties to apply for private funding. In accordance with our updated We make focused contact with shareholders, investors and anasponsorship principles, we hereafter will prioritise sports and exlysts, and also with national media, organisations, authorities and ercise for young people, as well as youth projects that support the other decision-makers. acquisition of expertise and practical construction industry skills. Our customers are our number one stakeholder. Our strategy’s main goal is to take an even more customer-oriented approach, so as to better meet their expectations. You can read more about our customers on page 50. Companies whose employees have a high level of job satisfaction are far more likely to keep and attract the best personnel. This year, we launched a Group-wide personnel survey to chart our personnel’s opinions. We want to be the most desirable em54 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – society and personnel – Stakeholders DISTRIBUTION OF VALUE ADDED TO OUR STAKEHOLDER GROUPS Customers EUR 1,892.5 million lemminkäinen Goods suppliers and Employees Society Investments Financiers subcontractors EUR 336.8 million EUR 85 million EUR 59.6 million EUR 22.2 million EUR 1,185.9 million Income taxes EUR 5.6 million Pension expenses and employee-related expenses EUR 79 million The figures presented in the tables are based on accrual accounting. Stakeholders – society and personnel – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 55 Management GOOD MANAGEMENT SKILLS AND LEADERSHIP Good management skills are essential if we are to build a new, LEKA training comprises four modules covering all management levels from foremen to senior management. 152 superviskills, leadership unified Lemminkäinen with an even more customer-oriented approach. We seek to be the best employer with the best supervisors took part in LEKA training during 2010. Their feedback has been extremely positive, and participants found internal networkand training sors. To implement our strategy, we need to manage performance, ing to be of particular value. competence and development – and it is up to supervisors to enLEKA training is rounded out with supplementary managesure that employees know what their key tasks are. Supervisors ment and expert courses – our Viila training package. also set targets for employees – both strategic and applied – and monitor their performance. If should problems arise, superiors are Our personnel survey and management questionnaire – responsible for implementing corrective measures. benchmarks for success It is the task of our HR professionals to develop the tools that Our annual personnel survey is just one of the methods we emwill enable supervisors to evaluate their unit’s competence level ploy to measure our progress in developing management skills. and steer it in the right direction towards stated objectives. In We conduct surveys in all of our operating countries. The autumn 2010, we focused on enhancing the development discussion 2010 survey was the first to cover all Lemminkäinen personnel. process and providing supervisor training. We also conducted our The survey sought to identify those factors that personnel feel are first Group-wide personnel survey. important to their work, and also evaluate how we, as an employer, have succeeded in realising them. Development discussions About 4,500 people completed the 2010 survey. This repreDevelopment discussions are a vital management tool. Their sented a response rate of 52 per cent, which is statistically sigprimary goal is to encourage personnel to promote our strategy nificant enough to use as a basis for decision-making. The results through their work: development discussions convert strategic indicated that our personnel particularly valued a good working targets into concrete everyday tasks and performance goals. In atmosphere with seamless cooperation between both supervigeneral, development discussions are conducted with majority of sors and colleagues. Other aspects that employees held in high permanent employees. esteem were personal satisfaction with the quality of their own The annual process begins with development discussions for work and confidence in Lemminkäinen’s continued success. the Executive Board, followed by other management levels. SuResponses also indicated that our employees are proud of us pervisors then conduct development discussions with employas an employer. Some of the factors contributing highly to this ees. These discussions may also be followed-up with discussions success included smooth cooperation between supervisors and halfway through the evaluation period. employees, and keeping stakeholders informed about our servicDevelopment discussion training was given during spring and es. Both hourly paid workers and salaried employees also favourautumn 2010. During the training, supervisors familiarised themably highlighted the opportunity for taking responsibility. We did, selves with the process itself, practiced different approaches and however, identify some weaknesses, which were mainly associsituations, and received the tools they need to conduct developated with remuneration and, particularly in the case of salaried ment discussions. employees, information flow and coping at work. During 2011, we will be paying attention to both our successes and those areas Improving management skills requiring improvement. In late 2009, we launched our own LEKA Management AcadThose who supervised at least five employees also received emy. LEKA training seeks to ensure that all supervisors undera report on their management skills. 283 supervisors received stand Lemminkäinen’s new strategy and know how to implement feedback in 2010, and the results indicated that supervisors it. LEKA training also hones a variety of management skills, such maintained good working relationships with employees and were as change management, leadership and interaction skills. successful in ensuring that units achieved their targets. Areas 56 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – society and personnel – Management skills, leadership and training ¹) Forssan Betoni Oy, which formerly belonged to LemminaGe dIStRIbutIon, ReGuLaR emPLoyeeS PeRSonneL by buSIneSS SectoR, on aveRaGe käinen Infrastructure Construction, became part of the 1400 Building Products business sector as from the beginning 1,200 1200 of 2010. The comparative figures for 2009 are also in 1,000 line with the new organisation. 1000 800 800 600 600 400 400 200 200 0 18–29 30–39 40–49 50–59 60– Salaried employees hourly paid workers PeRSonneL, on aveRaGe 00 10,000 00 Building construction 27% Building products 10% 8,000 0 infrastructure construction 38% Group administration 2% 6,000 technical building services 23% 0 4,000 0 2,000 0 0 06 07 08 09¹) 10 PeRSonneL by maRket aRea, on aveRaGe PeRSonneL by emPLoyment GRouP, on aveRaGe Finland 71% russia and eastern europe 5% other nordic countries 12% other countries 2% hourly paid workers 65% Salaried employees 35% Baltic states 10% Management skills, leadership and training – society and personnel – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 57 for improvement included providing feedback and ensuring Monitoring and management’s commitment that employees maintained and improved their competence. Our management has drawn up the equality action plan, and has These results will be considered during supervisors’ own deapproved it. Its implementation is monitored and evaluated at velopment discussions. Group level by Lemminkäinen’s codetermination advisory commitIn 2011, we will be paying particular attention to improving tee, and in each business sector by the relevant codetermination management skills. It’s vital that information about results and body. Regional state administrative agency for Southern Finland measures also reaches our construction sites. ensure that we adhere to the Non-discrimination Act and other During the summer, over 1,000 of our supervisors gave their employment legislation. The Ombudsman for Equality monitors views on Lemminkäinen’s new strategy. The online discussion compliance with the Act on Equality between Men and Women. attracted a total of about 8,000 candid comments. Their diaWe seek to treat all of our employees equally and to prevent logue indicated that our new strategy has been well absorbed, discrimination throughout their time at Lemminkäinen. We also and there was widespread support among supervisors for the adhere to the same principles when recruiting or terminating development processes that have been launched. The results employment. were discussed during the autumn in a range of management forums, and the most important areas for improvement were inDOWNSCALING, LABOUR LEGISLATION AND cluded as targets on our 2011 scorecards. NOTICE PERIODS We continued to develop more efficient operating models to maintain our competitiveness. In line with our strategy, we began to shift towards a consolidated operating model for internal support services during 2010. As part of these changes, we launched downscaling measures. These are covered in more deWe focus on management tail in the Board of Directors's report. Our employment contracts comply with current labour legislaskills, leadership and training. tion. In 2010, all hourly paid workers and salaried employees in Finland – over 92 per cent of personnel – were covered by collective labour agreements. No collective labour agreements, nor any other collective agreements, have been agreed on with senior salaried employees. EQUALITY All of our employees’ employment contracts contain a period The Lemminkäinen Group had an average of 8,314 employof notice equal to at least the minimum required by labour legisees in 2010. Our Group’s principles of equality are based on the lation and collective labour agreements. Minimum periods of nouniversal Act on Equality between Men and Women, the Nontice vary depending on employees’ collective agreements and the discrimination Act, and our legal obligation as an employer to length of time they have worked for Lemminkäinen. prevent discrimination and bullying in the workplace. These principles are supported by a separate equality action plan, which seeks to promote unbiased treatment for all employees irrespective of their gender, ethnic origin, age or sexual orientation, or years of service. Our equality action plan seeks to promote a diverse personnel structure, equal pay and suitable working conditions for all employees. 58 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – society and personnel – Management skills, leadership and training roofer Panu Humppi Helsinki Building Products In February 2011, I’ll be celebrating ten years of working at Lemminkäinen. I used to be a roofer and have worked on projects such as Lemminkäinen's new head office. For the past one and a half years, I’ve been studying for a vocational qualification in business and administration. Lemminkäinen has been supporting me to retrain, as I became unable to do physical labour. After my initial sick leave, everything progressed quickly and the whole rehabilitation and retraining process has gone smoothly. I hope to graduate in 2012. No longer being able to do physical labour has been a major change for me. It’s taken some getting used to, as I really enjoyed my previous job. But all the new things I’ve learnt during my retraining have brought fresh appeal. I loved the freedom of my old job. And the fact that I’ve been with the same company for ten years shows that I really do like working here. I was impressed with how well Lemminkäinen’s occupational health-care system worked. My case was also given serious consideration at the supervisor level. I discussed the options with my supervisor, the occupational health-care physician and the Executive Vice President of my business sector. It feels as if the company really cares – if things go pear-shaped, you’re not left to fend for yourself. Lemminkäinen’s occupational health-care unit monitors the treatment of all employees on sick leave throughout Finland. It also coordinates rehabilitation and, for example, cooperation with rehabilitation centres. By doing this, Lemminkäinen ensures that employees receive all the help they need to regain their working capacity. Management skills, leadership and training – society and personnel – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 59 Occupational Occupational safety is all about attitude. Taking a safe approach can prevent all hazardous situations. The Group’s accident frequency was 36 accidents /million working hours in 2010. During 2010, we standardised the use of health-care, Occupational well-being as well as monitoring and personal safety equipment and introduced revised safety indicasafety and management of working capacity are key success factors to our operations. tors for Building Construction and Civil Engineering indicators. Our goal is to reduce the number of accidents to under half of well-being Occupational safety at Lemminkäinen the 2010 level by the end of this strategic period. During 2011, we will also be expanding our safety status reporting to locations The Lemminkäinen Group seeks to be a leader in occupational outside Finland. safety in the construction industry. Attitude is the decisive factor Each of our Group’s companies and locations arranges its – professionals always take safety into consideration. own industrial safety operations. All personnel from hourly paid Our occupational safety efforts are based on safety training, workers to senior salaried employees are represented by indusreducing accidents, a workplace atmosphere that emphasises trial safety committees. Cooperation on industrial safety issues safety, and supporting safe working conditions and methods. We increases dialogue between employer and employees, and gives act pre-emptively, with clear goals and a continuous commitpersonnel a say in issues relating to health and safety in the ment to reducing accidents. workplace. We provide our personnel with the safety training required for A joint meeting of all of the Group’s industrial safety committheir tasks. We are continually improving our safety operations on tees is held once a year. the basis of feedback from both internal and external evaluations. Whether operating in Finland or abroad, we adhere to all relevant Occupational health-care and well-being legislation on occupational health and safety and the environment. In 2009–2010, we implemented a large-scale occupational Overall responsibility for the safety of our operations is held health-care project in Finland. The project sought to standardise by each business sector’s management. Management, employour occupational health-care and draw up a comprehensive operees, safety managers and the industrial safety organisation share ational model in cooperation with an insurance company handling responsibility for implementing safety measures and ensuring statutory pension and accident insurance. Other goals included safety. We carry out a wide range of regular safety audits and rethe launch of a working capacity team and preparations for the views at our sites and locations. In Finland, for example, we make introduction of an early support model. The project also sought to the weekly safety measurements required by law. create benchmarks for monitoring progress in the management During 2010, we also appointed a Group-wide environment and of occupational health and well-being and working capacity. safety steering group. The steering group, which reports to Group management, covers all business sectors and seeks to share good Working capacity practices across business sectors. We are a member of the Finnish – monitoring, management and early support Institute of Occupational Health’s Zero Accident Forum and, on the We invest in the effective prevention and management of workbasis of 2009 results, the Lohja roofing plant was awarded Grade II ing capacity problems. Our occupational health-care and human – ‘Heading for the world’s forefront’. resources units have developed a monitoring system for sickIn 2011, we will be adopting new, Group-wide safety policies ness absences. This system will be integrated into our forthcomand principles. These principles define our stand on issues such ing early support model, which aims to identify working capacas accident prevention and influencing attitudes to safety. Manity problems and enable a rapid response. Monitoring will focus agement will be conducting exemplary safety rounds and we will on frequent short absences and those lasting over 30 days. The also be focusing on further involving employees in our occupaSante health questionnaire, which forms part of health checks, tional safety efforts. Our safety goals for 2010–2013 are listed helps us reach those who have a high risk of working incapacon page 63. ity, on the basis of either self-evaluation or a health risk profile. 60 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – society and personnel – Occupational health-care, safety and well-being Our long-term goal is to reduce the number of employees retirOCCUPATIONAL Health-care BENCHMARKS 2010 2009 ing on disability pensions. We want our personnel to be able to Annual expenses from subsidised exercise (EUR) 318,116 250,178 carry out meaningful work all the way up until retirement age. In Maximum subsidy for leisure-time exercise/person (EUR) 200 200 this way, we are not only shouldering our responsibility for social Number of visits to subsidised exercise services 94,849 80,778 well-being, but also saving on costs incurred through working incapacity. Just over a third of the Group’s Finnish personnel currently fall under the scope of the Sante health questionnaire and, OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY in 2011, we will be expanding it to cover all of the Group’s FinnAND SICKNESS ABSENCES 2010 2009 Target 2011 ish personnel. Absence due to sickness or accident, % (in Finland) A pilot version of the early support model has been running in All personnel 4.9 4.9 under 4 the Building Construction business sector since the beginning of Salaried employees 1.8 1.9 under 2 August 2008. The model has been very favourably received and, Hourly paid workers 7.1 7.0 under 5 by reducing sickness absences, has also saved a million euros Lemminkäinen Group 3.1 1.5 2.9 over two years. Building Construction ²) 4.5 4.7 3.5 In autumn 2010, we launched a substantial programme of supervisor training in preparation for the Group-wide introduction of Infrastructure Construction ²) 2.9 2.8 2.6 ¹) the early support model in 2011. Our goal is to train 75 per cent Technical Building Services ²) 7.5 6.9 6.0 of supervisors during 2010-2011. Building Products ²) 6.1 6.9 ³) We want to ensure that employees receive the help they need to regain their working capacity. That’s why our occupational Accident frequency rate (in Finland) health-care unit coordinates the supervision of treatment and reLemminkäinen Group 36.1 36.2 20 ¹) habilitation for those on long-term sick leave. Building Construction 32.0 36.4 We use health examinations and personal action plans to Infrastructure Construction 17.7 20.8 monitor the health of those undergoing rehabilitation. Our occuTechnical Building Services 54.3 47.7 pational health-care unit also assesses the impact of rehabilitaBuilding Products 58.9 50.6 tion on employees’ lifestyles, working habits and ability to cope at work. We also ask participants for feedback on the arrangements Fatal accidents 0 1 0 and suggestions for improvements. In 2010, we analysed the physical load and musculoskeletal ¹) Calculated using the new business sector division load factors placed on those engaging in physical tasks in differ²) All personnel ³) Integrated into Infrastructure Construction in 2011 ent professional groups. A report on the project has been made available to our external occupational health-care partners and Absence due to sickness or accident %: share of the theoretical worktime can be used when evaluating working capacity. Accident frequency rate: x accidents / million working hours Occupational health-care In Finland, all of our Group’s permanent employees are entitled to occupational health-care. Temporary employees who are entitled to paid sick leave, are also entitled to occupational health-care. In accordance with good health-care practice, all of our personnel have comprehensive occupational health-care coverage, including out-patient care at general practitioner level. Since the beginning Occupational health-care, safety and well-being – society and personnel – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 61 of 2010, all personnel have also been covered by leisure-time acAt the beginning of 2010, the Group appointed an occupational cident insurance. well-being manager whose tasks include helping employees who Our occupational health-care unit analyses working condiare at risk of working incapacity and addressing issues associattions, conducts health checks, helps employees maintain their ed with rehabilitation, exercise, nutrition and the general well-beworking capacity, takes part in organising rehabilitation, and ing of the working community. helps us in our efforts to make work and working environments even safer. The unit also provides information, advice and guideExercise holds a key position in lines on, for example, healthy lifestyles, working conditions and promoting well-being at work their impact on health. The unit monitors nationwide statistics We have been systematically developing workplace exercise since on sickness absences and visits to health-care centres in Fin2001 and have created a motivational Exercise Programme. The land. We use these reports in human resource management and Lemminkäinen exercise card is available to all personnel and ofto plan and develop our health-care operations. fers a wide range of physical activities at 450 locations around The unit also helps us to draw up our occupational health-care Finland. Our goal is to help personnel maintain their working caaction plan, which forms part of the industrial safety programme. pacity, to promote general well-being and to boost community If any employees are experiencing problems with drugs or alspirit in the workplace through physical activity. cohol, our unit refers them for treatment and also assists in their Lemminkäinen was awarded the 2009 Active Workplace treatment. Our goal is to intervene in problem use as early as posAward. In 2010, the Finnish Sport For All Association awarded sible. We followed an anti-intoxicant programme, revised in 2010, Lemminkäinen a workplace exercise certificate and an honorwhich includes a drugs and alcohol policy, guidelines on early inary mention in the Active Workplace Award competition. At tervention and drug testing, and a treatment referral model. 81/100%, the overall result for 2010 was up 4% on 2009. Workplace exercise and Computerising the exercise card system and comprehensive well-being services the 2011 Exercise Barometer We consider our personnel’s well-being and the management Exercise is especially important for coping with a physically deand prevention of working incapacity risks to be key success facmanding job in which accidents are a risk. Over the past ten tors. At Lemminkäinen, well-being at work means physical, menyears, workplace exercise has increased from just under 40,000 tal and social well-being. We want all of our employees to feel visits per year to 80,800. In 2010, we invested a total of EUR content in all of these areas, so that they’ll be able to cope well 327,000 in promoting exercise that increases well-being. And in at work and continue in working life for as long as possible. Em2011, we will be raising our support for exercise from the current ployers, management and working communities create the conEUR 200 per person to EUR 240. We will also be introducing a ditions required for well-being, but each employee also bears recomputerised exercise card system and expanding our Exercise sponsibility for their personal well-being. Programme to all business sectors. The focal point for this period is on motivating those engaging in passive or unvaried exercise. Well-being at work – our strategic goals We use a biennial Exercise Barometer to monitor the suc–– The right person for the right task – all employees are cess of our Exercise Programme in terms of both implementation given tasks that are appropriate to their working capacity and service use, as well as its influence on personnel’s health. throughout their careers. The next study will be conducted in spring 2011. According to –– Clear goals for competence and personal development. the 2009 Exercise Barometer, 54 per cent of employees take –– Lemminkäinen provides a safe and healthy working enough exercise to maintain a good level of health. environment. 62 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – society and personnel – Occupational health-care, safety and well-being Getting young employees into shape Occupational safety goals 2010–2013 1,110 employees took fitness tests in 2010. Walking and muscle condition tests were conducted in 13 municipalities and tested a 2010 Accident 2011 Accident 2013 Accident total of 212 people (190 men and 22 women). 898 Infrastrucfrequency frequency frequency ture construction employees took part in national men’s fitness tests. Endurance scores among those in younger age brackets were weaker than average. Over half of those tested were overweight with large volumes of fat around the internal organs. 40–49-year-olds were in slightly better shape than those in other age brackets. 36 20 10 If employees do not get enough exercise as part of the working day, it’s important to take additional endurance exercise. In 2011, we will be launching two pilot projects to model lifestyle guidelines and exercise motivation for different health test groups. X accidents / million working hours Occupational health and well-being 2010 personnel questionnaire indicators – 2011 goals and focal points • The early support model and sickness absence monitoring system have • Working capacity, self-evaluation (0–10): 8.4 been launched. The majority of Lemminkäinen’s supervisors have been trained to use the early support model. Ability to continue in your current tasks for the next two years, • The Sante health questionnaire has been expanded to cover the entire self-evaluation (0–10): 8.2 Group. • The Exercise Programme and computerised exercise card system are in • Potential to maintain and enhance your working capacity (0–10): 8.0 Group-wide use. • Rehabilitation methods have been standardised. Rehabilitation begins • Conditions and degree of safety at work (0–10): 7.8 sooner and well-being training is organised for those employees who are at risk of working incapacity. • The working capacity team proactively seeks solutions to help those employees who have a high risk of working incapacity. New tasks and solutions for coping at work will be developed, taking into account not only workload, but also physical, mental and social well-being. • The creation of a standardised, pre-emptive drugs and alcohol policy for the whole Group. Our anti-intoxicant programme will be updated and drug testing will be introduced in all units. Occupational health-care, safety and well-being – society and personnel – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 63 GRI and Global Global compact status GRI GUIDELINES CODE CONDUCT PAGES COMMENTS/ REMARKS Compact index 1.1 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS CEO's statement 8–9 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE inside front Comparison with 2.1 Name of the organisation cover the guidelines of the 2.2 Primary brands, products and services 30–45 Global Reporting Initiainside front cover, tive and the Principles of 2.3 Operational structure 96, 107, 113 Global Compact. inside back 2.4 Location of organisation's headquarters cover www.lemminkainen.com We estimate that the content of our re2.5 Number of countries and location of operations 11, 109, 113 port is consistent with level C report2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 158 ing of the G3 Guidelines. Index coninside front 2.7 Markets served cover, 11 tains indicators reported in 2010. Full inside front GRI-index can be found on our web site 2.8 Scale of reporting organisation cover, 11 www.lemminkainen.com/company/ 2.9 Significant changes 15–21 responsibility. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 60, 62 REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period 6–7 Partly reported 3.2 Date of the most recent report 6–7 Fully reported 3.3 Reporting cycle 6–7 3.4 Contact point for questions back cover www.lemminkainen.com REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY 3.5 Process for defining report content 6–7 3.6 Boundary of the report 6–7 3.7 Limitations on the report's scope or boundary 6–7 3.8 Basis for reporting subsidiaries and joint ventures 96 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations 6–7 3.10 Explanations of re-statements 6–7 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 96, 104 3.12 GRI content index 64–65 3.13 Assurance policy and practice 6–7 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure 66–79 4.2 Position of the Chairman of the Board 66–79 4.3 Independence of the Board members 66–79 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholder and employee consultation 66–79 4.5 Executive compensation and linkage to organisation's performance 66–79 4.8 Implementation of mission and values statements; Code of Conduct 6–7 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing risk management 6–7 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board's performance 66–79 64 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – society and personnel – GRI and Global Compact index COMMENTS/ Global compact status GRI GUIDELINES CODE CONDUCT PAGES REMARKS 4.12 Voluntary charters and other initiatives 6–7 4.13 Memberships in associations 6–7 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 54 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders 54 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 54 4.17 Key topics raised through stakeholder engagement 6–7, 54 MANAGEMENT APPROACH & PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS EC1 Economic value generated and distributed 55 EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit plan obligations 102, 112, 128 EC4 Significant subsidies received from government 101 EC6 Spending on local suppliers 11 x EC7 Local hiring 11 EC8 Infrastructure investments provided for public benefit 11 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS x EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 46 x EN3 Direct energy consumption 46 x EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 46 x EN22 Total amount of waste 46 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS LA1 Breakdown of workforce 57 x LA3 Employee benefits 56–63 x LA4 Coverage of collective bargaining activities 58 x LA5 Minimum notice period regarding operational changes 58 x LA6 Representation in joint management-worker health and safety committees 60 x LA7 Rates of injury, lost time injury, fatalities and absenteeism 61 x LA8 Education and prevention programs regarding serious diseases 60–63 LA11 Programs for skills management 56–59 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 66–79 HUMAN RIGHTS x HR6 Measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour 6–7 x HR7 Measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced labour 6–7 SOCIETY x SO6 Contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions 6-7 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction 50 PR6 Adherence to marketing communications laws, standards and voluntary codes 6–7, 50 GRI and Global Compact index – society and personnel – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 65 Corporate Our corporate governance adheres to current legislation, regulations and principles. Our values and Code of Conduct governance also guide our operations. Remuneration and standardising and developing internal and working methods were two of our focal areas in 2010. management 66 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – corporate governance and management – GRI and Global Compact index GRI and Global Compact index – corporate governance and management – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 67 Corporate Lemminkäinen Corporation is a Finnish public listed company whose administration complies with 2010 Lemminkäinen Corporation’s 2010 Annual General Meeting­was held in Helsinki on 16 April 2010. 149 shareholdGovernance the Finnish Corporate Governance Code and the ers attended the meeting, representing about 69 per cent of the company’s Articles of Association. Lemminkäicompany’s total number of shares and votes. nen’s corporate governance is also guided by the Decisions of the Annual General Meeting: values and Code of Conduct approved by the Board www.lemminkainen.com/Investors > Management and Corpoof Directors. rate Governance > General meeting of shareholders Up-to-date information about Lemminkäinen’s corporate govBoard of Directors ernance can be found on our website at www.lemminkainen.com. Each year, Lemminkäinen Corporation’s Annual General Meeting­ elects at least four and at most eight members to serve on the PRINCIPLES OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE company’s Board of Directors. The Board elects a Chairman and Lemminkäinen is administered in accordance with current legisVice Chairman from among its members, whose term of office runs lation, such as the Companies Act and the Securities Market Act, until the end of the following Annual General Meeting. and the company’s Articles of Association. The Board of Directors decides on matters of principle and We also observe the rules and insider guidelines of NASDAQ any issues that would have broad-ranging implications for the OMX Helsinki Ltd and the Finnish Corporate Governance Code. company. Lemminkäinen’s President and CEO also attends the Board’s meetings to present matters for the Board’s consideraLEMMINKÄINEN’S ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES tion, as do the CFO and the Executive Vice President of Corporate The General Meeting is where shareholders exercise their votBusiness Development, who also acts as the Secretary of the ing rights and is Lemminkäinen’s highest decision-making body. Board. Other members of the Executive Board and the company’s The General Meeting elects the Board of Directors, which in turn management attend meetings as required. appoints the President and CEO. The Board of Directors and the President and CEO are responsible for the company’s manage2010 One of the Board of Directors’ most important areas for ment. Other management personnel assist the President and concern in 2010 was ensuring the profitability of LemminkäiCEO in his duties. nen’s operations during the construction industry recession. The Board met to discuss ways of guaranteeing sufficient funding. In General meeting order to strengthen Lemminkäinen’s financial position, the Board Lemminkäinen’s Annual General Meeting is held annually within decided on a share issue, which was carried out in early 2010 six months of the end of the previous financial year on a date dewith the authorisation of the Annual General Meeting. The Board termined by the Board of Directors. also decided to float a convertible bond, which diversified LemThe right to attend a General Meeting is restricted to those minkäinen’s funding base and extended its debt maturity profile. shareholders who are registered on the list of shareholders mainAt its meetings, the Board discussed business sector stratetained by Euroclear Finland Oy on the record date, which shall be gies and ensured their consistency with the Group’s strategy, at least eight working days prior to the meeting. Shareholders must which was revised in 2009. In 2010, the Board also handled the also register their attendance by the date stated in the invitation. company’s strategic acquisitions and corporate restructuring, as The Annual General Meeting decides on all matters required in well as issues relating to the development of Lemminkäinen’s opthe provisions of the Companies Act, such as adoption of the Finanerating model, such as the standardisation of support functions. cial Statements, profit distribution, and granting discharge from liThe Board of Directors carried out a self-assessment of its ability to the members of the Board of Directors and the President work. Amongst other things, the Board assessed its structure, and CEO. The AGM also elects the members of the Board of Direcworking methods and compliance with its rules of procedure. tors and the auditors, and decides on their remuneration. The Board also assessed the independence of its members. The 68 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – corporate governance and management – Corporate Governance results of this self-assessment are used to develop the Board’s Lemminkäinen Group's Corporate Governance and Management working methods. BOARD COMMITTEES Auditing General meeting of shareholders At its annual organisational meeting, the Board of Directors appoints three committees from among its members: the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Board of directors Committee. These committees assist the Board of Directors by preparing and drawing up proposals and recommendations for the Board’s consideration. The Board of Directors has approved the Audit Remuneration Nomination committee committee committee rules of procedure governing these committees. The Audit Committee President and CEO The Audit Committee monitors and supervises Lemminkäinen’s Internal annual and interim reporting processes and the statutory audit control of the consolidated and parent company’s Financial Statements. Executive board Management systems The committee also monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of Internal audit Internal operating the Group’s risk management, internal control and internal audit. instructions Business sectors It also handles the Group’s Corporate Governance Statement. The Audit Committee deals with reports and plans prepared by the internal control and internal audit units. It also assesses the independence of the statutory auditor or firm of authorised public accountants, and in particular the provision of ancillary services to the audited firm. The Audit Committee evaluates potential auditors The Board of Directors’ most important tasks and submits a proposal for the Board of Directors’ consideration. The Audit Committee consists of a Chairman and two mem• To approve the Group’ strategy, operating principles and guiding values, and to ensure that they are up-tobers appointed by the Board. The company’s auditor, internal date and correctly implemented auditor and management representatives are also invited to • To approve Group-company budgets as part of the consolidated budget meetings.­All committee members must be competent in the Audit Committee’s task domain, and at least one member must • To make decisions concerning the Group’s key investment and financing activities have expertise in accountancy, bookkeeping or auditing. • To ensure that the Group’s risk management principles have been defined and to conduct an annual ­examination to ensure that key business risks have been identified and are being systematically monitored 2010 In addition to mandatory items, the Audit Committee also • To ensure that the Group has a well-functioning system of internal controls considered the Group’s financial position at its 2010 meetings. Due to amended IFRS regulations, the Audit Committee super• To make decisions on whether to divest existing businesses or to expand into new business areas in vised the changes required by these new accounting principles ­accordance with the company’s line of business as defined in its Articles of Association and also accordingly updated comparison figures for 2009. The • To appoint and dismiss the President and CEO and his or her immediate subordinates committee also evaluated the restructuring of Lemminkäinen’s • To decide, on the basis of a proposal made by the Remuneration Committee, on the principles of the financial administration as part of our project to renew the opGroup’s incentive-based remuneration systems and on the salaries, incentives and other benefits of the erating model of our internal support functions. The committee President and CEO and Group Executive Board took care of impairment tests and Lemminkäinen’s Corporate Governance Statement. Corporate Governance – corporate governance and management – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 69 The Audit Committee also handled external audit bids and Executive Board submitted a proposal to the Board of Directors. This proposal The Lemminkäinen Group’s Executive Board comprises the Pressuggested that the Board should make a proposal to the Annual ident and CEO of the parent company, the executive vice presGeneral Meeting recommending that the AGM elect Pricewateridents of our business sectors, the Executive Vice President of houseCoopers Oy, authorised public accountants, as the comHuman Resources and ICT, the Executive Vice President of Corpany’s auditor. porate Business Development, and the Chief Financial Officer. The President and CEO is Chairman of the Executive Board. The Nomination Committee The Executive Board supports the President and CEO in, for The Nomination Committee makes preparations for the Annual example, the preparation and execution of strategic matters, opGeneral Meeting by drawing up a list of proposed nominees for the erating plans, matters of principle and any other significant matBoard of Directors and making a recommendation for their fees. ters. The Executive Board also supports the President and CEO in ensuring information flow and smooth internal cooperation. 2010 The Nomination Committee made a proposal containing a list of proposed nominees for Lemminkäinen’s Board and a 2010 In 2010, the Executive Board comprised President and recommendation for the fees to be paid to both Board and ComCEO Timo Kohtamäki; Henrik Eklund, Executive Vice President, mittee members. The General Meeting approved the Nomination Infrastructure Construction; Marcus Karsten, Executive Vice Committee’s proposal, which was presented at the Annual GenPresident, Technical Building Services; Erkki Lönnrot, Execueral Meeting held on 16 April 2010. tive Vice President, Building Products; Tiina Mellas, Executive Vice President, Human Resources and ICT; Tiina Mikander, ExThe Remuneration Committee ecutive Vice President, Corporate Business Development; Jukka The Remuneration Committee handles matters relating to the salaTerhonen, Executive Vice President, Building Construction; and ries and bonuses of senior management, as well as other key terms Robert Öhman, Chief Financial Officer. and conditions of their service agreements. The Remuneration ComIn addition to his other duties, Marcus Karsten, Executive Vice mittee also deals with Group-level remuneration, incentive schemes President, Technical Building Services, was responsible for the and retention bonus schemes. The Board of Directors makes the fimanagement and development of Group-wide customer relanal decisions on the basis of the Committee’s proposals. tions. Jukka Terhonen, Executive Vice President, Building Construction was responsible for residential construction in Russia 2010 The Remuneration Committee considered management’s and developing a Group-wide renovation concept. Developing salaries and bonuses, and also Lemminkäinen’s remuneration Scandinavian infrastructure construction was the responsibility system for management and its limits, for 2010. The Board of of Henrik Eklund, Executive Vice President, Infrastructure ConDirectors approved the Remuneration Committee’s proposal. struction. Erkki Lönnrot was responsible for the improvement of the regional co-operation. GROUP MANAGEMENT Tiina Mellas was responsible for the management and develPresident and CEO opment of the Group’s human resources and ICT. The President and CEO is responsible for the Group’s day-to-day Tiina Mikander, Executive Vice President, Corporate Business administration and business planning. The President and CEO unDevelopment, was responsible for developing strategic busidertakes the execution of measures approved by the Board of Diness planning, management systems and corporate responsibilrectors and handles preparations for any measures that are straity themes. The Group’s communications and environment and tegically important at Group level. The President and CEO also safety functions also report to her. Corporate responsibility matensures that the Group has adequate management resources and ters, including the environment and safety function, were transthat its administration is appropriate and complies with the law. ferred to Senior Vice President, Corporate Responsibility and Risk 70 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – corporate governance and management – Corporate Governance Vice President, Finance Shared Services Susanne Hellstrand I started as Lemminkäinen’s Vice President, Finance Shared Services in April 2010. I’ve worked in a variety of financial administration positions throughout my career. We spent last year planning the introduction of shared financial services for the whole Group, and we are now implementing the changes. In 2011, we will be standardising our working methods as we centralise our financial administration at a single service centre. This centralised model is a fundamental aspect of the new Lemminkäinen: better support functions ensure profitable growth and focused customer relations. It’s easier for suppliers and customers to deal with a unified Lemminkäinen than with several brands and ways of working. Responsibility in financial administration means risk management and complying with legislation and regulations. More effective financial administration maintains our competitiveness – and it also provides management with valuable information that helps keep our business running efficiently. This is a major change for Lemminkäinen and will require a great deal of effort. We will all have to learn new ways of working, both in business operations and financial administration. Now is, however, the right time to make these changes and ensure that Lemminkäinen continues to be a desirable employer for everyone, whether they’re working on-site or for our support services. The development of financial administration services enhances operational efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Construction units can be provided with an even broader range of expert services. Corporate Governance – corporate governance – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 71 Management who reports to President and CEO as of November of Directors' report is consistent with the Financial Statements. 2010. The auditor’s fee is paid annually on the basis of an invoice, in acCFO Robert Öhman’s areas of responsibility were Finance, cordance with the Annual General Meeting’s decision. Treasury, Mergers and Acquisitions, Investor Relations and Legal Affairs. He was also responsible for developing the Group’s pro2010 Lemminkäinen’s auditor for 2010 was Pricewaterhousecurement function. Coopers Oy, a firm of authorised public accountants, with Jan Holmberg, A.P.A. as the chief auditor. PricewaterhouseCoopers Insider Administration Oy has been Lemminkäinen’s auditor since 2004. We observe NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd’s insider guidelines, which In 2010, we paid our auditor EUR 857,346.96 (2009: EUR are supplemented by the insider guidelines approved by Lem729,891) in auditing fees and EUR 389,107 in consultancy fees minkäinen’s Board of Directors. We maintain a public and company­ (EUR 55,658). -specific register using Euroclear Finland Oy’s SIRE system. In 2010, Lemminkäinen invited bids from firms of authorised Insiders subject to disclosure requirements are the members public accountants. As a result, the Board of Directors will make a of Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors, the President and CEO proposal to the 2011 Annual General Meeting recommending that and the chief auditor of our accounting firm. We have also dewe re-elect PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy as our auditor. fined the members of Lemminkäinen’s Executive Board as insiders subject to disclosure requirements. The share ownership of all Internal control insiders subject to disclosure requirements has been made public. Internal controls seek to ensure that the Group’s operations are We also maintain permanent company-specific registers of efficient and profitable, that reporting is consistent and reliable, people who regularly receive inside information due to their position and that the Group’s operating principles and all applicable legisor duties. Their share ownership has not been made public. When lation and regulations are observed. necessary, we also keep registers of project-specific insiders. The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that the Group’s internal controls and risk management are adequate for 2010 In 2010, insider training was arranged for all of Lemthe scope of our business operations, and that their supervision minkäinen’s public and company-specific insiders. A total of 50 is appropriately organised. The Board of Directors supervises the people attended. President and CEO to ensure that he or she handles the compaShare ownership and transaction details for Lemminkäinen’s ny’s business operations and administration in accordance with public insiders: www.lemminkainen.com/Investors > the guidelines and orders issued by the Board of Directors. In orManagement and Corporate Governance > Insider administration der to ensure adequate risk management, the Board of Directors > Insider Ownership discusses the Group’s business sector reviews and financial reports, as well as any substantial changes that have occurred in Auditing the company’s business. The Board’s Audit Committee also asThe scope of our audit encompasses the Group’s accounting, adsesses the adequacy and appropriateness of internal controls and ministration, Financial Statements and Board of Directors' report risk management. for each accounting period. The Auditor makes regular reports to The President and CEO is responsible for the practical organisation the Audit Committee and submits an Auditors’ Report to the Anof internal controls. He or she ensures that supervision of the companual General Meeting. The Auditors’ Report contains a statement ny’s bookkeeping and asset management has been properly arranged. as to whether the Financial Statements and the Board of DirecOur business is organised into business sectors whose executors' report give a true and fair view, as defined in the rules governtive vice presidents report to the President and CEO. The Group’s ing financial reporting, of the Group’s operative result and financial other directors and managers are responsible for internal controls position, and as to whether the information contained in the Board within their own areas of responsibility. 72 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – corporate governance and management – Corporate Governance We control and monitor our functions in order to ensure their Lemminkäinen’s shared values and Code of Conduct define exefficiency and appropriateness. Our key means are the financial pectations for how personnel should act and how we should interreports and business reviews prepared by management at busiact with our partners and stakeholders. The Group’s values, Code ness area, business sector and Group level. Our internal controls of Conduct and strategy are closely linked, and their practical apover financial reporting aim to ensure that the interim reports plication is a key part of leadership and everyday management. and Financial Statements we publish are prepared in accordance with the accounting and reporting principles adopted by Lem2010 In 2010, Lemminkäinen organised training in competition minkäinen, and that they are reliable. The internal control funclaw. 259 people took part in the training. tion also monitors financial reporting to ensure that it is handled in accordance with set timetables. Lemminkäinen’s financial reInternal Audit porting processes and risk management are described in greater The internal audit unit assists the Board of Directors in its superdetail in the Corporate Governance Statement, which is available visory role by obtaining information on the adequacy and funcon our website. tionality of risk management and internal controls in the LemLegal affairs are coordinated by a Group-level unit in order to minkäinen Group and its business units. The internal audit unit promote consistent practices and to ensure the management of assesses the economy and efficiency of resource usage, the relegal risks. Our personnel receive regular training in legal and conliability of reporting, the protection and security of assets, and tractual matters. We have also drawn up detailed guidelines for compliance with regulations, operating principles and guidelines. different areas, such as competition law and insider issues, and Its operating principles are defined in the internal auditing inprovide training on them. Monitoring compliance with these guidestructions approved by the Board of Directors. lines falls under the scope of our line operations and management. members of the board and Independence of board's committees Independence of the company significant shareholders Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Berndt Brunow, chairman Yes Yes Chairman Member Juhani Mäkinen, vice chairman Yes Yes Member Mikael Mäkinen, member Yes Yes Member Kristina Pentti-von Walzel, member Yes No Member Member Heikki Räty, member Yes Yes Chairman Teppo Taberman, member Yes Yes Member Chairman board member meeting participation Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Berndt Brunow, chairman 15/15 1/1 1/1 Juhani Mäkinen, vice chairman 15/15 5/6 Mikael Mäkinen, member 14/15 1/1 Kristina Pentti-von Walzel, member 15/15 6/6 1/1 Heikki Räty, member 15/15 6/6 Teppo Taberman, member 13/15 1/1 1/1 Corporate Governance – corporate governance and management – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 73 The internal audit unit is subordinate to the Board of Directors A fixed basic salary denotes monthly monetary compensation, and operates under the supervision of the President and CEO. It which is determined by the nature of the position as well as the consists of an audit manager and as many internal auditors as person’s experience and performance. In addition to meal benare required for the unit to carry out its work. Internal auditing reefits and the use of a company car and mobile phone, managesources are strengthened as required by procuring internal auditment personnel also have extended insurance coverage for acciing services from external service providers. dents and travel during their leisure time. Each year, Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors decides on benchRemuneration marks for longand short-term incentive plans, which seek to supRemuneration – Board of Directors port the achievement of our strategic targets. On the basis of a Lemminkäinen Corporation’s General Meeting elects the memproposal by the President and CEO, the Board decides on the benchbers of the Board of Directors on an annual basis and also determarks to be reached and the size of the incentives to be awarded. mines their fees. These fees are paid entirely as monetary compensation. The Board members’ term of office runs until the end Short-term incentives of the following Annual General Meeting. Management’s short-term bonuses are based on the opportunity Members of Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors do not fall to receive an annual performance-related bonus. A performancewithin the sphere of the company's share scheme, nor do they related bonus is earned by exceeding the performance targets have an employment contract with Lemminkäinen. specified at the beginning of each year. Lemminkäinen’s management is divided into five performance-related bonus groups, which 2010 The 2010 Annual General Meeting decided that the Chairdetermine the maximum percentage applicable to each individual. man of the Board would be paid a fee of EUR 10,000 per month Individuals are allocated to groups based on both their posi(2009: EUR 10,000) and Board members would each receive tion in the organisational hierarchy and the nature and commerEUR 3,000 per month (EUR 3,000). Members of the Board also cial value of their position. received an attendance fee of EUR 500 per meeting (EUR 500). Members of the Audit Committee were paid an attendance 2010 In 2010, management’s performance-related bonuses fee of EUR 500 per committee meeting (EUR 500). were based on the Lemminkäinen Group’s pre-tax profits, its net interest-bearing liabilities and the successful implementation of Remuneration – Management the Group’s business plan. In addition to these criteria, the perOn the basis of a proposal submitted by the Remuneration Comformance-related bonuses for the executive vice presidents of mittee, Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors decides on the salaLemminkäinen’s business sectors were also based on each secries, incentive schemes and other benefits received by the Presitor’s result and the successful implementation of its own busident and CEO and the Executive Board. ness plan. The achievement of the targets of performance-relatIn 2009, as part of Lemminkäinen’s strategy renewal process ed bonuses is monitored at least every six months. we renewed our management remuneration policy. Remuneration In 2010, the President and CEO’s maximum performance-refor the Group’s Executive Board has been based on this policy since lated bonus would have been 80 per cent of his annual salary. The 2009. In 2010, it was extended to cover all management positions. maximum percentages for performance-related bonuses for other According to the policy approved by the Board of Directors, the members of the Group’s Executive Board varied from 40–60 per remuneration given to the President and CEO, members of the cent in 2010. Group’s Executive Board and other management personnel consists of a fixed basic salary plus payments in kind, other benefits and Long-term incentive plan longand short-term bonuses. Lemminkäinen’s long-term incentive plan is a share-based scheme comprising three one-year earning periods: the calen74 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – corporate governance and management – Corporate Governance dar years 2010, 2011 and 2012. The commitment period is two monthly REMUNERATION paid to members of the board of directors (€) 2010 2009 years. The Board of Directors decides on the earning criteria for Berndt Brunow 120,000 122,545 each period as well as on the targets to be established at the beJuhani Mäkinen 36,000 36,000 ginning of each earning period. The achievement of earning criteMikael Mäkinen 36,000 28,364 ria is monitored at least once every six months. Kristina Pentti-von Walzel 36,000 36,000 The scheme’s target group consists of the President and CEO, Heikki Räty 36,000 28,364 the members of Lemminkäinen’s Executive Board and about Teppo Taberman 36,000 36,000 20 others. The Board of Directors decides on the distribution of Total 300,000 287,273 shares to key personnel. 2010 In 2010, the earning criteria for long-term incentive plan was REMUNERATION paid to members of the board of directors (€) 2010 2009 targets set for the Group’s equity ratio and return on investment. Berndt Brunow 7,000 4,000 Juhani Mäkinen 9,500 6,000 Supplementary pension plans Mikael Mäkinen 6,500 4,000 As of 1 January 2010, supplementary pension plans for the PresKristina Pentti-von Walzel 10,000 6,000 ident and CEO and Executive Board have been based on a deHeikki Räty 10,000 5,500 fined contribution scheme and obtaining a paid-up policy. ContriTeppo Taberman 9,000 4,000 butions are calculated as a percentage of annual salary. Members Total 52,000 29,500 of the 2009 Executive Board who were born before 1955 are an exception to this rule: they still fall within the scope of the defined benefit scheme. Executive Board members are entitled to salaries and benefits paid to members of executive board (€) 2010 2009 retire upon reaching 60 years of age. Salary 1,364,672 1,169,743 Benefits 62,480 63 756 2010 In 2010, EUR 1.5 million was paid into defined contribuShort-term reward scheme 241,112 tion pension plans for the President and CEO and Executive Board Long-term reward scheme 91,703 members. EUR 140,000 was paid into defined benefit schemes. Other rewards ¹) 405,624 Total 1,759,967 1,639,123 President and CEO Timo Kohtamäki, Lic.Tech, (b. 1963) has served as President and ¹) The Executive Board was not formed until the beginning of 2009 so the rewards paid to the members of the Executive Board in 2009 are based on their CEO of Lemminkäinen Corporation since 1 January 2009. old work assignments and on the reward schemes used. The President and CEO’s pension is determined according to the terms of the Group’s supplementary pension plan for managesalaries and benefits paid to the president and ceo (€) 2010 2009 ment. The President and CEO’s plan is therefore based on a defined Salary 407,408 416,020 contribution scheme and obtaining a paid-up policy. The President Benefits 18,490 11,760 and CEO is entitled to retire upon reaching 60 years of age. Short-term reward scheme 132,000 The President and CEO’s employment contract may be termiLong-term reward scheme 88,320 nated with six months’ notice. Upon termination of the contract Total 646,217 427,780 by the company, the President and CEO shall be entitled to receive a one-off severance payment equivalent to 18 months’ salary in accordance with his or her salary rate at the time of termination. read more www.lemminkainen.com/Investors/Management_and_Corporate_Governance Corporate Governance – corporate governance and management – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 75 Board of Directors 31.12.2010 Berndt Brunow b. 1950, B.Sc. (Econ.) Chairman of Board of Directors since 2008 and a Juhani Mäkinen Mikael Mäkinen board member since 2002. Chairman of the Nomb. 1956, Counsellor of Law, Attorney b. 1956, M.Sc. (Eng.) Nav. Arch. ination Committee and a member of the RemuMember and Vice Chairman of Board of DirecMember of the Board of Directors since 2009. neration Committee. Independent of the Company tors since 2008. Member of the Audit CommitMember of the Remuneration Committee. and its major shareholders. tee. Independent of the Company and its major ­Independent of the Company and its major Primary work experience shareholders. shareholders. • Oy Karl Fazer Ab, Managing Director, Primary work experience Primary work experience 2002–2007 • Hannes Snellman Attorneys Ltd, Partner • Cargotec Corporation, President & CEO, • Sanitec Corporation, Managing Director, 1985–2010 2006– 2000–2002 • Scandinavian Law Office, Rotterdam, • Wärtsilä Corporation, Group Vice President, • Over 20 years of experience in executive posiNetherlands, Resident lawyer 1982–1984 Ship Power, 1999–2006, Wärtsilä NSD tions in the forest industry both in Finland Key positions of trust ­Singapore, Managing Director, 1997–1998, and abroad Marine, Wärtsilä SACM Diesel, Vice President • Chairman of the Board of Directors: Key positions of trust 1992–1997 Oy Forcit Ab and Aval Oy • Chairman of the Board of Director: Key positions of trust • Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors: Oy Karl Fazer Ab Myllykoski Corporation and • Chairman of the Board of Directors: Finpro READ MORE Componenta Corporation • Member of the Board of Directors : Interna• Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors: UPM www.lemminkainen.com/Investors/ManageKymmene Corporation • Member of the Board of Directors: Oy Karl tional Chamber of Commerce ICC Finland, ment_and_Corporate_Governance/Board_of_ Directors/Members_of_Board_of_Directors • Member of the Board of Directors: Oy Nautor Ab Fazer Ab, Viking Malt Oy and Virala Oy Ab Federation of Finnish Technology Industries and Stora Enso Corporation 76 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – corporate governance and management – Board of Directors Kristina Pentti-von Walzel Heikki Räty b. 1978, M.Sc. (Econ.), B.Sc. (Pol.Sc.) b. 1953, M.Sc. (Econ.) Member of the Board of Directors since 2007. Member of the Board of Directors since 2009. Teppo Taberman Member of the Nomination Committee and the Member of the Audit Committee. Independent of b. 1944, M.Sc. (Econ.) Audit Committee. Independent of the Company the Company and its major shareholders. Member of the Board of Directors since 1997 and non-independent of its major shareholders. Primary work experience and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, Primary work experience • Helectron Oy Ab, Managing Director, 2009– 1998–2008. Chairman of the Remuneration • Hanken School of Economics, Campaign Committee and a member of the Nomination • EHA-Invest, Strategic management and ­Director/ fundraising, 2008– Committee. Independent of the Company and its financial consultant, 2008–2009 major shareholders. • Work experience placements in the Ministry • Myllykoski Corporation, Deputy CEO, for Foreign Affairs of Finland as well as in variPrimary work experience 1998–2008, CFO 1994–1997 ous positions in personnel management and • Professional board member and economic Key positions of trust the financial services industry for companies advisor, 1995– such as Mandatum Stockbrokers Ltd and • Member of the Board of Directors: • Twenty years of experience in the banking ­Fortum Corporation, 1999–2006 Mekalasi Oy, Saxo Oy, Pato Oy and ­industry, including deputy managing directorElectrosonic Group Oy Ab. Key positions of trust ships in two different banks • Member of the Board of Directors: Aspo Plc, Key positions of trust Foundation for Economic Education, CMI • Member of the Board of Directors: Oy Rettig ­Crisis Management Initiative and Finnish Ab, Ålandsbanken Abp, Ingman Group Oy Ab, Family Firms Association Larox Corporation and SKS Goup Oy Board of Directors – corporate governance and management – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 77 Executive Board 31.12.2010 Timo Kohtamäki b. 1963, Lic. Tech. President and CEO, 2009– Henrik Eklund Marcus Karsten Erkki Lönnrot Group employee since 1996 b. 1961, M.Sc. (Eng.) b.1966, M.Sc. (Econ.) b. 1954, Construction Engineer Primary work experience Executive Vice President, Infrastructure Executive Vice President, Technical Building Executive Vice President, Building Products, • Lemminkäinen Infra Oy, ­Construction, 2009– Services, 2010– 2002–2010 Managing Director, 2008 Group employee since 1989 Group employee since 2002 Group employee since 1980 • Lemcon Ltd, Head of Infra Unit, 2000– 2007; Construction Manager, 1996–1999 Primary work experience Primary work experience Primary work experience • Viatek Yhtiöt Oy/Geoinsinöörit Oy, • Lemminkäinen Infra Oy, Managing Director, 2009– • Lemminkäinen Talotekniikka Oy, Managing • Lemminkäinen Rakennustuotteet Oy, Project Manager, 1989–1996 • Lemminkäinen Infra Oy, Head of Paving and ­Director, 2010– Managing Director, 2005–2010 Positions of trust International Operations, 2008 • Tekmanni Service Oy, Managing Director, • Head of Roofing Contracting, 1999–2002; • Lemminkäinen Corporation, Head of the Paving 2004–2009; Marketing and Development • Contracting Manager, 1993–1998 • Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors: and Mineral Aggregates Division, 2005–2007 Director, 2002–2004 Confederation of Finnish Construction ­Industries (RT) • Lemcon Ltd, Export Director, 2001–2004 • Siemens Group, different managerial ­positions, 1992–2002 • Member of the Board of Directors: • Lemminkäinen Construction Ltd, Project Infra Association ­Planning Manager, Project Manager, Regional Positions of trust • Member of the Supervisory Board: Manager, 1995–2000 • Chairman of the Board of Directors: ­Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Positions of trust Oy Victor Ek Ab ­Company • Member of the Supervisory Board: Etera Mutual • Member of the Board of Directors: • Member of the Advisory Board: Pension Insurance Company LVI-TU and STTA ry Nordea Bank • Member of the Board of Directors: RYM Oy READ MORE • Member of the Delegation: Helsinki Region (Strategic Centre for Science, Technology and Inhttp://www.lemminkainen.com/Investors/ Chamber of Commerce novation for Built Environment) Management_and_Corporate_Governance/ Group_management/Executive_Board 78 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – corporate governance and management – Executive Board Tiina Mellas Tiina Mikander Jukka Terhonen Robert Öhman b. 1960, M.Sc. (Econ.) b. 1967, Master of Laws b. 1954, M.Sc. (Eng.) b. 1959, M.Sc. (Econ.) Executive Vice President, HR and ICT, 2010– Executive Vice President, Corporate Business Executive Vice President, Building Construction, Chief Financial Officer, 2009– Group employee since 2009 Development, 2010– 2009– Group employee since 2009 Group employee since 1998 Group employee since 2001 Primary work experience Primary work experience • Lemminkäinen Corporation, Director, Human Primary work experience Primary work experience • Sponda Plc, Chief Financial Officer, Resources, 2009–2010 • Lemminkäinen Corporation, Director, • Lemminkäinen Talo Oy, Managing Director, 2009– 2006–2009 • TietoEnator, HR Centre, Vice President, Legal affairs, 2005–2010; Legal Counsel, • Rakennustoimisto Palmberg Oy, • Vattenfall Oy, Finance Director, 1996–2006 2005–2008 1998–2005 Managing Director, 2001–2009 • Waste Management Finland Oy, • TietoEnator, Processing & Network, ­Director • City of Kauniainen, city clerk and • YIT Group, Head of Building Construction, Area Finance Director, 1992–1996 for Business Development, 2004–2005; ­administration manager, 1997–1998 Manager in Tampere-Vaasa, Head of housing • Reuters Ges.m.b.H, Finance and Head of Profit Unit, 1999–2004; Head of • Loviisa District Court, judicial trainee and production in Helsinki Metropolitan Area, ­Administration Manager, 1990–1992 ­Department, 1997–1998 locum district court judge, 1994–1996 Managing Director (Otto Wuorio Oy), Production Manager (Otto Wuorio Oy), • Reuters Suomi Oy Ab, Finance Manager, Design-and-build Contract Manager 1986–1990 (Otto Wuorio Oy), 1985–2001 Positions of trust Positions of trust • Member of the Board of Directors: Etera • Chairman of the Board: Tampere Chamber of ­Mutual Pension Insurance Company Commerce & Industry • Member of the Board of Directors: Building Construction Association (TRT ry) and SFHP (Suomi-Finland Housing and Planning Association) • Chairman of the Housing Group: Confederation of Finnish Construction Industries (RT) Executive Board – corporate governance and management – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 79 Financial statements Board of Directors’ report 2010 82 Consolidated income statement 91 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 91 Consolidated statement of financial position 92 Consolidated cash flow statement 93 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 94 Accounting principles of the IFRS consolidated financial statements 96 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 106 Parent company income statement 144 Parent company balance sheet 144 Parent company cash flow statement 145 Parent company's accounting principles 146 Notes to the parent company financial statements 147 Financial indicators 153 Share-related financial indicators 154 Board of Directors' proposal for the distribution of profit 156 Auditor's report 157 Shares and shareholders 158 Information for shareholders and investors 160 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 81 Board of Directors’ Numerous ongoing tunnel projects and mine excavation contracts will keep the work situation good in the future. In Norway, the volume of infrastructure construction dipped report 2010 slightly from the peak levels of 2009. In winter, exceptionally heavy snowfall hindered road construction and halted paving works in the middle of the normal work season. In Denmark, the total volume of infrastructure construction remained at around the same OPERATING ENVIRONMENT level as in 2009. The construction markets of the Baltic countries remained difficult, and construction Finland volumes were at a low ebb in all these countries. In recent years, the development of the The economic recession caused by the financial crisis has eased. Recovery is progressing in the Baltic road network has mainly relied on EU funding. uncertain global economy. The rebound has been faster than expected, but safeguarding finanResidential construction in Russia picked up substantially in 2010. Demand was cial stability and balancing public finances still cause uncertainty in Europe. maintained by the increase in per capita living space and the development of consumer The volume of construction in Finland is estimated to have grown by about 2 per cent mortgage services. in 2010. Most of this growth was due to residential construction, in which the number of start-ups swung to growth after declining for two consecutive years. The number of startNET SALES ups in the construction of commercial and business premises grew cautiously. The vacanLemminkäinen Group’s full-year net sales for 2010 were EUR 1,892.5 million (EUR cy rate of office buildings has remained high. Activity in the property market increased in 1,965.5). Of that total, 71% (73) was generated in Finland, 17% (17) in other Nordic 2010, but few major deals were made. That said, the yield requirements of property invescountries, 5% (3) in Russia and 7% (7) in other countries. tors have declined slightly compared with 2008 and 2009. The volume of renovation grew Net sales in the Infrastructure Construction, Technical Building Services and Building Prodduring the report year. ucts business sectors remained more or less at the same level as in the previous year. The net The total volume of infrastructure construction either remained on a par with the previsales of Building Construction declined due to fewer start-ups of commercial and business ous year or declined slightly. Weather conditions shortened the paving season by about two premises and the low number of own residential projects completed in early 2010. months, which impacted on the amount of paving works carried out during the entire year. The volume of paving works was also affected by smaller government allocations for basic road maintenance and weak municipal finances. A reasonable number of infrastructure Net sales by business sector, construction projects were on offer, but competition was tight. Traffic tunnel projects in the EUR million 2010 2009 2008 Greater Helsinki Area and a pickup in mining operations in Northern Finland kept Finnish Building Construction ¹) 810.4 868.7 1,207.5 rock engineering contractors busy in 2010. Infrastructure Construction ²) 776.1 768.0 920.3 The low number of start-ups in building construction in past years also impacted on Technical Building Services 228.9 233.8 269.9 technical building services, in which the Company continued to face heavy competition. Building Products ²) 156.8 154.2 156.0 Demand for maintenance and servicing was moderate, but prices were down. Relatively Other operations and Group eliminations –61.2 –42.2 –52.2 few new investments were made in technical building systems, especially in the construcBusiness sectors, total 1,911.0 1,982.6 2,501.5 tion of business premises. Renovation of housing grew in 2010 and this growth is expected Unallocated items –18.5 –17.1 –19.7 to continue in the years ahead. Group, total (IFRS), 1,892.5 1,965.5 2,481.8 In the case of building products, demand for pre-cast concrete elements picked up of which operations outside Finland 543.5 527.6 676.7 as residential construction rebounded. Demand for environmental products was likewise good, but the work season was cut short by heavy snowfall in the winter. In roof contract¹) As from 1 January 2010, Lemminkäinen observes the interpretation IFRIC 15 – Agreements for the Construction of Real ing, competition was tight. Estate in its reporting. The comparative figures for 2009 have also been calculated in accordance with this interpretation. ²) Forssan Betoni Oy, which formerly belonged to Lemminkäinen Infrastructure Construction, became part of the Building Products business sector as from the beginning of 2010. The comparative figures for 2009 are also in line with the new Operations outside Finland organisation. In Sweden, the volume of infrastructure construction grew in 2010. Infrastructure construction now accounts for almost 40 per cent of all construction works in the country. 82 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Board of Directors' report OPERATING PROFIT ORDER BOOK Operating profit for 2010 was EUR 29.0 million (23.2) and the operating margin was Lemminkäinen’s order book grew by 15% year-on-year and amounted to EUR 1,226.4 1.5% (1.2). Operating profit for 2009 was burdened by the recognition of EUR 54 milmillion (1,064,5). The margins of the order book are now also at a better level than in the lion of the infringement fine imposed by the Supreme Administrative Court. previous year, which gives the Company a firmer footing going forward into 2011. OperaIn Building Construction, earnings were weakened by the lower-than-expected detions outside Finland accounted for 24% (21) of the Group’s order book. mand for commercial premises and higher-than-expected additional expenses from lease liabilities. The harsh winter hampered the earnings of Infrastructure Construction, particularly in Norway, where paving works had to be halted in the middle of the ordinary Order book by business work season. Lemminkäinen posted a loss in the Baltic countries. Due to the Group’s resector, EUR million 2010 2009 2008 structuring and business adjustment measures, non-recurring items burdened earnings Building Construction ¹) 697.2 601.7 576.3 in all business sectors. During the report year, the Company outsourced its vehicle and of which unsold 135.3 103.2 machinery functions to construction machinery rental companies. Infrastructure Construction ²) 386.5 319.2 365.4 Technical Building Services 112.6 106.8 97.7 Building Products ²) 30.2 36.8 25.2 Operating profit by business Group, total 1,226.4 1,064.5 1,064.5 sector, EUR million 2010 2009 2008 of which operations outside Finland 294.3 224.4 263.1 Building Construction ¹) 27.9 36.4 68.4 Infrastructure Construction ²) 11.6 22.0 26.2 ¹) As from 1 January 2010, Lemminkäinen observes the interpretation IFRIC 15 – Agreements for the Construction of Real Technical Building Services 2.2 12.2 16.3 Estate in its reporting. The comparative figures for 2009 have also been calculated in accordance with this interpretation. ²) Forssan Betoni Oy, which formerly belonged to Lemminkäinen Infrastructure Construction, became part of the Building Building Products ²) 3.7 10.4 10.5 Products business sector as from the beginning of 2010. The business sector-specific comparative figures for 2009 are also in Other operations –15.6 –61.7 –3.3 line with the new organisation. Business sectors, total 29.7 19.4 118.1 Unallocated items –0,7 3,8 3,8 BALANCE SHEET, CASH FLOW AND FINANCING Group, total (IFRS) 29,0 23,2 121,9 Under an authorisation granted by the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 12 November 2009, Lemminkäinen Corporation's Board of Directors decided, on 17 March Operating margin by 2010, on two separate share issues. The Company offered 1,700,000 new shares in business sector, % 2010 2009 2008 the Company for subscription to institutional investors approved by the Board of DirecBuilding Construction ¹) 3.4 4.2 5.7 tors. The institutional offering raised a total of EUR 39.5 million, which was recognised Infrastructure Construction ²) 1.5 2.9 2.8 in the Company’s invested non-restricted equity fund. In addition, the Board of DirecTechnical Building Services 1.0 5.2 6.1 tors decided on a targeted issue in which a total of 923,514 new shares in the ComBuilding Products ²) 2.4 6.8 6.7 pany were offered to subscription against compensation to the minority shareholders Group, total (IFRS) 1.5 1.2 4.9 of Lemminkäinen Corporation's subsidiaries Lemminkäinen Talo Oy and Lemminkäinen Talotekniikka Oy. The subscription price was EUR 23.25 per share, or a total of EUR ¹) As from 1 January 2010, Lemminkäinen observes the interpretation IFRIC 15 – Agreements for the Construction of Real 21.5 million. Estate in its reporting. The comparative figures for 2009 have also been calculated in accordance with this interpretation. The funds from the issue were used to refinance a EUR 120 million syndicated loan ma²) Forssan Betoni Oy, which formerly belonged to Lemminkäinen Infrastructure Construction, became part of the Building Products business sector as from the beginning of 2010. The comparative figures for 2009 are also in line with the new turing in January 2011. The remainder of the loan was paid with cash funds and by issuing organisation. a EUR 60 million, four-year domestic convertible bond with an annual coupon of 4.50 per cent. The bond was listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Oy for public trading. Towards the end of the year, the Company agreed on a total of EUR 160 million line of credit through bilateral agreements with Nordea Bank, Pohjola Bank, Sampo Bank and Svenska Handelsbanken. These facilities have a three-year maturity, are unsecured by Board of Directors' report – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 83 collateral and serve as a reserve for the Domestic Commercial Paper Programme. They According to the cash flow statement, the cash flow from operating activities was EUR replace the previous syndicated EUR 150 million credit facility that was due to expire in –37.2 million (64.2) in 2010. The cash flow for the financial year includes the payment of June 2011. The facilities include two covenants that are reviewed on a quarterly basis: dividends totalling EUR 2.1 million (18.0) for the 2009 financial year. The dividends paid average equity ratio over four quarters and the average net debt to EBITDA ratio over in 2010 only include dividends paid to minority shareholders of the subsidiaries. Cash flow four quarters. As part of the financial arrangement, Lemminkäinen also renewed the bank from operating activities in October–December 2010 was EUR 45.1 million (67.7). guarantees for its TyEL pension loan facility of about EUR 90 million. Working capital saw a year-on-year increase of 7% and amounted to EUR 725.0 milAfter these arrangements, Lemminkäinen has a broader financing base and the matulion (679.9) during the review period. One of the primary reasons behind the growth in rity structure of its debt portfolio is spread out over a longer period. Of the Company’s inworking capital was the increase in trade receivables in 2010. Net working capital was up terest-bearing debt, 17% (49) comprise loans from financial institutions, 20% (1) com15% to EUR 393.0 million (342.0). mercial paper, 8% (11) project loans related to own production of housing and business The balance sheet total stood at EUR 1,065.3 million (1,054.7) on 31 December premises, 24% (22) TyEL loans, 15% (14) finance lease liabilities and 16% (0) bonds. At 2010. Return on investment was 7.0% (5.4) and the equity ratio was 35.2% (30.9). the end of the review period, EUR 160 million in committed credit facilities were unused. Gearing was 104.7% (110.5). By the end of the 2010–2013 strategic period, LemThe amount of interest-bearing debt at the end of the review period was EUR 375.5 minkäinen seeks to achieve return on investment of 18 per cent and an equity ratio of million (399.1), of which EUR 161.4 million (108.4) was short-term debt and EUR 35 per cent. Lemminkäinen estimates that the growth of the Company’s earnings will 214.1 million long-term debt (290.7). Interest-bearing net debt was EUR 349.2 million result in a clear improvement in return on investment by the end of 2011. (324.7). Net financial expenses during the review period amounted to EUR 22.2 million (33.4), representing 1.2% (1.7) of net sales. Liquid funds at the end of the review period were EUR 26.3 million (74.4). BUSINESS SECTORS Building construction Key figures, EUR million ¹ ) 1–12/2010 1–12/2009 1–3/10 4–6/10 7–9/10 10–12/10 Net sales 810.4 868.7 168.7 169.2 214.5 258.0 Operating profit 27.9 36.4 1.2 6.7 2.7 17.3 Operating margin, % 3.4 4.2 0.7 4.0 1.3 6.7 Order book at end of period 697.2 601.7 631.4 727.1 677.4 697.2 of which unsold 135.3 103.2 115.5 149.6 102.2 135.3 ¹) As from 1 January 2010, Lemminkäinen observes the interpretation IFRIC 15 – Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate in its reporting. The comparative figures for 2009 have also been calculated in accordance with this interpretation. The net sales of the Building Construction business sector declined by 7% to EUR premises and additional expenses from lease liabilities. In addition, non-recurring items 810.4 million (868.7). Rebounding residential construction compensated for the low due to structural reorganisation and business adjustment measures were recognised durnumber of business premises started up. The net sales of the business sector saw subing the financial year. Residential units developed by the Company were completed and stantial growth in the second half of the year thanks to the completion of new residential recognised in income mainly during the final quarter of the year. A few property transunits. Housing sales were brisk in both Finland and Russia. Of the net sales of Building actions were also made in the fourth quarter. During the report year, the Company outConstruction, 76% (82) came from Finland, 7% (5) from Russia, 11% (7) from Sweden sourced its vehicle and machinery functions to construction machinery rental companies. and 6% (6) from other countries. In 2010, Lemminkäinen started up the construction of a total of 1,191 (351) units in its The business sector’s operating profit was down by one fifth to EUR 27.9 million own housing production in Finland, Russia and Sweden, more than three times as many (36.4). Profitability was weakened by the lower-than-expected demand for commercial as in the previous year. This was the greatest number of start-ups in the Company’s own 84 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Board of Directors' report housing development since 2006, when they numbered around 1,500 residential units. In Finland, renovation now accounts for close to half of all building construction. In reThe order book of Building Construction swung to growth after the first quarter, and cent years, the volume of renovation works has grown at a particularly rapid clip in housamounted to EUR 697.2 million (601.7) at year’s end. Operations outside Finland – maining construction. During the report year, Lemminkäinen landed basic repair contracts for ly in Sweden and Russia – accounted for 15% of the order book, or EUR 101.7 million. numerous public-sector buildings, such as schools and day-care centres around Finland. In Helsinki, Lemminkäinen signed an additional agreement for renovation work of the Operations in Finland Kluuvi Shopping Centre, a continuation of the order received in 2009. In Finland, Lemminkäinen started the construction of a total of 2,252 new residential units, of which the number of contracted housing starts was 1,248 (1,090). Operations outside Finland Residential construction began to surge in Russia in 2010. Lemminkäinen’s residential construction focuses on the St Petersburg region, where the Company started up Lemminkäinen’s own housing the construction of 154 units in its own housing development during the report year. development, Finland 2010 2009 2008 By comparison, no new residential units were started in 2009. Housing sales were also Housing starts 1,004 351 504 brisk during 2010, and 276 units developed by the Company were sold during the finanHousing units sold 911 771 634 cial year. In addition, Lemminkäinen completed Aleksandria, a project with 498 residenCompleted 418 533 1,030 tial units. Under construction at end of period 991 405 587 of which unsold 439 193 380 Completed and available for sale at end of period 110 263 496 Lemminkäinen’s own housing development, Russia 2010 2009 2008 Housing starts 154 0 479 Housing units sold 276 133 61 Housing sales were brisk in 2010, and a total of 911 residential units developed by the Completed 498 104 0 Company were sold. 418 new residential units were completed, the bulk of them in the second half of 2010. Under construction at end of period 154 479 306 At the end of the financial year, Lemminkäinen owned a total of 830,000 m² of unof which unsold 154 367 245 used building rights in Finland, of which 371,000 m² were residential building rights. Completed and available for sale at end of period 122 22 0 The Company also had binding or conditional co-operation and zoning agreements for about 782,000 m², of which about 253,000 m² are residential building rights. The balance sheet value of the Finnish plots was EUR 90.1 million (94.7) at the end of the year. In April 2010, Lemminkäinen acquired a plot on Vasily Island, St. Petersburg, close to In the construction of business premises, the number of start-ups is estimated to the city centre. Construction of about 540 residential units is expected to begin there in have bottomed out, although the vacancy rates of business premises are still high. During spring 2011 and to be completed towards the end of 2013. the present year, Lemminkäinen signed an agreement for the construction of an ecoLemminkäinen will build a packaging film plant for Ab Rani Plast Oy in the Kaluga efficient office and residential building in the Töölönlahti quarter in the centre of Helsinki industrial park, close to Moscow. Rani Plast is the first customer in Lemminkäinen’s and an agreement for the construction of a new office building for Konecranes – the liftindustrial park project, an approximately 135-hectare area with premises for about 20 ing equipment manufacturer – in Hyvinkää. industrial plants and logistics centres. The value of the inventories that Lemminkäinen Demand for the construction of commercial and logistics buildings was reasonable in had tied up in Russia at the end of the 2010 financial year was EUR 46.1 million (36.5). 2010, and the Company started the construction of logistics centres for Inex Partners Oy Operations in Sweden accounted for almost 10% of the net sales of Building Conand Etra Oy, an Etola Group company. In Helsinki, Lemminkäinen will build the Helsinki struction in 2010. In Sweden, Lemminkäinen started the construction of 33 (0) units in Environment Centre and the environmentally-friendly Ympäristötalo building for the Uniits own housing development during the review year. versity of Helsinki, and the construction of the first phase of the Kauppapaikka Herman retail trade property began in Kuopio. Municipalities showed far greater interest in lifecycle projects in 2010. Board of Directors' report – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 85 Infrastructure construction Key figures, EUR million ¹ ) 1–12/2010 1–12/2009 1–3/10 4–6/10 7–9/10 10–12/10 Net sales 776.1 768.0 51.3 226.0 314.6 184.2 Operating profit 11.6 22.0 –24.3 13.5 28.0 –5.6 Operating margin, % 1.5 2.9 –47.3 6.0 8.9 –3.0 Order book at end of period 386.5 319.2 515.1 543.9 395.9 386.5 ¹) Forssan Betoni Oy, which formerly belonged to Lemminkäinen Infrastructure Construction, became part of the Building Products business sector as from the beginning of 2010. The comparative figures for 2009 are also in line with the new organisation. The net sales of the Infrastructure Construction business sector in 2010 amounted to Operations outside Finland EUR 776.1 million (768.0). The business sector generated 55% (54) of its net sales in Infrastructure construction in the Nordic countries is geographically a strategic growth Finland, 31% (34) in the other Nordic countries, 9% (10) in the Baltic states and 5% area for Lemminkäinen. In 2010, the Company increased its market share in the Norwe(2) in other countries. gian infrastructure market with three acquisitions. The major acquisition was the signThe business sector’s operating profit fell significantly short of the previous year, ing of the agreement to purchase 100% of the shares in the Norwegian infrastructure amounting to EUR 11.6 million (22.0). Lemminkäinen had a good production season and construction company Mesta Industri AS from Mesta Group, a Norwegian state-owned satisfactory earnings in Finland, Sweden and Denmark. The profitability of the business company, at a price of EUR 14.8 million. The approval of the Norwegian Competition Ausector was weakened by exceptionally heavy snowfall in the winter, which hindered pavthority is still required. The deal is expected to be concluded during the first quarter of ing operations in Norway and the Baltic countries in particular. In Norway, earnings were the present year. In addition, the Company acquired a majority stake in Asfalt Remix AS, also burdened by individual loss-making road maintenance contracts. The Baltic market a Norwegian company specialising in the cold milling of asphalt, and Risa Rock AS, a remained very difficult, and Lemminkäinen posted a loss there. The Company’s business tunnel excavation company. After these transactions, Lemminkäinen will be the secondoperations in Latvia have been wound down. largest paving company in Norway and one of the country’s major infrastructure conAt the end of 2010, the order book of Infrastructure Construction was EUR 386.5 struction companies. million (319.2), a year-on-year increase of about one fifth. In Sweden, the Company bolstered its position in rock engineering when it won several excavation contracts for LKAB’s iron ore mine in Kiruna. The total value of the Operations in Finland contracts is over EUR 55 million and the longest excavation works will last three years. Weather conditions shortened the paving season in Finland by about two months, and Lemminkäinen has numerous tunnel and geotechnical engineering projects in progress the total volume of paving works was smaller than expected. In spite of this, Lemminkäinin Sweden, and thus the outlook is expected to remain favourable in the next few years. en’s operations were solid during the paving season and earnings were satisfactory. Competition was severe in the infrastructure construction market of the Baltic coun2010 was a busy year for rock engineering thanks to large tunnel projects and a picktries, and the amount on work on offer fell, especially in Latvia and Lithuania. Road conup in mining operations. Geotechnical engineering works also saw growth thanks to the struction in the Baltic countries is mainly EU-funded. In 2010, the paving business was recovery of building construction. Demand for transport infrastructure construction realso hampered by the exceptionally heavy snowfall and cold weather in winter. Lemmained reasonable in 2010, but competition was fierce. minkäinen carried out two large road construction projects in Lithuania. The first part of the year was sedate in Lemminkäinen’s mineral aggregates operations, but the pickup in building construction boosted demand towards the end of the year. 86 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Board of Directors' report Technical building services Key figures, EUR million 1–12/2010 1–12/2009 1–3/10 4–6/10 7–9/10 10–12/10 Net sales 228.9 233.8 54.2 55.8 55.1 63.8 Operating profit 2.2 12.2 1.1 0.4 1.7 –1.0 Operating margin, % 1.0 5.2 2.0 0.7 3.1 –1.6 Order book at end of period 112.6 106.8 114.1 118.0 118.1 112.6 The net sales of Technical Building Services declined slightly to EUR 228.9 million Lemminkäinen has expanded its range of piping renovation methods by introducing a (233.8). About half of its net sales are generated by maintenance and servicing. coating technique that does not compromise existing structures. The advantages of the The operating profit of the business sector declined substantially to EUR 2.2 miltechnique are its speed and short water outages. The Company is also involved in Finlion (12.2). Profitability was weakened by tougher competition in the field and the conland’s first zero-energy apartment buildings, which are located in Kuopio and Järvenpää. sequent decline in price levels. Non-recurring items due to restructuring and business Towards the end of the year, Lemminkäinen made an agreement with Stockmann for adjustment measures also decreased the earnings of the business sector. Demand for the building system maintenance of the new Nevsky Centre shopping centre and its retail technical building services for industry was low during the report year, as industry cut space in St Petersburg. This is one of the Company’s most extensive maintenance and investments and maintenance. servicing agreements in the St Petersburg region. Building products Key figures, EUR million ¹ ) 1–12/2010 1–12/2009 1–3/10 4–6/10 7–9/10 10–12/10 Net sales 156.8 154.2 20.3 44.7 50.5 41.3 Operating profit 3.7 10.4 –3.7 3.4 3.2 0.8 Operating margin, % 2.4 6.8 –18.1 7.6 6.3 1.9 Order book at end of period 30.2 36.8 35.7 41.2 38.7 30.2 ¹) Forssan Betoni Oy, which formerly belonged to Lemminkäinen Infrastructure Construction, became part of the Building Products business sector as from the beginning of 2010. The business sector-specific comparative figures for 2009 are also in line with the new organisation. In 2010, the net sales of the Building Products business sector amounted to EUR the first quarter of 2011. The roofing business accounted for about 40 per cent of the 156.8 million (154.2). The business sector’s operating profit declined to EUR 3.7 milBuilding Products business sector in 2010. The remaining business operations of Building lion (10.4). The major factors weakening profitability were the tighter competition in roof Products were merged into Infrastructure Construction business sector on 1 January 2011. and environmental contracting and the rising price of raw materials. The long winter also At the end of 2010, the order book of Building Products was EUR 30.2 million (36.8), decreased demand in product sales and the work season was shorter than normal. Sales half of which is accounted for by the roofing business. of pavement stones and roofing products picked up clearly towards the end of the year. Demand for pre-cast concrete staircase and facade elements was brisk thanks to the SHARES AND SHARE CAPITAL pickup in residential construction. Lemminkäinen bolstered its pre-cast concrete element The listed price of Lemminkäinen Corporation’s share was EUR 24.20 (13.05) at the production resources by acquiring 100% of the shares in Suonenjoen Sementtituote Oy. beginning of the financial year and EUR 26.00 (24.20) at the end. Market capitalisation Towards the end of the review year, Lemminkäinen announced the sale of its roofing at the end of the financial year was EUR 510.8 million (411.9). Share turnover during the business to the capital investment fund Axcel. The transaction price was about EUR 25 financial year totalled 4,171,666 shares (1,918,039). The total value of share turnover million, from which Lemminkäinen will recognise capital gains of about EUR 17 million in was EUR 103.2 million (41.0). At the end of the financial year, the Company had 4,979 Board of Directors' report – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 87 shareholders (5,017). The largest shareholder group was the Pentti family, who owned PERSONNEL about 57 per cent of the shares. International shareholders owned about 8 per cent of Lemminkäinen’s shares. Personnel, average 2010 2009 2008 The Extraordinary General Meeting of Lemminkäinen Corporation, held on 12 November Salaried employees 2,913 3,067 3,286 2009, decided in accordance with the proposal of the Board of Directors to authorise the Hourly paid employees 5,401 5,559 6,490 Board of Directors to resolve on a share issue and/or an issue of special rights entitling their holders to shares, as referred to in Chapter 10, Section 1 of the Finnish Companies Act, in Personnel, total 8,314 8,626 9,776 one or more instalments, either against payment or without consideration. The Extraordiof whom working outside Finland 2,372 2,607 2,836 nary General Meeting also authorised the Board of Directors to decide on the acquisition of treasury shares. Personnel at the end of the financial year 7,744 7,759 8,910 Lemminkäinen Corporation's Board of Directors decided, on 17 March 2010, to organise two separate share issues. The Company offered 1,700,000 new shares in the Company for subscription to private and institutional investors approved by the Board of Directors. Personnel by business sector, In addition, Lemminkäinen Corporation's Board of Directors decided on a targeted issue in average 2010 2009 2008 which a total of 923,514 new shares in the Company were offered to subscription against Building Construction 2,264 2,356 3,159 compensation to the non-controlling shareholders of Lemminkäinen Corporation's subsidiInfrastructure Construction¹) 3,165 3,395 3,658 aries Lemminkäinen Talo Oy and Lemminkäinen Talotekniikka Oy. The subscription price Technical Building Services 1,859 1,941 2,013 was EUR 23.25 per share. The new shares were entered in the Trade Register and were Building Products¹) 835 820 839 made available for trading on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Oy on 23 March 2010. Parent company 191 114 107 After these share issues, the Board of Directors is authorised to issue a further Total 8,314 8,626 9,776 1,576,486 shares and/or special rights entitling their holders to shares. The authorisation is valid for five (5) years after being granted. In addition, the authorisation to acquire treasury ¹) Forssan Betoni Oy, which formerly belonged to Lemminkäinen Infrastructure Construction, became part of the Building shares that was granted to the Board of Directors by the Extraordinary General Meeting of Products business sector as from the beginning of 2010. The business sector-specific comparative figures for 2009 are also in line with the new organisation. 12 November 2009 is fully unused and will remain in force for 18 months from the decision of the meeting. In 2010, the Group companies had 8,314 employees (8,626) on average, about 4% less Lemminkäinen’s share capital is EUR 34,042,500. The Company has one share series than in the previous year. Of the employees, 71% worked in Finland, 12% in other Nordic and, after the share issue, the total number of shares is 19,644,764. countries, 10% in the Baltic states and 7% in other countries. The number of personnel has been downscaled to correspond to market changes. In line with its strategy, LemINVESTMENTS minkäinen changed over to a more centralised operating model for its internal support Gross investments during the financial year amounted to EUR 59.6 million (41.5), repservices in Finland. resenting 3.1% (2.1) of the Company’s net sales. They were earmarked mainly for replacement investments in infrastructure construction. In addition, the investments inCHANGES IN THE ORGANISATION STRUCTURE clude two acquisitions in Norway in 2010 and smaller acquisitions in Finland. One of the objectives of Lemminkäinen’s strategy is to move towards creating one unified Lemminkäinen by, for example, simplifying the structure of the Group. In 2010, the Group merged more than 20 of its companies in Finland. The Building Construction and Technical Building Services business sectors underwent the greatest changes. The wholly owned subsidiaries Sica Oy and Lemcon Development Ltd were merged into Lemminkäinen Corporation. In December 2010, Lemminkäinen announced the sale of its roofing business, which was part of the Building Products business sector. The concrete, environmental and sports construction businesses that were part of the Building Products were transferred 88 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Board of Directors' report to the Infrastructure Construction business sector as from 1 January 2011. ti-von Walzel serving as members. Berndt Brunow was elected to serve as the Chairman In 2011, Lemminkäinen’s business operations are organised into three business secof the Nomination Committee, with Kristina Pentti-von Walzel and Teppo Taberman servtors: Building Construction, Infrastructure Construction and Technical Building Services. ing as members. Teppo Taberman was elected to serve as the Chairman of the RemuneraThe telecom network builder Lemcon Networks Oy was transferred to the Technical tion Committee, with Berndt Brunow and Mikael Mäkinen serving as members. Building Services business sector as from 1 January 2011. The company was previously part of the Building Construction business sector. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS As from the beginning of 2011, the members of the Lemminkäinen Group Executive In 2009, the Supreme Administrative Court (SAC) ordered Finnish asphalt industry comBoard are Timo Kohtamäki, President and CEO, Jukka Terhonen, Executive Vice Presipanies to pay an infringement fine for violations of the Act on Competition Restrictions. dent, Building Construction, Henrik Eklund, Executive Vice President, Infrastructure ConAt the beginning of February 2011, 34 claims for damages brought by municipalities struction, Marcus Karsten, Executive Vice President, Technical Building Services, Tiina and the Finnish state (Finnish Transport Agency) were pending against Lemminkäinen Mellas, Director, HR and ICT, Tiina Mikander, Executive Vice President, Corporate Busiand other asphalt industry companies in the District Court. The claimants contend that ness Development, and Robert Öhman, CFO. restrictions of competition have caused them damages. The total amount of damages Internal support functions – HR, financial administration, IT, legal affairs as well as sought from Lemminkäinen is currently about EUR 81 million. The claims presented in the communications and marketing – adapted a more consolidated operating model. The statements of claim differ from each other as regards their amounts and grounds. shared services target to provide optimal support to business objectives. The Company is The ruling rendered by the SAC in 2009 as it stands does not mean that Lemminkäinen seeking a competitive edge and support for growth from cost-effective, professional and or the other asphalt industry companies actually caused any damages to the asphalt work high-quality internal support services. clients. The ruling does not concern the individual contracts that the claimants cited in support of their claims. Nor does the ruling concern the pricing of individual contracts. ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2010 AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The SAC has not investigated the contention that inflated prices have been charged for Lemminkäinen Corporation's Annual General Meeting held on 16 April 2010 adopted the the contracts. Company's financial statements for 2009 and granted the CEO and the members of the Lemminkäinen's initial position is that the claims for damages are without foundation. Board of Directors discharge from liability. The Annual General Meeting decided, in accordThe claims will be processed in the order and schedule set by the District Court. ance with the Board of Directors' proposal, that no divided be paid for the financial year. No provisions for future expenses have been made in respect of the claims of the muBerndt Brunow, Juhani Mäkinen, Mikael Mäkinen, Kristina Pentti-von Walzel, Heikki nicipalities and the Finnish Transport Agency that are pending in the District Court. Räty and Teppo Taberman were re-elected to serve as members of the Board of Directors. Lemminkäinen will provide information on the proceedings in its interim reports or in PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, a firm of authorised public accountants, was re-elected to separate releases, as necessary. serve as the Company’s auditor, with Jan Holmberg, APA acting as the chief auditor. Lemminkäinen Corporation’s Board of Directors held an organising meeting on 16 April RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 2010. Berndt Brunow continued to serve as the Chairman of the Board, and Juhani MäkiLemminkäinen’s business risks are divided into four categories: strategic, operative, finen as the Vice Chairman. nancial and accident risks. In order to manage these risks, the Company has specified the measures that can be used to predict any external and internal factors that might COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS threaten its operations. The Board of Directors chooses from among its members a Nomination Committee, an The state of the international economy poses uncertainty in our operating environAudit Committee, and a Remuneration Committee. The committees assist the Board of ment, making it more difficult to foresee future changes. New construction in Finland Directors by preparing pertinent matters for the Board's consideration. All of the Board is sensitive to economic cycles and therefore poses a market risk. This risk is managed members can participate in meetings of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration both structurally and operationally. The more stable demand for infrastructure construcCommittee. tion balances out fluctuating volumes in new domestic construction, as do maintenance, Lemminkäinen Corporation's Board of Directors held an organising meeting on 16 April servicing and renovation. 2010. The compositions of the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and RemuneraThe Company's own housing development involves both sales and price risks. Unsold tion Committee were decided at the meeting. The Board of Directors elected Heikki Räty residences tie up capital and therefore the Company starts new housing construction to serve as the Chairman of the Audit Committee, with Juhani Mäkinen and Kristina Pentonly if sufficient number of the units have been reserved by buyers in advance. When Board of Directors' report – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 89 undertaking the own development of commercial premises, the premises are usually sold number of business premises start-ups has most likely bottomed out, great growth canto real estate investors in the early stages of construction at the latest, thereby reducing not be expected yet. sales risks. Residential construction is estimated to remain brisk in Russia, even though slightly Weather conditions also pose a risk in the construction industry. Unusual or harsh fewer residential units will be completed in 2011 than last year. This dip is primarily due weather can weaken the profitability of our operations by interrupting or delaying projects. to the low number of start-ups during the recession years. Lemminkäinen currently has Lemminkäinen uses great amounts of oil-based products in asphalt production. The about 150 residential units under construction in St Petersburg, and intends to start up price of bitumen is tied to the global price of oil and the Company manages the bitumen the construction of more than 500 units this spring. price risk with oil derivatives and contractual terms. In 2011, the total volume of infrastructure construction in all the Nordic countries is Writs of summons filed to the District Court by the Finnish Road Administration and a expected to either remain at the previous year’s level or grow slightly. Thanks to Lemnumber of municipalities pose a risk. minkäinen’s strong market position in infrastructure construction in all its business terThe Company’s Annual Report and website provide more information on Lemminritories, the Company is well-poised for steady growth in the year ahead. The Company’s käinen’s major risks and risk management policy. A more detailed account of the financial outlays, particularly on rock engineering in Sweden, have yielded good results, and this risks is also provided in the notes to the 2010 financial statements. favourable trend is expected to continue in the near future. The work season for infrastructure construction in Norway is anticipated to be better than last year. Demand for RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT infrastructure construction in Finland might be weakened by scant governmental financLemminkäinen's research and development work focuses on the development of operaing and lower investments in the municipal sector. tional prerequisites as well as the development and quality assurance of products and The market for technical building services is expected to gradually return to normal as services. Careful consideration of safety issues and environmental effects is an imporbuilding construction picks up. In the next few years, renovation is expected to focus on tant principle in Lemminkäinen's development work. Products and services are develpiping renovation works and repairs to improve energy efficiency. oped in long-term collaboration with customers. Lemminkäinen estimates that in 2011 its net sales will increase and that its pre-tax The Group's business sectors are responsible for their own research and development profit will clearly improve. This estimate is based on the better market situation and the activities. Lemminkäinen's Central Laboratory carries out R&D at Group level. In 2009 fact that the order book is stronger than at the end of the previous year. the Group's research and development expenditure accounted for 0.7% of net sales. BOARD OF DIRECTORS' PROPOSAL FOR THE DISTRIBUTION OF PROFITS THE ENVIRONMENT The distributable shareholders' equity shown on the balance sheet of the parent comLemminkäinen Group takes life-cycle and environmental perspectives into account pany, Lemminkäinen Corporation, amounts to EUR 153,788,918.81, consisting of EUR when developing its operations, products and services. The Group’s management of en75,205,562.38 in retained earnings from previous years and EUR 17,586,655.93 in vironmental affairs and the environmental effects are continuously monitored by means profit for the accounting period. of internal monitoring and control programmes. In 2010 Lemminkäinen Group started a The Board of Directors of Lemminkäinen Corporation proposes to the Annual General program that aims to define common goals for environmental responsibility, operation Meeting that the Company pay a dividend of EUR 0.50 (0.00) per share for the 2010 models and performance indicators until the end of current strategy period. The Comaccounting period, i.e. a total of EUR 9,822,382.00, after which retained earnings would pany’s Annual Report and website provide more information on Lemminkäinen’s envistand at EUR 82,969,836.31. ronmental issues. EVENTS AFTER THE FINANCIAL YEAR OUTLOOK FOR 2011 Lemminkäinen concluded the sale of its roofing business on 31 January 2011. The moderate growth in the volume of construction is expected to continue in Finland in 2011. Residential construction is still boosted by low interest rates and consumers’ conHelsinki, 9 February 2011 fidence in their own finances. In 2010, Lemminkäinen more than trebled its own housing production compared to the previous year, starting up the construction of a total of 1,191 LEMMINKÄINEN CORPORATION new residential units. It is estimated that if the housing market remains favourable, the number of start-ups will also be at the same level in the year ahead. Though the annual Board of Directors 90 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Board of Directors' report Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of (IFRS) comprehensive income (IFRS) 1.1.2010– 1.1.2009– 1.1.2010– 1.1.2009– EUR 1,000 Note 31.12.2010 31.12.2009 EUR 1,000 Note 31.12.2010 31.12.2009 Net sales 2, 3 1,892,498 1,965,500 Result for the financial year 1,155 –23,822 Other operating income 6 26,824 7,091 Translation difference 22 3,894 3,381 Increase or decrease in stocks of finished goods and work in Hedging of net investment in foreign subsidiary 12, 22 –368 progress –4,770 –50,829 Change in fair value 12, 22 12 Production for own use 396 213 Cash flow hedge 12, 22 460 –240 Raw materials and consumables used 1,185,887 1,156,607 Other comprehensive income, total 4,366 2,773 Employee benefit expenses 9 415,766 406,850 Depreciation 8 35,580 34,258 Comprehensive income for the financial year 5,522 –21,048 Other operating expenses 7 249,468 302,601 Share of the result of associates 10 743 1,499 Comprehensive income for the financial year attributable to Equity holders of the parent company 4,665 –23,419 Operating profit 28,990 23,157 Non-controlling interest 857 2,370 Financial expenses 11 41,998 54,095 Financial income 11 19,765 20,744 Result before taxes 6,758 –10,194 Income taxes 12 –5,602 –13,628 Result for the financial year 1,155 –23,822 Result for the financial year attributable to Equity holders of the parent company 299 –26,192 Non-controlling interest 857 2,370 EPS attributable to equity holders of the parent company, EUR Earnings per share, diluted and undiluted 0.02 –1.54 Consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 91 Consolidated statement of financial position (IFRS) EUR 1,000 Note 31.12.2010 31.12.2009 1.1.2009 EUR 1,000 Note 31.12.2010 31.12.2009 1.1.2009 ASSETS SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Non-current assets Equity attributable to equity holders of the Tangible assets 14 175,259 184,613 186,954 parent company Goodwill on consolidation 15 84,847 78,265 74,945 Share capital 22 34,043 34,043 34,043 Other intangible assets 15 14,407 2,698 2,545 Share premium account 22 5,750 5,750 5,750 Holdings in associates 10 7,605 6,251 4,626 Hedging reserve 22 –1,510 –1,970 –1,730 Available-for-sale investments 18 6,410 6,582 6,038 Fair value reserve 22 12 Deferred tax asset 12 16,275 14,569 8,929 Invested non-restricted equity fund 22 63,144 Other non-current receivables 20 7,175 7,481 6,345 Translation difference 22 2,196 –1,698 –4,711 311,979 300,458 290,382 Retained earnings 22 224,488 260,704 276,023 Result for the financial year 22 299 –26,192 Current assets 328,422 270,637 309,375 Inventories 19 369,763 374,721 418,788 Trade and other receivables 20 343,064 305,139 476,333 Non-controlling interest 5,086 23,213 27,315 Cash and cash equivalents 21 26,348 74,400 250,090 Shareholders' equity, total 333,509 293,849 336,690 739,175 754,260 1,145,211 Available-for-sale non-current assets 16 14,097 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Assets, total 1,065,252 1,054,718 1,435,593 Loans 25 214,134 290,749 118,810 Deferred tax liability 12 17,577 18,975 18,693 Pension liabilities 23 508 749 192 Provisions 24 2,283 1,762 2,181 Other non-current liabilities 26 3,882 2,390 1,293 238,385 314,626 141,169 Current liabilities Loans 25 161,381 108,397 467,728 Provisions 24 6,437 8,271 7,092 Accounts payable and other liabilities 26 321,158 329,575 482,915 488,976 446,243 957,734 Liabilities for available-for-sale non-current assets 16 4,383 Liabilities, total 731,743 760,869 1,098,903 Shareholders' equity and liabilities, total 1,065,252 1,054,718 1,435,593 92 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Consolidated financial statements (IFRS) Consolidated cash flow statement (IFRS) 1.1.2010– 1.1.2009– 1.1.2010– 1.1.2009– EUR 1,000 Note 31.12.2010 31.12.2009 EUR 1,000 Note 31.12.2010 31.12.2009 Cash flow from business operations Cash flow from investments Result before taxes 6,758 –10,194 Investments in tangible and intangible assets –32,876 –21,720 Adjustments 29 Capital gains from the sale of tangible and intangible assets 34,112 11,744 Depreciation 35,580 34,258 Investments in other assets –1 –288 Share of the result of associates –743 –1,499 Capital gains from the sale of other investments 315 45 Other non-payment-related income and expenses 7 5,246 Purchases of subsidiary shares less cash and cash equivalents Financial income and expenses 22,232 33,351 at time of purchase 4 –11,419 –8,464 Other adjustments –20,521 –3,163 Sales of subsidiary shares less cash and cash equivalents at Cash flow before change in working capital 43,313 57,999 time of sale 4 45 Purchases of shares in associated undertakings –622 Change in working capital Sales of shares in associated undertakings 100 Increase (–)/decrease(+) in current business receivables –36,596 166,512 Cash flow from investments –10,491 –18,538 Increase (–)/decrease(+) in inventories 771 44,433 Increase (+)/decrease(–) in current liabilities –9,668 –158,540 Cash flow from financing Cash flow from operations before financial items and taxes –2,181 110,404 Share issue for cash consideration 39,525 Increase (–)/decrease(+) in non-current receivables 307 35 Interest expenses paid –16,102 –29,418 Short-term loans drawn 244,374 341,776 Other financial expenses paid –25,379 –21,992 Repayments of short-term loans –185,988 –716,954 Dividends received 540 197 Long-term loans drawn 83,127 220,568 Interest received 2,290 4,223 Repayments of long-term loans –169,789 –34,226 Other financial income received 15,036 16,788 Repayments of finance lease debts –8,693 –13,447 Direct taxes paid –11,376 –16,040 Dividends paid –2,077 –17,991 Cash flow from business operations –37,172 64,162 Cash flow from financing 787 –220,238 Increase (+)/decrease(–) in cash and cash equivalents –46,877 –174,614 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of financial year 21 74,400 250,090 Translation difference of cash and cash equivalents –1,176 –1,076 Cash and cash equivalents at end of financial year 26,348 74,400 Consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 93 Consolidated statement of changes in equity (IFRS) Parent Share Invested company premium Hedging Fair value non-restricted Translation Retained shareholders' Non-controlShareholders' EUR 1,000 Note Share capital account reserve reserve equity fund difference earning equity ling interest equity, total Shareholders' equity 1.1.2009 34,043 5,750 –1,730 –4,711 280,695 314,046 27,751 341,796 Impact of IFRIC 15 –3,767 –3,767 –435 –4,203 Other change –904 –904 –904 Adjusted shareholders' equity 1.1.2009 34,043 5,750 –1,730 –4,711 276,023 309,375 27,315 336,690 Result for the financial year –26,192 –26,192 2,370 –23,822 Translation difference 3,381 3,381 3,381 Hedging of net investment in foreign subsidiary –368 –368 –368 Cash flow hedge –240 –240 –240 Comprehensive income for the financial year –240 3,013 –26,192 –23,419 2,370 –21,048 Dividends paid 22 –15,319 –15,319 –1,999 –17,318 Change in non-controlling interest –4,474 –4,474 Transactions with owners, total –15,319 –15,319 –6,473 –21,792 Shareholders' equity 31.12.2009 34,043 5,750 –1,970 –1,698 234,512 270,637 23,213 293,849 94 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Consolidated financial statements (IFRS) Parent Share Invested company premium Hedging Fair value non-restricted Translation Retained shareholders' Non-controlShareholders' EUR 1,000 Note Share capital account reserve reserve equity fund difference earning equity ling interest equity, total Shareholders' equity 1.1.2010 34,043 5,750 –1,970 –1,698 234,512 270,637 23,213 293,849 Result for the financial year 299 299 857 1,155 Translation difference 3,894 3,894 3,894 Cash flow hedge 460 460 460 Change in fair value 12 12 12 Comprehensive income for the financial year 460 12 3,894 299 4,665 857 5,522 Share issue to investors for cash consideration 39,525 39,525 39,525 Share issue to noncontrolling interest for cash consideration 24,335 24,335 24,335 Transaction expenses of share issues –716 –716 –716 Direct entries, minority acquisition –10,105 –10,105 –10,105 Cancellation of dividend liability 82 82 82 Dividend distribution 22 –1,915 –1,915 Change in non-controlling interest –17,068 –17,068 Transactions with owners, total 63,144 –10,024 53,121 –18,983 34,137 Shareholders' equity 31.12.2010 34,043 5,750 –1,510 12 63,144 2,196 224,787 328,422 5,086 333,509 Consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 95 Accounting principles applied in the acquisition method. The acquisition price comprises the consideration paid, the non-controlling interest in the acquiree, and the fair value of the prior holding. The conthe IFRS consolidated financial sideration paid is measured as the fair value of the assets given, liabilities assumed and statements, 31 December 2010 the equity instruments issued by the Group. Any contingent additional acquisition price is measured at fair value at the time of acquisition and is included in the consideration paid. It is classified as either a liability or equity. An additional acquisition price classified BASIC INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY as a liability is fair valued on the closing date of each reporting period and the resulting Lemminkäinen Corporation is a public limited company established under the laws of gains or losses are recognised through profit or loss. An additional acquisition price clasFinland and domiciled in Helsinki. The Company’s registered address is Salmisaarensified as equity is not remeasured. Non-controlling interest in the acquiree is recognised aukio 2, 00180, Helsinki, Finland. Lemminkäinen Corporation is the parent company of on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis at either fair value or the amount corresponding Lemminkäinen Group. The Group operates in all areas of the construction sector. to the relative share of the net assets of the acquiree held by non-controlling interests. The Group comprises the following business segments: Building Construction, InfraThe amount by which the sum of the consideration paid, non-controlling interest in the structure Construction, Technical Building Services and Building Products. Of these segacquiree and the fair value of the prior holding exceed the fair value of the acquired net ments, Infrastructure Construction operates in the Nordic countries and Eastern Europe, assets is recognised as goodwill in the balance sheet. and Building Construction globally. The other business segments operate mainly in FinThe acquisition costs of entities acquired prior to 31 December 2009 include all the land and the surrounding region. costs arising directly from the acquisition, such as for legal and auditing services. As from The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Interthe beginning of 2010, other direct acquisition costs are recognised as expenses. national Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and the IAS and IFRS standards and SIC The treatment of transactions with non-controlling interests is the same as that of and IFRIC interpretations that were in force on 31 December 2010 have been observed in transactions with the Group’s shareholders. When shares are acquired from non-contheir preparation. The term “International Financial Reporting Standards” means standtrolling interests, the difference between the consideration paid and the carrying amount ards and interpretations of them authorised for use in the European Union in accordance of the acquired net assets in the subsidiary is recognised in equity. Gains or losses from with the procedure prescribed in EU Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 as well as in the the sale of shares to non-controlling interests are also recognised in equity. When control Finnish Accounting Act and the provisions laid down pursuant to the Act. The notes to or substantial influence is relinquished, the remaining holding, if any, is measured at fair the consolidated financial statements are also in accordance with Finnish accounting value and the change in the carrying amount is recognised through profit or loss. This fair and community legislation supplemental to the IFRS regulations. The consolidated fivalue serves as the original carrying amount when the remaining holding is subsequentnancial statements are available on the Company’s website at www.lemminkainen.com ly treated as an associated company, joint venture or financial assets. In addition, the from week 11/2011 onwards. Printed copies of the consolidated financial statements can amounts concerning the said company that were previously recognised in the statement be ordered from the Company’s Corporate Communications, tel. +358 2071 58067 or of comprehensive income are treated as if the Group had surrendered the related assets email info@lemminkainen.fi, from week 14/2011 onwards. and liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other comprehenThe figures in the financial statements are denominated in EUR 1,000. Transactions sive income items are transferred to profit or loss. are treated on the basis of original acquisition costs with the exception of financial inThe goodwill included in the consolidated financial statements is recognised on the struments. The Board of Directors approved the publication of the consolidated financial balance sheet in the currency of the acquiring company, and the goodwill arising from statements on 9 February 2011. acquisitions is recognised in the functional currency of the foreign unit. Subsidiaries acquired during the accounting period are included in the consolidated financial statements PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION from the time that the Group has a controlling interest, and divested subsidiaries up until Subsidiaries the time that the controlling interest is relinquished. The consolidated financial statements include Lemminkäinen Corporation and those Intra-group transactions, unrealised internal margins as well as internal receivables, subsidiaries in which the parent company directly or indirectly controls over 50 per cent liabilities and dividend payments are eliminated on consolidation. The distribution of of the voting rights conferred by the shares or otherwise has the right to define the comdividend to the shareholders of the parent company and to the non-controlling interest pany’s financial or business principles. Intra-group shareholdings are eliminated using is presented in connection with the consolidated income statement. On the consolidated 96 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Accounting principles of the consolidated financial statements balance sheet the non-controlling interest is included in the total equity of the Group. their minimal magnitude, and are not reported to management. Intra-segment transactions are priced at market prices. The cost plus method, where Associated companies and joint ventures the price of a product or service is determined by adding an appropriate profit mark-up to Investments in associated companies (generally 20–50 per cent of the voting rights or the costs incurred, is mainly used as the transfer pricing method. otherwise considerable influence over the company’s affairs) and joint ventures in which As from the beginning of 2010, Forssan Betoni Oy was transferred from Lemminkäithe Group exercises authority jointly with other parties are included in the consolidatnen’s Infrastructure Construction business segment to Building Products. The comparaed financial statements using the equity method. In such cases, the Group’s share of tive figures have been adjusted in line with the new Group structure. the result of the associated company corresponding to its ownership stake is included in the consolidated income statements. Correspondingly, the Group’s share of the eqPRESENTATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS uity in the associated company, including the goodwill arising from its acquisition, is reThe Group presents two separate income statements: the consolidated income statecorded as the value of its holding in the company on the consolidated balance sheet. If ment and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. The former includes Lemminkäinen’s share of the losses of an associated company exceeds the investment’s the components of profit and loss, and the latter starts with the profit or loss and precarrying amount, the investment is assigned a value of zero on the balance sheet and the sents the equity changes that are unrelated to the shareholders. The consolidated stateexcess is disregarded, unless the Group has obligations concerning an associated comment of changes in equity itemises the transactions with shareholders. pany or joint venture. Unrealised capital gains arising in connection with business and fixed asset transacFOREIGN CURRENCY ITEMS tions between the Group and associated companies or joint ventures are eliminated in The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros, which is also the functionproportion to the ownership share. The amounts are deducted from the Group’s retained al and presentation currency of the Group’s parent company. In the Group companies’ earnings and non-current assets. The eliminated capital gain is recognised through profit own bookkeeping, transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional or loss as it is realised. currency at the exchange rates prevailing on the date of the transaction. Receivables and Shares of the results of associated companies are included in operating profit since liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates prevailthey belong to the operations of reporting business segments. ing on the balance sheet date. Exchange rate differences resulting from transactions related to sales and purchases are recorded as adjustments to the corresponding items OPERATING SEGMENTS above the operating profit. Exchange rate gains and losses related to financing are recIFRS 8 Operating Segment Reporting requires that reported segment information be ognised as financial income and expenses. based on internal segment reporting to management, which in Lemminkäinen Group Income statements are translated into euros using the average exchange rates means the President of Lemminkäinen Corporation, who is the chief operative decisionfor the accounting period. All balance sheet items, with the exception of the profit maker. Internal segment reporting to management covers net sales, depreciation, operor loss for the accounting period, are translated into the Group’s functional currency ating profit, fixed assets, inventories and trade receivables. The figures reported to manusing the exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. The translation difagement are accurate to the nearest EUR 1,000. ferences resulting from the translation of the income statement and balance sheet Reportable segment information is generally prepared according to the same princiat different exchange rates and from the elimination of shareholders’ equity in forples as those applied in the consolidated financial statements. Imputed items are not eign subsidiaries are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive inconsidered in segment reporting. Such items include, among others, depreciation of ascome and presented in equity. sets acquired by finance lease, interest separated from payments, warranty provisions, Goodwill arising from the acquisition of foreign subsidiaries as well as fair-value and unrealised gains or losses on derivatives. In segment reporting to management, fiadjustments to the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities of the foreign subnance lease arrangements are treated as ordinary rental agreements, deviating from the sidiaries in connection with acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of the accounting principles of IFRS financial statements. Associated companies are combined foreign subsidiaries in question and are translated into euros at the exchange rates in segment reporting in proportion to the ownership share using the line-by-line method. prevailing on the balance sheet date. In IFRS financial statements associated companies are combined using the equity methWhen preparing the consolidated financial statements, the translation difference od. In segment reporting, inter-segment sales are not allocated to segments, owing to resulting from exchange rate changes with regard to subsidiaries and associated Accounting principles of the consolidated financial statements – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 97 companies is recognised through the consolidated statement of comprehensive inLOANs AND OTHER RECEIVABLES come in the translation difference of the Group’s equity. When foreign subsidiaries Loans and other receivables are valued after initial recognition at amortised cost measor associated companies are divested, the accrued translation difference is reversed ured by the effective interest rate method. Loans and other receivables are items with through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and recognised as an fixed and determinable payments. They are included in current and non-current assets adjustment to capital gains or losses on the consolidated income statement. on the balance sheet. Loans and other receivables are impaired if the value recognised in the accounts is higher than the estimated amount recoverable in the future. FINANCIAL ASSETS Financial assets are originally booked at fair value. Transaction costs are included in the CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS original fair value in the case of items that are not measured at fair value through profit Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank account balances and liquid investments with or loss. The Group recognises financial assets on the settlement date with the excepmaturities of less than three months. Cash and cash equivalents are recognised at cost. tion of derivatives, which are recognised on the transaction date. Financial assets are Because the maturities of investments included in cash and cash equivalents are short, derecognised from the balance sheet when the Group has lost the contractual right to their acquisition cost is considered the same as their fair value. their cash flows or when it has substantially transferred their risks and returns to a party outside the Group. In connection with initial recognition, the Group classifies financial FINANCIAL LIABILITIES assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, Financial liabilities are initially recognised on the basis of the consideration received. available-for-sale investments, and other loans and receivables. When a loan is drawn down, the credit fee for the loan commitments is entered in transaction expenses. To the extent that it is probable that the loan commitment will not be FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS drawn, the credit fee is entered as an advance payment for liquidity-related services and This class includes derivative contracts that do not meet the conditions set for hedge amortised as an expense over the term of the loan commitment. Transaction costs are accounting. Changes in the fair values of derivatives are recognised through profit or included in the original carrying amount of financial liabilities. Subsequently, all financial loss. Receivable and payable items are included in current assets and liabilities on the assets are valued at amortised cost measured by the effective interest rate method. Fibalance sheet. nancial liabilities are included in non-current and current liabilities and they may be inThe fair values of derivatives are based on market prices. The fair values of interest terest-bearing or non-interest-bearing. rate swap agreements are based on discounted cash flows, and the fair values of currency and interest rate options are based on generally accepted valuation models. The fair CAPITALISATION OF BORROWING COSTS values of forward foreign exchange contracts are based on forward rates at the balance With effect from 1 January 2010, the Group capitalises the borrowing costs of obtaining sheet date. an asset as part of its acquisition cost in qualifying projects and percentage-of-completion construction projects. AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE INVESTMENTS Available-for-sale investments are financial assets, other than derivative contracts, that do Qualifying assets not belong to the other classes of financial assets and can be sold as required. AvailableA qualifying asset is one that takes longer than one year to get ready for its intended purpose. for-sale investments are fair-valued. If a fair value cannot be reliably measured, the investA qualifying asset may be a fixed or movable asset, inventory item or an intangible asset. ment is recognised at cost less impairment, if any. Available-for-sale investments include property, housing company and other shares. The fair value of unlisted shares cannot be reCosts of borrowing for the purpose of acquiring an asset liably measured because they do not have a quoted price in an active market. Changes in When borrowings are made expressly for the purpose of financing a qualifying asset, the the fair value of available-for-sale investments are recognised in other comprehensive incapitalised borrowing costs are the allocated financing expenses arising from the actucome until such time as the investment is sold or impairment is recognised, whereupon the al borrowings less the financial income received from the temporary investment of such cumulative change in fair value recognised in equity is derecognised through profit or loss. borrowings. After an asset has been made ready, the unpaid part of the borrowings for The cumulative change in fair value recorded in equity is also recognised through profit or the project is transferred to general borrowings. loss when the value of an available-for-sale investment has declined. 98 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Accounting principles of the consolidated financial statements General borrowings the management of financial risks in the notes to the financial statements. The Group’s borrowings are always considered to be the primary form of financing even In 2010 the Group applied hedge accounting to interest rate swap agreements used if the cash flow would be sufficient to cover the cost of a qualifying asset. When general to hedge two variable-rate loans. The agreements are defined as cash flow hedges, and borrowings are used to finance a qualifying asset, the amount of the capitalised costs is they provide protection against fluctuations in loan interest payments caused by changdetermined by applying a capitalisation rate to the expenditures on that asset. The capies in market interest rates. The change in the fair value of interest rate swap agreements talisation rate is the weighted average of those borrowing costs applicable to the Comused as hedges is recognised directly in other comprehensive income items to the extent pany’s borrowings outstanding during the period, other than borrowings made specifithat the hedging relationship is effective. The ineffective part of the change is recogcally for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset. nised in interest expenses on the income statement. Changes in fair value accumulated in equity are recognised in interest expenses on the income statement in the accounting Prepayments period during which the hedged instrument produces a profit or loss. When calculating the amount of a project’s borrowing costs, project-related prepayIf the criteria set for hedge accounting in the International Accounting Standards are ments received from the customer are included in the net position arising from the connot met, or the hedging instrument either matures or is sold, the hedging relationship is tract. If inclusion of the borrowing costs leads to a situation in which the net position terminated. In that case the accrued profit or loss on the hedging instrument remains of the project is positive for the entire construction period, the borrowing costs are not in equity until such time as the anticipated transaction occurs and is recognised on the capitalised at all. If the net financing position of the project changes from positive to income statement. If the anticipated transaction is no longer expected to take place, the negative during the construction period, the borrowing costs are capitalised in respect profit or loss recognised in equity is immediately transferred to financial items on the of the periods during which the net position was negative. income statement. Commencement and cessation of capitalisation INCOME RECOGNITION PRINCIPLES Capitalisation commences when the Company first incurs expenditures for a qualifying Recognition of income from the sale of manufactured goods asset giving rise to borrowing costs, and when it undertakes activities that are necessary The Group recognises income from the sale of its manufactured products at the time to prepare the asset for its intended use or for sale. Capitalisation is suspended when efwhen the essential risks and benefits associated with product ownership are transferred fective production is halted. Capitalisation ceases when all activities necessary to make to the buyer and the Group no longer has any authority or control over the product. As the asset ready for its intended use or sale have been carried out. a rule this means the point in time when the product is handed over to the customer in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions of delivery. The fair-value income reDERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING ceived, adjusted for direct taxes, discounts given and exchange rate differences on forThe Group applies hedge accounting for certain interest rate derivatives that meet the eign currency sales, is presented on the income statement as net sales. conditions set for hedge accounting in the International Accounting Standards. When initiating hedge accounting the Group documents the relationship between the hedged Recognition of income from services asset and the hedging instruments as well as the aims of the Group’s risk management Income from services is recognised when the outcome of the business transaction can and the hedge accounting strategy. The effectiveness of hedging relationships is testbe reliably estimated. Recognition is based on the degree of completion on the closed by examining the ability of the hedging instrument to nullify any changes in the cash ing date. The same rules are applied as for the recognition of construction projects usflow of the hedged asset. ing the percentage-of-completion method. The outcome of a business transaction can Currency and interest rate derivatives that do not meet the criteria set for hedge acbe reliably estimated when the income can be reliably measured, it is probable that the counting in International Accounting Standards are classified as financial assets recogcompany can expect economic benefits from the transaction, the degree of completion nised at fair value through profit or loss. Changes in the fair value of derivatives hedging can be reliably measured, and the realised expenditure and the costs of completion can operating activities are recognised in other operating income and expenses, and changes be reliably determined. in the fair value of derivatives hedging financial transactions are recognised in financial income and expenses. These derivatives are used to implement the currency and interRecognition of income from construction projects est rate risk management principles approved by the Board of Directors. Derivatives not Percentage of completion included in hedge accounting are described in greater detail in the section dealing with When recognising income from long-term construction projects, the Group observes the Accounting principles of the consolidated financial statements – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 99 percentage-of-completion method on the basis of the degree of completion if the propreciation is charged over the period of time from the asset’s introduction into use until ject in question fulfils the characteristics of a negotiated contract. In such contracts, the the end of its useful economic life. The residual values and economic lifetimes of assets buyer can decide on the primary structural or functional characteristics of the project are reviewed in connection with the preparation of each set of annual financial statebefore or during construction. ments, and if necessary they are adjusted to reflect any changes that may have occurred The degree of project completion is calculated as the ratio of actually incurred costs to in the economic benefit expected of them. When depreciation charges are made accordestimated total costs. If it is likely that the total costs needed to complete a project on the ing to plan, the residual value of the asset is zero. order book will exceed the total income receivable from the project, the anticipated loss is The depreciation of property, plant and equipment is discontinued when the asset in immediately recognised in total as an expense. question is classified as available-for sale as defined in IFRS 5 “Non-current Assets Held When the incurred costs and recognised profits are greater than billing based on the for Sale and Discontinued Operations”. project’s progress, the difference is presented in the balance sheet item Trade and other Normal maintenance and repair costs are expensed as incurred. Significant improvereceivables. If the incurred costs and recognised profits are less than the billing based on ments or additional investments are capitalised and depreciated over the remaining usethe project’s progress, the difference is presented in the balance sheet item Accounts ful economic lifetime of the asset to which they pertain, provided that it is likely that the payable and other current liabilities. Company will derive future economic benefit from the asset. Capital gains on the sale of In the recognition of income from projects with lease liability commitments, the ima tangible asset are presented in Other operating income, and losses in Other operating pact of the estimated realisation of these lease liabilities is taken into consideration. expenses. The Group expenses the interest costs of tangible asset acquisitions, unless the project meets the requirements for capitalisation of borrowing costs, in which case Recognition on completion they are capitalised as part of the acquisition cost. Income from sold own building developments is recognised on completion in accordance with delivery, because such projects do not fulfil the criteria set for long-term Intangible assets construction projects; these criteria include the risks and rewards of ownership as well Goodwill as control by the owner, which are not transferred to the buyer while construction is Goodwill is the amount by which the cost of acquiring a company after 1 January 2004 still in progress. exceeds the Group’s interest in the net fair value of its identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the time of acquisition. Goodwill on consolidation of business Recognition of life-cycle projects operations prior to 2004 is the carrying amount determined in accordance with earlier In life-cycle projects, the operator – that is, the service provider – builds the infrastrucaccounting standards, which is used as the IFRS deemed cost of acquisition. Goodwill ture used for service provision or improves and maintains said infrastructure. The Group is not amortised. Goodwill is regularly tested for impairment. In impairment tests, goodrecognises income from construction and improvement services on the basis of the perwill is allocated to cash-generating units. Goodwill is recognised on the balance sheet at centage of completion. cost less impairment, which is expensed on the income statement. The holding of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree is measured either at fair value or the amount VALUATION AND DEPRECIATION OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS corresponding to the relative share of the identifiable net assets of the acquiree attributTangible assets able to the non-controlling interests. The measurement principle is specified separately The Group companies’ tangible assets are shown on the balance sheet at cost less deprefor each acquisition. ciation and impairment. Land is not subject to depreciation. Tangible assets are depreciated over their estimated economic lifetimes, which are as follows: Research and development expenditure Research and development expenditure is expensed as incurred, with the exception of de–– Buildings and structures 10–40 years velopment expenditure satisfying the capitalisation criteria of IAS 38, which is recognised –– Machinery and equipment 4–10 years on the balance sheet and amortised through profit or loss over its useful economic lifetime. –– Mineral aggregate deposits depreciation based on material depletion –– Other tangible assets 10 years Other amortised costs Intangible assets include amortised costs that do not relate to tangible assets and have A tangible asset is subject to depreciation from the time that it is ready for service. Deeconomic effects lasting longer than one year. Such amortised costs include, for exam100 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Accounting principles of the consolidated financial statements ple, the costs of making basic repairs to leased premises. These costs would be amorImpairment losses relating to tangible assets and intangible assets other than goodtised over the term of the lease. will are reversed if the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount of the asset have changed. The biggest reversal allowed equals the carrying amount of the asset less Other intangible rights depreciation if impairment has not been recognised in earlier years. Assets such as patents and software licence payments, as well as prepayments relating to them, are also classified as intangible assets. Other intangible assets are recognised Investment properties at cost on the balance sheet and amortised over their useful economic lifetimes. The The Group has no assets classified as investment property. amortisation times of intangible assets are as follows: LEASING AGREEMENTS WHERE THE GROUP IS THE LESSEE –– Software licence payments 5 years Leasing agreements that concern tangible assets where substantially all the risks and –– Other intangible rights 5–10 years rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group are classified as finance lease agreements. Finance leasing agreements are recognised as assets on the balance sheet at a The asset is subject to depreciation from the time that it is ready for service. Depreciavalue equal to the fair value of the leased item on the date that the lease commences or, tion is charged over the period of time from the asset’s introduction into use until the end if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments. A corresponding liability is of its useful economic life. When depreciation charges have been made according to plan, recognised in current and non-current loans. the residual value of the asset is zero. Assets leased under finance lease agreements are depreciated over the useful economic lifetime of the asset class or a shorter period as the lifetime of the lease elapses, Financial assistance received and impairment losses are recognised as required. Annual leasing payments are divided Financial assistance received from the Finnish State or some other public-sector source is into financial expenses and debt amortisation instalments over the lifetime of the lease recognised as income on the income statement at the same time as corresponding costs so that the same interest rate is applied to the outstanding debt in every accounting are expensed. Investment grants are deducted from the value of the asset in question. period. Leasing agreements in which the rights and risks of ownership are retained by the Impairment lessor are treated as other leasing agreements. The payments of other leasing agreeThe carrying amount of an asset is assessed on each reporting date to determine whethments are treated as leasing expenses and they are recognised on the income statement er there are indications of impairment. If indications of impairment are found, the “recovin equal instalments over the lifetime of the lease. erable amount” for the asset in question is assessed. Annual impairment tests are always made for goodwill. The recoverable amount for an asset is either its fair value less VALUATION OF INVENTORIES costs to sell or, if higher, its value in use. In measuring value in use, expected future cash Properties and apartments included in inventories are recognised on the balance sheet flows are discounted to their present value using discount rates that reflect the country’s at cost or, if lower, their net realisable value. The net realisable value is the estimated average capital costs before taxes. Market risk and non-liquidity premiums are taken into selling price that may be obtained in an active market in the normal course of business, consideration when setting the discount rates. If it is not possible to calculate the recovless the costs of selling and the costs necessary to complete the product in question. erable cash flows for an individual asset, then the recoverable amount for the cash-genMaterials and supplies are valued according to the FIFO (first-in, first-out) principle. The erating unit to which the asset belongs is determined. An impairment loss is recognised value of inventories includes all the variable costs arising from their acquisition and proon the income statement if the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. duction as well as the proportion of fixed and general costs of manufacture that is atThe carrying amount of an asset is adjusted on the basis of impairment tests made tributable to them in conditions of normal production. The costs of selling are not inannually and whenever it may be concluded that there is need to do so. Goodwill is alcluded in the valuation of inventories at cost. Neither are financing costs included in the located to cash-generating units in a rational and consistent manner. In the impairment valuation of inventories at cost, except in the case of a project that meets the requiretests the recoverable amount from the business of a cash-generating unit is derived from ments set for capitalisation of borrowing costs. value-in-use calculations using forecast cash flows based on comprehensive profitability plans confirmed by management for a specific period as well as other justifiable estiTRADE RECEIVABLES AND OTHER RECEIVABLES mates of the future outlook for the cash-generating unit and its business sector. Trade and other receivables are recognised at cost. They are subject to impairment testAccounting principles of the consolidated financial statements – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 101 ing in connection with the preparation of the annual financial statements. Recognised Any performance-related bonuses and share rewards are paid out the following year once doubtful receivables are assessed on a case-by-case basis. If there is objective evidence the results have been confirmed. that the value of trade or other receivables is impaired, the amount impaired is expensed The expenses of other management remuneration programmes are recognised as peras a bad debt on the income statement. When a debtor is in significant financial difficulsonnel expenses on the income statement as they arise. ties, then probable bankruptcy, delinquent payments or payments that are more than 90 days overdue constitute evidence of the impairment of the trade receivables. PROVISIONS A provision is made when the Group has a legal or de facto obligation based on some TREATMENT OF OWN BUILDING DEVELOPMENTS past event and it is likely that freedom from liability will either require a financial payExpenditure committed to own building developments is capitalised on the balance ment or will result in financial loss, and that the amount of liability can be reliably meassheet in current assets and receivables. Liabilities and prepayments related to compaured. Provisions relate to warranties, onerous work or contracts, landscaping and other nies under construction are included in current liabilities. environmental liabilities. They are generally realised in the beginning or following acThe share of loans raised corresponding to the unsold portion of apartments that are counting period and their discounting to present value has no essential bearing on the still under construction as well as the portion of loans for completed but unsold apartcorrectness of the financial statements. ments are included in current interest-bearing liabilities. Provisions for construction warranties are calculated on the basis of the level of warranty expenses actually incurred in earlier accounting periods, and are recognised when EMPLOYEE BENEFITS income from a completed project is recognised on the income statement. If the Group Pension obligations will receive reimbursement from a subcontractor or material supplier on the basis of an The pension schemes of Group companies operating in different countries are generalagreement in respect of anticipated expenses, the future compensation is recognised ly defined contribution plans. Payments in respect of defined contribution plans are exwhen its receipt is in practice beyond doubt. pensed on the income statement for the accounting period to which they apply. In the Provision is made for onerous work or contracts when the expenditure required by the case of a defined benefit plan, a pension liability is recognised to the extent that the plan agreement to fulfil the obligations exceed the benefits that may be derived from it. gives rise to a pension obligation. If a defined benefit plan gives rise to a pension surplus, A landscaping provision is made in respect of those sites where landscaping is a conit is recognised in prepayments and accrued income on the balance sheet. tractual obligation. The amount of the provision is based on the use of ground materials. The pension costs of a defined benefit plan are measured using the Projected Unit Ten-year liabilities relating to own building developments are included as a provision in Credit Method. The amount of pension liability is calculated by deducting the fair value of the financial statements to the extent that their realisation is considered likely. the assets belonging to the pension scheme on the balance sheet date from the present In the recognition of income from projects with lease liability commitments, the imvalue of the future pension obligations on the balance sheet date. The pension obligapact of the estimated realisation of these lease liabilities is taken into consideration. tions are expensed on the basis of actuarial calculations for the duration of employee service. The actuarial gains and losses arising from these pension obligations are recogINCOME TAXES nised on the income statement over the expected average remaining length of service of Taxes calculated on the basis of the taxable profit or loss of Group companies for the acthe participating employees to the extent that they exceed 10% of the defined benefit counting period, adjustments to the taxes of earlier accounting periods, and the change obligation or, if greater, the fair value of the plan’s assets. The discount rate applied is the in the deferred tax liability and asset are recognised as taxes on the consolidated income interest rate payable on low-risk financial securities with maturities corresponding to the statement. The tax effect associated with items recognised directly in equity is correduration of the pension liability. spondingly recognised in equity. The change in deferred tax is calculated from the temporary differences between taxManagement remuneration programmes ation and accounting using either the tax rate in force on the balance sheet date or the The management remuneration programme has three elements: salary and fringe benefits, tax rate that will come into force at a later date but is already known. However, a deferred short-term remuneration and long-term remuneration. Short-term remuneration compristax liability is not recognised in respect of a temporary difference that arises from the es annual performance-related bonuses earned for exceeding predefined performance tarinitial recognition of an asset or liability (other than from a business combination) and afgets. Long-term remuneration consists of not only pension remuneration, but also share fects neither accounting income nor taxable profit. A deferred tax asset is recognised only rewards. The performance targets for share rewards are always set one year in advance. to the extent that it is likely that there will be future taxable profit against which the tem102 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Accounting principles of the consolidated financial statements porary difference may be utilised. The most significant temporary differences arise from statements where management judgement and estimates have been necessary is preappropriations, the income recognition practice for construction projects, internal capital sented in the following. gains from sales, finance lease arrangements, provisions, unused tax losses, measureThe Company’s management has had to make judgements when determining the ments of fair value made in connection with acquisitions, and pension obligations. economic lifetimes of tangible and intangible assets, and when classifying leases as fiConfirmed tax-deductible losses are treated as a tax asset to the extent that it is likely nance lease agreements and other leasing agreements. Estimates and forward-looking that the Company will be able to utilise them in the near future. Deferred tax is not recassumptions made on the balance sheet date mainly concern income recognition acognised in respect of non-tax-deductible goodwill when it is probable that the temporary cording to the percentage of contract completion, the recognition of provisions, the valudifference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. A deferred tax liability is recognised in ation of assets belonging to acquired companies and their realisability, the formulae used respect of the undistributed profits of subsidiaries only if payment of the tax is expected to calculate employee benefits, the forecasts and assumptions used in impairment tests, to be realised in the foreseeable future. and the utilisation of deferred tax assets against future taxable profit. DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION Economic lifetimes of tangible and intangible assets The dividend payment proposed by the Board of Directors to a general meeting of shareManagement uses estimates and judgements when considering the economic lifetimes holders is not recognised as a deduction from distributable equity until after it has been and depreciation methods for productive goods. The factors considered when estimatapproved by the general meeting. ing economic lifetimes include the purpose of a productive asset, the effects of wear, maintenance and repair stemming from use of the asset, the duration of the asset’s EARNINGS PER SHARE technical usability, limitations or obligations arising from leasing or other agreements, The undiluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit for the accounting and the magnitude of any residual value. period attributable to the shareholders of the parent company by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during that period. When calculating the diluted earnings Leasing agreements where the Group is the lessee per share, the diluting effect stemming from the conversion of all dilutive potential ordiManagement has had to make judgements when classifying leasing agreements as nary shares into shares must be taken into account in the weighted average number of either finance lease agreements or other leasing agreements. The classification of shares outstanding. leasing agreements is made in accordance with generally accepted standards for defining finance lease agreements, and it is based on the actual content of the agreeTREASURY SHARES ment. According to the definition of a finance lease agreement, substantially all the If the Company or its subsidiaries acquire the Company’s own treasury shares, the economic risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the lessee. The classificaCompany’s equity is reduced by the amount of consideration paid for the shares plus tion is always made at the inception of the lease. The provisions of a leasing contract transaction costs after taxes until such time as the treasury shares are cancelled. If can be amended by agreement with the lessor, in which case the classification may treasury shares are sold or re-issued, the consideration is recognised in equity. No gains have to be revised. A change taking place in an estimation criterion, e.g. a change in or losses are recognised in respect of purchases, sales, issuance or cancellation of the the present value of minimum lease payments relative to the fair value of the leased Company’s own equity instruments. asset, does not provide grounds for reclassification. MANAGEMENT JUDGEMENT AND ESTIMATES Recognition of income from construction projects The use of judgement and estimates When recognising income from long-term construction projects, the Group observes the In preparing the financial statements the Company’s management has had to make acpercentage-of-completion method on the basis of the degree of completion if the procounting estimates and assumptions about the future, as well as judgement-based deject in question fulfils the characteristics of a negotiated contract. In such contracts, the cisions on the application of the accounting principles. These estimates and decisions buyer can decide on the primary structural or functional characteristics of the project affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the accountbefore or during construction. Actually incurred costs include only those costs that coring period as well as the recognition of contingent items. The estimates and judgements respond to work already carried out. Management estimates are necessary when making are based on past experience and other justifiable assumptions that are believed to be a reliable determination of the total costs that will be incurred in order to complete a proreasonable under the prevailing circumstances. Information on key areas of the financial ject. All project costs are itemised and measured as accurately as possible to facilitate Accounting principles of the consolidated financial statements – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 103 their comparison with earlier values. If management is unable to make a reliable deterthe carrying amount of a company’s net assets is lower than its fair value. On the basis mination of the total income from a construction project, the income for the accounting of these and other possible indicators both inside and outside the Company, manageperiod is recognised without any margin. In that case, income is recognised only to the ment must continuously assess whether there is any need to perform additional impairextent that the corresponding amount of actually incurred expenses is considered recovment tests on asset items in between the annual tests. A more detailed description of erable. If management estimates that a project is onerous, i.e. total costs exceed total the estimates and assumptions concerning goodwill impairment testing is given in the income, the loss is immediately expensed. Notes to the Financial Statements. Recognition of provisions Taxes Management estimates on the basis of available historical evidence whether it is likely The most essential estimate made by management concerns the recognition principles that the settlement of a present obligation will result in an outflow of resources embodfor deferred tax assets. The reversal of a tax-deductible temporary difference reduces ying economic benefits from the Group. If such a condition exists and a reliable estimate the taxable profit in future accounting periods. The most common tax-deductible temas to the amount and timing of the obligation can be made, then it is recognised as a porary difference between accounting and taxation is a confirmed tax loss. Management provision in the financial statements. has to estimate whether there will be sufficient taxable profit in the future for the purpose of utilising unused tax losses. A deferred tax asset arising from unused tax lossValuation at cost es is recognised only to the extent that it is likely that there will be future taxable profit The valuation of an acquired subsidiary’s shares at cost is based on the fair value of its against which the unused tax losses may be utilised. identifiable assets and liabilities. When measuring fair value, management uses estiEstimates are based on management’s best judgement, but actual outcomes may mates based on its own experience and, if necessary, the assistance of experts specialdiffer from the estimates used in the financial statements. ised in the balance sheet items in question. The estimates and assumptions made in accordance with management’s view are sufficiently accurate to ensure the correctness of NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS cash flows associated with balance sheet items. Standards and interpretations that came into effect in 2010 –– IFRIC 15, Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate. The interpretation clariEmployee benefits fies whether real-estate construction contracts should be treated in accordance When calculating obligations related to employee benefits, the factors requiring manwith IAS 11 Construction Contracts or IAS 18 Revenue and when the percentage-ofagement estimates include the expected returns on the assets of defined benefit pencompletion method can be applied to such construction projects. In Lemminkäinen sion plans, the discount rate used to calculate pension liabilities and pension expenses Group, the new interpretation applies especially to the recognition of income from for the accounting period, the future development of pay levels, the rising level of penown housing developments, where the Group changed over from percentage of sions, the durations of employee service, and the trend in inflation. completion to recognition on delivery as from 1 January 2010. Due to the adoption of the interpretation, the comparative figures from 1 January 2009 onwards were Impairment testing also recalculated in line with the new interpretation. The adoption of the interpretaThe carrying amounts of assets are examined by means of impairment tests, which are tion decreased shareholders’ equity in the opening balance sheet for 2009 by EUR performed at least once a year and whenever they may be deemed necessary. Goodwill 4.2 million. In addition to Lemminkäinen’s consolidated figures, IFRIC 15 also had is allocated to cash-generating units in a rational and consistent manner. In impairment an effect on the figures of Building Construction. In addition, the 2009 comparative tests the recoverable amount from a cash-generating unit’s business is based on valfigures for the Group and business sectors have been recalculated. ue-in-use calculations. The forecast cash flows used in these calculations are based on –– IFRS 3 (revised), Business Combinations. The revised standard still requires the profitability plans approved by business management for a certain period of time, and on use of the acquisition method in the treatment of business combinations, but with other justifiable estimates of the future outlook for the business sector and the cashcertain significant changes. For example, all the direct costs associated with the generating unit. In connection with impairment tests, management has to estimate acquisition of companies are to be expensed when incurred. Contingent additional whether the fair value of an asset has decreased during the accounting period, whether acquisition prices are to be measured at fair value, even if is assumed that they are significant adverse changes have occurred in the operating environment, whether it is not likely to materialise. Post-acquisition changes in the contingent acquisition price necessary to change the discount rate applied in value-in-use calculations, and whether liability are recognised through profit and loss, and not in goodwill, as was the case 104 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Accounting principles of the consolidated financial statements before the revision came into force. In phase-by-phase acquisitions, holdings action rights denominated in foreign currency. In the future such issues may, in certain quired at an earlier date are measured at fair value at their time of acquisition. Goodcircumstances, be classified as equity and not derivative instruments, unlike before. will can be measured on the basis of the parent company’s share of the net assets or The amendment came into effect for accounting periods beginning on 1 February it may include the goodwill allocated to the non-controlling interest. 2010 or later. This interpretation will not have an impact on the consolidated finan–– IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements. The interpretation applies to contraccial statements. tual arrangements in which a private-sector entity participates in the development, –– The following amended interpretations and standards will have no essential bearfinancing and provision of public services or the maintenance of infrastructure. ing on the consolidated financial statements: IFRS 3 (amended), IAS 1 (amended), –– IAS 27 (revised), Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements. According to the IAS 24 (revised), IAS 27 (amended), IAS 34 (amended), IFRIC 13 (amended) and revised standard, all transactions with non-controlling interests must be recognised IFRIC 14. in equity if there is no change in control. These transactions with non-controlling interests therefore no longer give rise to goodwill or gains or losses on the income statement. The standard also provides guidance on the accounting treatment in circumstances where control is lost. Any residual ownership share is fair valued, and gains or losses are recognised on the income statement. –– IAS 17 (amended), Leasing Agreements. The revised standard requires the classification of land areas as financial leasing or other leasing agreements in line with the general classification criterion of IAS 17. The revision does not have a material impact on the information for the review period. Reviews indicate that the interpretations and standards listed below will not have any essential bearing on Lemminkäinen’s interim reports: IAS 1 (amended), IAS 7 (amended, IAS 18 (amended), IAS 36 (amended), IAS 38 (amended), IAS 39 (amended), IFRS 2 (amended), IFRS 5 (amended), IFRS 8 (amended), IFRIC 9 (amended), IFRIC 16 (amended), IFRIC 17 and IFRIC 18. New standards and interpretations that are not in force in the financial year beginning 1 January 2010 and which have not been adopted early The IASB has published the following standards and interpretations that the Group will adopt in 2011. –– IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments. The interpretation clarifies the accounting when an entity renegotiates the terms of its debt with the result that the debtor issues its own equity instruments to the creditor to extinguish the financial liability in full or in part (conversion of debt to equity). The interpretation requires a gain or loss to be recognised in profit or loss. The amount of this gain or loss will be the difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability and the fair value of the equity instruments issued. If the fair value of the issued equity instruments cannot be determined reliably, they are measured at the fair value of the extinguished financial liability. This interpretation will not have an impact on the consolidated financial statements. –– IAS 32 (amended) Financial Instruments: Presentation Classification of Rights Issues. The amendment applies to the issuance of shares, options and subscripAccounting principles of the consolidated financial statements – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 105 Notes to the consolidated financial Changes to the consolidated income statement statements (IFRS) 1.1.–31.12.2009 Income statement before Amendments to accounting Adjusted income EUR million adjustment principles Other changes statement Net sales 1,964.4 1.1 1,965.5 1 AMENDMENTS CONCERNING EARLIER FINANCIAL YEARS Increase or decrease in stocks of finished goods and work in progress –49.6 –1.2 –50.8 Amendments to the accounting principles Operating profit 23.3 –0.2 23.2 With effect from 1 January 2010, Lemminkäinen adopted IFRIC 15, Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate, which was endorsed by the European Commission in July Result before taxes –10.0 –0.2 –10.2 2009. The interpretation clarifies whether property construction contracts are to be Income taxes –13.7 0.0 –13.6 treated in accordance with IAS 11 Construction Contracts or IAS 18 Revenue. The interResult for the financial year –23.7 –0.1 –23.8 pretation provides guidance on when income arising from the construction of real estate is to be recognised on completion and when the percentage-of-completion method can Result for the financial year be used as the income recognition principle. attributable to The interpretation affects especially the recognition of income from own building deEquity holders of the parent company –26.1 –0.1 –26.2 velopment in which the Group changed over from the percentage-of-completion method Non-controlling interest 2.4 0.0 2.4 to recognition on delivery as from the beginning of 2010. The adoption of this interpretation affects certain items in the consolidated income statement, balance sheet and cash flow statement, and the key figures calculated from them. It also changes the order book information reported by the Company. Lemminkäinen also applies the interpretation to Changes to the consolidated statement of comprehensive internal segment reporting for management, and thus the change in the reporting pracincome tices does not impact on the reconciling items for segment information. Statement of Adjusted The opening balance sheet dated 1 January 2009 has been adjusted for comparabilcomprehensive Amendments statement of ity. The adoption of the interpretation reduces shareholders' equity in the opening bal1.1.–31.12.2009 income before to accounting comprehensive EUR million adjustment principles Other changes income ance sheet for 2009 by EUR 4.2 million. Result for the financial year –23.7 –0.1 –23.8 Other adjustments Translation difference 3.3 0.0 3.4 In the balance sheet figures for the comparison year, Lemminkäinen recognises a liability Comprehensive income for the financial year –21.0 0.0 –21.0 that was left out of the final report on a consortium that was drafted on 19 May 2008. An additional report in December 2010 noted that Lemminkäinen is obligated to pay Comprehensive income for EUR 1.5 million to a contractual party in the consortium due to a contractual interpretathe financial year tion. The recognition of this liability has an effect on deferred tax assets, short-term liattributable to abilities, retained earnings and key figures for the comparison period. These adjustments Equity holders of the have also been made to the opening balance sheet dated 1 January 2009. parent company –23.3 –0.1 –23.4 Non-controlling interest 2.4 0.0 2.4 106 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) Changes to the consolidated balance sheet 2 INFORMATION BY BUSINESS SECTOR 1 Balance sheet Amendments to Lemminkäinen Group’s main business sectors are building construction, infrastructure 2 31.12.2009 before accounting Adjusted construction, technical building services and building products. Functions outside the 3 EUR million adjustment principles Other changes balance sheet business sectors are reported under unallocated items. 4 Deferred tax asset 12.8 1.4 0.3 14.6 5 Inventories 355.4 19.3 374.7 Building Construction (Lemminkäinen Talo Oy) Assets, total 1,033.7 20.7 0.3 1,054.7 The business sector engages in residential construction, commercial and office construction, 6 industrial and logistics construction, telecommunications network construction, and sports 7 Translation difference –1.7 0,0 –1.7 and recreational construction. 8 Retained earnings 265.4 –3.8 –0.9 260.7 9 Result for the financial year –26.1 –0.1 –26.2 Infrastructure Construction (Lemminkäinen Infra Oy) 10 Non-controlling interest 23.7 –0.5 23.2 The business sector engages in the construction and maintenance of road, street and rail11 way networks as well as rock, concrete and geotechnical engineering. The company has its Shareholders' equity, total 299.0 –4.3 –0.9 293.8 12 own asphalt, concrete and mineral aggregate production. 13 Accounts payable and other liabilities 303.4 25.0 1.2 329.6 Technical Building Services (Lemminkäinen Talotekniikka Oy) 14 Liabilities, total 734.7 25.0 1.2 760.9 The company’s business areas are technical building services, technical facility servic15 es and industrial services. The company provides installation, contracting, servicing and 16 maintenance services. Shareholders' equity and 17 liabilities, total 1,033.7 20.7 0.3 1,054.7 Building Products (Lemminkäinen Rakennustuotteet Oy) 18 Lemminkäinen Building Products sells and provides contracting services related to roof19 The notes for 2009 have also been adjusted for comparability. ing and waterproofing products, concrete and natural stone products, and sports and 20 urban environment products. 21 22 Unallocated items 23 Unallocated items on the consolidated income statement include expenses that are not allocated to the operating segments. Unallocated assets include mainly financial 24 receivables. 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 107 Operating segments Technical 1.1.–31.12.2010 Building Infrastructure Building Building Other Segments Reconciling Group EUR 1,000 Construction Construction Services Products operations Eliminations total items total, IFRS Net sales 810,416 776,124 228,888 156,781 11,383 –72,576 1,911,016 –18,518 1,892,498 Depreciation 2,116 31,425 893 3,376 958 38,768 –3,188 35,580 Operating profit 27,926 11,588 2,151 3,689 –15,634 29,720 –730 28,990 The reconciling items for net sales comprise EUR –18.5 million from the equity share treatment of associates. The reconciling items for operating profit comprise EUR –1.1 million in personnel expenses, EUR 2.5 million from the IFRS treatment of finance lease, EUR –0.7 million from the equity share treatment of associated companies and EUR –1.4 million in other closing entries. Technical 1.1.–31.12.2009 Building Infrastructure Building Building Other Segments Reconciling Group EUR 1,000 construction Construction ¹) Services Products ¹) operations Eliminations total items total, IFRS Net sales 868,719 768,013 233,805 154,188 10,341 –52,500 1,982,566 –17,066 1,965,500 Depreciation 2,552 30,502 773 3,469 818 38,114 –3,856 34,258 Operating profit 36,409 21,968 12,226 10,438 –61,662 19,379 3,778 23,157 ¹) Forssan Betoni Oy, which formerly belonged to Lemminkäinen Infrastructure Construction, became part of the Building Products business sector as from the beginning of 2010. The comparative figures for 2009 are also in line with the new organisation. The reconciling items for net sales comprise EUR –18.0 million from the equity share treatment of associates and the treatment difference between entries made to net sales and other income. The reconciling items for operating profit comprise EUR 1.3 million in personnel expenses, EUR 3.4 million from the IFRS treatment of finance lease, EUR –0.2 million from the equity share treatment of associated companies and EUR –0.7 million in other closing entries. EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Assets by operating segment Building Construction 449,839 357,912 Infrastructure Construction ¹) 259,910 253,889 Technical Building Services 34,699 30,495 Building Products ¹) 57,935 55,254 Other operations 46,176 43,570 Segments, total 848,559 741,120 Assets not allocated to segments and group eliminations, total 216,693 313,598 Group total, IFRS 1,065,252 1,054,718 ¹) Forssan Betoni Oy, which formerly belonged to Lemminkäinen Infrastructure Construction, became part of the Building Products business sector as from the beginning of 2010. The comparative figures for 2009 are also in line with the new organisation. 108 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) 3 INFORMATION BY MARKET AREa 1 2 Geographical segments 3 1.1.–31.12.2010 Eastern Europe and the 4 EUR 1,000 Finland Other Nordic countries Baltic states Western Europe Other countries Total 5 Net sales 1,349,033 327,285 178,351 361 37,467 1,892,498 6 Assets 738,781 153,217 142,509 2,109 28,635 1,065,252 7 Investments 32,914 19,420 7,111 134 59,579 8 9 10 1.1.–31.12.2009 Eastern Europe and the EUR 1,000 Finland Other Nordic countries Baltic states Western Europe Other countries Total 11 Net sales 1,437,993 330,767 160,417 239 36,084 1,965,500 12 Assets 771,812 142,581 108,859 1,341 30,124 1,054,718 13 Investments 25,917 11,275 4,285 41,477 14 15 Revenues are allocated to segments according to the location of customers and assets according to their geographic location. 16 17 18 4 ACQUIRED AND DIVESTED BUSINESSES 19 20 Acquired businesses 21 2010 22 On 21 April 2010, the Company acquired 75.0% of the shares outstanding in Asfalt Reshareholders at a value based on average EBITDA over a period of four years, adjusted 23 mix AS, a company specialising in the cold milling of asphalt. with working capital. The redemption price is determined on the basis of this component The goodwill recognised on this acquisition comprises an increase in market share as and it is discounted to its present value on the closing date and recognised as a liability. 24 well as cost-savings in procurements, logistics and production. In addition, acquisition On 4 October 2010, the Company acquired all the shares outstanding in UAB 25 costs allocated to customer accounts have been booked in intangible assets. The acquiŽvyrkasyba, a company that owns and sells gravel assets. 26 sition includes the option to redeem shares from non-controlling shareholders at a value Most of the consolidation difference of this acquisition is allocated to gravel assets. 27 based on average post-tax earnings for the past three years and the change in shareholdThe recognised goodwill comprises synergy benefits and the cost-savings achieved in 28 ers' equity.The redemption price is determined on the basis of these two components procurements. 29 and it is discounted to its present value on the closing date and recognised as a liability. On 26 October 2010, the Company acquired all the shares outstanding in Suonenjoen On 9 June 2010, the Company acquired 90.1% of the shares outstanding in Risa Sementtituote Oy, a company that manufactures concrete elements for construction. 30 Rock AS and renamed it Lemminkäinen Anlegg AS. The acquiree specialises in tunnel The consolidation difference from this acquisition has been allocated to the building 31 excavation. transferred in the transaction. The recognised goodwill comprises synergy benefits from 32 The goodwill recognised on this acquisition comprises an increase in market share as the acquisition of the company. 33 well as cost-savings in procurements, logistics and production. In addition, acquisition 34 costs allocated to customer accounts and the order book have been booked in intangi35 ble assets. The acquisition includes the option to redeem shares from non-controlling Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 109 The recognised fair values of the acquired business operations after merging are prequired business operations in 2010 amounted to about EUR 23.0 million and operating sented in the table below. profit to about EUR 0.7 million. If the acquirees had been consolidated as from the beginning of the year, consolidated net sales would have been EUR 1,898.1 million and opFair values recognised erating profit EUR 29.2 million. EUR 1,000 after merging 2010 Assets 2009 Tangible assets 7,272 The business operations of EH-Tekno Oy, a company specialised in urban environment Intangible assets 3,835 construction, were acquired on 1 January 2009. The company’s business is metal and Investments 5 steel construction works as well as the design, construction and contracting of sports Inventories 372 and outdoor areas. Current receivables 2,125 On 1 September 2009 full ownership of Lødingen Stenindustri AS was acquired. The Cash and cash equivalents 5,147 company’s business is stone quarrying and crushing. Assets, total 18,757 On 16 October 2009 full ownership of OÜ Magistraal was acquired. The company’s business is asphalt production, road construction, repair and maintenance, and road markings. Liabilities Aggregated information on these acquisitions is presented in the following table. Deferred tax liabilities 1,576 Carrying amounts Fair values recognised after Loans 7,019 EUR 1,000 before consolidation 2009 consolidation 2009 Other liabilities 2,487 Assets Liabilities, total 11,081 Tangible assets 1,367 2,739 Inventories 531 531 Net assets 7,676 Current receivables 334 334 Cash and cash equivalents 272 272 Acquisition price paid in cash 11,384 Assets, total 2,504 3,876 Discounted present value of the redemption option recognised as a liability 2,071 Liabilities Acquisition cost, total 13,455 Deferred tax liabilities 384 Loans 479 479 Goodwill, total 5,779 Other liabilities 694 694 Liabilities, total 1,174 1,558 Expensed acquisition expenditure 172 Net assets 1,330 2,318 Contingent liabilities recognised on redemption options Contingent liabilities at time of acquisition 2,870 Acquisition cost, total 3,191 3,191 Contingent liabilities at time of acquisition if predicted to be 10 percentage points higher 3,157 Goodwill, total 873 10 percentage points lower 2,583 Cash flow effect On the consolidation of the acquired business operations, EUR 17.4 million has been recTransaction price paid in cash 3,191 ognised in net sales and EUR 0.6 million in operating profit. Full-year net sales of the acCash funds of acquired subsidiary –272 Cash flow effect 2,919 110 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) The full-year net sales of the acquired businesses in 2009 was approximately EUR 1.3 Service concession arrangements 1 million. The effect of the acquired businesses on the Group’s operating profit for the acIn 2010, the Group had one ongoing life-cycle project. 2 counting period was approximately EUR –0.3 million. The business acquisitions will en3 able Lemminkäinen to achieve cost savings through synergies as well as an increase in Kuopio life-cycle project 4 market share and new customer contacts, the effect of which is allocated to goodwill. The company established for this life-cycle project, Lemminkäinen PPP Oy (the service 5 provider), signed the agreement with Kiinteistö Oy Kuopion koulutilat (the financier) on Divested businesses 14 December 2009. The project comprises new construction and renovation works for 6 The Group signed an agreement to sell its roofing business to a Nordic capital investfour schools and one day-care centre. The service provider is responsible for building man7 ment fund on 15 December 2010. The price was about EUR 25 million. The Finnish agement and maintenance for a period of 25 years. The total value of the project is EUR 8 Competition Authority approved the transaction at the end of January 2011 and the 93.5 million. All construction work in the project must be completed by autumn 2013. 9 transaction was confirmed on 31 January 2011. The assets and liabilities transferred The objective is to organise the use and maintenance of the premises as a privately10 to the buyer are presented under non-current assets held for sale and related liabilifunded life-cycle project under a long-term public-private partnership as well as to en11 ties. Assets held for sale and liabilities are presented in note 16. sure the constant usability, functionality, safety, healthiness, environmental friendliness and energy-efficiency of the premises. 12 13 5 INFORMATION ON CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS Major terms of the arrangement 14 The financier owns the current buildings and land. The service provider will renovate the 15 EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 properties and construct new buildings as set out in the turnkey agreement made with 16 Percentage-of-completion method the financier. The City of Kuopio will gain possession of the buildings after handover. 17 Recognition of project income by the percentage-of-completion method 1,639,744 1,586,370 Lemminkäinen PPP Oy will manage the buildings for about 25 years pursuant to the Incurred costs and recognised net profits of work in progress service agreement. Kuopio will serve as the contract agreement client for the sites it fi18 (less booked losses) 1,111,954 764,945 nanced and as the representative of the financier. The contracts are fixed-price and are 19 Payments received in advance (for work not yet done) 17,149 17,934 tied to the cost of construction index and reference rate. The financier will pay the con20 Gross project-related receivables from clients 52,841 34,626 tract prices in instalments as set out in the contract agreements. 21 Gross project-related debts to clients 79,336 32,429 22 Right of the service provider to use the asset items 23 Completed-contract method The service provider shall not have the right to use any of the properties or to organise supplementary use. 24 Income recognised as revenue on delivery from own building developments 170,965 256,750 Inventories recognised from own building developments 131,755 110,596 25 Advance payments recognised for own building developments 55,202 17,994 Service provision obligation 26 The service provider is responsible for ensuring that design, development and construction 27 work are carried out in accordance with the contract agreements, and will perform or or28 ganise the services set out in the agreements at the required level of professional expertise. 29 Obligation to build tangible asset items 30 The service provider will erect two school buildings and renovate two school buildings 31 and one day-care centre. 32 33 Handover 34 The City of Kuopio shall be obligated to accept the sites when the terms of the agree35 ment have been fulfilled. Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 111 Terminating the agreement 8 DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT The City of Kuopio shall have the right to terminate the agreement with a six-month period of notice if the sum of the reductions in usability and service level for the 12 months 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. prior to the inspection period at one or more of the properties is no less than 50% of the EUR 1,000 2010 2009 annual service fees of said property/properties. The City of Kuopio shall have the right Depreciation of tangible assets to terminate the agreement after the 10th and 20th years of the agreement, that is, in Buildings and structures 2,368 2,408 2021 and 2031. Machinery and equipment 19,740 18,884 The service provider shall have the right to terminate the agreement with a six-month Leased assets 10,079 9,943 period of notice, if the financier or the City of Kuopio neglect their payment obligations Other tangible assets 1,808 2,231 for 90 days 33,995 33,466 Changes in the arrangement during the review period Depreciation of intangible assets There were no significant changes in the arrangement during the review period. Software licences 766 652 Other intangible rights 753 115 Other intangible assets 66 25 6 OTHER OPERATING INCOME 1,585 791 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. EUR 1,000 2010 2009 Depreciation, total 35,580 34,258 Capital gains on sale of tangible assets 21,336 2,849 Capital gains on sale of investments 121 20 No impairment losses were recognised in the 2010 and 2009 financial years. Rental income 385 721 Net income from hedging purchases and sales 23 664 Others 4,960 2,836 9 personnel and employee benefit expenses 26,824 7,091 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. EUR 1,000 2010 2009 Personnel expenses 7 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES Wages and salaries 336,812 329,296 Pension expenses 51,056 51,524 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. Other personnel-related expenses 27,898 26,031 EUR 1,000 2010 2009 415,766 406,850 Capital losses on sale of tangible and intangible assets 527 623 Capital losses on sale of investments 2 13 Management salaries and emoluments Voluntary personnel-related expenses 14,387 18,979 Salaries and fees paid to Board members and the managing directors 6,095 6,143 Rental expenses 37,608 30,605 Other production expenses 135,598 142,263 Other fixed expenses 61,346 56,119 Pension expenses are dealt with in greater detail in section 23 of the notes and manageInfringement fine 54,000 ment remuneration schemes in section 33. 249,468 302,601 112 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. 10 SHARE OF THE RESULTS OF ASSOCIATES 1 2010 2009 2 Average number of employees 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. EUR 1,000 2010 2009 3 Salaried staff 2,913 3,067 Share of the results of associates 4 Hourly paid workers 5,401 5,559 8,314 8,626 Share of the profits of associates 884 1,541 5 Share of the losses of associates –141 –42 6 Personnel by business segment 743 1,499 7 Building Construction 2,264 2,356 8 Infrastructure Construction 3,165 3,395 9 Technical Building Services 1,859 1,941 10 EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.10 Building Products 835 820 11 Shares in associates 1.1. 6,251 4,626 Parent company 191 114 Translation difference 358 619 12 8,314 8,626 Increases 1,381 1,399 13 Pension commitments Decreases –385 –100 14 The members of Lemminkäinen Group’s Executive Board can retire at 60 years of age. Transfers between items –293 15 The members of the Executive Board are Lemminkäinen Corporation’s President and Shares in associates 31.12. 7,605 6,251 16 CEO, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Informa17 tion Technology, Executive Vice President, Corporate Business Development, as well as the heads of the business sectors. 18 19 20 Major associates (information presented in full) 21 22 EUR 1,000 Group's ownership, % Assets Liabilities Net sales Result for the financial year 2010 23 Finavo Oy, Finland 47.5 1,075 1,059 5,475 –1 24 Genvej A/S, Denmark 50.0 587 217 417 24 25 Martin Haraldstad AS, Norway 50.0 9,266 4,956 6,133 834 26 NHK Rakennus Oy, Finland 35.0 2,058 1,178 6,930 364 27 Nordasfalt AS, Norway 50.0 12,898 8,166 24,888 487 28 Ullensaker Asfalt ANS, Norway 50.0 3,121 343 5,599 –283 29 30 2009 31 Finavo Oy, Finland 47.5 1,483 1,459 4,050 21 32 Genvej A/S, Denmark 50.0 237 11 118 –81 Martin Haraldstad AS, Norway 50.0 4,883 1,637 4,887 784 33 Nordasfalt AS, Norway 50.0 11,723 6,305 23,271 2,406 34 Ullensaker Asfalt ANS, Norway 50.0 2,946 63 7,469 457 35 Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 113 11 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. EUR 1,000 2010 2009 EUR 1,000 2010 2009 Financial expenses Exchange rate differences on sales 1,249 –122 Interest expenses 14,965 28,171 Exchange rate differences on purchases 1,185 991 Losses on the change in fair value of derivatives 1,653 5,090 Exchange rate gains and losses are included in items above operating profit 2,434 870 Foreign exchange rate losses 16,305 16,149 Exchange rate differences on financial items –1,387 470 Other financial expenses 9,074 4,686 1,047 1,339 41,998 54,095 Financial income Interest income 2,549 3,950 Gains on the change in fair value of derivatives 2,025 70 Dividend income 155 16 Foreign exchange rate gains 14,918 16,618 Other financial income 118 90 19,765 20,744 Financial expenses, net 22,232 33,351 Net financial expenses, % of net sales 1.17 1.70 Net interest expenses, % of net sales 0.66 1.23 Financial income and expenses by class Exchange gains Other financial / losses on Exchange gains Dividend expenses and the fair value EUR 1,000 Interest income Interest expenses and losses income income of derivatives 1.1.–31.12.2010 Financial assets / liabilities recognised at fair value –608 372 Loans and other receivables 2,549 994 –67 Available-for-sale financial assets 155 Financial liabilities recognised at amortised cost –14,965 –1,773 –8,889 114 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) Exchange gains 1 Other financial / losses on Exchange gains Dividend expenses and the fair value 2 EUR 1,000 Interest income Interest expenses and losses income income of derivatives 3 1.1.–31.12.2009 4 Financial assets / liabilities recognised at fair value 207 –5,020 5 Loans and other receivables 3,950 3,132 35 6 Available-for-sale financial assets 16 7 Financial liabilities recognised at amortised cost –28,171 –2,869 –4,630 8 9 EUR 0.5 million in borrowing costs have been capitalised in the balance sheet in 2010. 10 11 12 TAXES 12 13 Income taxes 14 15 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. EUR 1,000 2010 2009 16 Income taxes on normal business operations –9,854 –19,080 17 Income taxes in respect of previous years –1,137 –231 18 Deferred taxes 5,388 5,683 19 –5,602 –13,628 20 21 Reconciliation of taxes on the income statement and taxes calculated at the Finnish tax rate 22 Result before taxes 6,758 –10,194 23 Taxes calculated on the above at the Finnish tax rate –1,757 2,650 24 Differing tax rates of foreign subsidiaries –426 –460 25 Tax-exempt income in income statement 137 455 26 Non-deductible expenses in income statement –1,683 –15,859 27 Deductible non-income statement items 353 144 28 Taxable non-income statement items –733 –1,174 29 Use of unrecognised earlier tax losses 69 1,148 30 Loss-making results for the financial year –162 –209 31 Effect of change in the corporate tax rate –143 Other items –265 51 32 Taxes for the previous financial year –1,137 –231 33 Taxes on the income statement, total –5,602 –13,628 34 35 Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 115 Deferred taxes Other comprehensive income items EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 EUR 1,000 Before taxes Taxes After taxes Deferred tax assets 2010 Internal margin on fixed assets 544 1,260 Translation difference 3,894 3,894 Finance leasing 51 329 Cash flow hedges 622 –162 460 Landscaping provision 702 326 Fair value change 17 –4 12 Confirmed losses 10,700 5,815 4,532 –166 4,366 Personnel-related obligations 193 Fair valuation 510 1,159 2009 Other temporary differences 3,769 5,487 Translation difference 3,381 3,381 16,275 14,569 Hedging of net investments –368 –368 Cash flow hedges –324 84 –240 Deferred tax liabilities 2,689 84 2,773 Accumulated depreciation differences 9,654 9,061 Revaluations 823 823 13 DIVIDENDS PAID AND PROPOSED Recognition of income from long-term projects 2,821 7,317 Fair valuation 2,042 1,141 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. Other temporary differences 2,238 634 2010 2009 17,577 18,975 Dividend paid during the financial year Per share for the previous year, EUR 0.00 0.90 Deferred tax liabilities, net 1,302 4,407 In total for the previous year, EUR 1,000 0 15,319 In total for the previous year No deferred tax liability is recognised in respect of the undistributed profits of foreign Per share for the financial year, EUR 0.50 0.00 subsidiaries because the funds are permanently invested in operations abroad. In total for the financial year, EUR 1,000 9,822 0 116 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) 14 TANGIBLE ASSETS 1 2 Buildings and Machinery and Advance payments and EUR 1,000 Land structures equipment Other tangible assets work in progress Total 3 Acquisition cost, 1.1.2010 13,369 55,461 351,275 34,499 3,671 458,275 4 Translation difference 59 224 2,513 302 15 3,114 5 Increases 114 1,315 26,033 2,810 2,113 32,385 6 Increases from acquired businesses 32 1,645 5,065 1,175 7,917 7 Decreases –42 –4,858 –33,915 –392 –1,357 –40,563 8 Transfers between items 21 –1,242 2,720 257 –1,749 7 9 Acquisition cost, 31.12.2010 13,554 52,546 353,690 38,651 2,694 461,135 10 11 Accumulated depreciation, 1.1.2010 –34,798 –219,474 –19,390 –273,661 Translation difference –73 –1,357 –158 –1,588 12 Accumulated depreciation on increases –112 –397 –10 –519 13 Accumulated depreciation on decreases 2,344 23,218 383 25,945 14 Transfers between items 3 114 –117 15 Depreciation for the financial year –2,401 –29,883 –1,819 –34,104 16 Accumulated depreciation, 31.12.2010 –35,037 –227,779 –21,110 –283,927 17 18 Transferred to non-current assets held for sale –54 –707 –1,053 –136 –1,950 19 20 Carrying amount, 31.12.2010 13,499 16,802 124,858 17,541 2,558 175,259 21 Carrying amount, 1.1.2010 13,369 20,664 131,801 15,109 3,671 184,613 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 117 Buildings and Machinery and Advance payments and EUR 1,000 Land structures equipment Other tangible assets work in progress Total Acquisition cost, 1.1.2009 13,174 52,464 342,757 31,059 5,349 444,802 Translation difference 143 436 4,041 446 6 5,072 Increases 45 2,054 27,166 2,277 3,951 35,493 Increases from acquired businesses 51 845 1,534 1,441 3,870 Decreases –44 –456 –29,761 –375 –193 –30,829 Transfers between items 119 5,539 –349 –5,442 –133 Acquisition cost, 31.12.2009 13,369 55,461 351,275 34,499 3,671 458,275 Accumulated depreciation, 1.1.2009 –32,110 –208,775 –16,964 –257,849 Translation difference –152 –2,218 –300 –2,670 Accumulated depreciation on increases –210 –911 –10 –1,131 Accumulated depreciation on decreases 90 21,287 283 21,660 Transfers between items 157 –157 Depreciation for the financial year –2,416 –29,014 –2,242 –33,671 Accumulated depreciation, 31.12.2009 –34,798 –219,474 –19,390 –273,661 Carrying amount, 31.12.2009 13,369 20,664 131,801 15,109 3,671 184,613 Carrying amount, 1.1.2009 13,174 20,354 133,981 14,095 5,349 186,954 The Group has no capitalised interest expenses. EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Assets acquired under finance lease agreement are included in machinery and equipment as follows: Acquisition cost, 1.1. 114,022 116,935 Translation difference 711 1,506 Increases 9,064 13,809 Decreases –4,554 –18,229 Acquisition cost, 31.12. 119,243 114,022 Accumulated depreciation, 31.12. –65,380 –56,199 Carrying amount, 31.12. 53,863 57,823 118 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) 15 INTANGIBLE ASSETS 1 2 Other capitalised Advance EUR 1,000 Goodwill Intangible rights expenditure payments Total 3 Acquisition cost, 1.1.2010 78,265 8,035 2,125 193 88,618 4 Translation difference 803 1 31 835 5 Increases 895 6,453 5,954 13,302 6 Increases from acquired businesses 5,779 76 5,856 7 Decreases –380 –73 –453 8 Transfers between items 183 –21 –169 –7 9 Acquisition cost, 31.12.2010 84,847 8,810 8,515 5,978 108,151 10 Accumulated depreciation, 1.1.2010 –6,233 –1,422 –7,656 11 Translation difference –31 –31 12 Accumulated depreciation on increases –10 –10 13 Accumulated depreciation on decreases 359 51 411 14 Depreciation for the financial year –832 –770 –1,602 15 Accumulated depreciation, 31.12.2010 –6,717 –2,172 –8,888 16 Transferred to non-current assets held for sale –2 –6 –8 17 18 Carrying amount, 31.12.2010 84,847 2,092 6,338 5,978 99,255 19 Carrying amount, 1.1.2010 78,265 1,802 703 193 80,963 20 Acquisition cost, 1.1.2009 74,945 7,253 1,999 147 84,345 21 Translation difference 1,278 72 1,350 22 Increases 1,457 711 69 46 2,283 23 Increases from acquired businesses 873 873 24 Decreases –288 –62 –15 –365 25 Transfers between items 133 133 26 Acquisition cost, 31.12.2009 78,265 8,035 2,125 193 88,618 27 Accumulated depreciation, 1.1.2009 –5,606 –1,249 –6,855 28 Translation difference –72 –72 29 Accumulated depreciation on increases –1 –1 30 Accumulated depreciation on decreases 60 14 74 31 Depreciation for the financial year –687 –115 –802 32 Accumulated depreciation, 31.12.2009 –6,233 –1,422 –7,656 33 34 Carrying amount, 31.12.2009 78,265 1,802 703 193 80,963 Carrying amount, 1.1.2009 74,945 1,648 750 147 77,490 35 Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 119 Goodwill impairment tests are made at least once a year and whenever there are indicavelopment and the future outlook. The management’s estimates are based on its knowltions of possible impairment. The tests are carried out as value-in-use calculations of inedge and long experience of the Company’s business sectors as well as on development dividual businesses in accordance with the smallest cash-generating unit principle. The forecasts generally available for them. calculations are prepared in accordance with the management’s estimates of business deGoodwill is allocated to the following operating segments: Eastern Europe and EUR 1,000 Finland Other Nordic countries the Baltic states Market areas, total Common to segment ¹) Total 31.12.2010 Building Construction 6,687 73 6,760 6,760 Infrastructure Construction 888 16,261 1,322 18,471 23,903 42,374 Technical Building Services 25,503 25,503 25,503 Building Products 10,210 10,210 10,210 43,287 16,261 1,395 60,944 23,903 84,847 31.12.2009 Building Construction 6,687 73 6,760 6,760 Infrastructure Construction ²) 888 10,714 949 12,551 23,554 36,105 Technical Building Services 25,502 25,502 25,502 Building Products ²) 9,897 9,897 9,897 42,974 10,714 1,022 54,711 23,554 78,265 ¹) The goodwill reported in the ”Common to segment” column has arisen from the acquisition of Danish and Norwegian asphalt businesses. It is allocated to the whole infrastructure construction business sector because it is Lemminkäinen Infra Oy’s strategy to operate broadly in countries of the Baltic Rim region. This goodwill has been tested at the level of the whole business sector, in addition to which the goodwill allocated to each business area of infrastructure Construction has been tested separately. ²) Forssan Betoni Oy, which formerly belonged to Lemminkäinen Infrastructure Construction, became part of the Building Products business sector as from the beginning of 2010. The comparative figures for 2009 are also in line with the new organisation. In impairment testing the discounted present value of the recoverable cash flows of each beyond that planning period is cautious and based on the assumption that there will be cash-generating unit is compared with the carrying amount of the unit in question. If no real growth of the business. the present value is lower than the carrying amount, the difference is recognised through The Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC), calculated for each individual unit, profit or loss as an expense in the current year. is used as the discount factor. WACC takes into account the risk-free interest rate, the Cash flow statements of the business units are prepared for a planning period coverliquidity premium, the expected market rate of return, the industry’s beta value, and the ing the next 5–7 years, depending on the predictability of the unit’s business and opdebt interest rate, including the interest rate margin. These components are weighted erating environment. The seven-year planning period is used when testing the paving according to the fixed, average target capital structure of the sector. Pre-tax WACC is operations in Denmark and Norway, and also the state of the Infrastructure Construcdetermined unit-specifically in testing. In the tests for 2010, long-term risk-free interest tion business sector. Infrastructure construction in the industrialised countries has good rate levels were exceptionally low, reducing discount rates compared with the previous long-term predictability because governments and municipalities have to invest in the year. However, the interest rate margin of liabilities remained quite high, levelling out the maintenance of infrastructure regardless of the business cycle. Cash flow forecasting decline in the discount rate. 120 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) The sector-specific weighted averages of the key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations: ¹) 1 2 Building Construction Infrastructure Construction Technical Building Services Building Products 3 2010 4 Discount rate, % (before taxes) 7.8 8.3 8.1 8.2 5 Average growth rate of net sales, % 6.1 7.9 6.5 1.5 Long-term average growth rate, % 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 6 7 2009 ²) 8 Discount rate, % (before taxes) 9.2 10.3 9.1 9.6 9 Average growth rate of net sales, % –0.5 2.5 6.3 4.1 10 Long-term average growth rate, % 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 11 12 ¹) The figures should not be regarded as forecasts for the entire business sector since the averages are calculated for only the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill has been allocated. The differences in the size of the cash-generating units are taken into account by weighting the figures according to the net sales of units when calculating the average. The forecasts are based on cautious outlooks so as to ensure the reliability of the test results. 13 ²) The figures for the comparison year are taken from the original Q3/2009 tests. In order to improve comparability, the figures for the comparison year also take into account the transfer of Forssan Betoni Oy from the Infrastructure Construction business sector to Building Products (merged into Lemminkäinen Rakennustuotteet Oy). The sector-specific figures are not directly comparable, as the cash-generating units carrying goodwill in the business sectors can increase or decrease in number as a result 14 of acquisitions, for example. 15 16 17 Goodwill impairment tests made during the third quarter of 2010 indicated that the Infrastructure Construction business sector due to its acquisition of Nordic paving operapresent value of cash flows exceeded the carrying amount in all of the business units. tions as well as to the Technical Building Services business sector. The margins between 18 Therefore there was no need to recognise any impairment of goodwill. the present value and carrying amount of the cash flows of the Nordic paving operations 19 In connection with the impairment tests, sensitivity analyses are made to determine of Infrastructure Construction and of the Technical Building Services business sector are 20 how possible changes in key assumptions of the unit-specific impairment tests would aflarge, and not even major changes in the outlook would be enough to necessitate good21 fect the results of those tests. The key assumptions affecting the present value of cash will impairment. In the Building Construction business sector, the margins of one unit 22 flows are the development of market and competitive conditions, the scope and profitabilwere fairly small. The impairment risk of said unit concerns less than EUR 0.5 million 23 ity of the tested business, and the discount factor. In the sensitivity analyses the calculaof goodwill. If necessary, additional tests will be carried out on this unit if the results of tion variables affecting these assumptions are varied and the effects of the changes on sensitivity analyses and changes in the outlook give cause. The long-term predictability 24 the margin between the carrying value and present value of the cash flows are examined. of Lemminkäinen's business sectors is reasonably good and the goodwill impairment risk 25 The sensitivity analyses indicated that variations in key assumptions considered gensmall in all business cycles. 26 erally relevant, reasonable and customary for Lemminkäinen's business sectors would 27 not give rise to the need for impairment. Most of the Group's goodwill is allocated to the 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 121 Figures describing the goodwill impairment risk of units subject to impairment testing by business sector EUR 1,000 Building Construction Infrastructure Construction Technical Building Services Building Products 2010 Goodwill allocated to the business sector, total 6,760 42,374 25,503 10,210 Ratio of present value to carrying amount ¹) 4.67 3.23 15.76 3.28 Goodwill impairment if annual growth over the long term were 1 percentage point lower 492 0 0 0 long term were 2 percentage points lower 492 0 0 0 Goodwill impairment if the borrowing cost were 1 percentage point higher 492 0 0 0 were 2 percentage points higher 492 0 0 0 2009 ²) Goodwill allocated to the business sector, total 6,760 36,105 25,502 9,897 Ratio of present value to carrying amount ¹) 1.76 2.17 6.18 3.65 Goodwill impairment if annual growth over the long term were 1 percentage point lower 684 0 0 0 long term were 2 percentage points lower 684 0 0 0 Goodwill impairment if the borrowing cost were 1 percentage point higher 0 0 0 0 were 2 percentage points higher 684 0 0 0 ¹) Net-sales-weighted average of the business sector’s cash-generating units subject to impairment testing. Ratio less than 1 would lead to impairment. ²) The comparative year’s sensitivity figures are calculated from the original Q3/2009 test results. The goodwill of the business sectors is calculated according to the situation at the end of 2009. In order to improve comparability, the figures for the comparison year also take into account the transfer of Forssan Betoni Oy from the Infrastructure Construction business sector to Building Products. 122 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) 16 NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE EUR 1,000 31.12.10 1 Non-current assets held for sale 2 Assets and liabilities related to the roofing business are presented as held for sale beProperty, plant and equipment 1,950 3 cause the Group signed an agreement on 15 December 2010 to sell its roofing business Intangible assets 8 4 to the Danish investment firm Axcel. The transaction has been approved by the Finnish Inventories 6,242 5 Competition Authority and it was concluded on 31 January 2011. The employees will Other current assets 5,898 transfer with the business operations to a newly established company under their previ6 Total 14,097 ous terms of employment. 7 Liabilities related to non-current assets held for sale 8 Other current liabilities 4,383 9 10 11 12 13 17 FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES BY CLASS 14 15 Financial 16 assets / liabilities recognised at fair Financial liabilities Derivatives 17 value through Loans and other Available-for-sale recognised at subject to Balance sheet EUR 1,000 Note profit and loss receivables financial assets amortised cost hedge accounting value Fair value 18 31.12.2010 19 Non-current financial assets 20 Shares and holdings 18 6,410 6,410 6,410 21 Other non-current receivables 20 7,175 7,175 7,175 22 23 Current financial assets 24 Trade receivables and interest-bearing loan receivables 20 208,089 208,089 208,089 25 Derivative contracts 20 399 399 399 26 Cash and cash equivalents 21 26,348 26,348 26,348 27 28 Non-current financial liabilities 29 Loans 25 214,134 214,134 211,428 30 Other non-current liabilities 26 3,882 3,882 3,882 31 32 Current financial liabilities 33 Loans 25 161,381 161,381 161,381 34 Accounts payable 26 69,257 69,257 69,257 35 Derivative contracts 26 1,756 2,040 3,796 3,796 Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 123 Financial assets / liabilities recognised at fair Financial liabilities Derivatives value through Loans and other Available-for-sale recognised at subject to Balance EUR 1,000 Note profit and loss receivables financial assets amortised cost hedge accounting sheet value Fair value 31.12.2009 Non-current financial assets Shares and holdings 18 6,582 6,582 6,582 Other non-current receivables 20 7,481 7,481 7,481 Current financial assets Trade receivables and interest-bearing loan receivables 20 176,866 176,866 176,866 Derivative contracts 20 66 66 66 Cash and cash equivalents 21 74,400 74,400 74,400 Non-current financial liabilities Loans 25 290,749 290,749 289,401 Other non-current liabilities 26 2,390 2,390 2,390 Current financial liabilities Loans 25 108,397 108,397 108,397 Accounts payable 26 66,595 66,595 66,595 Derivative contracts 26 2,188 2,815 5,004 5,004 Measurement of fair values The balance sheet dated 31 December 2010 includes EUR 27 thousand in quoted shares. change contracts are calculated using market rates quoted on the balance sheet date. The balance sheet dated 31 December 2009 did not include quoted shares. Unquoted Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank account balances and liquid investments with shares are other shares and participations. Unquoted shares do not have active markets, maturities of less than three months made in solvent partner banks. Cash and cash equivaand their fair value cannot be reliably determined, and thus they are measured at cost in lents are recognised at cost. Because the maturities of cash-equivalent investments are the balance sheets. short, their fair value is considered the same as their acquisition cost. Other non-current receivables include interest-bearing loan receivables, and their balThe fair values of non-current and current loans are calculated by discounting the ance sheet values correspond to their fair values. loans’ future cash flows using the interest rate that the Group would receive for a compaThe carrying amount of trade and other receivables is their fair value due to their short rable loan on the balance sheet date. The weighted average of the interest rates used for maturity. discounting in 2010 was 3.26% (3.35% in 2009). Derivative receivables and liabilities are fair valued. The fair value of derivative conThe balance sheet value of accounts payable and other current liabilities is assumed tracts is the profit or loss resulting from contract closure based on the market price preto be close to their fair value. vailing on the balance sheet date. The fair values of interest rate swap agreements are based on discounted cash flows, and the fair values of currency and interest rate options are based on generally accepted valuation models. The fair values of forward foreign ex124 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) Financial assets recognised at fair value through profit or loss 1 2 31.12.10 31.12.10 31.12.10 31.12.09 31.12.09 31.12.09 EUR 1,000 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 2 Level 3 Total 3 4 Assets 5 Forward foreign exchange contracts 113 113 66 66 6 Commodity derivatives 286 286 7 113 286 399 66 66 8 9 Liabilities 10 Forward foreign exchange contracts 981 981 1,768 1,768 Commodity derivatives 169 169 11 Interest rate swaps, 2,647 2,647 3,236 3,236 12 of which subject to cash flow hedge accounting 2,040 2,040 2,815 2,815 13 981 2,816 3,796 1,768 3,236 5,004 14 15 Net debt, total 868 2,530 3,397 1,702 3,236 4,938 16 17 Financial assets Financial assets 18 Level 3 Financial assets recognised at fair value Level 3 Financial assets recognised at fair value reconciliation statement recognised at fair value through other comprereconciliation statement recognised at fair value through other compre19 EUR 1,000 through profit or loss hensive income items EUR 1,000 through profit or loss hensive income items 20 Derivatives subject to Derivatives subject to Trading derivatives Trading derivatives 21 hedge accounting hedge accounting Fair values 1.1.2010 –421 –2,815 Fair values 1.1.2009 –425 –2,258 22 Gains and losses, total Total gains and losses 23 in the income statement –67 315 in the income statement 4 –233 24 in comprehensive income 460 in comprehensive income –324 25 Fair values 31.12.2010 –487 –2,040 Fair values 31.12.2009 –421 –2,815 26 27 Total gains and losses in Total gains and losses in financial income and –184 315 28 financial income and expenses ¹) expenses ¹) 4 –233 Total gains and losses in 29 other operating income and expenses ¹) 117 ¹) Total gains and losses recorded through profit or loss in the reporting period in respect of assets held at the end of the period. 30 31 ¹) Total gains and losses recorded through profit or loss in the reporting period in respect of assets held at the end of the period. 32 33 The Group has classified assets held at fair value using a three-level hierarchy of fair values. the most reliable and best information on fair value which is available from active and efficient 34 Each fair-valued financial instrument belongs to one of the three levels, depending on the relamarkets. The fair values of forward foreign exchange rate contracts, net total EUR –0.9 million 35 tive reliability of its fair value. Financial instruments belonging to Level 1 are representative of (EUR –1.7 million in 2009) are recorded in Level 2. These values are based on verifiable marNotes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 125 ket data and generally accepted valuation methods. Other financial instruments, with the ex20 NON-CURRENT AND CURRENT RECEIVABLES ception of forward foreign exchange contracts, are recorded at fair value, net total EUR –2.5 million (EUR –3.2 million in 2009) in Level 3. Level 3 fair values are based on market valuaEUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 tion reports and quotations provided by brokers. There is a statement reconciling the difference Non-current receivables between the opening and closing balances for the fair-valued financial instruments recorded in Interest-bearing Level 3. The changes that occurred during the period are presented separately on the reconciliLoan receivables 5,784 6,155 ation statement. Other receivables 131 131 5,915 6,286 18 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE INVESTMENTS Non-interest-bearing Trade receivables 238 195 EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Other receivables 1,022 1,000 Balance sheet value, 1.1. 6,582 6,038 1,260 1,195 Increases 7 289 Change in fair value 17 Non-current trade and other receivables, total 7,175 7,481 Decreases –196 –38 Transfers between items 293 Current receivables Balance sheet value, 31.12. 6,410 6,582 Interest-bearing The balance sheet dated 31 December 2010 includes EUR 27 thousand in quoted Loan receivables 944 1,047 shares. The balance sheet dated 31 December 2009 did not include quoted shares. The fair value of unquoted shares cannot be reliably determined, and thus they are presented Non-interest-bearing at cost less impairment. Trade receivables 207,145 175,819 Project income receivables 74,084 64,284 Tax assets 12,729 13,988 19 INVENTORIES Interest receivables 591 332 Personnel expenses 2,892 3,723 EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Capitalised financial expenses 111 3,100 Materials and supplies 39,941 37,589 Other prepayments and accrued income 21,690 17,502 Building plots and real estate 107,346 104,050 Receivables from derivative instruments 399 66 Housing under construction 68,297 28,227 Receivables from real estate companies Commercial property under construction 21,698 25,337 under construction 10,273 9,747 Work in progress 32,437 55,062 Other receivables 18,103 15,530 Prepayments 8,717 8,636 348,017 304,091 Completed housing companies 44,154 67,025 Completed commercial property 10,528 10,187 Transferred to non-current assets held for sale –5,898 Products and goods 42,889 38,608 Current trade and other receivables, total 343,064 305,139 376,005 374,721 Non-current loan receivables include mainly receivables from Tieyhtiö Ykköstie Oy. The balTransferred to non-current assets held for sale –6,242 ance sheet values of current and non-current interest-bearing loan receivables correspond 369,763 374,721 to their fair values. Trade receivables amounting to EUR 1.4 million (EUR 3.3 million in year 2009) were recognised as credit losses during the financial year. 126 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) 21 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 1 2 EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 3 Investments 1,054 815 4 Cash in hand and at banks 25,294 73,585 5 26,348 74,400 6 7 22 NOTES CONCERNING SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 8 9 Shares and share capital by the Board of Directors. In addition, Lemminkäinen Corporation's Board of Directors 10 Lemminkäinen Corporation has one share class. On 31 December 2010, the Company decided on a targeted issue in which a total of 923,514 new shares in the Company 11 had 19,644,764 shares. All issued shares are fully paid up. The Group does not possess were offered to subscription against compensation to the non-controlling shareholders any treasury shares. of Lemminkäinen Corporation's subsidiaries Lemminkäinen Talo Oy and Lemminkäinen 12 On the basis of the authorisation from the extraordinary general meeting held on 12 Talotekniikka Oy. The subscription price was EUR 23.25 per share. After the share issue 13 November 2009, Lemminkäinen Corporation's Board of Directors decided, on 17 March decided on 17 March 2010, the Board of Directors is still authorised to decide on the is14 2010, to organise two separate share issues. The Company offered 1,700,000 new sue of 1,576,486 further shares. The authorisation is valid for five years after the conclu15 shares in the Company for subscription to private and institutional investors approved sion of the general meeting held on 12 November 2009. 16 17 Number of shares Invested unrestricted 18 EUR 1,000 (1,000 shares) Share capital Share premium account equity reserve Total 19 1.1.2009 17,021 34,043 5,750 39,793 20 31.12.2009 17,021 34,043 5,750 39,793 21 Share issue to investors for cash consideration 1,700 39,525 39,525 22 Share issue to non-controlling interest for cash consideration 924 24,335 24,335 Transaction expenses of share issues –716 –716 23 31.12.2010 19,645 34,043 5,750 63,144 102,937 24 25 Share premium account 26 Translation Hedging Share premiums are recognised in the share premium account. EUR 1,000 difference reserve Total 27 1.1.2009 –4,711 –1,730 –6,441 28 Invested non-restricted equity fund Translation difference 3,381 3,381 29 The invested non-restricted equity fund includes the subscription prices of shares to the Hedging of net investment in foreign subsidiary –368 –368 30 extent that they are not entered into share capital on the basis of a separate decision. Cash flow hedge –240 –240 31 31.12.2009 –1,698 –1,970 –3,668 Translation differences and hedging reserve 32 Translation difference 3,894 3,894 The translation differences include the differences arising from the translation of the fi33 nancial statements of foreign units. Gains and losses on hedges of net investments in forCash flow hedge 460 460 31.12.2010 2,196 –1,510 686 34 eign units are also included in the translation differences when the requirements set for 35 hedge accounting are met. Changes in the effective part of derivatives falling within the scope of hedge accounting are recognised in the hedging reserve. Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 127 Retained earnings EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Present value of unfunded obligations EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Present value of funded obligations 21,776 15,941 Retained earnings, 1.1. 234,512 276,023 Fair value of funds –15,961 –12,553 Result for the financial year 299 –26,192 5,815 3,388 Dividends paid –15,319 Unrecognised actuarial gains and losses –5,822 –2,526 Direct entries, minority acquisition –10,105 Unrecognised costs of past service –474 –658 Cancellation of dividend liability 82 Defined benefit pension plan obligation (+) / asset (–) –481 205 Retained earnings, 31.12. 224,787 234,512 Recognised expenses relating to defined benefit pension plans Share of appropriations in retained earnings, 31.12 22,170 21,515 Pension costs based on service in the financial year 1,894 1,675 Interest cost of obligation stemming from benefits 808 701 Expected yield on funds belonging to the plan –750 –645 23 PENSION OBLIGATIONS Actuarial gains and losses 910 278 Costs based on past service –317 EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Pension liability on the balance sheet 508 749 2,545 2,009 Change in pension obligation on the balance sheet The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year Obligation at start of period 205 –843 Beginning of year 15,941 12,419 Translation difference 48 33 Translation difference 703 1,520 Employer payments –3,279 –995 Current service cost 1,894 1,675 Net items recorded on the income statement 2,545 2,009 Costs based on retroactive service 2,141 Obligation (+) / asset (–) at end of period –481 205 Interest cost 808 978 Pension plan obligations on the balance sheet 508 749 Actuarial losses and gains 1,461 –1,921 Pension plan assets on the balance sheet –989 –545 Gains/losses from curtailments of benefit arrangement –742 1,637 Benefits paid –430 –365 The pension plan assets are recognised as a deferred income on the balance sheet. End of year 21,776 15,941 The pension schemes of group companies operating in different countries are generally defined contribution plans. Payments in respect of defined contribution plans are The movement in the fair value of plan assets of the year expensed on the income statement in the accounting period during which they are made. Beginning of year 12,553 10,164 Group pensions for which the present value of the associated obligations is determined Translation difference 531 1,097 by a method based on future benefits and for which the funds belonging to the plan are Expected return on plan assets 750 657 fair valued on the accounting date are classified as defined benefit pension plans. The Actuarial losses and gains –327 –143 actuarial gains and losses arising from these pension provisions are recognised on the Employer contributions 2,641 931 income statement over the expected average remaining working lives of the participating Benefits paid –185 –153 employees to the extent that it exceeds 10% of the present value of the defined benefit End of year 15,961 12,553 obligation or, if greater, 10% of the fair value of plan’s assets. Payments to be made to defined benefit pension plans in Lemminkäinen Group during 2011 are estimated at EUR 1.4 million. 128 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) 31.12.10 31.12.10 31.12.09 31.12.09 1 Finland Abroad Finland Abroad 2 The most important actuarial assumptions 3 Discount rate, % 4.8 4.4 5.0 4.4 4 Expected yield on funds, % 6.0 5.6 6.5 5.6 5 Future pay rise assumption, % 3.5 4.0 3.0 4.0 6 Future pension rise assumption, % 2.1 1.3 2.1 1.3 7 Inflation rate, % 2.0 3.8 2.0 4.0 8 9 10 24 PROVISIONS 11 Warranty Landscaping Other Total Total 12 EUR 1,000 provisions provisions provisions 31.12.10 31.12.09 13 Provisions, 1.1. 7,133 866 2,034 10,033 9,273 14 Translation differences 16 9 –1 24 29 15 Increases in provisions 1,725 1 925 2,651 3,219 Expensed provisions –2,011 –12 –928 –2,951 –2,243 16 Reversals of unused provisions –763 –274 –1,037 –244 17 Provisions, 31.12.2010 6,100 864 1,756 8,720 18 Provisions, 31.12.2009 7,133 866 2,034 10,033 19 20 21 EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 22 Provisions categorised as 23 Long-term 2,283 1,762 Short-term 6,437 8,271 24 8,720 10,033 25 26 27 A provision is made when the Group has a legal or de facto obligation based on some past event and it is likely that freedom from liability will either require a financial payment or re28 sult in financial loss, and that the amount of liability can be reliably measured. 29 Provisions for construction warranties are calculated on the basis of the level of warranty expenses actually incurred in earlier accounting periods. If the Group will receive reimbursement from a subcontractor or material supplier on the basis of an agreement in respect of anticipated expenses, the future compensation is recognised when its receipt is in 30 practice beyond doubt. Provisions in respect of landscaping obligations are made according to the use of ground materials. 31 32 33 34 35 Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 129 25 LOANS 31.12.10 31.12.10 31.12.09 31.12.09 EUR 1,000 Balance sheet values Fair values Balance sheet values Fair values Non-current Loans from credit institutions 39,871 39,871 176,334 176,334 Pension loans 70,755 68,980 70,400 69,609 Finance leasing liabilities 42,944 42,944 43,422 43,422 Bonds 60,000 59,070 Other non-current liabilities 564 564 594 589 214,134 211,428 290,749 289,953 Current Repayments of loans from credit institutions in the next year 15,169 15,169 20,073 20,073 Repayments of pension loans in the next year 19,035 20,390 18,400 20,382 Repayments of finance lease liabilities in the next year 11,726 11,726 13,703 13,703 Chequing accounts 8,663 8,663 9,266 9,266 Commercial paper 75,100 74,679 5,000 5,000 Debts to owners of housing under construction 30,851 30,851 41,873 41,873 Other current loans 837 837 82 82 161,381 162,315 108,397 110,379 The fair values of loans are calculated by discounting the future cash flows arising from loans by the interest that the Group would receive on corresponding loans at the accounting date. The weighted average interest rate used for discounting is 3.26% (3.35% in year 2009). 31.12.10 31.12.10 31.12.09 31.12.09 Non-current loans Current loans Non-current loans Current loans EUR 1,000 by currency by currency by currency by currency EUR 195,008 148,262 272,273 95,124 DKK 9,287 4,924 10,727 6,631 EEK 537 236 728 303 LTL 32 2,992 6 4,188 NOK 9,269 4,670 7,015 1,395 SEK 297 754 214,134 161,381 290,749 108,397 130 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) The following table describes the exposure of the Group's loans to interest rate move26 ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND OTHER LIABILITIES 1 ments and rate fixing intervals. In the table, interest-bearing liabilities are classified ac2 cording to the repayment date or the next interest rate adjustment date. EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 3 Non-current 4 Less than Other non-current liabilities 3,882 2,390 EUR 1,000 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years Total 5 31.12.2010 6 Accounts payable and other current liabilities Loans, total 225,580 149,934 375,514 7 Prepayments received 102,777 102,435 Effect of interest rate swap agreements –50,020 50,020 Debts to owners of housing under construction 15,228 2,467 8 175,560 199,954 375,514 Accounts payable 69,257 66,595 9 Project expenses 17,400 26,253 10 31.12.2009 Income tax owed 5,203 7,008 11 Loans, total 328,645 70,501 399,146 VAT 21,222 20,147 12 Effect of interest rate swap agreements –51,443 45,691 5,751 Interest debts 1,275 2,412 277,202 116,193 5,751 399,146 13 Amortisations of personnel expenses 68,327 69,713 14 Other accrued liabilities and deferred income 12,174 13,696 15 31.12.10 31.12.2009 Fair value of derivatives 3,796 5,004 Other current debts 8,881 13,844 16 Weighted averages of effective interest rates on interest-bearing debt, % 325,541 329,575 17 Loans from credit institutions 1.74 3.02 Bond 4.50 18 Pension loans 2.97 4.45 Transferred to non-current assets held for sale –4,383 19 Finance leasing debts 3.35 3.75 Non-current and current accounts payable and other liabilities 325,040 331,965 20 Commercial paper 1.67 2.83 21 Other current loans 0.79 1.44 22 23 Finance lease debts 24 EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.2009 25 Finance leasing debts and interest on them is due as follows 26 In one year or earlier 13,446 15,410 27 Over one year, but less than five years 35,232 33,748 28 Over five years 12,217 16,814 29 60,895 65,972 30 31 Present value of minimum leases 32 In one year or earlier 11,726 13,703 33 Over one year, but less than five years 31,516 27,651 Over five years 11,428 15,771 34 54,670 57,125 35 Accumulated future financial expenses from finance lease debts 6,225 8,846 Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 131 27 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Interest rate fluctuations in 2010 did not have any unusual effect on the Group's business, but a significant rise in the level of interest rates may have a detrimental effect Financial risks on the demand for housing. In its business operations, Lemminkäinen Group is exposed to financial risks, mainly interest rate, exchange rate, funding, liquidity and credit risks. The aim of the Group's fiInterest risk sensitivity nancial risk management is to reduce uncertainty concerning the possible impacts that The following assumptions are made when calculating the sensitivity caused by a changes in values on the financial markets could have on the Group's result, cash flow change in the level of interest rates: and value. The management of financial risks is based on principles approved by the Board of Directors. The treasury policy defines the principles and division of responsibili–– the interest rate change is assumed to be 1 percentage point ties with regard to financial activities and the management of financial risk. The policy is –– the position includes variable-rate financial liabilities totalling EUR –225.7 milreviewed and if necessary updated at least annually. lion (EUR –306.5 million in 2009), variable-rate financial receivables totalling Execution of the treasury policy is the responsibility of the Group Treasury, which is EUR 26.3 million (EUR 74.4 million in 2009) and interest rate derivatives totalling largely responsible for the management of financial risks and coordinates the Group's EUR 58.1 million (EUR 59.6 million in 2009) treasury activities on a centralised basis. The Group's treasury policy defines the divi–– variable-rate financial instruments affect the income statement; in addition, desion of responsibilities between the Group Treasury and business units in each issue. The rivative contracts that are subject to hedge accounting have an effect on compreGroup companies are responsible for providing the Group Treasury with up-to-date and hensive income accurate information on treasury-related matters concerning their business operations. –– all factors other than the change in interest rates remain constant The Group Treasury serves as an internal bank and co-ordinates, directs and supports the –– taxes have not been taken into consideration when calculating sensitivity Group companies in treasury matters such that the Group's financial needs are met and its financial risks are controlled effectively in line with the treasury policy. Sensitivity caused by the interest rate change Interest rate risk 1 percentage point change in market rates The aim of Lemminkäinen Group's interest rate risk management is to minimise changes affecting the result, cash flows and value of the Group due to interest rate fluctuaOther comOther comIncome Income prehensive prehensive tions. The Group Treasury manages and monitors the interest rate position. The Group's statement statement income income interest rate risk primarily comprises fixed-rate and variable-rate loan and leasing agreeEUR 1,000 +1% –1% +1% –1% ments, interest-bearing financial receivables and interest rate derivatives. Interest rate 31.12.2010 changes affect items in the income statement and balance sheet. Variable-rate loans –2,257 2,257 The interest rate risk is minimised by setting the Group's average period of interest Interest-bearing receivables 263 –263 rate fixing terms to the same as the interest rate sensitivity of its business. The interest Interest rate derivatives 12 –318 –147 –1,437 rate sensitivity position of the Group's business is estimated to be about 15 months. –1,982 1,676 –147 –1,437 The treasury policy thus defines the Group's average period of interest rate fixing term as 12–18 months. The Group aims to keep 40–65 per cent of its liabilities in foreign Other comOther comcurrencies hedged. At the end of the year, Lemminkäinen's average period of interest rate Income Income prehensive prehensive statement statement income income fixation was 19.4 months and the interest rate hedge ratio was 55 per cent. EUR 1,000 +1% –1% +1% –1% The Group can draw both variableand fixed-rate long-term loans. The ratio of fixed31.12.2009 to variable-rate loans can be changed by means of interest rate derivatives. In 2010, the Variable-rate loans –3,065 3,065 Group made use of interest rate swaps and applied hedge accounting to two interest rate Interest-bearing receivables 744 –744 swap agreements. The parent company issued a four-year fixed-rate bond in September Interest rate derivatives 317 526 1,407 757 and used the funds to repay variable-rate loans. –2,004 2,847 1,407 757 132 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) Foreign exchange rate risk Sensitivity caused by a change in exchange rates 1 The aim of exchange rate risk management is to reduce uncertainty concerning the pos31.12.10 31.12.09 2 sible impacts that changes in exchange rates could have on cash flows, business re31.12.10 Other com31.12.09 Other com3 ceivables and liabilities, and the future values of different balance sheet items. Exchange Income prehensive Income prehensive EUR 1,000 statement income statement income 4 rate risk mainly consists of transaction risk and translation risk. +/–10% change in the euro/dollar –332/ +3,335/ 5 Translation risk consists of exchange rate differences arising from the translation of exchange rate +406 –2,586 the income statements and balance sheets of foreign group companies into the Group's 6 +/–10% change in the euro/rouble –427/ –3,964/ home currency. In practice, the Group's reportable translation risk is caused by equity exchange rate +1,572 +345 7 investments in and the retained earnings of foreign subsidiaries, the effects of which 8 are recorded under translation differences in shareholders' equity. Lemminkäinen Group 9 has foreign net investments in several currencies. In accordance with the treasury policy, Funding and liquidity risk 10 Lemminkäinen Group protects itself from translation risks primarily by keeping equity The Group seeks to optimise the use of liquid assets in funding its business operations 11 investments in foreign companies at an appropriately low level, and thus does not use and to minimise interest and other financial expenses. The Group Treasury is responsible financial instruments to hedge the translation risks. The Group did not apply hedge acfor managing the Group's overall liquidity and ensuring that adequate credit lines and 12 counting to net investments in 2010. a sufficient number of funding sources are available. It also ensures that the maturity 13 Transaction risk consists of cash flows in foreign currencies from operational and profile of the Group's loans and credit facilities is spread sufficiently evenly over com14 financial activities. The Group seeks to hedge business currency risks primarily by oping years as set out in the treasury policy. The Group's liquidity management is based on 15 erative means. The remaining transaction risk is hedged by using instruments such as monthly forecasts of funding requirements and daily cash flow forecasting. 16 foreign currency loans and currency derivatives. The group companies are responsible In 2010 the financial crisis continued to have a slight effect on the availability of fund17 for identifying, reporting, forecasting and hedging their transaction risk positions intering from traditional financial markets, which was evident in, for instance, the stringent nally. The Group Treasury is responsible for hedging the Group's risk positions as external terms of funding. During the year, the Group rearranged its liabilities by repaying EUR 60 18 transactions in accordance with the treasury policy. The general rule is that the major million in short-term debt with the funds from a targeted share issue, a TyEL pension 19 net positions forecasted for the 12 months following the review date are hedged, with a premium loan and the four-year bond of EUR 60 million floated in September. At the 20 hedging ratio ranging from 25–100 per cent and emphasising the first six months. end of the year, the Group secured a total of EUR 160 million in unsecured bilateral com21 The key currencies in which the Group was exposed to transaction risk in 2010 were mitted credit facilities that are without collateral to refinance a certificated credit line of 22 USD and RUB. These transaction risk positions were mainly due to sales, procurements, EUR 150 million originally maturing in 2011 and renegotiated of the bank guarantee for 23 receivables and liabilities. In 2010 the Group did not apply hedge accounting to transacits TyEL pension loan facility of about EUR 90 million. These arrangements safeguard tion risk hedging. the Group's liquidity and give the Company more financial flexibility over the next three 24 years. The Group also aims to free up capital and thus reduce its debt burden. The ma25 Currency risk sensitivity turities and repayment periods of the loan and credit facilities are from one to five years 26 The following assumptions have been made when calculating the sensitivity caused by on the accounting date. According to the treasury policy, the Group's liquidity reserve 27 changes in the euro/dollar and euro/rouble exchange rates: shall at all times match the Group's total liquidity requirement, and it must be accessible 28 within five banking days without any additional charges being incurred. The Group's total 29 –– the euro/dollar exchange rate change is assumed to be +/–10% liquidity requirement consists of the liquidity requirement of day-to-day operations, risk –– the euro/rouble exchange rate change is assumed to be +/–10% premium needs and the strategic liquidity requirement. 30 –– the position includes financial assets and liabilities denominated in roubles and dollars Due to the nature of the Group's business operations, the importance of seasonal bor31 –– the position does not include future cash flows rowing is great. The effect of seasonal variation on short-term liquidity is controlled by 32 –– taxes have not been taken into consideration when calculating sensitivity using a commercial paper programme, committed credit limits and bank overdraft facili33 ties. The total amount of the Group's commercial paper programme is EUR 300 million, 34 of which EUR 75 million was in use at 31 December 2010 (EUR 5.0 million in 2009). 35 At that time, the Group had unused committed credit facilities totalling EUR 160 million. Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 133 The main principle is to use excess liquidity to repay debt. The Group's excess liquidity is managed by means of internal deposits and cash pools. The amount of cash funds at 31 December 2010 was EUR 26.3 million (EUR 74.4 million in 2009). Analysis of the maturities of financial liabilities EUR 1,000 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016– Total 31.12.2010 Loans 147,319 39,248 38,095 87,528 7,696 395 320,281 Finance leasing liabilities 11,726 9,522 8,705 6,634 6,655 11,428 54,670 Interest rate derivatives 1,577 1,090 604 122 3,393 Foreign forward exchange contracts Cash flows payable 49,209 49,209 Cash flows receivable –48,794 –48,794 Commodity derivatives 169 169 Other non-current liabilities 40 487 25 12 564 Accounts payable 69,257 69,257 Interest, total 7,112 5,990 4,951 4,002 892 766 23,713 Total 237,614 56,337 52,380 98,299 15,243 12,588 472,461 EUR 1,000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015– Total 31.12.2009 Loans 95,246 153,859 34,226 33,705 23,048 1,938 342,021 Finance leasing liabilities 13,703 8,689 7,489 6,577 4,895 15,771 57,125 Interest rate derivatives 1,733 1,321 904 481 83 4,521 Foreign forward exchange contracts Cash flows payable 36,595 36,595 Cash flows receivable –34,893 –34,893 Other non-current liabilities 1,721 220 229 220 2,390 Accounts payable 66,595 66,595 Interest, total 10,923 5,104 3,734 2,026 1,084 1,345 24,216 Total 189,902 170,694 46,573 43,018 29,329 19,054 498,571 Credit risk Credit risks arise when a counterparty is unable to meet its contractual obligations, and trustworthy customer relationships and on contractual terms generally observed in causing the other party to suffer a financial loss. Lemminkäinen has defined a credit polthe industry. The credit policy sets the minimum requirements concerning trade credicy for customer receivables that aims to boost profitable sales by identifying credit risks it and collections for Lemminkäinen Group. The Group's credit control function defines in advance and controlling them. Most of the Group's business is based on established credit risks and the business units are responsible for managing them. In the prevailing 134 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) economic situation, the importance of credit control is underlined, and the Company's tions. The main risks in this respect are associated with business in Russia. As a general 1 credit control processes have been enhanced. rule, construction projects in Russia are only undertaken against receipt of advance pay2 The Group is exposed to credit risk through all of the Group's trade receivables and ments. If, in exceptional situations, a credit risk is taken, the amount permitted is always 3 receivables associated with deposits and receivables. The maximum amount of credit proportional to the expected margin on the project in question. Written-down financial 4 risk is the combined total of the balance sheet values of the aforementioned items. The assets represent credit losses. Receiveables transferred for legally enforceable collection 5 amounts and due dates of the Group's trade and loan receivables are presented in the are recognised as credit losses. table below. The Group does not have any significant credit risk concentrations as trade The Group Treasury is responsible for the management of the Group's counterparty 6 receivables are distributed among many different customers in a number of market areas. and credit risks related to cash, financial investments and financial transactions. The 7 The business unit that made the contract actively monitors the receivables situation. Group is exposed to counterparty risk when investing liquid assets and using derivative 8 If the business units renegotiate the terms of the receivables, they must do so in acinstruments. Liquid assets are invested in short-term bank deposits, certificates of de9 cordance with the requirements of the Group's credit policy. The risk of credit losses posit issued by solvent partner banks, and commercial papers issued by corporations with 10 can be reduced by means of guarantees, mainly bank guarantees and bank deposits. a good credit rating. The treasury policy specifies the approved counterparties and their 11 Lemminkäinen's credit losses have been minimal in relation to the scale of its operacriteria. At the end of 2010, the counterparty risk was considered to be low. 12 13 14 Maturities of trade and loan receivables 15 Maturity Maturity Maturity Maturity 16 EUR 1,000 Not due 1–30 days 31–60 days 61–90 days over 90 days Total 17 31.12.2010 18 Non-current receivables 19 Trade receivables 238 238 20 Loan receivables 5,784 5,784 21 22 Current receivables 23 Trade receivables 169,559 21,965 4,041 1,469 10,111 207,145 24 Loan receivables 944 944 25 176,526 21,965 4,041 1,469 10,111 214,112 26 31.12.2009 27 28 Non-current receivables Trade receivables 145 50 195 29 Loan receivables 1,173 1,173 30 31 Current receivables 32 Trade receivables 130,216 26,289 4,161 1,359 13,794 175,819 33 Loan receivables 1,047 1,047 34 132,581 26,289 4,161 1,359 13,844 178,234 35 Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 135 Commodity price risk 28 DERIVATIVES The Group's paving operations are exposed to bitumen price risk. The price of bitumen is determined by the world market price of oil. The Group protects itself against the bituDerivative contracts men risk with fixed purchase prices and derivatives that are not subject to hedge accountNominal Fair value Fair value Fair value ing. In the group companies, the contractual value of these bitumen derivatives totalled EUR 1,000 value positive negative net 21,350 Mt. 31.12.2010 Forward foreign exchange agreements 48,902 113 –981 –868 Capital management Interest rate swaps Capital means the equity and interest-bearing liabilities shown on Lemminkäinen's conMeasured at fair value 18,052 –607 –607 solidated balance sheet. of which subject to hedge accounting 40,020 –2,040 –2,040 Lemminkäinen Group's capital management ensures cost-effectively that all of the Group's business sectors maintain their business viability at a competitive level in all cycliCommodity derivatives, bitumen MT 21,350 286 –169 117 cal conditions, that risk-carrying capacity is adequate, for example, in construction contracts, and that the Company is able to pay a good dividend and service its debt. 31.12.2009 The amount of the Group's interest-bearing liabilities is affected by factors such as Forward foreign exchange agreements 36,634 66 –1,768 –1,702 business expansion, acquisitions, and investments in or the sale of production equipment, Interest rate swaps 59,585 –3,236 –3,236 buildings and land. The Company continuously monitors the amount of debt, the ratio of of which cash flow subject to hedge net debt to EBITDA, and the equity ratio. Interest-bearing net debt comprises interestaccounting 51,443 –2,815 –2,815 bearing liabilities less cash and cash equivalents The amount of net debt can vary during the accounting period due primarily to seasonal variations in production, investments and purchase of land. The amount of interest-bearing net debt on 31 December 2010 was The fair value of contracts is the gain or loss arising from closure of the contract based on EUR 349,2 million (EUR 324.7 million in 2009). the market price on the accounting date. The renegotiated borrowing facility arrangements include two financial covenants that The Group has subsidiaries outside the euro zone and is thus exposed to translation risks are measured quarterly: the net debt to EBITDA ratio and the Company's equity ratio. Acdue to net investments. The Group has decided not to use derivative instruments to hedge cording to the terms, Lemminkäinen Group's net debt to EBITDA ratio can vary by quarter against the translation risk of net investments and has therefore not entered into forward and may not exceed 4.0. The Company's equity ratio shall be no less than 28 per cent. exchange contracts hedging net foreign investments in 2010. Realised exchange rate difThe Company also follows the development of equity by means of the return on investferences are recognised in the translation differences of equity. No amounts were recogment. A long-term average in excess of 18% is regarded as a good return. The return on innised from derivatives in translation differences concerning equity during reporting period vestment in 2010 was 7.0% (5.4% in 2009). The return on investment includes the Group's (in 2009 EUR 0.4 million). The equity component is not recognised through profit or loss shareholders' equity and interest-bearing liabilities averaged over the accounting period. until the net investment made in the foreign unit is relinquished. Hedge accounting as defined in IFRS standards has not been applied to all derivative EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 instruments. Nevertheless, these derivative instruments have been entered into for hedging Interest-bearing liabilities 375,514 399,146 purposes. Some foreign forward exchange contracts and currency options, some interest Cash and cash equivalents 26,348 74,400 rate swaps and commodity derivatives are entered into in order to reduce business risks and Interest-bearing net debt 349,166 324,745 to hedge balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Equity attributable to the equity holders of parent company 328,422 270,637 Open foreign forward exchange contracts to which hedge accounting was not applied Equity, total 333,509 293,849 have a nominal value of EUR 48.9 (EUR 36.6 in 2009) and a net fair value of EUR –0.9 Equity ratio, % 35.2 30.9 (EUR –1.7 in 2009). Because the part of open forward foreign exchange contracts caused Gearing, % 104.7 110.5 by exchange rate changes is not covered by hedge accounting, fair value changes are not Return on investment, % 7.0 5.4 recognised in equity but through profit and loss on the income statement in financial items. On 31 December 2010, the nominal value of interest rate swap agreements subject to 136 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) hedge accounting amounted to EUR 40.0 (EUR 51.4 in 2009) and their fair value to EUR 30 OTHER RENTAL COMMITMENTS 1 –2.0 (EUR –2.8 in 2009). The nominal value of interest rate swap agreements to which 2 hedge accounting is not applied was EUR 18.1 (EUR 8.1 in 2009) and their fair value was EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 3 EUR –0.6 (EUR –0.4 in 2009). The interest component is recognised through profit or loss Minimum leases of irrevocable rental agreements 4 and is reported on the income statement in financial items. Cash flows associated with interOne year or less 15,152 11,093 5 est rate derivatives are expected to be realised annually until 2014 (as scheduled in Note 27 Over one year, but less than five years 30,357 24,913 herein). 6 Over five years 17,525 20,670 7 63,035 56,675 29 ADJUSTMENTS TO CASH FLOWS FROM BUSINESS OPERATIONS 8 Other rental commitments include the following rental liabilities 9 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. EUR 1,000 2010 2009 One year or less 8,153 3,306 10 Depreciation 35,580 34,258 Over one year, but less than five years 9,818 4,909 11 Change in obligatory provisions –1,338 726 Over five years 430 1 12 Change in pension obligations –289 1,014 18,401 8,216 13 Credit losses on trade receivables 1,413 3,256 14 Financial income and expenses recognised on an accruals basis 22,232 33,351 Irrevocable rental commitments are mainly rental agreements concerning real estate 15 Capital gains and losses on the sale of fixed assets as well as other nonand leased machines. payment income and expenses –20,707 –1,852 16 Share of the results of associates –743 –1,499 17 Translation differences 407 –1,060 18 36,555 68,193 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 137 31 GUARANTEES AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Towards the end of the year, the Group refinanced its EUR 150 million credit facility, which was originally due to mature in 2011, with new credit facilities totalling EUR 160 EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 million and arranged new bank guarantees for its pension loans. The new bilateral credit Liabilities as well as mortgages and bonds pledged as security for them facilities and bank guarantees are without collateral and thus do not involve property or business mortgages. Pension loans 88,800 Loans from credit institutions 189,500 32 LITIGATION 278,300 In 2009, the Supreme Administrative Court (SAC) ordered Finnish asphalt industry companies to pay an infrigement fine for violations of the Act on Competition Restrictions. Property mortgages 80,000 To date, 34 claims for damages brought by municipalities and the Finnish state (Finnish Transport Agency) are pending against Lemminkäinen and other asphalt industry Business mortgages 1,218,844 companies in the District Court. The claimants contend that restrictions of competition 1,298,844 have caused them damages. The total amount of damages sought from Lemminkäinen Other mortgages and securities for own commitments is currently about EUR 81 million. The claims presented in the statements of claim differ Business mortgages 420 2 460 from each other as regards their amounts and grounds. Bonds pledged as security 263 578 The ruling rendered by the SAC in 2009 as it stands does not mean that LemDeposits 61 72 minkäinen or the other asphalt industry companies actually caused any damages to the 745 3 110 asphalt work clients. The ruling does not concern the individual contracts that the claimants cited in support of their claims. Nor does the ruling concern the pricing of individual Pledges on behalf of others contracts. The SAC has not investigated the contention that inflated prices have been Pledged securities 90 charged for the contracts. Lemminkäinen's initial position is that the claims for damages are without foundation. Mortgages and pledged securities, total The claims will be processed in the order and schedule set by the District Court. Property mortgages 80,000 No provisions for future expenses have been made in respect of the claims of the muBusiness mortgages 420 1,221,304 nicipalities and the Finnish Transport Agency that are pending in the District Court. Pledged securities 353 578 Lemminkäinen will provide information on the proceedings in its interim reports or in Deposits 61 72 separate releases, as necessary. 835 1,301,954 Guarantees On behalf of others 25,763 34,697 Investment purchase commitments 7,147 11,076 138 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) 33 RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS Related-party salaries, fees and 1 Lemminkäinen Group's related parties include associated companies and senior manageother short-term employee benefits 2 ment. Senior management comprises the Board of Directors, the CEO, Executive Board 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. 3 and the internal audit manager. Business with associates is conducted at market prices. EUR 1,000 2010 2009 4 Board of Directors Business with related parties 5 Berndt Brunow 127 127 6 Mikael Mäkinen 43 32 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. 7 EUR 1,000 2010 2009 Kristina Pentti-von Walzel 46 42 Sales of goods and services Heikki Räty 46 34 8 To associates 295 539 Teppo Taberman 45 40 9 Juhani Mäkinen 46 42 10 Purchases of goods and services 11 From associates 4,051 6,378 Executive Board 12 Timo Kohtamäki 646 428 13 EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Other members of the Executive Board 1,668 1,639 14 Balance of purchases/sales of goods and services Related-party salaries, fees and other short-term employee benefits 2,666 2,384 15 Trade receivables 16 From associates 6 28 Remuneration of the Board of Directors 17 Lemminkäinen Corporation’s Annual General Meeting elects each year the members to serve on the Company’s Board of Directors and decides their fees. The term of office of 18 Accounts payable To associates 69 8 the board members ends at the conclusion of the first Annual General Meeting held af19 ter their election. 20 As at 31 December 2010, the Group had granted EUR 0.1 million in loans to associates. The 2010 Annual General Meeting decided that the Chairman would be paid a fee of 21 The Group did not have any loan receivables from related parties on 31 December 2009. EUR 10,000 (in 2009 10,000) per month and the board members would each received 22 Related-party transactions with associates are mainly asphalt contracts and mineral a fee of EUR 3,000 (3,000) per month. The board members also receive an attendance 23 aggregate deliveries. A list of investments in subsidiaries and associates can be found in fee of EUR 500 per meeting. section 35 and additional information on associates in section 10. In addition, the members of the Audit Committee are paid an attendance fee of EUR 24 500 per meeting of the committee. 25 The members of Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors do not belong to the share-based 26 incentive scheme, and they are not employees of Lemminkäinen Corporation. 27 28 Remuneration of the Group Management 29 Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors decides on the pay, incentive scheme and other benefits of the President & CEO and the Group Executive Board on the basis of a proposal 30 submitted by the Remuneration Committee. 31 In connection with the renewal of Lemminkäinen’s strategy, work began on streamlin32 ing the corporate structure and developing the management model. The management and 33 planning practices in different parts of the Group are now being harmonised. As a part of 34 the management development programme, Lemminkäinen’s management pay and remu35 neration policy has been renewed. Its implementation began with the Group’s Executive Board in 2009 and continues with other management personnel in 2010. Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 139 Management remuneration In addition to the President & CEO and the other members of Lemminkäinen’s ExecuThe pay and remuneration policy approved by the Board of Directors is observed in Lemtive Board, approximately 20 persons are included within the scope of the scheme. Lemminkäinen Group. According to the policy, the pay of the President & CEO as well as the minkäinen’s Board of Directors decides on the distribution of shares to key personnel. members of the Group’s Executive Board and other management personnel consists of fixed basic pay, payments in kind and other benefits, and longand short-term rewards. 34 EVENTS AFTER THE ACCOUNTING DATE The key economic goals of Lemminkäinen’s strategy are profitable growth and As from 1 January 2011, Lemminkäinen’s business operations have been reorganised strengthening of the Group’s financial position. The Board of Directors decides annually into three business sectors: Building Construction, Infrastructure Construction and on the shortand long-term remuneration metrics used to support the achievement of Technical Building Services. In December 2010, Lemminkäinen announced the sale of Lemminkäinen’s strategic goals. its roofing business, which was part of the Building Products business sector, to the Fixed basic pay means a person’s monthly salary, which is determined according to capital investment firm Axcel. The sale of the roofing business was concluded on 31 the business value of the job as well as the performance and experience of the person January 2011. The concrete, environmental and sports construction businesses that doing the job. In addition to the use of a company car, mobile phone and meal benefits, were part of the Building Products business sector will be transferred to the Infrastrucmanagement personnel have extended insurance cover for accidents and travel in their ture Construction business sector. free time. On 15 December 2010, Lemminkäinen signed an agreement to purchase 100% of the shares in the Norwegian infrastructure construction company Mesta Industri AS Short-term reward scheme from Mesta Group at a price of EUR 14.8 million. The approval of the Norwegian ComShort-term rewarding is based on the possibility of receiving an annual performance-repetition Authority is still required. The deal is expected to be concluded during the first lated bonus. Performance-related pay is earned by exceeding performance targets specquarter of 2011. ified at the beginning of each year. Lemminkäinen’s management is divided into five perMesta Group is wholly owned by the Norwegian State. It is the country's largest conformance-related pay groups, which determine the maximum performance-related pay tractor in road construction and related functions such as maintenance and upkeep. The percentage applicable to each individual. Membership of a performance-related pay acquiree, Mesta Industri, is widely active in the Norwegian asphalt and mineral aggregate group is based on the individual’s position in the organisational hierarchy, as well as the sectors. Its estimated net sales in 2010 amount to about EUR 50 million. It has 170 business value and impact of the person’s job. employees on average. Mesta Industri AS was established in 2010 through the merger The possible performance-related reward for 2010 will be based on Lemminkäinen of Mesta Stein AS and Mesta Asfalt AS, both of which were subsidiaries of Mesta Group. Group’s result before taxes, interest-bearing net debt and the accomplishment of Lemminkäinen’s business plan. The performance-related reward of the business sector heads will be based on not only the above-mentioned criteria but also the operating result of each business sector as well as the accomplishment of its business plan. Achievement of the performance-related reward targets will be monitored at least biannually. The maximum performance-related reward payable to the President & CEO in 2010 will be 80% of his salary. The corresponding percentage for the other members of the Group’s Executive Board will vary between 40 and 60. Long-term reward scheme Lemminkäinen’s long-term reward system is a share-based incentive plan with three earning periods: calendar years 2010, 2011 and 2012. The commitment period is two years. The Board of Directors decides on the earning criteria for each earning period and on the targets set for them at the beginning of each earning period. Achievement of the earning criteria will be monitored at least biannually. The earning criteria for the 2010 long-term reward will be the Group’s return on investment and the Group’s equity ratio. 140 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) 35 SHARES AND HOLDINGS 1 2 Parent company Shareholding of other Group Consolidated Parent company Parent company shareholding, Book value undertakings book value. 3 Company shareholding, % shareholding, % shareholding, shares Finnish GAAP, 1,000 EUR Finnish GAAP, EUR 1,000 4 31.12.2010 5 6 Group undertakings 7 Lemminkäinen Talo Oy, Helsinki 100.0 100.0 2,183,663 73,424 8 Lemminkäinen Infra Oy, Helsinki 100.0 100.0 1,223 33,577 9 Lemminkäinen Talotekniikka Oy, Espoo 100.0 100.0 2,138,147 43,116 Lemminkäinen Rakennustuotteet Oy, Helsinki 100.0 100.0 250 6,230 10 Lemcon Networks Oy, Helsinki 75.0 75.0 294,000 590 11 Lemcon Networks Holding Oy, Helsinki 84.5 84.5 6,760 632 12 UAB Lemcon Vilnius, Lithuania 100.0 100.0 13 UAB Lemminkäinen Lietuva, Lithuania 99.6 99.6 3,737,272 3,498 14 15 Lemminkäinen Talo Oy, Helsinki 83.3 3,802 16 Lemminkäinen Talo Oy International, Helsinki 100.0 5 17 Lemminkäinen Talo Oy Itäja Pohjois-Suomi, Kitee 100.0 6,515 18 Lemmunkäinen Talo Oy Kaakkois-Suomi , Kouvola 100.0 11,297 19 Lemminkäinen Talo Oy Keskija Lounais-Suomi, Tampere 100.0 15,737 Lemminkäinen Talo Oy Länsi-Suomi, Vaasa 100.0 3,146 20 Lemminkäinen Talo Oy Pääkaupunkiseutu, Helsinki 100.0 11,018 21 Lemminkäinen Talo Oy Russia, Helsinki 100.0 155 22 Lemminkäinen PPP Oy, Kuopio 100.0 3 23 ICM International Construction Management, Hungary 100.0 684 24 Lemcon Co. Ltd. China 100.0 72 25 Lemcon Construction Private Limited, India 100.0 853 26 Lemcon HR Oy, Helsinki 100.0 60 27 OOO Lemcon Invest, Russia 100.0 2,284 28 Lemcon Polska Sp. Z O O, Poland 100.0 1,576 29 Lemminkäinen Ehitus As, Estonia 100.0 3 Lemminkäinen Service, Russia 100.0 13 30 OOO Lemminkäinen Stroy, Russia 100.0 864 31 Rekab Entreprenad Ab, Sweden 100.0 243 32 ZAO Lemminkäinen Rus, Russia 100.0 14,629 33 34 35 Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 141 Parent company Shareholding of other Group Consolidated Parent company Parent company shareholding, Book value undertakings book value. Company shareholding, % shareholding, % shareholding, shares Finnish GAAP, 1,000 EUR Finnish GAAP, EUR 1,000 Lemcon (Philippines) Inc, Pilippines 75.0 222 Lemcon (Thailand) Ltd, Thailand 75.0 51 Lemcon Argentina S.R.L, Argentina 75.0 5 LEMCON Baumanagement GmbH, Germany 75.0 26 Lemcon Bauprojekt-management GmbH, Austria 75.0 28 Lemcon Bulgaria EOOD, Bulgaria 75.0 3 Lemcon Canada Ltd, Canada 75.0 1 Lemcon Chile Ltda. Chile 75.0 15 Lemcon Columbia Ltda, Columbia 75.0 3 Lemminkäinen Construction (India) Pvt. Ltd, India 75.0 lemcon do Brasil Ltda, Brasil 75.0 22 Lemcon Épitöipari Kft, Hungary 75.0 28 Lemcon Networks Services Ltd., UK 75.0 19 Lemcon Networks Mexico S.de R.L.De C.V, Mexico 75.0 Lemcon Norge As, Norway 75.0 12 Lemcon Pte Ltd, Singapore 75.0 7 Lemcon Servicos de Planejamento de Engenharia Ltda, Brasil 75.0 20 Lemcon USA Corporation, United States 75.0 1 Lemcon Venezuela C.A., Venezuela 75.0 8 LEMCON ECUADOR SA, Ecuador 75.0 1 Pasila Telecom Oy, Helsinki 75.0 8 Private Company lemcon Ukraine, Ukraine 75.0 8 PT Lemcon Networks, Indonesia 75.0 75 Asfalt Remix AS, Norja 75.0 5,363 Fjellhamar Asfalt AS, Norway 100.0 6 ICS Lemminkäinen Infra Oy SRL, Moldova 100.0 0 Lemminkäinen A/S (LMK VEJ A/S), Denmark 100.0 18,972 Lemminkäinen Anlegg AS, Norway 90.1 3,988 Lemminkäinen Eesti AS, Estonia 91.7 3,894 Lemminkäinen Norge As, Norway 100.0 11,799 Lemminkäinen Sverige Ab, Sweden 100.0 12 Lohketööd Oy, Salo 85.0 3 Moelv Grus AS, Norway 100.0 122 142 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) Parent company Shareholding of other Group 1 Consolidated Parent company Parent company shareholding, Book value undertakings book value. Company shareholding, % shareholding, % shareholding, shares Finnish GAAP, 1,000 EUR Finnish GAAP, EUR 1,000 2 Oü Jarva Paas, Estonia 52.0 3 3 Oü Lohketööd, Estonia 85.0 1,192 4 Oü Magistraal, Estonia 100.0 1,023 5 SIA Lemminkäinen Latvija, Latvia 100.0 1,835 6 Tolarock Oy, Kajaani 100.0 3,048 7 UAB Kelio Linija, Lithuania 100.0 3 8 UAB Zvyrkasyba, Lithuania 100.0 1,357 9 ZAO Lemminkäinen Dor Stroi, Russia 100.0 544 10 Lemminkäinen Kiinteistötekniikka Oy, Espoo 100.0 10,235 11 Tekmanni RusService Oy, Espoo 100.0 3 12 Tekmen SPB, Russia 90.0 192 13 14 Lembet Oy, Helsinki 100.0 10.0 1 1 5 15 Suonenjoen Sementtituote Oy, Suonenjoki 100.0 1,271 16 ZAO Lemruf, Russia 100.0 3 17 18 Total 161,067 138,391 19 20 Associated undertakings Finavo Oy, Helsinki 47.5 476 21 Genvej A/S, Denmark 50.0 201 22 Lemcon Likusasa Africa Pty, South-Africa 50.0 23 NHK Rakennus Oy, Helsinki 35.0 622 24 Martin Haraldstad AS, Norway 50.0 788 25 Nordasfalt AS, Norway 50.0 609 26 Ullensaker Asfalt ANS, Norway 50.0 577 27 Total 3,274 28 29 Other shares and holdings 30 Housing shares 327 883 31 Property shares 793 2,413 Other shares and holdings 955 1,039 32 Total 2,075 4,335 33 34 35 Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 143 Parent company income statement Parent company balance sheet (FAS) (FAS) 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. EUR 1,000 Note 2010 2009 EUR 1,000 Note 31.12.2010 31.12.2009 Net sales 1.1 20,895 15,423 ASSETS Other operating income 1.2 24,496 58 Non-current assets 2.1 Materials and services 1.3 252 11 Intangible assets 2.1.1 5,313 686 Personnel expenses 1.4 14,851 9,644 Tangible assets 2.1.2 12,772 13,349 Depreciation 1.5 958 817 Holdings in Group undertakings 2.1.3 161,680 164,688 Other operating expenses 21,346 11,906 Other investments 2.1.3 2,062 2,108 181,828 180,830 Operating profit/loss 7,983 –6,898 Current assets 2.2 Deferred tax asset 2.2.1 3,279 Financial income and expenses 1.6 –7,095 46,207 Non-current receivables 2.2.1 4,613 4,982 Current receivables 2.2.2 323,594 217,226 Profit before extraordinary items 889 39,309 Cash in hand and at banks 4,586 12,186 336,071 234,395 Extraordinary items 1.7 14,000 –36,700 517,899 415,225 Result before appropriations and taxes 14,889 2,609 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Direct taxes 1.8 2,698 –121 Shareholders' equity 2.3 Result for the financial year 17,587 2,488 Share capital 34,043 34,043 Share premium account 5,675 5,675 Invested non-restricted equity fund 60,997 Other funds –1,510 Retained earnings 75,206 72,636 Result for the financial year 17,587 2,488 191,996 114,841 Liabilities 2.4 Deferred tax liability 2.4.1 1,441 1,441 Non-current liabilities 2.4.2 159,598 230,420 Current liabilities 2.4.3 164,864 68,523 325,903 300,384 517,899 415,225 144 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Parent company financial statements (FAS) Parent company cash flow statement (FAS) 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. EUR 1,000 2010 2009 EUR 1,000 2010 2009 Cash flow from financing Cash flow from business operations Increase(–)/decrease(+) in non-current receivables –204 Result before extraordinary items 889 39,309 Share issue for cash consideration 39,525 Extraordinary items 14,000 –54,000 Group contributions received 14,000 15,000 Adjustments Change in Group receivables/liabilities –79,140 –145,101 Depreciation according to plan 958 817 Short-term loans drawn 229,600 329,626 Financial income and expenses 7,095 –46,207 Repayments of short-term loans –158,564 –637,626 Other adjustments –24,130 223 Long-term loans drawn 82,800 212,000 Cash flow before change in working capital –1,189 –59,858 Repayments of long-term loans –156,933 –18,323 Dividends paid –15,319 Change in working capital Cash flow from financing –28,712 –259,946 Increase(–)/decrease(+) in current interest-free business receivables 32,632 174,958 Increase(+)/decrease(–) in current interest-free liabilities 2,852 201 Increase(+)/decrease(–) in cash and cash equivalents –7,690 –144,852 Cash flow from operations before financial items and taxes 34,295 115,302 Cash and cash equivalents at begining of financial year 12,186 157,039 Corporate restructuring 90 Interest and other financial expenses paid –24,663 –23,628 Cash and cash equivalents at end of financial year 4,586 12,186 Dividends received 1,741 13,400 Interest and other financial income received 15,092 10,824 Direct taxes paid –18 –421 Cash flow from business operations 26,447 115,477 Cash flow from investments Investments in tangible and intangible assets –4,750 –455 Capital gains from the sale of tangible and intangible assets 108 139 Investments in other assets –109 Capital gains from the sale of other investments 91 Purchases of subsidiary shares –875 –14 Sales of subsidiary shares 56 Cash flow from investments –5,426 –383 Parent company financial statements (FAS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 145 Parent Company’s Accounting Principles, 31 Dec. 2010 Lemminkäinen Corporation’s financial statements are prepared in accordance with FinnValuation and depreciation of fixed assets ish accounting standards (FAS). Fixed assets are shown on the balance sheet at their original acquisition costs less planned depreciation over their expected economic lifetimes. In addition, the values of Foreign currency items some land, buildings and shareholdings include revaluations, against which no depreciaTransactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency tion is charged. The depreciation periods are as follows: using the exchange rate ruling on the transaction date. On the closing date, receivables and liabilities on the balance sheet are translated using the exchange rates on that date. –– Buildings and structures 10–40 years –– Machinery and equipment 4–10 years Derivatives –– Other fixed assets 4–10 years Derivatives are measured at fair value. Forward foreign exchange contracts are measured on the closing date using the forPension liability ward foreign exchange rates on that date. Forward foreign exchange contracts are used The pension security of employees, inclusive of additional benefits, is covered by policies to hedge against changes in predicted foreign currency-denominated cash flows and taken out from a pension insurance company. the exchange rates of receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies. The fair values of interest-rate swap agreements are calculated as the present value of future cash flows. Research and development expenses Interest-rate swap agreements are used for the variable to fixed rate conversion of the R&D expenditure is expensed in the year during which it occurs. Company’s loans from financial institutions. The income and expenses from these assets and liabilities entered in the income statement are presented under financial items in the Direct taxes income statement and in section 1.6 of the notes to the financial statements. Taxes calculated on the basis of the result for the financial year, adjustments to the taxes of earlier financial years, and the change in the deferred tax liability and asset are recorded as Hedge accounting direct taxes on the income statement. The Company has applied hedge accounting to interest-rate swap agreements used to hedge variable-rate loans. The agreements are defined as cash flow hedges and they provide protection against fluctuations in loan interest payments due to changes in market interest rates. The change in fair value of the interest-rate swap agreements used as hedges is recognised directly in the hedging reserve in equity to the extent that the hedging relationship is effective. The ineffective part of the change is entered in interest expenses in the income statement. Changes in fair value accumulated in equity are recognised through profit and loss in interest expenses in the accounting period when the hedged item produces a profit or loss. 146 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Parent company's accounting principles Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements (FAS) 1 INCOME STATEMENT 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. EUR 1,000 2010 2009 EUR 1,000 2010 2009 1.1 NET SALES BY MARKET AREA 1.4 NOTES CONCERNING PERSONNEL, MANAGEMENT AND BOARD MEMBERS Finland 20,843 15,390 Personnel expenses Nordic countries 33 16 Salaries, wages and emoluments 11,249 7,157 Eastern Europe 19 17 Pension expenses 3,005 2,251 20,895 15,423 Other staff costs 597 237 14,851 9,644 1.2 OTHER OPERATING INCOME Management salaries and emoluments Profit on the sale of fixed assets 45 54 Board Members and Managing Director 998 739 Gain on merger 24,421 Others 30 4 Average number of employees 24,496 58 Salaried employees 191 114 191 114 1.3 MATERIALS AND SERVICES Pension commitments concerning Board Members and Managing Director Raw materials and consumables The retirement age of the Managing Director of Lemminkäinen Corporation Purchases during the financial year 11 is 60 years. 11 External services 252 1.5 DEPRECIATION 252 11 Intangible rights 362 218 Other capitalised expenditure 22 18 Buildings 347 405 Machinery and equipment 165 113 Other tangible assets 62 62 958 817 Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 147 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. 2 BALANCE SHEET EUR 1,000 2010 2009 1.6 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 2.1 NON-CURRENT ASSETS Dividend income From Group undertakings 1,740 56,667 2.1.1 Intangible assets From others 1 Intangible rights 349 333 1,741 56,667 Other capitalised expenditure 205 159 Other interest and financial income Advance payments 4,759 193 From Group undertakings 11,604 8,733 5,313 686 From others 5,716 1,886 17,320 10,619 2.1.2 Tangible assets Interest expenses and other financial expenses Land and water 6,278 6,278 To Group undertakings –2,453 –763 Buildings 5,690 6,091 To others –23,703 –20,316 Machinery and equipment 346 438 –26,156 –21,079 Other intangible assets 459 516 Advance payments and work in progress 26 Net financial income/expenses –7,095 46,207 12,772 13,349 Financial income and expenses include: 2.1.3 Investments Exchange gains and losses (net) –387 –1,123 Holdings in Group undertakings 161,680 164,688 Change in fair value of currency derivatives (net) –320 Other shares and holdings 2,062 2,108 Change in fair value of interest rate derivatives (net) –153 163,742 166,796 1.7 EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS 2.1.1 Intangible assets Extraordinary incomes, Group contributions 14,000 17,300 Intangible rights Extraordinary expenses, infringement fine –54,000 Acquisition cost 1.1. 1,861 1,832 14,000 –36,700 Increases 377 32 Decreases –224 –3 1.8 DIRECT TAXES Acquisition cost 31.12. 2,014 1,861 Accumulated depreciation 31.12. –1,664 –1,527 Income taxes on normal business operations –50 –77 Book value 31.12. 349 333 Income taxes in respect of previous years 2,748 –44 2,698 –121 148 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Other capitalised expenditure Machinery and equipment Acquisition cost 1.1. 259 214 Acquisition cost 1.1. 1,458 1,456 Increases 68 45 Increases 106 299 Acquisition cost 31.12. 327 259 Decreases –512 –296 Accumulated depreciation 31.12. –122 –100 Acquisition cost 31.12. 1,052 1,458 Book value 31.12. 205 159 Accumulated depreciation 31.12. –706 –1,020 Book value 31.12. 346 438 Advance payments Acquisition cost 1.1. 193 147 Other tangible assets Increases 4,735 46 Acquisition cost 1.1. 1,359 1,351 Decreases –169 Increases 7 7 Acquisition cost 31.12. 4,759 193 Decreases –2 Acquisition cost 31.12. 1,364 1,359 2.1.2 Tangible assets Accumulated depreciation 31.12. –905 –843 Book value 31.12. 459 516 Land and water Acquisition cost 1.1. 3,191 3,214 Advance payments and construction in progress Decreases –23 Acquisition cost 1.1. 26 Acquisition cost 31.12. 3,191 3,191 Increases 26 Revaluations 3,087 3,087 Decreases –26 Book value 31.12. 6,278 6,278 Acquisition cost 31.12. 26 Buildings 2.1.3 Investments Acquisition cost 1.1. 14,900 14,969 Increases 26 Holdings in Group undertakings Decreases –254 –69 Acquisition cost 1.1. 164,688 164,725 Acquisition cost 31.12. 14,672 14,900 Increases from mergers 32,273 Accumulated depreciation 31.12. –11,360 –11,188 Increases 22,347 14 Revaluations 2,378 2,378 Decreases from mergers –57,628 Book value 31.12. 5,690 6,091 Decreases –51 Acquisition cost 31.12. 161,680 164,688 Merger difference has been allocated to acquisition cost of received subsidiary shares and to other operating income. Holdings in associated undertakings Acquisition cost 1.1. 293 Decreases –293 Acquisition cost 31.12. Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 149 EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 Other shares 2.2 CURRENT ASSETS Acquisition cost 1.1. 2,031 1,635 Increases 5 396 2.2.1 Non-current receivables Decreases –50 Loan receivables 4,613 4,982 Acquisition cost 31.12. 1,986 2,031 Deferred tax asset 3,279 Revaluations 76 76 7,891 4,982 Book value 31.12. 2,062 2,108 2.2.2 Current receivables 2.1.4 Revaluations Amounts owed by parties outside the Group Land Accounts receivable 19 27 Value 1.1. 3,087 3,087 Other receivables 752 45 Value 31.12. 3,087 3,087 Prepayments and accrued income 1,116 3,455 1,887 3,527 Buildings Value 1.1. 2,378 2,378 Amounts owed by Group undertakings Value 31.12. 2,378 2,378 Accounts receivable 2,076 4,077 Other receivables 317,669 209,622 Shares Prepayments and accrued income 1,963 Value 1.1. 76 76 321,707 213,699 Value 31.12. 76 76 Current receivables, total 323,594 217,226 Items included in prepayments and accrued income Interest receivables 590 331 Deferred personnel expenses 22 Deferred financial expenses 111 3,100 Others 415 1 1,116 3,455 150 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 2.3 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 2.4 LIABILITIES Share capital 1.1. 34,043 34,043 2.4.1 Deferred tax liability Share capital 31.12. 34,043 34,043 From revaluations 1,441 1,441 1,441 1,441 Share premium account 1.1. 5,675 5,675 Share premium account 31.12. 5,675 5,675 2.4.2 Non-current liabilities Loans from credit institutions 28,597 160,020 Invested non-restricted equity fund Pension loans 70,755 70,400 Increases 60,997 Bonds 60,000 Invested non-restricted equity fund 31.12. 60,997 Other non-current liabilities 246 159,598 230,420 Hedging reserve 1.1. Increases –2,040 2.4.3 Current liabilities Transfer to deferred tax liability 530 Loans from credit institutions 11,423 15,123 Hedging reserve 31.12. –1,510 Pension loans 19,035 18,400 Commercial paper 75,100 5,000 Retained earnings 1.1. 75,124 87,955 Accounts payable 1,269 736 Distribution of dividend –15,319 Accounts payable to Group undertakings 115 111 Transfer from revaluations reserve 82 Other liabilities to Group undertakings 48,778 26,510 Retained earnings 31.12. 75,206 72,636 Other liabilities 4,991 186 Accruals and deferred income 4,152 2,457 Result for the financial year 17,587 2,488 164,864 68,523 Shareholders' equity, total 191,996 114,841 Items included in accruals and deferred income Interests 1,184 923 Distributable funds 31.12. 153,789 75,124 Income tax 77 Accrued personnel expenses 2,690 1,335 Others 278 121 4,152 2,457 Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 151 EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 EUR 1,000 31.12.10 31.12.09 2.5 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Leasing liabilities Payable next year 4,678 4,271 Liabilities secured by mortagages and pledges Payable in subsequent years 24,794 27,366 Loans from financial institutions 175,143 29,472 31,638 Pension loans 88,800 Derivative contracts 263,943 Forward foreign exchange contracts Nominal value 48,902 15,190 Mortgages on property 80,000 Fair value –868 –295 Mortgages on company assets 375,228 455,228 Interest rate swap contracts Nominal value 48,072 51,443 Pledges given on behalf of others Fair value –2,193 –2,815 Securities pledged 90 90 90 90 Mortgages and pledges, total Mortgages on property 80,000 Mortgages on company assets 375,228 Securities pledged 90 90 90 455,318 Guarantees given On behalf of Group undertakings 254,915 235,827 On behalf of others 25,763 13,147 280,679 248,974 152 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) Financial indicators (IFRS) EUR million 2010 2009 ¹) ²) 2008 ²) 2007 2006 Net sales 1,892.5 1,965.5 2,481.8 2,174.1 1,795.9 Exports and operations outside Finland 543.5 527.6 676.7 581.6 530.3 % net sales 28.7 26.8 27.3 26.8 29.5 Operating profit 29.0 23.2 121.9 127.2 109.2 % net sales 1.5 1.2 4.9 5.8 6.1 Result before taxes 6.8 –10.2 89.8 111.2 94.2 % net sales 0.4 –0.5 3.6 5.1 5.2 Result for the financial year ³) 0.3 –26.2 55.0 72.9 65.8 % net sales 0.0 –1.3 2.2 3.4 3.7 Non-current assets 4) 313.9 300.5 289.0 272.1 255.9 Inventories 4) 376.0 374.7 398.2 330.9 281.9 Financial assets 4) 375.3 379.5 726.4 465.9 401.4 Shareholders' equity 3) 328.4 270.6 313.1 295.5 248.0 Non-controlling interest 5.1 23.2 27.8 23.7 19.7 Interest-bearing liabilities 375.5 399.1 586.5 357.0 343.6 Interest-free liabilities 4) 356.2 361.7 486.2 392.8 327.8 Balance sheet total 1,065.3 1,054.7 1,413.7 1,069.0 939.2 Return on equity, % 0.4 –7.6 19.0 27.5 30.2 Return on investment, % 7.0 5.4 17.5 20.7 20.6 Equity ratio, % 35.2 30.9 26.2 32.7 31.2 Gearing, % 104.7 110.5 98.7 87.2 105.7 Interest-bearing net liabilities 349.2 324.7 336.4 278.5 283.0 Gross investments 59.6 41.5 60.2 61.4 48.7 % net sales 3.1 2.1 2.4 2.8 2.7 Order book 31.12. 1,226.4 1,064.5 1,064.5 1,414.1 1,326.7 Average number of employees 8,314 8,626 9,776 9,201 8,418 ¹) As from 1 January 2010, Lemminkäinen observes the interpretation IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate in its Reporting. The comparative figures for 2009 have also been calculated in accordance with the interpretation. ²) The figures include a liability noted in an additional report on a consortium. For more information on the adjustment of the liability see note 1. ³) Attributable to the equity holders of the parent company. 4) The figure includes assets held for sale or related liabilities. Non-current assets held for sale and related liabilities are presented in note 16. Group financial indicators – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 153 Share-related financial indicators (IFRS) 2010 2009 ¹) ²) 2008 ²) 2007 2006 Earnings per share (EPS), EUR 0.02 –1.54 3.23 4.29 3.87 Equity per share, EUR 16.72 15.90 18.40 17.36 14.57 Dividend per share, EUR 0.50 ³) 0.00 0.90 1.80 1.50 Dividend to earnings ratio, % over 100 0.0 27.9 42.0 38.8 Effective dividend yield, % 1.9 0.0 6.9 5.7 4.2 Price/earnings ratio (P/E) 1,664.4 –15.7 4.0 7.4 9.3 Share price, EUR mean 24.73 21.38 27.40 44.88 34.00 lowest 21.21 13.30 12.53 31.03 28.38 highest 30.00 30.30 37.55 55.61 39.34 at end of financial year 26.00 24.20 13.05 31.50 36.10 Market capitalisation, EUR mill. 510.8 411.9 222.1 536.2 614.5 Shares traded, 1,000 4,172 1,918 3,185 5,204 4,114 % of total 21.8 11.3 18.7 30.6 24.2 Number of shares average for the period, 1,000 19,124 17,021 17,021 17,021 17,021 at end of period, 1,000 19,645 17,021 17,021 17,021 17,021 ¹) As from 1 January 2010 Lemminkäinen observes the interpretation IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate in its Reporting. The comparative figures for 2009 have also been calculated in accordance with the interpretation. ²) The figures include a liability noted in an additional report on a consortium. ³) Board of Directors’ proposal to the AGM 154 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Group financial indicators Formulae for the financial indicators return on investment, % GEARING, % Result before taxes + interest and other financial expenses Interest-bearing liabilities – cash and cash equivalents × 100 × 100 Balance sheet total – interest-free liabilities (average) Shareholder's equity, total RETURN ON EQUITY, % INTEREST-BEARING NET DEBT Result for the financial period Interest-bearing liabilities – cash and cash equivalents × 100 Shareholder's equity, total (average) EMPLOYEES EQUITY RATIO, % Sum of monthly employee headcount Shareholder's equity, total Number of months in the financial period × 100 Balance sheet total – advances received EARNINGS PER SHARE EFFECTIVE DIVIDEND YIELD, % Result for the financial period – non-controlling interest Dividend per share × 100 Issue-adjusted number of shares (average) Issue-adjusted share price at the end of the period EQUITY PER SHARE P/E RATIO Equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent company Issue-adjusted share price at the end of the period Issue-adjusted number of shares at the end of the period Earnings per share DIVIDEND PER SHARE ISSUE-ADJUSTED MEAN SHARE PRICE Dividend for the financial period Trading value or total share turnover in euros Issue-adjusted number of shares at the end of the period Issue-adjusted number of shares traded during the period DIVIDEND TO EARNINGS RATIO, % MARKET CAPITALISATION Dividend for the financial period Number of shares x final share quotation × 100 Result for the financial period – non-controlling interest Group financial indicators – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 155 Board of Directors' proposal for the distribution of profit Distributable shareholders' equity shown on the parent company balance sheet at 31 Derectors will propose to the AGM that, for the financial year ended 31 December 2010, the cember 2010 amounts to EUR 153,788,918.81 consisting of retained earnings EUR company distributes a per-share dividend of EUR 0.50 to a total of EUR 9,822,382.00 75,205,562.38 and the profit for the financial year EUR 17,586,655.93. The board of diafter which retained earnings would stand at EUR 82,969,836.31. Helsinki, 9 February 2011 Berndt Brunow Juhani Mäkinen Mikael Mäkinen Kristina Pentti-von Walzel Heikki Räty Teppo Taberman Timo Kohtamäki President and CEO 156 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Board of Directors' proposal for the distribution of profit Auditor’s Report To the Annual General Meeting of Lemminkäinen Corporation risks of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk asWe have audited the accounting records, the financial statements, the report of the sessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of Board of Directors and the administration of Lemminkäinen Corporation for the year financial statements and report of the Board of Directors that give a true and fair view in ended 31 December, 2010. The financial statements comprise the consolidated balance order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the sheet, income statement, statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. equity and statement of cash flows, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the as well as the parent company’s balance sheet, income statement, cash flow statement reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the and notes to the financial statements. overall presentation of the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to Responsibility of the Board of Directors provide a basis for our audit opinion. and the Managing Director The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation of Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with InIn our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the finanternational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, as well as for cial position, financial performance, and cash flows of the group in accordance with Interthe preparation of financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors that give national Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. a true and fair view in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors in Finland. The Opinion on the Company’s Financial Statements and the Report Board of Directors is responsible for the appropriate arrangement of the control of the of the Board of Directors company’s accounts and finances, and the Managing Director shall see to it that the acIn our opinion, the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors give a counts of the company are in compliance with the law and that its financial affairs have true and fair view of both the consolidated and the parent company’s financial perforbeen arranged in a reliable manner. mance and financial position in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors in FinAuditor’s Responsibility land. The information in the report of the Board of Directors is consistent with the inforOur responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements, on the consolimation in the financial statements. dated financial statements and on the report of the Board of Directors based on our audit. The Auditing Act requires that we comply with the requirements of professional ethHelsinki, 2 March 2011 ics. We conducted our audit in accordance with good auditing practice in Finland. Good auditing practice requires that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable asPricewaterhouseCoopers Oy surance about whether the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors Authorised Public Accountants are free from material misstatement, and whether the members of the Board of Directors of the parent company and the Managing Director are guilty of an act or negligence Jan Holmberg which may result in liability in damages towards the company or whether they have vioAuthorised Public Accountant lated the Limited Liability Companies Act or the articles of association of the company. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the Auditor’s Report – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 157 Shares and shareholders 4,200,000 shares and/or special rights entitling their holders to shares in one or more instalments, either against payment or without consideration. The Extraordinary General Meeting also authorised the Board of Directors to decide on the repurchase of a maximum of 1,700,000 of the Company's own shares. After the share issues in 2010, the Board of Directors is authorised to issue a further Lemminkäinen’s share and share capital 1,576,486 shares and/or special rights entitling their holders to shares. The authorisation Lemminkäinen Corporation’s share (LEM1S) is quoted on the Mid Cap list of NASDAQ is valid for five (5) years after being granted. In addition, the authorisation to repurchase OMX Helsinki Ltd under Industrials, Construction & Engineering. The Company has one own shares is fully unused and will remain in force for 18 months from the decision of the share class. Each share carries one vote at a general meeting of shareholders and conmeeting. fers an equal right to a dividend. At the end of 2010, the number of issued shares was 19,644,764. The number of shares increased by 2,623,514 in 2010 when the ComShare issues in 2010 pany held two separate share issues. The Company’s share capital is EUR 34,042,500. On 17 March 2010, Lemminkäinen Corporation's Board of Directors decided on two separate share issues. The Company offered 1,700,000 new shares in the Company for Share price and turnover subscription to institutional investors approved by the Board of Directors. In addition, the The price of Lemminkäinen’s share on the last trading day of 2010 was EUR 26.00 Board of Directors decided on a targeted issue in which a total of 923,514 new shares in (24.20). The share price increased by 7.4 per cent during the report year. The highest the Company were offered for subscription to the minority shareholders of Lemminkäinquoted price was EUR 30.00 (in April) and the lowest EUR 21.21 (in May). The averen Talo Oy and Lemminkäinen Talotekniikka Oy. The subscription price was EUR 23.25 age price in 2010 was EUR 24.73 (21.38). The year-end market capitalisation was EUR per share. The new shares were made available for trading on 23 March 2010. After the 510.8 million (411.9). issues, Lemminkäinen Corporation has 19,644,764 shares. Share turnover on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd totalled 4,171,666 shares (1,918,039) and the turnover value was EUR 103.2 million. Lemminkäinen has a Liquidity Providing Management shareholdings (LP) agreement with Nordea Bank Finland Plc. According to the agreement, Nordea Bank At the end of 2010, the members of the Group Executive Board and the Board of DirecFinland Plc must quote both bid and offer prices for Lemminkäinen Corporation’s share tors held a total of 747,343 Lemminkäinen Corporation shares, representing 3.8 per cent such that the prices do not deviate from each other by more than 4 per cent, calculated of the Company’s shares and the voting rights conferred by them. The holdings of Lemon the bid price. minkäinen’s public insiders are updated in real time on the Company’s website at www.lemminkainen.com/investors. Shareholders At the end of 2010 Lemminkäinen had 4,979 shareholders (5,017). The largest shareShare-based incentive plan holder group was the Pentti family, who owned 57 per cent of the shares. International The Company has a share-based incentive plan that covers about 30 key employees. shareholders owned 8 per cent of Lemminkäinen’s shares. The plan has three earnings periods: calendar years 2010, 2011 and 2012. The Board of Directors decides on the earnings criteria for each earnings period and the targets set for Flagging notifications them at the beginning of each earnings period. The reward for 2010 was based on LemIn March 2010, Lemminkäinen received flagging notifications pursuant to Chapter 2, minkäinen Group’s equity ratio and return on investment. As the set targets were not Section 9 of the Securities Markets Act. According to the notifications, the holdings of achieved, no shares will be granted in 2011. Olavi Pentti and the estate of Erkki Pentti declined to under 20 per cent (1/5). In addiThe reward for the 2011 earnings period, if any, will be paid partly in the form of Lemtion, the holding of the estate of Heikki Pentti declined to under 10 per cent (1/10). minkäinen shares and partly in cash in 2012. The cash component covers the deferred taxes and tax-related costs arising from the reward. The shares may not be transferred Agreements between shareholders and authorisations during the commitment period that ends two years after the end of the earnings period. The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that would have a The Company’s CEO and the members of the Group Executive Board must retain ownersignificant bearing on voting behaviour at general meetings of shareholders. ship of half of the shares granted to them as rewards in the plan for two years after the The Extraordinary General Meeting of Lemminkäinen Corporation, held on 12 Novemend of the commitment period. ber 2009, authorised the Board of Directors to resolve on a share issue of no more than 158 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Shares and shareholders major shareholders 31.12.2010 Ownership structure Number of % of total name of shareholder shares stock Estate of Erkki Pentti 3,673,956 18.70 Pentti Olavi 3,673,953 18.70 Estate of Heikki Pentti 1,906,976 9.71 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 823,727 4.19 Pentti-Kortman Eva Katarina 635,660 3.24 Pentti-Von Walzel Anna Eva Kristina 635,660 3.24 Pentti Timo Kaarle Kristian 635,660 3.24 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 520,000 2.65 Swedbank 315,000 1.60 Mandatum Life Insurance Company Limited 283,711 1.44 Pentti family 57% Financial and insurance corporations 7% Maaja Vesitekniikan Tuki ry. 250,000 1.27 Other households 12% Corporations 4% Etera Mutual Pension Insurance Company 212,244 1.08 Public institutions 9% Non-profit institutions 3% Odin Finland 204,266 1.04 Foreign countries and nominee registered 8% Evli Select Mutual Fund 200,000 1.02 Pension Fennia 160,000 80.81 ¹) As from 1 January 2010, Lemmin15 largest in total 14,130,813 7 71.93 earNiNgs per share, divideNd per share, eur käinen observes the interpretation 6 Nominee registered 1,502,357 5 IFRIC 15 – Agreements for the 57.65 4 Construction of Real Estate in its reOther shareholders 4,011,594 20.42 4 3 porting. The comparative figures for 3 Total 19,644,764 100.00 2 2009 have also been calculated in 2 accordance with this interpretation. 1 1 0 0 -1 share price developmeNt aNd share turNover -1 -2 -2 60 eur thousaNd shares 1,200 06 07 08 09¹) 10 50 1,000 earnings/share Dividend/share 40 800 30 600 20 400 market capitalisatioN, eur millioN 700 10 200 600 600 500 0 500 0 400 06 07 08 09 10 400 300 300 Lemminkäinen corporation omX Helsinki omX Helsinki cap 200 200 share turnover 100 100 0 read more 0 www.lemminkainen.com/investors 06 07 08 09 10 Shares and shareholders – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 159 Information for shareholders and Financial reporting 2011 investors 10 February 2011 2010 Financial Statement Bulletin Week 11 Annual Report 2010 (pdf online) Week 14 Printed Annual Report 2010 Annual General Meeting 5 May 2011 Interim Report, 1 January – 31 March 2011 Lemminkäinen Corporation’s 2011 Annual General Meeting will be held at 3 p.m. on 4 August 2011 Interim Report, 1 January – 30 June 2011 Monday, 4 April 2011, at High Tech Center, HTC Helsinki Auditorium, Tammasaarenkatu 3 November 2011 Interim Report, 1 January – 30 September 2011 1–5, Helsinki, Finland. Each shareholder who is registered on 23 March 2011 in the shareholder register Publication orders of the Company maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd has the right to participate in the The Company publishes its financial reports, stock exchange bulletins and press releasGeneral Meeting. A shareholder whose shares are registered on his/her personal Finnish es in both Finnish and English. They can be read at Lemminkäinen’s website, www.lembook-entry account is registered in the Company’s shareholder register. minkainen.com, where you can also subscribe to email delivery of releases. You can order a printed copy of the Annual Report from www.lemminkainen.com/media/order_publicaRegistration tions or by emailing info@lemminkainen.fi. A shareholder who wishes to participate in the General Meeting must register no later than 4.00 p.m. on 30 March 2011 by giving notice either: Changes of address –– online at www.lemminkainen.com Notifications of changes of shareholders’ addresses should be sent to the brokerage firm –– by email to pirjo.favorin@lemminkainen.fi or bank administering your book-entry account for securities. –– by phone +358 2071 53378 –– by fax +358 2071 53510 Investor relations –– by mail to Lemminkäinen Corporation, Pirjo Favorin, P.O. Box 169, 00181 ­Helsinki, Lemminkäinen’s investor relations seek to support the correct valuation of the CompaFinland ny’s share by providing the capital markets with truthful information on the Company’s business, strategy and financial position. The information must be objective and simulWhen registering, a shareholder shall provide his/her name, personal identification numtaneously disclosed to all market participants. The Company answers questions from ber, address, telephone number as well as the name and personal identification number analysts and investors by phone and email, as well as by holding meetings with invesof any assistant. Notices of intention to attend must be received before the registrators. Lemminkäinen refrains from contact with representatives of the capital markets tion deadline. Any instruments of proxy must also be submitted with the registration. and financial media during the three-week period prior to the publication of the financial The summons to attend the AGM can be read in full on the Company’s website at statements and interim reports. www.lemminkainen.com Investment research Payment of dividend According to the information available to the Company, analysts in the service of at Lemminkäinen Corporation’s Board of Directors will propose to the Annual General least the following banks and brokerage firms have made investment analyses of LemMeeting that a dividend of EUR 0.50 per share be paid for the 2010 financial year. Diviminkäinen: Carnegie Securities, Evli Bank, FIM Bank, Nordea Markets, Pohjola Bank plc, dends will be paid to shareholders who are recorded in the shareholder register mainSEB Enskilda. Contact information for these analysts is provided on Lemminkäinen’s tained by Euroclear Ltd on the record date, 7 April 2011. The dividend payout date prowebsite at www.lemminkainen.com/investors. posed by the Board of Directors is 14 April 2011. Contact information Lemminkäinen Corporation Katri Sundström Investor Relations Investor Relations Officer P.O. Box 169, 00180 Helsinki, Finland Tel. +358 2071 54813 / investor@lemminkainen.fi +358 400 976 333 160 Lemminkäinen annual report 2010 – financial statements – Shares and shareholders katri.sundstrom@lemminkainen.fi LEMMINKÄINEN CORPORATION Lemminkäinen Communications Kati Renvall Salmisaarenaukio 2 Senior Vice President, Communications and Marketing Concept, graphic design and production: kati.renvall@lemminkainen.fi Miltton Oy P.O.Box 169 CSR reporting Photographs: Inside pages: Aino Huovio and FI-00180 Helsinki, Finland Emilia Peltola Voitto Niemelä (page 3) Communications Specialist, Covers: Aino Huovio and Lemminkäinen Tel. +358 2071 5000 Corporate Responsibility and Media Relations emilia.peltola@lemminkainen.fi Paper: Edixion 300 g www.lemminkainen.com Edixion 120 g Corporate Responsibility Edixion 90 g Vesa Lipsanen Senior Vice President, Printing: Corporate Responsibility and Risk Management Libris Oy 2011 vesa.lipsanen@lemminkainen.fi Environment Johanna Aarnio Head of Environment and Safety johanna.aarnio@lemminkainen.fi Human Resources This Annual Report has been printed using vegetable-based inks with a Tiina Mellas low environmental load, and its raw materials meet the strict standards of the Swan ecolabel. All paper is PEFC-certified, which means that its wood Executive Vice President, raw materials have come from sustainably managed forests. Libris Oy has been granted the Swan ecolabel and complies with international quality and HR and ICT environmental standards (ISO 9001/ISO 14001). tiina.mellas@lemminkainen.fi Finance in general Robert Öhman CFO robert.ohman@lemminkainen.fi Investor Relations Katri Sundström Investor Relations Officer katri.sundstrom@lemminkainen.fi Re-energised for the new millennium. 2000s Read more about modern-day Lemminkäinen In autumn 2000, Lemminkäinen broke into a major new field when the company acquired a majority holdat: www.lemminkainen.fi. ing in Tekmanni Oy. This transaction enabled Lemminkäinen to expand into technical building services. 1990s Lemminkäinen and Nokia’s long-term, global cooperation began in the 1990s. Nokia’s R&D centre in Bochum, Germany was constructed. 1980s Lemminkäinen established itself in Liberia, Africa in 1977. The country was experiencing a construction boom and Lemminkäinen was, for example, able to take part in projects funded by the World Bank. This is a view of the water supply and sewerage project 1960s in the capital city of Monrovia. Tarmac was an affordable material that was widely used to pave Finland’s roads during the 1960s. 1970s Lemminkäinen grew vigorously durHere is Lemminkäinen’s tarmac laying team at ing the 1970s, also through acquisiwork in Lapland, on the road between Hetta and tions. The company expanded its the Norwegian border, in summer 1964. business outside Finland’s borders with major projects in places such as Kostamuksha and Svetogorsk 1950s 1920s in Russia. The industrialisation of staircase In 1920, Lemminkäinen expanded its production with manufacture entered a new era in the manufacture of roofing felt. The first roofing felt 1954 when Lemminkäinen became factory was located in a few kilometres east of the the first company in Finland to begin city centre. the manufacture of pre-cast staircase elements. The launch of industrial mass production also provided a massive boost to both production at the company’s cement works and Lemminkäinen’s net sales. 1930s 1940s Lemminkäinen applied Finns believed itself to developing that the war would asphalt-paved roads one day come and introduced its to an end and own asphalt mixer re-building would in 1934. This is Sicommence. During monkatu in downtown the Continuation Helsinki being paved War, the company sometime in the late announced that 1930s. it was ready for action. 1910s In 1910, Asfaltti Osakeyhtiö Lemminkäinen started up on an industrial site at the Merisatama harbour in Helsinki. The photo shows its main products of the early years – steps for staircases – in the factory’s modest yard.
