what moves us CA TECHNOLOGIES Sustainability Executive Summary 8 about CA Technologies message from ceo & chairman CA Technologies (NASDAQ: CA) is an IT management software and solutions company with expertise across all IT environments — from mainframe 10 and distributed, to virtual and cloud. CA Technologies manages and secures stakeholder IT environments and enables customers to deliver more ﬂexible IT services. engagement The innovative products and services from CA Technologies provide the insight and control essential for IT organizations to power business agility. The 12 customer majority of the Global Fortune 500 relies on CA Technologies to manage evolving solutions IT ecosystems. For additional information, visit CA Technologies at ca.com. 16 our mission operational efficiency To revolutionize the way IT powers business agility, CA Technologies will: eliminate the barriers to delivering IT services in faster, more flexible and 20 community more sustainable ways; bridge the IT environments of today to those of involvement tomorrow; break the trade-off between IT that is highly reliable and highly flexible; and innovate to enable IT to respond to business needs with 22 unprecedented speed and efficiency. employee empowerment 24 business practices ibc key performance indicators what moves us At CA Technologies, we are driven to do all we can to ensure that our customers, communities, planet and each other will flourish far into the future. This is good for our fellow human beings and good for our business. To be here for the long term, we focus on things that last and we are moved in many different ways. Around the company, around the world, among our more than 13,000 employees, we asked, what moves you? 1 / sustainability executive summary Fernando Nogueras Alvarez Senior Director, Engineering Services, Düsseldorf, Germany “coming up with new ideas moves me.” what moves us Innovating to help customers achieve greater sustainability. 2 / ca technologies / what moves us Romea Smith Senior Vice President, Support, Herndon, VA, USA “ fostering future women leaders moves me.” what moves us Encouraging young women to pursue careers in IT. 3 / sustainability executive summary Sridhar Mulakaluri Senior Principal, Business Unit Operations, Hyderabad, India “giving back to my community moves me.” what moves us Helping to bring a brighter future to those less fortunate. 4 / ca technologies / what moves us what moves us Doing our work using less energy, resources and real estate. “getting more done with less moves me.” Brett Prochazka Senior Principal, Facilities Services, Islandia, NY, USA 5 / sustainability executive summary Chantal Martinez Member, Worldwide Law Department, Mexico City, Mexico “doing the right thing moves me.” what moves us Operating in every area with the highest ethics and transparency. 6 / ca technologies / what moves us “leading by example moves me.” Bill McCracken Chief Executive Ofﬁcer what moves us Leveraging our own sustainability innovations to help others operate more sustainably. “setting the bar higher moves me.” Art Weinbach what moves us Chairman of the Board Never being satisfied with our progress in sustainability. 7 / sustainability executive summary message from ceo & chairman Dear Stakeholders, Building a successful business in today’s world requires more than sustaining our financial performance. It requires a broad commitment to sustainability — For our sustainability strategy to work, it must be to doing the right thing for the environment, the monitored and managed across the corporation. To do economy and the communities where we work and this, we have put in place a Sustainability Governance live. At CA Technologies, we believe doing the right Model led by our Executive Vice President, Risk and thing attracts the best people, builds our brand value Chief Administrative Ofﬁcer, and our Chief Sustainability and deepens our relationships with customers and Ofﬁcer. In concert with our Sustainability Advisory partners. In other words, it’s smart business — good for Council, they are responsible for identifying, planning people, good for the planet and good for our company. and executing measurable sustainability initiatives that meet our business objectives and stakeholder Some of our technological innovations, like expectations. Please visit our website for our full CA ecoSoftware, have been inspired by the goal of sustainability report: ca.com/sustainability-report. improving our own environmental sustainability. And although we drive sustainability efforts from the We are already realizing signiﬁcant returns on our own top down, they are energized from the bottom up energy-saving investments and have a growing through the creativity and innovation of our employees. business in helping customers do the same. Providing For example, we’re a leading supplier of software responsive tools for sustainable business is part of that helps organizations monitor and manage corporate the agility we make possible through our wide range of sustainability. We are also helping customers deploy IT management solutions. Staying agile enables us to and manage more sustainable IT solutions like innovate with new products that can quickly respond to virtualization, automation and cloud computing. These customer needs as new challenges emerge. Our goal new products and services will contribute to our is to inspire and encourage employees, customers, future growth. And since we use these solutions ourselves, partners, governments and non-governmental the resource efﬁciencies and cost savings they deliver organizations to join us in our sustainability efforts. also beneﬁt our bottom line. At CA Technologies, our shared commitment Sustainability and information technology are closely to sustainability is unwavering. It is what moves us. related. IT has great potential for supporting Together, we can make a difference. sustainability efforts and more ambitious sustainability goals are driving additional innovations in IT. With sustainability, as with everything else in business, you manage what you measure. Solutions like CA ecoSoftware identify and track the key data points Bill McCracken Art Weinbach that facilitate meaningful action. Studies show that Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the Board 30 to 50 percent of computing capacity is sitting idle at any given time. This creates a huge opportunity to save on energy costs by using virtualization and cloud computing to increase utilization of existing IT infrastructure while also reducing carbon emissions, hardware purchases and real estate space requirements. 8 / ca technologies / what moves us our vision for sustainability At CA Technologies, we will continually improve sustainability for our planet, our business and the communities we belong to and serve. our sustainability strategy CA Technologies will lead by example, developing innovative initiatives and agile solutions that advance sustainability for the triple bottom line of people, planet and profit. our sustainability goals People: promote human rights Planet: commit to a fixed Profit: lead in cloud, virtualization and ethical labor practices; foster reduction in our carbon footprint; management, Software as a Service employee career development, lead in innovating sustainability (SaaS), identity and access work-life balance and diversity; focused software, with a five-year management, mainframe software, support our communities through product roadmap; use our service assurance, and service investments in education, solutions to sustainably manage and portfolio management; practice technology, health and community our data centers and reduce energy, ethical and transparent corporate services and expand the pool paper and water use companygovernance; take advantage of of diverse candidates for all wide; collaborate with customers, sustainability opportunities that management level openings. suppliers and other partners on benefit the bottom line; and sustainability innovations; and ensure compliance with the letter achieve sustainability throughout and spirit of the laws where we the supply chain. do business. 9 / sustainability executive summary stakeholder engagement We engage with the full range of our stakeholders in many ways. In November 2010, we were approved as a Ceres network company and have also joined The Climate Registry. Both of these organizations expand our interactions with a network of companies, investors, environmental organizations, public interest groups and governments that seek to address sustainability challenges. Our commitment to the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles continues to be an important part of our operations worldwide. We participated in the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit 2010. Chaired by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, the event marked the 10th anniversary of the Global Compact’s launch and brought together more than 1,000 global leaders dedicated to building a new era of sustainability. business partners employees • Collaborate with clients, consultancies and providers, • Assess employee satisfaction and other key issues including Capgemini, Deloitte, Fujitsu, Glacial via regular surveys Energy, ICF International, Jones Lang LaSalle, • Facilitate talent development through programs such Lockheed Martin and Siemens to identify effective as our Global Future Leaders Development Program, practices and new ways to address organizations’ Accelerated Leadership Development Program and sustainability challenges and implement leadingGlobal Leadership Development Program edge energy efficiency solutions • Manage input at the executive level via Ask Bill • Conduct regular customer satisfaction surveys feedback mechanism where employees can directly to continually develop our products and services raise their concerns to our CEO suppliers communities • Screen our suppliers to confirm their business • Partner with organizations that promote educational practices are in line with our policies initiatives and foster IT talent • Measure over 30 metrics on a monthly basis using • Provide employees with the opportunity to take time industry and best-in-class data from the Procurement during business hours to participate in a variety Strategy Council, Sourcing Interest Group and other of volunteer activities throughout the year, on Earth organizations we belong to and partner with Day and during CA Together in Action, our worldwide • Obtain recommendations from our U.S. office volunteer month product supplier (Ofﬁce Max) to evaluate recyclable shareholders materials to reduce impact and save cost • Increase transparency of our sustainability efforts and disclosure of our metrics to our shareholders through a Board committee, which oversees sustainability at the governance level 10 / ca technologies / what moves us sustainability commitments environment • Work with The Climate Registry to finalize emissions targets by May 2011 • Move toward goal of 100% electronic distribution of software with no packaging or shipping of products • Issue supplier questionnaire to establish baseline reporting and encourage key suppliers to publish a sustainability report by 2012 • Reduce electricity consumption per employee to 40% below 2006 levels by 2013 • Purchase 25% of electricity from renewable Cynthia Curtis sources by 2015 Chief Sustainability Officer • Recycle 75% of waste in owned and managed facilities • Implement water management program • Increase telepresence to reduce travel; expand use NGOs of hybrid vehicles, etc., for more sustainable travel • Adopt a green lease policy for all new and • Work with The Climate Registry and continue to report renegotiated leases this year to the Carbon Disclosure Project to demonstrate our emissions reduction efforts governance • Commit to building strong and productive communities • Use third party to audit future sustainability reports, worldwide by endorsing the UN Global Compact’s including assurance of processes, methodologies Ten Principles and data • Became a Ceres member to enhance our dialogue • Increase Board involvement in sustainability initiatives with companies, investors and NGOs that share our • Work with Ceres to develop a broad stakeholder goals in accelerating sustainability engagement program this year • Continue Bill McCracken’s participation in the CNBC • Institute a corporate sustainability policy this year Carbon Council, an initiative aimed at identifying clean energy opportunities, and his directorship at the employees National Association of Corporate Directors (NACD) • Expand the pool of diverse candidates for all • Participate in the World Economic Forum, Davos, management-level openings by the end of this year Switzerland, shaping an agenda for change with key • Maintain at least 75% employee satisfaction global leaders rate in annual survey government • Issue an employee sustainability pledge this year and achieve 30% participation • Engage with local elected officials regarding • Initiate a company-wide sustainability training sustainability issues on Long Island, New York program by this year • Promote a smart electric power grid through • Establish Green Teams globally this year executive representation on the Board of Directors of the New York State Smart Grid Consortium community academics • More closely integrate community/philanthropic involvement with sustainability initiatives • Partner with 34 leading universities and 90 academic • Increase employee volunteerism collaborators in 10 countries to cultivate students’ technology skills and talents, enabling them to • Increase corporate giving outside the U.S. succeed in the workforce 11 / sustainability executive summary customer solutions CA Technologies has become a leader in IT solutions for sustainability. Our CA ecoSoftware includes leadingedge technology to measure, manage and report a customer’s progress. We also provide solutions in cloud computing, virtualization and Software as a Service (SaaS) to increase efﬁciency, lower costs and reduce carbon footprint. We currently release most products on DVDs in biodegradable packaging, but we are moving toward a goal of 100% electronic distribution. Our technology partnerships include leading businesses, such as Siemens, to provide carbon and sustainability management tools to businesses; Deloitte, to help customers identify effective sustainability practices and new ways to address challenges; Jones Lang LaSalle, for energy efﬁcient solutions for our facilities; and ICF International and Fujitsu, for sustainability consulting. These collaborations give us a competitive edge, providing customers with a broad range of sustainability solutions. For example, the Sustainability Leadership Series we developed with Groom Energy helps businesses set priorities for their sustainability efforts and investments. CA ecoSoftware CA ecoSoftware: energy, carbon and sustainability First used within our own company, CA ecoSoftware is now helping to improve management solution sustainability at corporations throughout the world. that keeps track of data CA ecoMeter helps visualize, monitor and report on energy use in data centers and throughout facilities. It captures detailed real-time data to measure performance, identify trends and issue alerts, as well as to help take action to better use capacity, enhance reliability and performance and make ongoing improvements. CA ecoGovernance is a sustainability management product that helps companies measure, manage and report their impacts associated with energy, carbon, water and waste. It helps them make more effective decisions and pursue a systematic, governed approach to environmental initiatives. cloud computing cloud computing: Internetbased computing, whereby Cloud computing is Internet-based computing in which shared resources, shared resources, applications applications and information are provided to users on demand. A growing number and information are provided of analysts recognize CA Technologies as an emerging leader in providing solutions to users on demand for public, private and hybrid cloud computing across diverse physical and virtual environments. These products are helping chief information officers become masters of a dynamic IT services supply chain. 12 / ca technologies / what moves us virtualization use dynamic maturity model virtualization data center automation & orchestration infrastructure optimization server consolidation virtualization virtualization: creation of a virtual version of Virtual computing environments help maximize system capabilities while something, such as an minimizing the physical assets that take up real estate, use energy and require operating system, a disposal. CA Technologies expertise in highly virtualized environments gives server, a storage device or network resources us an edge in optimizing these implementations with robust management and advanced automation. New levels of speed and flexibility can also enable significant reductions in costs and carbon footprint. SaaS SaaS: software that is deployed over the SaaS — Software as a Service — is becoming an increasingly popular approach to Internet and/or is set up cutting costs and minimizing a company’s carbon footprint by reducing overall to run behind a ﬁrewall data center requirements for application support. The CA Technologies on demand on a local area network or personal computer alternative to on premise applications helps customers achieve higher return on investment faster and easily add capabilities as their needs mature. security security: solutions that make IT more secure across Sustainable approaches to IT make security and privacy issues increasingly physical, virtual and cloud important. CA Technologies strong on premise solutions are now being leveraged environments, and that into cloud, virtual and SaaS environments, offering customers vital privacy, help control identity and access management identity and access management capabilities. Solutions for data protection embrace backup and recovery management. These tools can enable the availability of critical applications, centralize the management of backup environments and improve the protection of virtualized environments. Recovery management solutions also counter data overload with approaches that require less storage and energy consumption. 13 / sustainability executive summary Deloitte Consulting LLP The alliance will enable greater goals for the community and sustainabilityoriented clients. The CA Technologies alliance with Deloitte reflects both companies’ culture of smart business and giving back. Over the last several years, volunteers from CA Technologies and Deloitte have teamed up to build affordable housing for families in need and prepared meals for people living with life-altering illnesses, showing a shared commitment to making a difference inside and outside of the workplace. We have also joined our respective talents and experience to develop services and solutions to help our mutual clients in their efforts to achieve their sustainability goals, including enabling environmental and corporate social responsibility programs. The alliance spans Deloitte’s breadth of services in sustainability and our robust and integrated CA ecoSoftware applications. Deloitte and CA Technologies collaborate on services, solutions and market development, education, training, sales and delivery activities. CA ecoSoftware strategic partner of CA Technologies used by Deloitte for sustainability management 14 / ca technologies / what moves us Lockheed Martin Energy data can now be monitored in realtime at NexGen using CA ecoSoftware. Lockheed Martin is a global security company and information technology provider. Its new NexGen Cyber Innovation and Technology Center in the Washington DC area houses a state-of-the-art data center, to showcase technological innovation and provide a range of IT services. The data center staff needs to track power consumption historically and in real-time. To support unattended operation, they also need to monitor overall system health and automatically receive alerts in the event of power-related alarm conditions. The company implemented CA ecoSoftware as one of its tools to monitor the energy consumption of a range of devices responsible for IT, power supply and cooling. This simpliﬁed energy management solution helped improve staff efﬁciency and transformed Lockheed Martin’s approach to power in the NexGen data center. Added beneﬁts include real-time visualization of energy consumption and power demand, greater insight into power capacity across different power distribution units, balance of power across all phases and more effective and accurate alerting. designed for cyber research and development global security and information technology company 15 / sustainability executive summary operational efficiency In the last two years, CA Technologies has accelerated its own sustainability activities. We’ve streamlined our business operations and lowered our environmental impact, which have dramatically cut costs. Our sustainability initiatives span the gamut of our operations. Between 2008 and 2009, operational improvements reduced our carbon footprint by more than 30% while also eliminating over 1 million square feet of real estate. Our new facility in India has been awarded LEED Gold Certification; all future rentals will now be under green leases; and we’ve made major strides in reducing ofﬁce waste. Our print management system has eliminated 16.3 million pages of paper consumption in the U.S. alone since its implementation in April 2009. We’re also taking advantage of the sustainability benefits of cloud computing and virtualization through our Labs on Demand and our transition to blade servers. Since establishing Labs on Demand in 2008, we have eliminated 16,000 square feet of data center floor space and, based on industry average, 6,200 metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions, saving $16 million in energy, real estate and improved productivity over five years. More efficient data centers, along with our more mobile, flexible workforce, have resulted in major real estate reductions. In addition to using our CA ecoSoftware to reduce energy consumption, we have increased our purchase of renewable energy and are leveraging technology to reduce our business travel needs. We take our commitment to efﬁciency seriously. We belong to many prominent groups focused on operational sustainability, and we have adopted a policy on sustainability throughout our supply chain. commitment Our commitment to sustainable operations is underscored by our partnerships with leading organizations. We have been accredited by the Carbon Disclosure Project as a carbon calculation partner and accredited provider. Our CEO is also CA Technologies works with The Climate Registry one of nine founding chief executive members of the CNBC Carbon Council, an to develop emissions initiative aimed at identifying opportunities in clean technology and the larger reduction goals business of sustainability. Our sustainability-related memberships include: Ceres, The Climate Registry, Carbon Trust, Energy Star, Global Reporting Initiative, The Green Grid, New York State Smart Grid Consortium, Uptime Institute and the World Resources Institute. 16 / ca technologies / what moves us follow me print management Partnering with Canon printers and Pharos software reduced our carbon footprint and saved an estimated 16.3 million sheets of paper (the equivalent of 1,960 trees and 2.2 million liters of water) since its implementation (April 2009–October 2010). job name:   job name: print send step 1 step 2 step 3 User enters job name and User swipes badge, then Document prints out, sends document to printer. selects job name to print. user retrieves document. supply chain 42% CA Technologies works with its vendors to make sure they are committed to diversity spend versus sustainable, ethical practices, continually monitoring these issues throughout a 23% industry average our supply chain. We enforce a supplier Code of Conduct, which deﬁnes ethical, sustainable behavior, and we are a signatory to the UN Global Compact, which supports human rights, labor standards and anti-corruption as well as the environment. We screen suppliers for sustainability practices monthly, using more than 20 metrics, covering criteria from diversity to recycling and GHG emissions. One hundred percent of our supplier agreements contain human rights clauses. We spend 42% of our procurement funds with minority-owned businesses, nearly double the industry average of 23%. We also require Office Max, our office products supplier, to follow strict guidelines for recycled paper. Beginning in 2011, landlords must agree to green leases with speciﬁc sustainability requirements. Outside the U.S., we use World-Check Integrascreen to provide us with a global due diligence service. Going forward, we are developing our procurement toolset to exceed best-in-class ratings for our supply chain, building on the principles supported by the Procurement Strategy Council and the Sourcing Interests Group. 17 / sustainability executive summary green building in India The environmentally friendly ITC campus in Hyderabad is a 30.5-acre highly sustainable, park-like setting with 450,000 square feet of office space. In September 2010, the new $30 million building at our India Technology Center (ITC) in Hyderabad was awarded LEED Gold Certiﬁcation by the Indian Green Building Council. LEED stands for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design and is a third-party validation of a building’s sustainable design. The criteria for LEED Gold were established by the U.S. Green Building Council to measure a building’s environmental and economic performance, as well as provisions for occupant health and safety. The new facility, which is projected to be 30% more energy efﬁcient per square foot, has several state-of-the-art design features. We will use our own CA ecoSoftware to continue to systematically drive reductions in energy and water consumption at this site, our largest technology and development center. 30% more energy efficient LEED Gold The new facility is projected to be significantly Our India Technology Center is our first more efficient per square foot to be awarded LEED Certification 18 / ca technologies / what moves us labs on demand By implementing a shared services model, CA Technologies has created a Labs on Demand facility, which can be accessed remotely by developers. As of 2007, CA Technologies R&D activities were supported by thousands of servers in more than 50 labs worldwide. We clearly needed a more sustainable way to grow. The answer was Labs on Demand, our own private cloud. It is a shared service available to our software developers and service and support technicians around the world 24/7. Demand varies considerably, so we use CA Spectrum Automation Manager and other CA Technologies software to automate server provisioning, system builds and reservations. In 2008, Labs on Demand performed code generation for more than 20,000 automated software builds, as well as 17,000 automated software installations. This is projected to save more than 25 years of developer time, which adds up to $4 million in savings from improved productivity. We estimate we will save an additional $12 million over ﬁve years through the rationalization of 40 lab environments. One such facility saved approximately 250,000 BTUs and an estimated $100,000 per year on electricity. more than 20,000 25 years of developer time automated software builds, as well as 17,000 saved and $4 million saved from improved automated software installations in FY09 productivity brought about by Labs on Demand 19 / sustainability executive summary community involvement CA Technologies community programs are a key part of our sustainability efforts, helping to make the most of human talent and potential despite social and economic disadvantages. CA Together, our global community affairs program, is driven by the core philanthropic focus of improving the lives of underserved children and communities around the world. CA Together’s activities encompass: wide-ranging partnerships and philanthropic support to community organizations worldwide; in-kind donations of CA Technologies products and services; employee volunteerism and matching gifts. We support organizations, programs and initiatives in areas including: education Being part of PENCIL’s vision to build partnerships CA Technologies supports a range of educational areas with technology and between businesses and ﬁnancial support. Our goal is to help transform the lives of underprivileged children public schools is one way throughout the world and to encourage the development of future leaders in CA Technologies gives back in the area of education the field of information technology. technology The National Center for Missing & Exploited Through the CA Together IT program, we share our world-class software solutions Children’s mission and and IT expertise with nonprofit organizations. The goal is to strengthen their IT operations to keep children infrastructures and build organizational capacity to better serve their beneﬁciaries. safe are supported through CA Technologies software Just as in business, CA Technologies products help nonprofits manage costs, donations, as well as improve effectiveness, guard privacy and increase security. through our monetary contributions health & community Through the American Red Cross, CA Technologies CA Technologies supports programs around the world that promote social services, and its employees have a encourage health and wellness, and deliver relief and response during times of long history of providing crisis. The goal is to support people dealing with a range of challenges, from the disaster relief to people and communities in need family stresses of military life to disease, poverty and unexpected disasters. advancement of women in IT We invest in female talent through our partnership CA Technologies is committed to supporting the advancement of women in IT. with the Anita Borg Institute In addition, we are firmly focused on nurturing a culture of diversity and inclusion for Women & Technology both inside and outside the company. 20 / ca technologies / what moves us Boys & Girls Clubs of America CA Technologies is committed to providing a safer and more reliable computing environment for millions of BGCA members. Since 2005, CA Technologies has been the National Information Security Partner for Boys & Girls Clubs of America (BGCA), with software and financial donations totaling $7.6 million for the organization’s IT infrastructure at its national headquarters in Atlanta and all clubs nationwide. Our contributions help make sure the personal information children and teens enter, on an estimated 75,000 PCs, is secure and that they are protected in what they can access. CA Technologies is committed to providing a safer and more reliable computing environment for millions of BGCA members. employee volunteerism & matching gifts CA Technologies firmly believes in the power of its employees to make a difference. Whether it is one person mentoring a teenager or a team of volunteers building a house, we promote a philanthropic spirit and provide time during the workday to give back. Volunteer programs include CA Together in Action, our worldwide employee volunteer month throughout October, and global Earth Day celebrations in April, with projects aimed at inspiring environmental awareness. In addition, CA Technologies employees can contribute to nonprofits of their choice through our Matching Gifts Program, with a one-to-one company match of up to $5,000 each year. 21 / sustainability executive summary employee empowerment CA Technologies strives to be an employer of choice. We need to attract the best people we can in order to develop, implement and support our products. Our employees are our most valued asset. For the last two years, our programs to develop and retain top talent have excelled in these efforts. We have a competitive global compensation structure, health beneﬁts at the top of the scale, and on-site child development centers and wellness programs. Our Ask Bill program lets employees direct questions and concerns directly to our CEO. We also have the Compliance and Ethics Helpline site, which allows our employees to report potential ethics violations, and internal blogs on our One CA intranet site, where employees can offer ideas on any topic, including sustainability. Our 2011 Employee Opinion Survey showed 82% were satisfied with their CA Technologies manager and 72% found our teamwork and collaboration favorable. The response rate increased from 88% to 91% on our 2011 survey, which was completed in January. career advancement 16 hours At CA Technologies, 100% of our employees undergo performance reviews. These average annual training help our organizational development department to identify the top talent to per employee engage in our three Leadership Development Programs. These programs create a pipeline of highly capable future leaders around the world. At the Senior and Executive VP levels, we use outside consultants for training and development, supported by our CEO and the Executive Management. diversity 72:28 We believe it is important to be an inclusive company. As a global company, ratio of men to women we already have a diverse workforce, and are committed to even more diversity. across the total We currently have a major initiative in place to increase the pool of diverse employee population candidates for all management level openings by this year. work-life balance 30% At CA Technologies, we believe that supporting both the business and personal percentage of goals of our employees is key to creating a more efficient, competitive CA Technologies and sustainable workforce. To this end, we offer a Flexible Workplace Program and flex workers in North America comprehensive wellness support for employees and their families. 22 / ca technologies / what moves us flexible workplace program CA Technologies Flexible Workplace Program has both increased employee performance and reduced our corporate carbon footprint in North America. CA Technologies offers a Flexible Workplace Program in North America, letting employees function as teleworkers (working from home up to four days a week) or home workers (home ﬁve days a week). More than 2,000 employees (30% of our North American staff ) are now in the program. Just five years ago, flex workers comprised less than 5% of our workforce. The Flexible Workplace Program has improved morale, job satisfaction and productivity, while also helping recruit candidates, retain employees and cut absenteeism. In our recent survey, 73% of our flex employees want to stay with us longer and 40% of our managers report productivity increases, thanks to the elimination of commuting time. The program reduces our carbon footprint, real estate costs and support staff needs, while telepresence units are available to keep flex workers well-connected to their teams. The Flexible Workplace Program is now being defined for other countries with differing work cultures, where people may have a stronger desire to work in an office. 40% greater productivity 30% flex employees today reported by our managers, thanks to elimination versus just 5% five years ago; 73% of flex workers of commuting time want to stay with us longer 23 / sustainability executive summary business practices The Board is currently led by our nonexecutive Chairman, Art Weinbach, an independent director. Our Corporate Governance Principles do not specify a policy for the separation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer positions, nor whether the Chairman is a member of management. The Board recognizes that there is no single, generally accepted approach to Board leadership and, given the dynamic environment in which we operate, the leadership structure may vary over time. The Board believes its leadership is currently best served by an independent Chairman who manages the Board’s oversight function, while the Chief Executive Officer, Bill McCracken, controls day-to-day operations. This separation allows Mr. Weinbach to focus on Board matters and Bill McCracken to concentrate on our business. In addition, the separation of the offices enhances the Board’s objectivity in its management oversight role. To further enhance this objectivity, all Board members are independent, except for the Chief Executive Officer. public policy As a thought leader in IT governance, CA Technologies participates in many Building Trust and Organizational Integrity Worldwide organizations, in various capacities, acting as a sponsor of the IT Governance Institute (ITGI); a Board member of the IT Service Management Forum USA; a member of the Ethics and Compliance Officers Association; a member of the Society of Corporate Secretaries and Governance Professionals; a member of the World Economic Forum; and a member of the Carnegie Mellon University IT Services Qualification Center Research Consortium developing IT sourcing best practices. Our CEO, Bill McCracken, serves as a director of the National Association of Corporate Directors (NACD), a leading organization focused on advancing Board leadership. compliance 98.4% Our industry’s regulations range from labor and the environment to cross-border of employees completed their trade and ethical business practices. The CA Technologies Business Practices and online compliance training Compliance organization works hard to ensure we have and maintain a robust compliance program and implement leading business practices. Our business leaders are accountable for making certain that their businesses comply with both the letter and the spirit of all laws and regulations where we do business. Our Code of Conduct is applicable to all employees and directors, and we require both suppliers and companies who serve our customers along with us to follow our Code of Conduct for Partners. governance Audit, Board Structure, Shareholder Rights: The ISS (formerly Institutional Shareholder Services) GRID rating measures the Low concern strengths, deficiencies and overall quality of a company’s corporate governance Compensation: practices and Board of Directors. Our 2010 GRID rating puts CA Technologies Medium concern clearly in the ISS corporate governance mainstream. 24 / ca technologies / what moves us key performance indicators economic 2010 (*2009 data) our Performance Key financials Revenue Earnings per share $4,353M $1.90 goal Other indicators New products 33 new solutions and upgrades Acquisitions/Divestitures 4 new firms Philanthropic contributions as a % of revenue 0.49%* Market Presence Financial results according to geographic region US International $2,414M $1,939M CA Technologies environment strives to be Performance CDP rating Carbon emission reduction (since 2008) 61/100 30% the world’s most Paper use (paper saved) Water use 16.3M sheets* 1.4M liters* socially and Biodegradable packaging 100% for U.S. Data center efficiency 1.9 power usage effectiveness (PUE) environmentally Building efficiency 1 LEED Certified and 1 Green Lease Real estate footprint reduction (since 2008) 1.5M square feet responsible employees Performance software company. Employee satisfaction 79% Work-Life Balance Percentage of teleworkers (North America) 30% Career Development Average hours of training per employee 16 hours Engagement Employee surveys Response rate 91% Results Satisfied with manager 82% Favorable response to sustainability 76% Printed on Neenah Environment PC100 White Favorably view our teamwork and collaboration 72% shareholders Diversity Female board representation 22% Ethics Number of issues reported 136* Average time to resolution 46 days* Online compliance training 98.4%* Code of conduct survey response 96%* suppliers Designed by Addison www.addison.com Performance Number of screened suppliers 100% Diversity Supplier diversity spend 42% For more information, please visit customers our full Sustainability Report website Performance at ca.com/sustainability-report Customer satisfaction 7.96* (out of 10) This report covers data from 2009 to 2010 except where otherwise indicated. contact us partnerships & memberships CA Technologies One CA Plaza Capgemini Energy Star NY State Smart Grid Islandia, NY 11749 Carbon Disclosure Project Environmental Defense Fund Siemens USA Carbon Trust Fujitsu The Climate Registry ca.com Ceres Fund Climate Corps The Green Grid CNBC Carbon Council Glacial Energy UN Global Compact learn more Corporate Eco Forum Global Green Consulting World Economic Forum To learn more about Deloitte ICF International World Resources Institute CA Technologies EarthShare Jones Lang LaSalle sustainability initiatives and products: ca.com/sustainabilityawards & recognition report sustainability@ca.com In October 2010, CA Technologies was ranked one community.ca.com/ of the top 50 greenest companies in the U.S. blogs/greenit by Newsweek magazine. The complete list is at ca.com/ecosoftware www.newsweek.com/green. CA Technologies has been named a leader in carbon and energy management software by Verdantix, an independent analyst firm focused on sustainable business strategies and market opportunities. This is based on the Verdantix report entitled Green Quadrant: Carbon and Energy Management Software, 2010. In September 2010, the Maplecroft Climate Innovation Indexes (CIIs) recognized CA Technologies as a Maplecroft CII Leader, ranked 73 out of 350, up from 306 out of 318 in their previous report. CA Technologies has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisﬁed the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series. Created by the global index company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognized corporate responsibility standards. Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent social and environmental criteria, and are positioned to capitalize on the beneﬁts of responsible business practice. Copyright © April 2011 CA. All rights reserved. All trademarks, trade names, service marks and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies. This document is for your informational purposes only. CA assumes no responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the information. To the extent permitted by applicable law, CA provides this document “as is” without warranty of any kind, including, without limitation, any implied warranties of merchantability, ﬁtness for a particular purpose, or noninfringement. In no event will CA be liable for any loss or damage, direct or indirect, from the use of this document, including, without limitation, lost proﬁts, business interruption, goodwill or lost data, even if CA is expressly advised in advance of the possibility of such damages.
