INDEX R e p o r t 2 0 11 Message from the President 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake 6 Editor s Comments Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings' Social Responsibilities 11 To assist as many stakeholders as possible in understanding the Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Group s approach to CSR and the CSR activities pursued by the four operational companies (Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. and Mitsubishi Rayon Co., Ltd.), the 【Special Feature】Initiatives toward KAITEKI 15 Group posts this information on its website and updates it annually. From ﬁscal 2011, our company is combining information about its conventional CSR Part 1 KAITEKI Management Initiatives 17 activities with that about its initiatives focusing on KAITEKI, the Group s unique ■ The Three Axes of KAITEKI Management CSR concept, and disclosing the information in the form of the KAITEKI Report. ■ MOS Indexes that Visualize Our Contribution By communicating with a wide range of stakeholders via its website, Mitsubishi to SUSTAINABILITY Chemical Holdings Corporation will continue its initiatives toward KAITEKI. ■KAITEKI Project Organization About this Report Part 2 The Process of Creating MOS Indexes 25 In ﬁscal 2010, to disclose information to a greater number of stakeholders, while Part 3 KAITEKI Products and Technologies 36 being kind to the global environment, Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation abandoned this report s paper version and began website-based publication. We will ■ White LED and OLED strive to capitalize on the advantages of the electronic medium to make the report Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation as clear as possible. A PDF version is also available so users can download the full report at one time. ■ Remicade, Antibody Drug Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation Scope of the report The report covers the entire Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Group. ■ AQSOA, Zeolitic Water Vapor Adsorbent Mitsubishi Rayon became a new member of the Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Group in Mitsubishi Plastics,Inc. April 2010 and has been partly included in the reported coverage since the previous Report. Mitsubishi Rayon data have been retrospectively added to the historical graphs ■CLEANSUI Business Mitsubishi Rayon Co.,Ltd. in this Report. The data shown at the end of this Report were collected under the following principles: ■ The KAITEKI Institute, Inc. Environmental data : The four core operating companies as single entities and their The KAITEKI Institute, Inc. group companies in Japan Social data (related to employees) : The four core operating companies as single entities The Group companies included in the subjects are subsidiaries as deﬁned by the Companies Act. Among them, the subjects are main production subsidiaries. The Initiatives for Reinforcing Corporate Foundation 65 subjects do not include non-production and production-related subsidiaries within ■ Corporate Governance industrial complexes that are not among the four core operating companies. See the CSR ■ Internal Control / Risk Management / Compliance report of each company for details. ■ Initiatives Aimed at Safety and the Environment The Group will disclose data, including overseas data, in the future. ■ Communication with Shareholders and Investors Period covered by the report ■ Communication with Customers and Business Partners Fiscal 2010 (April 2010 ‒ March 2011)*Some ﬁscal 2011 information is also included. ■ Initiatives Concerning Human Rights and Labor Report publication date ■ Corporate Citizenship Activities September 2011: The previous report was published in September 2010. Inquiries Public Relations and Investor Relations Ofﬁce, Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Data 104 Phone: +81-3-6414-4870 Fax: +81-3-6414-4879 For detailed environmental and other information on core operational companies, please Group Information 113 refer to the CSR reports of the respective companies. CSR report of Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation: http : //www.m-kagaku.co.jp/index̲en.htmexpect. CSR CSR report report of of Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation : http://www.mt-pharma.co.jp/e/index.php Plastics, Inc. : http://www.mpi.co.jp/english/ Third-party Opinion 118 CSR report of Mitsubishi Rayon Co., Ltd. : http://www.mrc.co.jp/english/index.html Disclaimers Feedback 122 This report includes not only historical and current facts about the Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Group but also forward-looking statements with respect to social conditions, and the Group s management plans and policies and their results. These statements are GRI Guidelines Reference Table 124 based on the most accurate assumptions and judgments in light of the currently available information. Please note that changes in various conditions may cause actual social conditions and results of the Group s business activities to differ materially from those we currently expect. 1 2 The impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake First and foremost, I would like to reiterate my heartfelt sympathy on behalf of everyone in the Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (MCHC) Group to the victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake of March 11, 2011. We hope for the earliest possible restoration of the affected area. Within the MCHC Group, a total of 26 plants and distribution facilities (16 companies) across six prefectures were damaged by the disaster, including Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation’s Kashima Plant. Thanks to subsequent efforts across the Group, we managed to restart our ethylene production facilities at the Kashima Plant by the end of June, and have now successfully restored the majority of our operations. I extend my sincerest gratitude to all those from around the world who provided us with their generous support during this time. We believe that we and other companies in the chemical industry can contribute greatly to restoration and rebuilding Japan by providing basic materials and diverse products and services. With society at an important turning point, what needs to be done? The disaster and the ensuing nuclear crisis have compelled us to change not only our energy policy but also our shared values. At the same time, we still need to overcome serious challenges such as climate change, the destruction of the environment, the depletion of resources, the uneven distribution of food and water, and threats to biodiversity. In this context, the MCHC Group is examining what it needs to do as a company to ensure sustainable development. Based on its philosophy “Good Chemistry for Tomorrow – Creating better relationships among people, society, and our planet.,” the Group has outlined its aspiration for the year 2025 in APTSIS 10, the previous mid-term management plan (FY2008-FY2010), and has adopted three decision criteria for its corporate activities: Sustainability, Health, and Comfort to achieve our aspiration. The Group has been restructuring its operations and executing its growth strategy on the basis of these criteria. During this time, however, speculative trends have caused major damage to the real economy, not least in terms of soaring oil prices and the Lehman Brothers crisis, and the challenge of reducing the environmental impact has become a significant priority. I recognized the importance of incorporating new value into our management practices to ensure sustainable development. 3 Thus, I have adopted a four-dimensional approach to management to facilitate this. In addition to the existing Business Administration axis and Management of Technology (MOT) axis, we have incorporated a third axis called the Management of SUSTAINABILITY (MOS) axis for resolving environmental and social challenges. With Time an important fourth axis, the MCHC Group has created the basis for its operations. We refer to the value created through this approach as “KAITEKI value.” My role as CEO is to maximize this value and respond to the demands of the times. To translate our management approach into practical action, we have devised MOS indexes, which visualize and quantify progress in activities based on the MOS axis. The indexes have been introduced as part of our APTSIS 15 mid-term management plan, which came into effect in April 2011. KAITEKI means a state of true SUSTAINABILITY, and also represents comfort for people, comfort for society, and comfort for the planet as a whole. 4 Introducing MOS indexes as part of our new mid-term management plan Under our APTSIS 15 mid-term management plan – “Grow, Innovate, and Leap Ahead by Orchestrating the Group’s Strengths” – we have set out clear, numerical targets for MOS indexes that are compatible with our financial targets for fiscal 2015. As part of MOS indexes, the MCHC Group has also adopted specific targets for initiatives relating to corporate ethics (compliance), safety and the environment, human rights and labor, corporate governance, and disclosure, representing the cornerstones of its corporate activities. The Group is committed to consistently reinforcing and improving the quality of its activities, based on the PDCA (plan, do, check, act) cycle. Putting KAITEKI into practice with our stakeholders From this year onward, the MCHC Group will be publishing a KAITEKI Report in place of its usual CSR Report. The aim of the KAITEKI Report is to underline our determination to tackle the challenges we face and to embody the concept of KAITEKI. Harnessing our strengths, we will continue to put KAITEKI into practice in partnership with our stakeholders. 5 Here at the Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (MCHC) Group, we set up a task force immediately after the earthquake to ascertain the impact on the MCHC Group, take appropriate action, and quickly determine and provide necessary support. The following is a report on the impact that the earthquake had on our operations and our response, as of June 30, 2011. ［The Impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake］ We were deeply saddened to learn that the recent earthquake claimed the lives of one MCHC Group employee and two family members. Another of our employees is still missing. Several employees and family members were also injured. Although we were able to safely halt operations at all of our manufacturing facilities without any security issues, the earthquake had a major impact on MCHC Group companies based in the Tohoku and Kanto regions. Buildings and facilities were damaged at 26 manufacturing, research, and distribution sites (16 companies), and also at sales offices and other premises operated by Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation and other group companies in the six prefectures that make up the Tohoku region, bringing sales and production activities to a standstill. Of the MCHC Group’s facilities, those in the Kashima area of Ibaraki prefecture sustained the most damage. Production had to be halted at plants operated by Mitsubishi Chemicals Corporation (MCC), the MCC Group and the Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Group. MCC was forced to suspend supplies of ethylene and other raw materials in particular. We appreciate that this caused serious concern throughout the supply chain and would like to thank all those involved for their understanding. The table below outlines the main damage caused by the earthquake and progress with recovery work. As it stands, we have restored normal operations and activities at the vast majority of our sites. 6 Damage sustained by the MCHC Group and progress with recovery (as of July 2011) Mitsubishi Chemical Group Damage caused by the Location Company Site/Facility Progress with recovery earthquake Operations restarted at No.2 ethylene production facility on May 20 Routine repairs postponed until the end of Plant completely shut August in order to restart Kashima down, water cut off supplying ethylene Plant (East) Damage to waterfront products MCC facilities Operations and product supplies restarted at No.1 Ibaraki ethylene production Prefecture facility on June 30, after scheduled routine repairs Tsukuba All utilities restored, Plant completely shut Plant operations fully recovered down, water cut off (Ushiku) on April 11 Mitsubishi Utilities temporarily cut Kashima All utilities restored Chemical off, operations continuing Plant Operations fully restored Medience on bare minimum (Hasaki) by early May Corporation resources Operations running as Nippon Operations halted due to normal, with the Kasei Onahama power failure, water cut exception of selected Fukushima Chemicals Plant off, and partial damage to plants in need of repair Prefecture Co. Ltd. facilities and ancillary facilities API Operations restarted by Iwaki Plant Damage to facilities Corporation the end of May 7 Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Group Damage caused by the Location Company Site/Facility Progress with recovery earthquake Activities restarted on March 28, dealing mainly Mitsubishi Facilities with safety management Tohoku (six Tanabe overseen by Difficulties continuing duties at the request of Prefectures) Pharma Tohoku normal sales activities medical institutions, etc. Corporation Branch As it stands, activities more or less restored to normal levels Mitsubishi Ashikaga Operations temporarily Ashikaga Plant, Kashima Tochigi Tanabe Plant suspended, but no Plant Prefecture Pharma Kashima serious damage to Operations restarted on Ibaraki Factory, Ltd. Plant buildings or facilities April 11 Prefecture Chiba East Japan Deliveries suspended MP-Logistics Deliveries restarted on Prefecture Distribution due to partial damage to Corporation April 11 Center buildings and facilities Mitsubishi Plastics Group Damage caused by the Location Company Site/Facility Progress with recovery earthquake MKV Dream Operations restarted at Co. Ltd. selected facilities by the Ibaraki Tsukuba Manufacturing facilities (Mitsubishi end of March Prefecture Plant completely shut down Plastics Operations fully restarted Group) by late April Fukushima Mitsubishi Koriyama Manufacturing facilities Operations restarted by Prefecture Plastics Inc. Plant completely shut down the end of March Mitsubishi Rayon Group Damage caused by the Location Company Site/Facility Progress with recovery earthquake Plant completely shut Operations partially Aomori MRC Unitec down Head Office restarted on March 28, Prefecture Co. Ltd. Damage to waterfront fully restarted on April 18 facilities Operations partially Plant completely shut restarted on April 8, with Fukushima Toeikasei Ono Plant down other operations Prefecture Co. Ltd. Damage to facilities scheduled to restart over time 8 ［Support for the affected area］ 【Donations】 On behalf of the MCHC Group, we donated ¥300 million to the affected area to provide support for those affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Our officers and employees also collected donations and raised a total of approximately ¥50 million, which we donated to people in the affected area via organizations such as the Japanese Red Cross Society and local Community Chest organizations. 【Relief supplies】 We have sent pharmaceuticals, plastic wrap, solar powered battery chargers and other relief supplies to the affected area. Loading relief supplies at Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma 【Support for employee volunteer activities】 In addition to making donations and sending relief supplies in response to the Great East Japan Earthquake, we believe that we also need to provide ongoing assistance for support activities for the time being. We are therefore providing support for volunteer activities being carried out by MCHC Group employees, to help those in the affected area. Having appealed for volunteers at four MCHC Group companies, and their MCHC Group volunteer activities on the ground respective group companies, participants are assisting with activities such as loading supplies for temporary housing throughout July, in conjunction with an NPO based in Ichinoseki. We will continue to engage in these activities after July, as well, in line with the needs of people on the ground. 9 [Dealing with electric power shortages] In response to restricted electric power supplies as a result of the nuclear accident, we made full use of our in-house generation facilities and managed to restrict power on the production floor by 15% and still sustain our business activities without any interruption to production or supplies. MCC meanwhile supplied surplus power generated in-house to Tokyo Electric Power and Tohoku Electric Power. Making good use of redundant oil-fired boilers to supply power Commencement of sales of electricity to TEPCO from Kashima-kita Electric Power Corporation (Ibaraki Prefecture) on April 21. Power for (up to) 300,000 homes. Commencement of sales of electricity to TEPCO from Mitsubishi Chemical Naoetsu Plant (Niigata Prefecture) from mid-June. Power for (up to) 150,000 homes At our Head Office, we managed to reduce energy use by 25% through means such as switching off lighting, limiting air conditioning, and closing off floors on an alternating basis. ［Ensuring continuous production activities］ We have put in place manuals and procedures at our Head Office and all MCHC Group facilities to ensure that we are able to continue operating in the event that our corporate activities are affected by a major earthquake, as occurred in recent months, or an accident. We also take steps to protect our employees and their families, to maintain our business activities, and to ensure the safety of our plants and facilities (for instance, through automatic shutdown). Following the recent earthquake, we adopted predetermined measures in accordance with our manuals and acted with the minimum of confusion, such as verifying the safety of our employees and providing assistance to those unable to return home. At many of our facilities in the east of the country, however, communications were down during the initial period after the earthquake. As a result, it took longer to ascertain the situation in some cases. Bearing in mind issues such as these, we are now revising our overall business continuity plan, including efforts to maintain our supply chain, in the event of a serious disaster in the Tokyo area. In the Kashima area, meanwhile, we are investigating damage to waterside infrastructure facilities as a result of the tsunami, and are working on both tangible and intangible improvements based on our experiences from the recent earthquake and tsunami. 10 KAITEKI Our Aspiration The Mitsubishi Chemicals Holdings Group is working towards the goal of realizing KAITEKI. Our aspirations here at the MCHC Group KAITEKI means a state of true sustainability, and also represents comfort for people, comfort for society, and comfort for the Earth. Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (MCHC) promotes KAITEKI as worthy aspiration for companies all over the world in the 21st century. 11 Basic approach to social responsibilities In view of the MCHC Group's philosophy Good Chemistry for Tomorrow – Creating better relationships among people, society, and our planet, we believe that we have a responsibility to put KAITEKI into practice, by disseminating the idea of KAITEKI value widely across society, through our corporate activities based on the three decision criteria of Sustainability, Health, and Comfort. To achieve that, we will commit to maintaining and reinforcing basic corporate activities in areas that are essential to enhancing KAITEKI value, including corporate governance, safety, the environment, labor and human rights, aiming to contribute to the sustainable development of society. 12 In May 2006, we also declared our support for the United Nations Global Compact and the ten principles set out therein, covering areas such as human rights, labour standards, and the environment. Having signed up to the Global Compact, we are committed to conducting corporate activities in accordance with these ten principles. Through open communication, we are determined to establish an orchestrated relationship with all of MCHC’s stakeholders, as the driving force that will enable us to achieve KAITEKI. Basic approach to orchestrating activities with our stakeholders We make sure that the MCHC Group’s corporate activities are open and Shareholders transparent, and disclose information in an appropriate manner in an effort Investors to improve public understanding of our corporate activities. Customers We hope to build relationships of trust by communicating with our Business customers and business partners, all the while deepening partnerships partners and working hand in hand to achieve KAITEKI in our society. We respect the dignity and rights of diverse individuals and strive to create Employees a pleasant and rewarding working environment for everyone. We deepen our understanding of cultures and customs in other countries Local and regions where we operate and contribute to society through our communities and business activities. We also act as good corporate citizens in responding society to the requests and expectations of society and the public to help achieve KAITEKI. 13 The UN Global Compact's ten principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 14 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Group is promoting KAITEKI Management, with the aim of enhancing economic value, advancing technology management, and achieving SUSTAINABILITY for people, society, and the planet. 15 This section presents the steps that led to the Group coming together to create MOS indexes as a way of visualizing contributions to corporate and social sustainability. Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Group is promoting a project to increase KAITEKI value based on all four axes: Business Administration, MOT, MOS and timeline. 16 Promoting KAITEKI Management, with the aim of enhancing economic value, advancing technology management, and achieving SUSTAINABILITY for people, society, and the planet KAITEKI Management at Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (MCHC) manages the MCHC Group based on three axes: one axis aimed at enhancing earnings and other forms of economic value, one axis aimed at advancing technology management, and one axis aimed at achieving sustainability for people, society, and the planet. MCHC calls this approach KAITEKI Management. The first axis is aimed at enhancing economic value by pursuing capital efficiency and shareholder value, and making management decisions based on the improvement of financial statements. We call it the Business Administration axis. Although the fundamental objective of every company is to increase economic value, that approach in some cases runs the risk of encouraging short-term or self-serving thinking. 17 The second axis is based on the concept of Management of Technology (MOT) and is aimed at balancing corporate activities with science and technology, while achieving innovation to enable the sustainable development of society. We call this the Technology Management axis or MOT axis. Innovation is an essential component of any technology-oriented company. By aligning the direction of innovation with the company's management strategy, we intend to translate that focus on technology into results that effectively create economic value. 18 Incorporating a Management of SUSTAINABILITY (MOS) axis In addition to the two axes that most companies use as their main decision criteria, the MCHC approach to Group management is embodied in the Management of SUSTAINABILITY (MOS) Axis. This is the third axis, and aims to achieve sustainability for people, society, and the global environment. SUSTAINABILITY means fundamentally resolving global environmental and social issues. The MCHC Group believes that companies should be actively involved in efforts to preserve and improve the global environment, ensure sustainable access to resources and energy, and improve living standards and public health worldwide, including developing nations. This involvement is linked directly to improved SUSTAINABILITY, and ensures that companies are making an appropriate contribution. As a commitment to active involvement, the Group has incorporated the MOS axis into its management practices. Environmental and other CSR initiatives are included under SUSTAINABILITY in the broader sense, are can be managed based on the MOS axis. Through KAITEKI Management, based on striking a balance between these three management axes (Business Administration, MOT and MOS), and by effectively identifying and estimating current or future trends, here at MCHC we are determined to enhance our corporate value, in other words, our KAITEKI value. 19 Visualizing and quantifying progress with our original Management of SUSTAINABILITY axis Devising MOS indexes to visualize and quantify the progress of management of SUSTAINABILITY To achieve KAITEKI, the Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (MCHC) Group acts based on its decision criteria, Sustainability, Health, and Comfort. The MCHC Group has devoted considerable effort to devising a way to monitor the progress and results of its corporate activities and to quantify the contribution these activities make to the Group’s new Management of SUSTAINABILITY (MOS) axis. This is how we incubate MOS indexes. 20 MOS Indexes 21 Monitor progress and manage PDCA cycles In devising MOS indexes, we selected factors that are of particular importance and relevance to the overall MCHC Group, and that help to enhance corporate value. The indexes consist of nine factors , made up of three factors apiece to measure our contribution to Sustainability, Health, and Comfort, and sub-criteria under each heading. Unlike clear-cutting financial indexes, visualizing and quantifying the progress and results of MOS represented a significant challenge. We believe that these challenges inspire our stakeholders to share the KAITEKI ideal. 22 Using MOS indexes as an indicator of corporate value The MCHC Group has included the MOS indexes in the management targets under its APTSIS 15 medium-term management plan, which came into effect in April 2011 and runs until March 2016. The aim is to measure the progress of KAITEKI management via the new MOS axis as well as the Business Administration axis and Technology Management axis. The MOS indexes will serve as an indicator of the MCHC Group’s corporate value, alongside financial indexes such as sales, operating income, and return on assets (ROA). MCHC is determined to develop MOS indexes as a global standard indicator of corporate value, originating from Japan. The MCHC Group’s corporate value 23 Launching KAITEKI Project In April 2011, the Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (MCHC) Group launched KAITEKI Project, with the aim of embodying KAITEKI under the leadership of the President of MCHC. The aim of KAITEKI Project is to raise awareness of KAITEKI and consequently to achieve KAITEKI through Group-wide KAITEKI activities. Specific initiatives via KAITEKI Project include implementing the plan, do, check, act (PDCA) cycle in line with MOS indexes, operating corporate activities based on three decision criteria to promote KAITEKI, and bolstering existing initiatives as part of the transition to KAITEKI Management (including CSR). Within the project, KAITEKI Committees have been set up to promote KAITEKI activities at MCHC and four of its operating companies. Most of the activities and meetings organized by the operating companies will in the future be coordinated to tie in with KAITEKI Committee’s activities. 24 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (MCHC) believes that chemistry is a key technology to resolving many of the challenges that society confronts, and to achieving KAITEKI. As a global chemicals company, MCHC has been thinking about the role of chemistry, and about its long-term aspirations and goals. One of the outcomes of that process was the Management of SUSTAINABILITY (MOS) indexes, a specific means of visualizing and quantifying MCHC’s continuing progress towards KAITEKI. The following section describes the process leading to the introduction of the MOS indexes, the first step to putting KAITEKI into practice. October 3, Established Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation (MCHC) 2005 Established a basic philosophy for the entire MCHC Group: Good Chemistry for Tomorrow – Creating better relationships among people, society, and our planet October 2005 Started to look into Project (PJ) 10/20 , proposed by Yoshimitsu Kobayashi (current MCHC President), which envisages society and the role of chemistry and MCHC in 2015 (10 years later) and in 2025 (20 years later) Proceeded with discussions and detailed studies, focusing on the year 2025 March 2006 A one-year project starting in April 2006 was officially approved by the MCHC Management Committee. Agreed that the results of the project would be positioned as the basis for the direction of the MCHC Group's corporate activities. April 2006 PJ 10/20 officially launched 25 Outputs of PJ 10/20 Long-term trend in social environment Trend discussions 26 The philosophy of Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and its aspirations 20 years from now March 2007 PJ 10/20 completed Project results When considering what the society would be like in 2025, discussed what role Chemistry should play. Through this, MCHC’s aspiration in 2025, as well as what MCHC should be in 2015, were determined. Our present status was confirmed, and proposals for roadmaps to the goal were made. Then, to respond to the paradigm shift in the next 20 years, the three keywords of Sustainability, Health and Comfort were selected as our important direction. This was proposed as MCHC’s corporate direction. April 2007 Yoshimitsu Kobayashi assumes position as MCHC President & Chief Executive Officer April 2007 MCHC Management Committee approves PJ 10/20 proposal MCHC is determined to be a global leading company based on the infinite potentials of Good Chemistry as the aspiration for 2025. To achieve this, the three keywords of Sustainability, Health, and Comfort were settled on as the corporate direction. May 2007 Publicly announced the results of PJ 10/20 and explained the thinking behind our next mid-term management plan (fiscal 2008 onwards) at the Analyst Meeting 27 May 2008 Unveiled APTSIS 10 mid-term management plan (April 2008 – March 2010) Clarified our aspirations for 2025 and accompanying goals for 2015 Defined sustainability, health, and comfort as our three decision criteria for corporate activities, as outlined previously in our Direction of Corporate Activities Management targets for the year ending March 2010: Operating income of at least ¥190 billion, ROA of at least 6%, and a reduction in CO2 emissions (basic unit) of at least 20% Achievements to date and subsequent priorities Achievements up to this point Defined criteria for our corporate activities and clarified our aspirations for 2025 and goals for 2015 Subsequent priorities Despite setting out Sustainability, Health, and Comfort as the decision criteria for our corporate activities in order to achieve our aspirations, at this point, we were still uncertain as to how best to verify that we were taking the right direction. June 2008 Launched a prototype of the KAITEKI Project, with the aim of helping to resolve global challenges such as climate change and resource depletion Made a commitment as part of the project based on: rather than focusing solely on short-term profits, the incorporation of environmental and social sustainability into business activities as a new dimension, and taking into account the global environment with a mediumto long-term perspective. Trends during Soaring oil and other resource prices due to speculative investment the summer of 2008 Financial instability triggered by the Lehman Brothers crisis (September) 28 Global trends Soaring oil and other resource prices over the summer prompted concerns about the potential impact on economic activity. This was compounded by the global financial crisis, triggered by the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September. While serious concerns already existed about the over-reliance on financial markets, not least because of the issue of subprime loans, speculative investment also began to have a major impact on the real economy. A new management axis Considering the juxtaposition of financial markets concerns with environmental issues, the MCHC Group continued to debate the future. The result led a growing realization that a new management axis was needed; one that would maintain sustainable corporate development while also accommodating increasingly diverse values and helping to resolve environmental issues. Recognizing that this new management axis for the future would need to consider public interest and the environment, and would be based on SUSTAINSBILITY. April 2009 Established The KAITEKI Institute Inc. (think tank and research institute) Growing recognition of KAITEKI as a major direction for MCHC November Concept of Management of SUSTAINABILITY (MOS) presented publicly for the first time on a Management of Technology (MOT) 2009 Conference Management of SUSTAINABILITY (MOS) MOS represents the ideas that underlie a new management axis, and is based on the concept that corporate activities have an important role to play in processes such as protecting the environment, preserving natural resources, and improving living standards and public health worldwide, both directly and indirectly. 29 Proposal for Management of SUSTAINABILITY (MOS Axis) January 25, APTSIS 15 Basic Strategy below, approved by the MCHC Management Committee 2010 (KAITEKI Specified KAITEKI as the MCHC Group’s goal anniversary) Set out the MOS indexes, to measure progress with Management of SUSTAINABILITY and to act as an indicator of MCHC’s corporate value, alongside existing financial indexes Made the decision to set numerical targets for both indexes for 2015 January 25, Finalized factors for MOS indexes and began the process of devising numerical targets 2010 onwards 30 Working process of MOS indexes Determination of key indexes Detailed examination of the context of operations for all 69 business units of the MCHC Group Examination of the status of indirect departments, including procurement and human resources Clarification of the relationship with index candidates, and simulation Discussions with external intellectuals Discussions with board members June 2010 Publicly announced the basic thinking behind our APTSIS 15 mid-term management plan (fiscal 2011 onwards) at the Analyst Meeting Defined KAITEKI and publicly redefined our aspirations to become a company that achieves KAITEKI by 2025 Set out the concept that MCHC's corporate value is a combination of its economic corporate value and MOS value 31 What is KAITEKI December Confirmed items of MOS indexes and decided to incorporate those indexes into management targets 2010 Introduced items as MOS indexes based on criteria that are of particular importance to MCHC and that are able to be monitored, as a result of careful deliberation about a year Set out three items apiece for sustainability, health, and comfort, making a total of nine, and incorporated fiscal 2015 targets into management targets Set out plans to monitor progress and implement the PDCA (plan, do, check, act) cycle, with financial indexes and progress to be released to the public 32 MOS indexes 33 Sustainability index Monitor progress and manage PDCA cycles December 8, Held an Analyst Meeting to explain our new APTSIS 15 mid-term management plan 2010 Provided an additional explanation on the introduction of the MOS axis as a new management axis, and made plans to promote KAITEKI management as a four-dimensional approach to management, including Time as a fourth axis alongside the existing BA and MOT management axes Set out a direction based on KAITEKI value, indicating a balance between BA axis, MOT axis, and MOS axis as a vector (Aiming to enhance KAITEKI value to achieve KAITEKI ) Good Chemistry for KAITEKI: A Challenge to a Sustainable, Healthy and Comfortable Society (ed. Yoshimitsu Kobayashi) published 34 APTSIS 15 Management Targets (year ending March 2015) Financial indexes: Operating income of ¥400 billion, ROA of at least 8%, net debt-to-equity ratio of 1.0, overseas sales ratio of at least 45% MOS indexes: Example Sustainability index targets A 30% reduction in environmental impact (domestic) and a 17% reduction in greenhouse gases compared to fiscal 2005 Example Health index targets A 30% increase in contribution to the treatment of diseases (based on the difficulty of treatment and the number of patients undergoing treatment) compared to fiscal 2009 Example Comfort index targets Ratio of new products in performance product and health care sectors of at least 35% January 17, The first meeting of the Inaugural APTSIS 15 with MOS index Presentation Conference for operating companies 2011 The evolution of MOS indexes The MCHC Group aspires to create an environment in which all of its corporate activities are linked to KAITEKI value Planning ways to promote KAITEKI value, through MOS index presentations, etc. Instructing operating companies to start the specific work linking existing activities (responsible care, corporate citizenship, etc.) to MOS indexes Approving items unique to individual operating companies, in addition to the nine basic factors The above describes the development of MOS indexes as a means of visualizing the progress of Management of SUSTAINABILITY to share it with not only every member of the MCHC Group but also every stakeholder. The indexes remain a work in progress. Nonetheless, it is a starting point, MCHC that encourages individual the Group employees to think about how to incorporate KAITEKI into their own activities and act accordingly. The MOS indexes will then continue to evolve. The MCHC Group is determined to develop new ideas and work in partnership with its stakeholders in order to achieve KAITEKI. 35 White LED and OLED illuminating the future In the trend toward sustainability, lighting is no exception. Incandescent bulbs and fluorescent light tubes have long been the two major products in the world of lighting. Recent years the light emitting diode (LED) and organic lightemitting diode (OLED) have appeared. These new light sources are spreading rapidly due to their low energy consumption, long life span and superior performance. White LED lights consume just one-eighth the electricity of incandescent bulbs, while the life span of the former is about 40 times longer. Another benefit of these new lights is that, unlike fluorescent light tubes, they contain no mercury, a harmful substance. OLED is also an environmentally friendly light source but has unique characteristics that are very different from LEDs. A thin and lightweight OLED panel emits light from the surface, while also boasting high energy-saving properties. Taking advantage of these features, OLED is expected to offer White LED (top) and OLED endless possibilities for panel lighting systems. (bottom) as the next-generation lights To make these new lights widespread next-generation light (Photos: Toshio Kaneko) sources, Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation (MCC) has been promoting associated businesses by applying its material technologies cultivated over many years of experience. For white LED, MCC has developed a new technology with phosphors and LED chips, two of its main components. For OLED, the company has developed dye-designing technology, a new luminescence material and a new manufacturing process. Lighting is essential infrastructure in society because it allows people to utilize larger areas for longer times. It contributes to our spiritual wealth too. MCC continues its efforts to make this infrastructure more comfortable for all of us. 36 Technological innovations for creating light closer to natural light White LED has four main components: an LED chip (with a layer from which light is emitted), phosphors (absorbing the light from the emitting layer and producing a variety of colors), encapsulant (encapsulating the LED chip and dispersing/holding the phosphors) and packaging material. Conventional white LED creates white light by combining yellow phosphors with blue light, but the white color created in this way differs from that of natural light. MCC therefore developed high-performance red and green phosphors for LED and began commercial production of them in 2006. By combining these new phosphors with a blue LED chip, the company succeeded in creating white light with a rich shade, much closer to natural light. MCC has also combined a violet LED chip White LED structure with red, green and blue (RGB) phosphors and succeeded in creating light with color rendering (naturalness) among the highest in the world. The company named this light VxRGB and is taking steps to popularize it globally. In 2008, MCC also developed high-quality gallium nitride (GaN) substrate. Using this substrate instead of sapphire substrate which is conventionally used for LED, the company created an LED chip with higher output power. VxRGB penetration also required an encapsulant and packaging material that could endure intense violet light and produce white light efficiently. In 2009, MCC developed new materials optimized for these two components. OLEDs have mainly been employed in cell phone and smartphone displays. In recent years, it has also attracted attention in the field of lighting as a new-style, next-generation light offering surface emission, which is unique to OLED. Issues to overcome for putting OLED into practical use include raising its brightness level, reducing cost and expanding planar Light emission principle and colors of organic dimensions. electroluminescence Jointly with Pioneer Corporation, MCC took the first step toward practical use of the wet process of deposition1, which paves the way for larger planar dimensions and lower costs related to OLED. 1 The wet process of deposition is a method of manufacturing OLED panels that was put into practical use in May 2011. While the conventional method of manufacturing these panels applies vapor deposition in a vacuum environment, the new wet process of deposition does not require a vacuum environment. 37 Collaborating with various partners toward the global market In 2009 MCC began full-scale promotion of its white LED light business. The company has established an efficient business model, in which it manufactures and sells core materials while lighting equipment is outsourced to its external partner. MCC has also used the worldwide sales network and brand name of its subsidiary, Verbatim Limited., and begun selling LED bulbs for household use in Europe in October 2010, Verbatim brand LED bulbs the United States and Australia in February 2011 and Japan in July 2011. MCC exhibited its OLED panel under the brand name VELVE at Salone Internazionale del Mobile, an interior design festival held in Milan (in Italy) in April 2011. The panel drew keen attention from event visitors. Image of the MCC booth at Salone In producing the VELVE panel, MCC applied Internazionale del Mobile the wet process of deposition for manufacturing one of the organic electroluminescence layers. This permitted the large planar dimension of 14 cm x 14 cm, among the world's largest, light efficiency of 28 lm/W (lumens per watt), and a brightness level of 1000 cd (candela)/m2. The company began shipping sample kits in April 2011 and selling modules in July 2011. 38 Pursuing lights with higher level of KAITEKI by exploiting our high technological capabilities Brightening dark places is not only the objective of lighting. Lighting involves a host of elements for realizing KAITEKI. Factors such as where to illuminate and how to brighten an area, the appropriate light for the mood of the given place or object (color temperature and color rendering), LED lights at KAITEKI CAFE appropriate range, intensity and method of illumination, and what energy to use all need to be considered. KAITEKI CAFE, opened on the 1st floor of MCHC’s head office, uses high-color-rendering VxRGB lights, which beautifully illuminate both the food and people’s skin. MCC will continue to pursue lighting with a higher level of KAITEKI by capitalizing on its high technical capabilities and expertise in both white LED and OLED. Suggesting KAITEKI lighting that lets users apply their favorite lighting to imbue their spaces with a certain mood Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation (MCHC) engages in businesses for the two light sources supporting next-generation lighting—white LED and OLED—by covering a broad range of segments from materials to finished products. GaN single Takao Okugawa Chief Operation Officer, crystal is a promising material with high-brightness, high colorInformation and rendering LED lights, but the cost outweighed the benefits. Electronics Division. MCHC has overcome issues surrounding this material by Executive Officer Mitsubishi Chemical calling on its unique technology, the ammonothermal method, Corporation and is preparing to begin commercial production of GaN single crystals in 2012. The OLED lighting has also been going well both in the development of a wet process and in material development. We also plan to continue proposing stress-free lighting with a high level of KAITEKI. 39 Providing society with information on the proper use of drugs Many medical needs have yet to be met since there are no known effective medicines or treatment methods. These are called unmet medical needs. Action is underway around the world in an attempt to satisfy these needs. Antibody drugs have drawn attention in recent years as a pharmaceuticals that can fulfill these unmet medical needs. Remicade (generic name: infliximab) is an antibody drug that has been on the market in Japan since 2002 by Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation. This drug is more effective than conventional products for treating intractable autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, and psoriasis. Use of Remicade for treating rheumatoid arthritis induces and maintains remission, a state in which symptoms are effectively absent, and can potentially achieve drug-free remission in which no therapeutic drugs are needed. Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation helps patients improve their quality of life (QOL) by promoting proper use of Remicade to ensure efficacy. In recent years the company established dedicated health support websites for individual diseases. These provide easy-to-understand information about symptoms, diagnoses, treatment methods, etc. of diseases to help Crohn Frontier, the website for patients with patients suffering from them. Crohn Frontier, Crohn's disease the website for patients with Crohn's disease, won an award for excellence in the specified diseases category in the 2009 Best Disease Education Website Awards. This program was established by QLife, Inc., one of Japan's largest companies providing information on medical care and hospitals. 40 An antibody drug made by biotechnology Many conventional drugs are synthetic compounds made through organic syntheses. On the other hand, Remicade is an antibody drug made by applying biotechnology. An antibody is a type of protein generated in the human body. Antibodies are bound only with targeted antigens. Made by using this antibody mechanism, an antibody drug works on a disease selectively, providing Remicade for I.V. Infusion 100 high efficiency with a few side effect. Remicade has diverse indications for autoimmune diseases. Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation has been aggressively promoting lifecycle management of Remicade to maximize the product value by expanding its indications. Beginning with the approval for Crohn's disease given in 2002, the company has expanded the approval indications of Remicade for rheumatoid arthritis, Behcet's disease with refractory uveoretinitis, psoriasis, ankylosing spondylitis, and ulcerative colitis, thereby contributing to the QOL of many patients. Additional indications for Remicade 41 Developing the market through expanding indications The launch of Remicade has led to market development in biologics. The drug has a new mechanism of action and its efficacy has been highly valued. This resulted in an increase of the number of patients treated with the drug. Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation has also expanded the entire market by actively engaging in increasing indications for Remicade. Since its launch in Japan, the drug has been used by more than 70,000 patients. The product has become a significant growth driver for the Company. Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation also strives to provide information to promote proper use of drugs. It has set up the Medical Information Center which directly responds to inquiries. The center promptly provides accurate information on ethical drugs and OTC, helping promote their appropriate use. The company also makes use of valuable feedback given to the Medical Information Center in order to develop better pharmaceuticals. Medical Information Center Inquiry Flowchart Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation cooperates with a public program (organized by Nikkei Inc.) for educating the public on health and medical care. These measures not only serve useful information for patients but also contribute to deepening society's understanding of diseases. 42 Contributing to KAITEKI lives of patients by improving their QOL There are two major ways in which a pharmaceutical company contributes to achieve KAITEKI. One way is the provision of distinctive pharmaceuticals. For example, Remicade has proven dramatically effective, allowing patients with rheumatoid arthritis to walk without a cane, and enabling deep sleep for those whose pain kept them awake. Such drugs are thereby greatly contributing to the improvement of patients' QOL. The other means is provision of information. A drug is helpful for medical treatment when the necessary information is provided. Pharmaceuticals companies provide patients with accurate, high-quality information on efficiency and safety via physicians and pharmacists. They also provide information on diseases via their websites to eliminate patients' anxiety. Through these and other efforts, Mitsubishi Riumachi 21.info, a Remicade website for Tanabe Pharma Corporation contributes to providing information on rheumatism curing patients of their suffering and improving their QOL, toward realization of a KAITEKI society. Promoting activities for providing information aimed at proper use of pharmaceuticals Information on a drug is essential for its proper use. Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation medical representatives (MRs) provide medical institutions with detailed information on the company's pharmaceutical products so they will be used properly and safely for patients. Kenichi Yanagisawa Using the web, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma makes information Board Director, Managing Executive on diseases freely available to patients and their families. Officer The Company has established websites providing simple Head of Sales and explanations of the symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of the Marketing Division Mitsubishi Tanabe diseases its products are designed to treat. Pharma Corporation Using the web, we will serves the needs of patients and society 43 Effective for saving energy and cutting greenhouse gas emissions Heat is continually wasted by power sources and other equipment in factories, buildings, commercial facilities, hospitals, and other such structures. High-temperature waste heat has been reused for absorption chiller systems and other equipment, yet waste heat at low temperature remains unused. AQSOA, a synthetic zeolite developed by Mitsubishi Chemical Group Science and Technology Research Center, Inc. (MCRC), has opened a new door for reuse of low-temperature waste heat. AQSOA desiccant air conditioner AQSOA water vapor adsorbent is capable of discharging absorbed water vapor stably in a much lower temperature range (40-80°C) than with conventional adsorbents such as silica gel. Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. has made use of this property of AQSOA to develop devices incorporating the adsorbents, such as adsorption chillers and desiccant air conditioners (dehumidifier/humidifier using adsorbents) in its efforts to develop a market. 44 These devices, capable of using waste heat in a low temperature range (80°C or lower), permit efficient use of solar heat and waste heat from fuel cells. They therefore use little electricity and continuously cut greenhouse gas emissions. For example, a chiller incorporating the AQSOA heat pump (a heat exchange technology using a heat medium) reduces CO2 emissions by up to two-thirds compared to conventional compressor-type chillers. The desiccant air conditioner uses 20% less energy than units using silica gel. It also permits easy humidity control, thereby helping users to create comfortable environments. Adsorption chiller incorporating AQSOA 45 Development of components by applying AQSOA In developing AQSOA, MCRC verified the property for adsorbing and desorbing water molecules. This process involved designing as many of around 3,000 kinds of synthetic zeolites. Three types of zeolites were consequently commercialized. Amount of adsorption by AQSOA Structure and Photomicrograph of AQSOA The development of AQSOA was followed immediately by studies on its application for adsorption heat pumps, especially those for chillers. 46 At the same time, application for desiccant air conditioners was being realized. Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. later began developing components such as a honeycomb wheel and heat exchanger, instead of only producing AQSOA as a raw material (powder). Establishing a technology for coating heat exchangers and other components with AQSOA was not easy. Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. started the efforts by manually creating an experimental device and succeeded in developing the technology. After improving durability and stability, the component was finally made available for chiller manufacturers. In 2010, the company established a plant for producing AQSOA at Naoetsu (Joetsu-shi, Niigata). It also began manufacturing honeycomb wheels and heat exchangers. 47 Aiming for global sales of ¥10 billion in 2015 Instead of only producing AQSOA powder, Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. developed a heat exchanger and honeycomb wheel coated with the material. Its intent was to expand the market by having chiller manufacturers and other companies understand the superior properties of AQSOA as soon as possible. In 2005, the company set up AQSOA production facilities with a subsidy from the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. This has allowed rapid progress of the expansion of its use and possibilities as a material. Uses and applications of AQSA honeycomb wheel cassette Uses and applications of AQSA-coated heat exchanger Honeycomb wheels are currently produced in cooperation with an external company while the heat exchangers are manufactured at the Hiratsuka Plant (in Kanagawa) of Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. The products are provided to a number of manufacturers. These products are drawing considerable attention from overseas companies as worldwide efforts are being made to cut greenhouse gas emissions. The heat exchangers are provided to a large-size chiller manufacturer in Germany, while inquiries come from United States and from countries with poor electricity infrastructure, including United Arab Emirates (UAE), Singapore and India. Chillers using AQSOA are almost maintenance-free, making them suitable for use in emerging countries. Demand from those countries can be expected. Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. is aiming to achieve sales of \10 billion or more in 2015 from AQSOA and related businesses. 48 KAITEKI increased with use of low-temperature waste heat Reduction of greenhouse gas emission is demanded on a global scale, and conservation of electricity and other energies is an urgent issue. AQSOA and devices using it will make great contributions amid this trend since they are capable of freezing or air conditioning by using low-temperature waste heat instead of electricity. Chillers and air conditioners with low power consumption are in particularly high demand in emerging countries, which face soaring demand for electricity and have insufficient electricity infrastructure. The market has been expanding on a global scale. An adsorption chiller using AQSOA, which is driven by low-temperature waste heat at 60℃ Won the Ecology Section Prize of the Nikkei BP Technology Award 2009 together with Mayekawa Manufacturing Company Development of an innovative water vapor adsorbent that cools the air using solar heat Won the Award of Excellence in the 2009 3rd Monozukuri Nippon Grand Award together with MCRC Hoping to expand applications to general households as well as business sites and production and other facilities In April 2010, Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. organized the AQSOA Project Team as a new business and has been developing the market. Devices applying AQSOA have been introduced to plants of Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. and Mitsubishi Chemical Kenichi Yoshie Project Manager, Corporation. Operation of these devices is partly to AQSOA Project demonstrate their performance. New Business Promotion To popularize these devices, promotion of understanding by Dept. Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. construction companies, etc., as well as end users such as factories and buildings, is seen as important. The greatest issue Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. currently faces is price. The company is working to realize more affordable prices that enable wider usage of the products. Use as components for household central air conditioning systems, as well as for business sites and production and other facilities, is expected in the future. 49 Conserve and improve our precious water environment Water shortage and pollution caused by population growth and progress in urbanization are worldwide concerns. Establishing action to secure clean, safe drinking water and develop appropriate wastewater treatment systems are pressing global challenges. In the late-1970s, Corporate Research Laboratories of MRC developed the world's first polypropylene hollow fiber membrane. CLEANSUI CSP601 – Displays messages MRC applied it to such as wastewater on the optimal flow rate treatment systems, artificial lungs followed by home water purifiers. 50 CLEANSUI was released in 1984 as the world's first water purifier using hollow fiber membrane filter. Since then it has evolved and the CLEANSUI business has significantly expanded. CLEANSUI was developed in 1989 as the industry's first under-sink water purifier using polyethylene hollow fiber membrane, and in 1994, a product was developed that eliminates lead, trihalomethane, and pesticides. In 2004, an upgraded water purifier that filters out the nine substances designated by the Household Goods Quality Labeling Act* was released. CLEANSUI performance and functions have been continually improved to meet consumers' drinking water needs. A Let's drink tap water! campaign was launched in 2010. Water in plastic bottles, which is consumed worldwide, not only requires a huge amount of cost and energy for production and transportation, but also produces vast quantities of waste. CLEANSUI is a message from MRC. that encourages people to be conscious of the global environment and recommends drinking tap water. 51 Technologies created in the development of hollow fiber membranes have also been applied to wastewater treatment. In China, MRC engages in businesses ranging from CLEANSUI water purifiers to wastewater treatment at public sewage plants and industrial wastewater treatment facilities. MRC is also committed to developing these businesses in other Membrane Filtration Facility for Drinking emerging countries, contributing to Water realization of the KAITEKI concept in terms of water. *The water purifiers are currently capable of filtering out the 13 substances designated by the Household Goods Quality Labeling Act and two substances designated by the Japan Water Purifier Association. 52 Development of hollow fiber membranes for diverse applications Conventional methods of making pores in hollow fibers involved use of chemicals, including solvents. MRC developed a production method that applies spinning and stretching technologies featuring precision pore shaping. With this method, polyethylene as the raw material is melted at a temperature of 150-200°C and then spun into macaroni-shaped fibers. The fibers are then stretched by multiple rollers that rotate Cross-section of Hollow Fiber (magnified) at different speeds. The ultrafine pores are made by the difference of rotating speeds and the stretching power of these rollers. In the development of CLEANSUI, MRC developed a filter that incorporates an ion-exchange resin, which turns hard water into soft water, activated carbon, which removes odors and organic substances, and other materials, in addition to the hollow fiber membrane. This process also led to development of a technology for making permanently hydrophilic hollow fibers, which has been applied to industrial wastewater treatment. Conventional hollow fibers are hydrophobic, and needed to be made temporarily hydrophilic using an alcohol and kept wet during storage, otherwise they could not be used for filtering liquid. MRC developed a production method for making hydrophilic hollow fibers by coating the surface of polyethylene with hydrophilic polymers. This allows the fibers to filter water even when they are dry, providing a heightened level of convenience. This technology is applied to industrial wastewater treatment, including condensate filters of nuclear power plants. 53 In 2001, MRC developed a membrane bioreactor (MBR)* system through a project with Japan Sewage Works Agency. MRC also developed a high-performance membrane for MBR, which is highly acclaimed worldwide. MRC has newly developed a dedicated filter for CLEANSUI to be marketed in China and India, geared to the poor water quality environments in these countries. The hollow fiber used for this filter has smaller pores than standard ones. This enables the filter to remove viruses, which are smaller than bacteria. MBR Process Flow *A membrane bioreactor (MBR) is an activated sludge process that uses membranes to filter out suspended solids, including harmful microorganisms such as viruses, bacteria, and cysts that traditional clarifier or sedimentation system cannot remove. MRC developed a high-performance membrane made of polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) for large-scale MBR systems. 54 Achieving KAITEKI by improving the water environment in a way that leads to the improvement of the entire global environment In 1984, the former Japan's Ministry of Health and Welfare issued a warning that activated carbon water purifiers could induce bacterial growth if left unused for a long time. CLEANSUI resultantly became a hit product since it uses hollow membrane and can remove bacteria. The faucet-mounted CLEANSUI water purifier, launched in 1989, earned high acclaim for its sophisticated design and convenience. At its peak, orders received for the product were ten times that of production capacity. In 2009, the year marking the 25th anniversary of CLEANSUI, a new CI was introduced. The logo and product designs were also renewed under the new CI to improve CLEANSUI's brand power. MRC Logo created under the new Corporate Identity (CI) has also worked proactively in the overseas market development. China, a growth market, was the first overseas market MRC entered. This first move was in 2006, and CLEANSUI water purifiers are marketed in more than ten countries. Units marketed in China feature special filters geared for the country's quality of water. At the same time, MRC has established a network for providing installation and cartridge replacement services as it responds to increasing demand. In 2010, CLEANSUI entered the Indian market, where the products sold also incorporate the special filters. In 2011, MRC began to develop its household water purifier business in Australia and New Zealand as the CLEANSUI business continues its global expansion. Overseas sales currently account for 10% of the total. MRC plans to increase this ratio to 30% in 2015. Demand for water treatment systems is also high in the global market. In 2006, MRC supplied a PVDF membrane to the world's largest MBR treatment systems (Beijing, China) at that time. MRC is also expanding its membrane business to the industrial area, with plans to increase sales in this field to 25 billion yen by 2025. 55 Contributing to KAITEKI and leading future-oriented business Water pollution and depletion of water resources are serious problems threatening the existence of our species and damaging our food and health. The increased use of plastic bottles for drinking water has also led to tremendous waste in resources and energy. Annual amount of water resources per person MRC develops its water treatment technologies and water-related businesses in pursuit of a solution for overcoming this situation. These are not only for providing safe, clean water and water environments; dissemination of these technologies and businesses will help improve the overall global environment and lead to further realization of the KAITEKI concept. 56 Achieving a KAITEKI water environment, which leads to attachment of a KAITEKI global environment In addition to hollow fiber membranes and ion-exchange resin, MRC has amassed a range of water treatment related technologies, including polymer coagulant and oil absorbent. Combined use of these technologies enables improvement of Takahiro Ikeda Managing Executive all water circulatory systems, including those for drinking water Officer supply, industrial wastewater treatment and wastewater MMA Business Bloc Aqua Business Bloc recycling. We believe this will lead directly to good health, Mitsubishi Rayon Co., hygiene, and KAITEKI characteristics that encompass all of Ltd. society. MRC. will continue to pursue realization of a KAITEKI water environment that leads to a KAITEKI global environment. 57 A new type of institute oriented to Kotozukuri In this, the 21st century, we humans face diverse issues including destruction of global environmental, depletion of natural resources, the shortage of food and water, and access to quality healthcare. The Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (MCHC) Group asks itself what it can do to solve these problems and achieve KAITEKI, a state that is comfortable not only for human beings but for all of society and the planet, and which is truly sustainable. In seeking solutions with a 20-50 year perspective, the MCHC Group established The KAITEKI Institute, Inc. (TKI), in April 2009. TKI has four major missions. First, it collects and analyzes information to forecast future changes in society, predicts needs and wants that will arise from the changes, and provides the information to MCHC Group companies. The second mission is to contemplate new business concepts for responding to such needs and wants and researching core technologies that will be the keys to the concepts. Third, based on the outcomes of research and investigations, TKI will propose businesses to be rolled out by the MCHC Group. Its fourth and final mission is to inform the public of the concept of KAITEKI, advocate and spread it in society, and introduce new culture to the MCHC Group. 58 The breadth of investigations and research undertaken by TKI is expressed with three keywords – Sun (SOL), Water (AQUA) and Life (VITA); which respectively symbolize environment and energy, water and food, and lives and lifestyles, all of which are essential for patting KAITEKI into practice. TKI differs greatly from conventional corporate research institutes in that it does not have its own experiment facilities but maintains a network with leading research institutes around the world, with a policy of promoting research by entrusting it to those institutes or in collaboration with them. This enables TKI to respond flexibly to the constant flow of newly arising issues. TKI has dual functions – as a think tank and for research. If conventional research institutes are oriented to monozukuri Research Fields of TKI (manufacturing), TKI is an organization oriented to kotozukuri (innovating). It aims to go to the lengths necessary to create systems that attain KAITEKI. To achieve these goals, TKI consists of members of operational companies of the MCHC Group, and contents of ongoing investigations and research are evaluated by an Advisory Board composed of experts from inside and outside the companies. The Advisory Board meets twice yearly to evaluate the above mentioned topics and examine TKI's direction. Evaluation meeting of the Advisory Board 59 TKI members return to their Group companies, where they are expected to contribute to them by making use of the knowledge about future society and abilities for making plans and proposals that they obtained at TKI. TKI's network and examples of research subjects 60 Steady achievements in CO2 recycling and water-saving agricultural technologies TKI is working toward concrete achievements. One example, in the SOL category, is recycling of CO2 using algae. This research is entrusted to the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), led by Professor James Liao. The objective is to produce alcohol efficiently from CO2 by using cyanobacteria (a blue-green algae), which has high cell growth potential. This requires design of a metabolic pathway1 Cyanobacteria from CO2 to alcohol. Metabolic pathways from glucose to butanol are currently examined based on a metabolic pathway newly designed through genetic modification with E. coli as the host. The target for 2010 was to produce 2 grams of butanol per reaction volume of 1 liter. The researchers have modified genes that enable production of 30 grams of butanol, far exceeding the target. They also confirmed butanol production with blue-green algae. Blue-green algae culture apparatuses 1Metabolic pathway: Metabolism refers to transformations of matter, or chemical reactions, which happen in living organisms to maintain life. A metabolic pathway is a pathway of those transformations of matter. Examples include glycolysis, citric acid cycle, and fatty acid metabolism. 61 Research in the AQUA field includes a study on water-saving agricultural technologies. This is a joint project between Mebiol Inc. (Hiratsuka-city, Kanagawa Prefecture), the Department of Primary Industries (Victoria, Australia) and TKI. This project examines a cultivation method applying a hydro-membrane developed by Mebiol Inc. A field trial carried out in Victoria using tomatoes has shown favorable results. It demonstrated that the method required only two-thirds of the water of conventional hydroponic culture for producing the same amount of tomatoes, yet increased the sugar content by 20%. Tomatoes grown in Mebiol's system with low The plant and culture solution are separated water usage and high sugar content. from each other (information provided by Mebiol Inc.). 62 Advocating the concept of KAITEKI in society As its fourth mission indicates, it is also an important duty of TKI to inform the public of the philosophy of KAITEKI and advocate it in society. As the first step under this mission, TKI published a book titled Good Chemistry for KAITEKI (Hankyu Communications Co., Ltd.) in December 2010. The book shows the ideas of its author, President Yoshimitsu Kobayashi, about KAITEKI. An English translation of the book was published, too. TKI opened KAITEKI CAFE on the 1st floor of MCHC's head office building in April 2011. This is designed to be a place for advocating the concept of KAITEKI directly to the public. Book authored by President Kobayashi A new style of cafe, suggesting KAITEKI The cafe serves dishes using vegetables from plant factories and food the producer of which is clearly known. The floor is illuminated by white LED lighting, a product that Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation focuses on. Water used in the cafe is purified with CLEANSUI made by Mitsubishi Rayon Co., Ltd. In addition to the items mentioned, TKI is also committed to introducing new culture to the company. In one example of this, it organizes lecture meetings by inviting key figures. 63 Contributing to KAITEKI and leading future-oriented business The MCHC Group focuses on the period until 2025 when considering its management. TKI makes predictions and undertakes research from an even longer-term perspective, which allows it to think differently from operational companies. Our past data show that the MCHC Group's business fields have been changing significantly according to the years. In short, TKI contributes to the concept of KAITEKI by looking at society from an extremely long-term perspective and leads businesses toward the future. Keep an eye on the activities of TKI, which collects wisdom from around the world to solve global issues. In the wake of every new major invention, such the steam engine or fixation of atmospheric nitrogen, mankind has significantly expanded its range of activities on the planet. In Eiji Tanaka the 21st century, our activities have finally reached a point Deputy Executive where they influence the conditions of the Earth itself. This has Director resulted in growing concerns about the sustainability of our The KAITEKI Institute, Inc. species. We can say we are in an era when our most important task as humans is to consider how to pass on a comfortable global environment to the next generation, instead of only pursuing our own satisfaction and comfort. This is the very objective behind the founding of TKI. Watch for the activities of TKI, which continues to pursue answers to the questions of What do we need to put KAITEKI into practice for people in the future? and What should we do now to achieve this? in the three fields of SOL, AQUA and VITA, and which amasses wisdom from around the world for solving global issues. 64 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings aspires to reinforce the corporate foundations to build the relationship of trust through communication with all our stakeholders and wide range of activities, with strict compliance with rules and regulations. 65 We strive to achieve Group management with greater efficiency and transparency. Since its founding in 2005, Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation (MCHC) has worked to strengthen its corporate governance, compliance and risk management in pursuit of optimal Group management. Corporate Governance System (as of April 1, 2011) Basic Approach to Corporate Governance As the pure holding company of the Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Group (MCHC Group), MCHC fulfils the portfolio management function of the Group and promotes policies that include the deepening of Group management and the allocation of management resources, allowing the Group to grow and leap ahead. Further, in its role overseeing the management of the MCHC Group, MCHC strives to ensure decision-making and the efficient and timely execution of operations in management, and also works to clarify management responsibility as well as enhance compliance and risk management. 66 ［The Rights and Roles of Each Organization］ Board of Directors Based on the Board of Directors Regulations and other related regulations, the Board of Directors makes decisions on important managerial matters and fundamental the MCHC Group management matters, and also supervises the directors’ execution of their duties. As a general rule, the Board of Directors meets once a month. The Articles of Incorporation specify that MCHC have no more than ten directors, and as of the end of June 2011, the board comprised seven directors, two of whom assume dual roles as executive officers. To build a management system capable of swiftly responding to changes in the management environment and to provide greater clarification of the management responsibilities and roles of each director, directors are appointed for a term of one year. In addition, to determine candidates for director, the Board of Directors decides on people who possess the qualities and abilities best suited to achieving the management principles of the MCHC Group and fulfilling its social responsibility. Candidates are then presented at the Shareholders’ Meeting and appointed by election. Management Committee The Management Committee operates as a body for assisting the President and Representative Director in decision-making. The Committee conducts deliberations on investments, loans and other important issues involving business execution by MCHC and MCHC Group companies, and also deals with important matters concerning the promotion of corporate social responsibility (CSR), such as compliance, risk management, safety and environmental measures, human rights promotion and social contribution. Also note that important management matters discussed by the Management Committee are subject to approval by the Board of Directors before being carried out. The Management Committee meets around once a month and comprises the President, directors, standing executive officers, the executive representatives of core Group companies and corporate auditors. Corporate Auditors and the Board of Auditors Corporate Auditors and the Board of Auditors are in place as a body for the auditing and supervision of MCHC. The corporate auditors take part in the Board of Directors Meeting as well as other important meetings and committees to verify the details of reports from the Board of Directors and other bodies, look into company business activities and the state of its assets and audit directors’ execution of their duties. As a general rule the Board of Auditors meets once a month, where it deliberates and decides on audit policy and other important matters concerning auditing. The Board of Auditors at MCHC comprised five members as of the end of June 2011, three of whom are outside auditors designated as disinterested, independent auditors. Accounting auditors and the Audit Office also conduct audits in close coordination with one another, providing information on the status of audits and exchanging views on audit results. 67 Amid the MCHC Group’s expanding influence, we pursue thorough accountability and transparency to underpin society’s trust. Noboru Tsuda Managing Executive Officer, Chief Compliance Officer, General Manager, Internal Control Office, Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation In April 2008, Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation (MCHC) formed the Internal Control Office. Although systems for compliance and risk management had been maintained and operated within the CSR Office until then, we thought it was necessary to have a department which specialized in and exercised across-the-board jurisdiction over internal control, including coordination with internal audit departments. Traditionally, internal control is understood as “having an organization function effectively as such to realize its goals.” At MCHC, we regard the term “effectively” to mean properly undertaking risk management, including compliance, and operating an organization in an efficient and effective manner. The mission of the Internal Control Office is to promote these improvements. At the MCHC Group, we regard the generation of KAITEKI value leading to the sustainability of society to be a pillar of our management, and to this end we ourselves must earn the trust of society and be a sustainable organization. In that sense, we believe that ensuring firm internal control is a precondition to pursuing KAITEKI value. Meanwhile, the MCHC Group has undergone substantial changes in recent years. Because of its growth in size and the rapid advancement of globalization, the MCHC Group has gained greater social influence and heavier responsibility regarding internal control. With these developments as a backdrop, we will continue to engage in activities with a focus on the points described below. The first of these points is to strengthen the development of group-wide, cross-sectional guidelines and standards on internal control. To date, the MCHC Group has developed basic rules and systems which are common to its four operating companies. That said, since each company differs by industry sector and business conditions, operates under a different corporate culture, and has its own set of employment conditions, we have enabled each company to conform to basic rules while conducting internal control in an autonomous fashion. However, society has changed at a growing pace and we have become increasingly unable to keep up using this method alone. Overseas in particular, conventional laws, established practices and customs are often tightened without being noticed, and there are sometimes delays in taking action in the field. What’s more, since the risks differ depending on the country, in many cases it is effective to approach a country with a stance that is shared across the four operating companies. In light of these circumstances, MCHC deems it necessary to go ahead with measures such as group-wide internal control guidelines. 68 The second point is to leverage the different companies within the MCHC Group to develop better systems. The four operating companies each have areas and methods of internal control in which they uniquely excel due to the experience they have acquired to date. Given this, MCHC plans to evaluate the systems and operational status of internal control at each company, and with the best companies serving as models, utilize the advantages of being able to convey experience, knowledge and expertise on a mutual basis to promote systemic reforms at other companies. We believe it is also the role of MCHC to take account of the characteristics of the four operating companies and overseas Group companies and constantly make adjustments so that the four operating companies engage in friendly competition with the aim of being the best. The third point is to enable the operation of internal control in an autonomous and self-aware manner from the field level. To date, we have undergone a process of innovation and improvement concerning the systems and schemes for internal control at MCHC. Awareness on the part of every employee is essential to instilling these systems and schemes and making them actually work. There is also a tendency for internal control to be taken as “managing from senior management,” but without autonomous awareness in the field, this has no practical effectiveness. We recognize this as an enormous challenge. In particular, the roles of department and section managers are crucial. No matter how well developed a system is, it will end up a pie in the sky unless each and every organization functions as such. The same goes for me. When a problem occurs, I gather the section managers and try to get down to the questions of “where did the problem lie and what should we do about it?” Looking ahead, we will continue to put effort into training and other measures to raise the awareness of employees, and are considering personnel rotations and other ways to stimulate awareness with regard to leaders in departments of above a certain size. The common thread to these initiatives, in other words, is that the fundamental attitude of internal control is the comprehensive implementation of “accountability” and “transparency.” Since MCHC is an organization with an extensive reach and we live in an era of rapid social change, no matter how far we go in establishing schemes and adding layers of protection, troubles and difficulties can happen. At those times, we must explain ourselves internally and externally in an accurate and sincere manner, and uncover the facts without concealment. Following that, it is extremely important to consider what to reflect on and what improvements to make, and to then take action. Moving forward, we will strive to ensure that this is instilled throughout the entire the MCHC Group as a natural practice. 69 ［Internal Control］ Internal Control Systems: Basic Approach and Implementation Here at Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation (MCHC), the Board of Directors set out a basic policy for internal control systems in May 2006, covering areas such as risk management, compliance, the execution of duties by officers, information management and auditing systems. The Board of Directors also carries out inspections at the end of every fiscal year to ensure that internal controls are being implemented effectively and reviews specific details as necessary, in an effort to continually enforce and strengthen our internal control systems. Having assessed internal controls in relation to financial reporting in fiscal 2010, we have confirmed that our internal control systems are functioning effectively in accordance with internal control and reporting requirements under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. As part of APTSIS 15, our new five-year mid-term management plan starting in fiscal 2011, we will be expanding and reinforcing our overseas area strategy in an effort to increase our ratio of overseas sales to at least 45%. In particular, we are aiming to establish and strengthen management systems in China and the US, primarily by supervising and providing guidance in relation to PR capabilities, risk management, compliance systems and internal auditing. It is with this in mind that we established Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings America Inc. (MCHA) in November 2010 and Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (Beijing) Co. Ltd. (MCHB) in January 2011, as wholly-owned subsidiaries in the US and China. We intend to step up internal control initiatives at MCHC Group companies even further in the future, focusing on operations at the local level via overseas subsidiaries such as these. We are also planning to carry out internal control assessments more effectively and efficiently in the future, based on the current implementation of internal control systems and assessment results. Further, we are committed to promoting efficient, streamlined operations, through initiatives such as improving internal control systems and standardizing operations. ［Risk Management］ Risk Management: Basic Approach and Risk Management Systems We have always been committed to improving risk management systems here at MCHC Group, to both fulfil our social responsibilities and maintain and enhance our corporate value. We established our risk management system, headed by the President of MCHC in his capacity as Chief Risk Management Officer, in April 2006 and formulated the MCHC Group Risk Management Basic Policy. We have been effectively implementing this ever since, in an effort to avoid major risks associated with our business activities and minimize any damage, whether human, economic or social, in the event that any such risks do materialize. 70 Important matters relating to risk management within the MCHC Group, including risk management policies and groupwide measures in response to major risks, are discussed by the Management Committee and determined by the President, in his capacity as Chief Risk Management Officer, based on the outcome of discussions. At our four operating companies, we establish risk management systems in line with the specific nature of each company’s business activities. Our four operating companies also provide guidance and support to enable their subsidiaries to establish and implement risk management systems effectively. We are considered that sharing information relating risks within the MCHC Group is important in order to further reinforce risk management systems. We therefore organize regular meetings between MCHC and each of our operating companies, to enable us to share information regarding common risks and matters such as risk management strategies. Initiatives in Fiscal 2010 Following on from the previous year, we continued to improve and monitor the implementation of risk management systems, and to identify and assess major risks affecting the MCHC Group, during fiscal 2010. We also highlighted emerging risks requiring groupwide action and promoted measures to resolve or minimize risk factors, including UN Security Council sanctions against Iran, procurement risks in China, and information security. On other fronts, we have identified and categorized risks requiring priority action, including environmental risks and internal controls at overseas MCHC Group companies, and are implementing appropriate measures in response. In an effort to reinforce internal controls at overseas MCHC Group companies for instance, we have set out a risk management policy for the MCHC Group companies in China in partnership with Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (Beijing) Co. Ltd. (MCHB), our new local subsidiary established in January 2011, and are starting to implement specific initiatives. In response to the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011 meanwhile, we quickly ascertained damage caused to our four operating companies and have provided support to help restore damaged facilities. Based on the lessons learnt from the recent earthquake, in areas such as confirming employees’ safety and emergency contact procedures, we are conducting a full review of our business continuity plans, so as to ensure that we could maintain head office capabilities and continue to supply products to infrastructure operators in the foreseeable event of devastating earthquake directly under Tokyo or the eastern Tokai region. In fiscal 2011, we will continue to provide the MCHC Group companies with support to enable them to establish and effectively operate risk management systems, focusing particularly on our four operating companies. We also intend to implement specific measures to minimize risks requiring priority action, in areas such as compliance, overseas operations and business continuity planning, to ensure that we are able to procure raw materials and supply products. 71 Risk Management System (as of June 30, 2011) Establishing a Safety Culture We established the Group Synergy Office at MCHC to develop and strengthen the foundations in a Group-wide and cross-sectional manner for production technology, the environment and safety. We also organize Four-Company Cooperation Council meetings as and when necessary, bringing together managerial members of staff from Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Mitsubishi Plastics Inc. and Mitsubishi Rayon Co. Ltd. to create a shared awareness with regard to environmental and safety activities and to share information and opinions regarding policies and priorities at each company. ［Compliance］ Compliance: Basic Approach and Promotion Structure Here at the MCHC Group, we view compliance from a broader perspective, incorporating areas such as corporate ethics and social boundaries, rather than focusing strictly on legal compliance. As we regard compliance as one of our top management priorities, we have set out a number of regulations to underpin our operations, including our MCHC Group Corporate Ethics, the MCHC Group Compliance Code of Conduct, and the MCHC Group Compliance Promotion Policy. To steadily incorporate compliance into MCHC Group, we have established an Internal Control Office to oversee compliance at MCHC, and compliance promotion or corporate ethics committees at our four operating companies, under the supervision of a Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) appointed by the MCHC Board of Directors. MCHC requires operating companies to formulate a code of conduct, compile procedural manuals, conduct educational activities such as training and seminar, audit and monitor operations, and establish and operate a compliance hotline service. We also provide support for activities at our operating companies, including assigning instructors to oversee training and producing training tools. 72 At overseas MCHC Group companies meanwhile, we are in the process of formulating codes of conduct and regulations in line with legislation and social norms in each country, based on our MCHC Group Corporate Ethics as a common basic rule, in an effort to ensure and reinforce compliance. Promotion Structure Initiatives in Fiscal 2010 In November 2010, we invited an outside attorney to give a lecture entitled “Responding to Society’s Trust: Practical Considerations for Compliance and CSR” for officers from MCHC and Chief Executive Officers and Chief Compliance Officers from MCHC Group companies. We also organized training sessions for new officers at MCHC Group companies. We have had a number of incidents that have MCHC Group compliance lecture undermined trust in MCHC, including administrative action against Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation due to a violation of the Pharmaceutical Affairs Act, and the improper handling of environmental data by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation. Accordingly, in fiscal 2010, we thoroughly investigated the causes of these incidents and rolled out effective measures to prevent anything similar from recurring. We remain committed to providing support for compliance-related measures at the MCHC Group companies in the future. 73 Specific Initiatives at our Four Operating Companies: Further, we consider that sharing information relating compliance within the MCHC Group is vital to further reinforce compliance. We organize regular meetings between MCHC and each of our operating companies, to enable us to share information regarding groupwide priorities and other relevant matters. Auditing and Reporting Systems 【Auditing and Monitoring】 We conduct annual Control Self Assessments (CSA) MCHC Group companies via the Audit Office at MCHC, in order to ascertain levels of compliance at each company based on a series of compliance-related questions. 【Hotline Service】 In fiscal 2008, we launched a Hotline Service for the staff of MCHC Group companies to seek advice or report matters relating to compliance, either to the General Manager of the Internal Control Office or an outside attorney. Since then, we have been working to promote the service and ensure that it operates effectively. We are committed to protecting the confidentiality, privacy and human rights of all employees seeking advice or filing reports, and guarantee that they will not be disadvantaged in any way. An investigative team led by the General Manager of the Internal Control Office processes all information provided. If there is deemed to be an issue, we take swift action to remedy the situation, under the supervision of the CCO. Information Security Initiatives We set out the MCHC Group Information Security Policy in order to protect our information system assets from both internal and external threats, and to maintain and enhance our corporate value. Essentially, the policy requires MCHC Group companies to recognize the fundamental importance of information security assets and to ensure information security. We are committed to maintaining and managing information security systems more effectively throughout the MCHC Group. That is why we have set up the MCHC Group Information System Security Administration Committee, headed by the executive officer in charge of information systems at the Group Synergy Office, and have appointed managers to oversee information system security at all of the MCHC Group companies. We require all MCHC Group employees, including those based overseas, to comply with our Information Security Policy and related regulations, and disseminate them via regular educational and awareness programs. 74 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Group Corporate Ethics We, constituent members of the Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Group (MCHC Group) , shall share the following ethical standards and act with sound ethics and good common sense, and exert our utmost to ensure sustained development as a corporate group that engenders society's trust, in every aspect of our corporate activities. 1.Awareness and Responsibility Based on the basic understanding that the foundation of our corporate activities is society's trust and confidence in us, we shall endeavor to contribute to the realization of an affluent and enriching society through respective business activities with a keen sense of corporate social responsibility. 2. Fairness, Equitability and Integrity We shall respect the dignity and rights of all people and shall not engage in invidious discrimination for any reason whatsoever, be it racial, gender or religious. Furthermore, we shall deal with third parties including customers, suppliers, vendors, shareholders, business partners, administrative organs and local communities who associate with the MCHC Group, in a fair, equitable and sincere manner. The same holds true for relations among inter-MCHC Group constituent members. 3. Strict Compliance Strict compliance constitutes the foundation as a member of society. Never engage in unlawful activities, is a natural social norm (legal and ethical standards), which must be observed at all times. At the MCHC Group, we shall act in accordance with the following standards in order to avert possible risks that may lead to illegality: 1. Continue to sharpen sensitivity toward illegal conduct. 2. Never engage in suspected illegal activity. 3. Do not be optimistic in evaluating risk of illegality. 4. In the event that an illegal act is committed, do not conceal or justify it. 5. Avoiding risk of illegality takes precedence over corporate interest at all times. 4. Prudence With respect to inter-company or inter-group relationships, as well as relationships with our customers, vendors and business partners, we shall avoid improper associations and maintain proper relationships that conform to prevailing social standards, to prevent misunderstanding. In particular, we shall make a clear distinction between official and private matters and shall not exploit one's position or status as a member of the MCHC Group to pursue one's own personal interests in any business activity. 75 5. Transparency and Openness Recognizing the importance of accountability in corporate activities, we shall maintain transparency in our corporate activities and proactively disclose appropriate information to uphold openness within and without the Company. Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Group Compliance Code of Conduct At the MCHC Group, the meaning of the word Compliance goes much further than simply complying with laws and regulations. It means compliance with social rules and norms in a broad sense, including corporate ethics. We must develop a strong sense of corporate social responsibility, comply rigorously with social rules and regulations and live up to the expectations of our stakeholders, including customers, suppliers, vendors, consumers, investors such as shareholders, business partners, employees and local communities. Chapter 1: Awareness and Responsibility 1-1: Awareness of Social Responsibility Recognizing corporate social responsibility, we will strive to win public trust by contributing to the affluence and comfort of society by offering socially beneficial goods and services based upon the expertise and technologies we have developed in various fields of endeavors, including chemistry. 1-2: Responsible Care for the Environment We will commit ourselves to the protection of the environment and endeavor to reduce environmental burden in the course of all our business activities, including promotion of resource and energy conservation, waste reduction, reuse and recycling, as well as environmental conservation and development of its technologies. 1-3: Responsible Care for Safety Recognizing safety assurance as a corporate social responsibility, we will place top priority on safety in the course of all our business activities, which include ensuring the safety of all our products and services, including adequate handling of chemical substances, as well as operational safety. Chapter 2: Fairness, Equitability and Integrity 2-1: Respect for the Dignity and Rights of Individuals. We will respect individual human rights and character. We will abstain from any conduct that undermines individual dignity, such as discrimination against others on the basis of race, ethnicity, national origin, religion, gender, disability, disease and social status; we will also avoid language and behavior that offends others, such as sexual harassment. We will also adhere to internationally recognized norms, eschew forced labor in all of its forms, and support the effective abolition of child labor. 76 2-2: Creating a Motivational Workplace We will strive to create a motivational workplace that provides job satisfaction to Group members through the nurturing of respect for diverse personalities and values, the creation of a free and open-minded working environment in which individual employees can manifest their best qualities, and the fostering of mutual trust through fair and equitable personnel treatment. 2-3: Customer Relations We will listen to the voices of our customers and take a pro-customer approach so that we will be able to respond with utmost sincerity and offer safe and high-quality products and services. 2-4: Partnership/Vendor Relations Based on the basic understanding that all business partners and vendors are our partners in conducting business, we will endeavor to foster mutual trust through fair and equitable transactions. 2-5: Ethical Business and Government Relations We will abstain from illicit political donations, illegal incentives and bribe-giving to politicians and public servants, and strive to maintain healthy and transparent relations with political and governmental organizations at all times. 2-6: Severing Ties with Anti-Social Influences We will take a firm stand against anti-social influences that disrupt social order and threaten sound activities, and never involve ourselves in malfeasance or anti-social conduct. We will not provide any favors, including financial, to anti-social influences, under any circumstances whatsoever. Chapter 3: Strict Compliance 3-1: Compliance with Laws and Regulations We will conduct business by adhering to high ethical standards and sound common sense, and comply with all relevant laws and regulations in and outside of Japan, sociallyrecognized rules and standards, agreements and promises we have entered into with our customers, vendors, business partners and local communities, as well as our corporate rules and manuals. In particular: 1. We will comply with relevant administrative laws and regulations applicable to our businesses and perform procedures required by such, including obtaining official approval and licenses and notification; and reporting properly and in complete detail. 2. We will comply with the Antimonopoly Act*and other relevant laws and regulations, abstain from illegal conduct such as forming cartels, engaging in bid-rigging and abusing one's dominant bargaining position, and participate in fair and free competition in the marketplace.aa 3. We will comply with the Unfair Competition Prevention Law* and other relevant laws and regulations, and shall not pursue our commercial interest by improper means such as illicit acquisition of others' trade secrets, or acts that may be detrimental to others' commercial interests. 77 4. We will comply with the Subcontract Act* and other relevant laws and regulations and abstain from engaging in conduct that may be detrimental to subcontractors' interests, such as delays in payment. 5. We will comply with the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Law* and other relevant laws and regulations, and properly handle the import/export of raw materials, products, and other items. We will also abstain from exporting products and technologies that may destabilize international peace and security. 6. In addition to laws and regulations pertaining to accounting procedures and taxes, we will abide by generally accepted accounting standards as we implement proper accounting procedures, ensure the reliability of our financial reports, and make appropriate tax payments. 7. We will comply with the Labour Standard Law* and other relevant laws and regulations, and strive to maintain pleasant working conditions including occupational safety and health. 8. We will not engage in fraudulent transactions prohibited under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act* and other relevant laws and regulations, including the trading of stocks and corporate bonds by taking advantage of undisclosed information one has come to know in the course of one's work. 9. We will correctly record business transactions and activities, including the signing of contracts, and properly manage and maintain the records in accordance with relevant laws and regulations as well as relevant internal rules. Note: The names of individual laws referred to in this Chapter are those then effective in Japan and, therefore, please replace them with corresponding laws and regulations of your country. 3-2: Protection of Intellectual Property We will endeavor to develop innovative technologies, products and services, and obtain intellectual property rights and commercialize them. In this process, we shall not infringe upon the intellectual property owned by other parties, including patents, utility models, designs, trademarks and copyrights. 3-3: Protection of Personal Data We will strictly control personal data pertaining to employees, customers and other stakeholders that we may have access to in the performance of our duties. Unless personal consent is secured, we will not disclose or leak any personal data to third parties or other employees who have no need to acquire the information in terms of business, and, at the same time, will not use it for purposes other than the original intent. 3-4: Confidentiality Strict control must be maintained over trade secrets and other confidential information belonging to the company or to third parties (including customer information and technical know-how) that one might obtain in the performance of one's business duties. Without the express permission of the proper authorities, such confidential information must never be disclosed or leaked to third parties or to internal staff who have no legitimate need for it, and must never be used for purposes other than the original intent. Chapter 4: Prudence 4-1: Prudent Conduct In our relationships with customers, vendors and other business partners, we will not engage in misleading acts such as offering or receiving business entertainment and gifts that go beyond business norms or exceed the bounds of limits acceptable to the industry. 78 4-2: Appropriate Use of Corporate Assets Corporate assets and expenses, both tangible and intangible, must be used properly to achieve corporate business objectives and must not be used for personal purposes. 4-3: Appropriate Use of Information Systems Pursuant to relevant internal rules, corporate networks and operation software will be used only for business operations authorized by the company. Wrongful acts such as hacking into the information system, damaging, falsifying or altering data, or making unauthorized use of computer software, are not permitted. 4-4: Preventing Conflict of Interest We shall not exploit our official positions and authority or information we may have access to in the performance of our duties to engage in acts that benefit ourselves or third parties, nor shall we involve ourselves in activities that may compete against our corporate businesses, without corporate permission. 4-5: Prohibition of Political/Religious Activities at the Workplace We will not engage in political or religious activities at the workplace, including solicitation on behalf of political or religious groups or requests for votes, without corporate authorization. 4-6: Discontinuance of Empty Formalities Except for those within the acceptable business norms, in-house and inter-Group gift-giving and exchange of gifts and items should be shunned in view of abolishing empty formalities. Chapter 5: Transparency and Openness 5-1: Co-existence with Local Communities We will strive to deepen our understanding of the cultures and customs of the countries and communities in which we operate our businesses, respect their social norms, and harmoniously co-exist with local communities as good corporate citizens through participating in activities that contribute to society. 5-2: Appropriate Disclosure of Information As a corporate group open to society, we will maintain the transparency of our activities and appropriately disclose relevant information to promote public understanding of our activities. Pursuant to relevant laws and regulations, we will also accurately and adequately disclose financial data and information pertaining to the state of our business activities to shareholders and investors. 5-3: Open Workplace. We will maintain an open environment at the workplace where members feel comfortable about discussing anything. If, at the workplace, one learns of acts committed that violate laws and regulations or transgress this Code of Conduct, or the possibility of such acts, one must not conceal or neglect it but report it to the Company for a solution through the management or other systems, such as the Compliance Hot Line. 79 For Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (MCHC), ensuring safety and environmental conservation are major premises of its corporate activities and are regarded as the top priority that concerns the very existence of the company. To ensure that this approach goes beyond mere concept, it is necessary to attach this awareness to every activity undertaken by each employee, and to develop the mechanisms to achieve this. Given this need, MCHC has established MOS (Management of SUSTAINABILITY) indexes regarding the assurance of safety and environmental conservation in the APTSIS 15 mid-term management plan announced in December 2010, with the aim of using the social contributions assessed through these indexes for decision-making and performance evaluation. While there was previously a tendency to regard reductions in environmental load purely in cost terms, MCHC is now able to characterize reductions as the more active pursuit of MOS value in the context of management and our daily activities. As an example of a MOS index concerning the reduction of the environmental load, MCHC has established the target of reducing the total impact from the release of chemicals into the air, hydrosphere and elsewhere in Japan by 30% from 2005 levels in 2015. The impact of the emissions are unified by using the LIME2*1 coefficient and assessed into a MOS index. In addition, with regard to safety, in the MOS indexes MCHC has set the goal of halving the number of securityrelated incidents, environmental accidents, work-related accidents and other incidents compared with results from the past three years by 2015. Towards meeting these targets, MCHC hopes to contribute to the provision of KAITEKI value by continuing to promote the activities in terms of ensuring safety and reducing environmental load in a convincing and proactive fashion. *1 The second version of the Life-Cycle Impact Assessment Method based on Endpoint Modelling (LIME), a Japan-specific method developed as part of the second stage of the National LCA Project. The coefficient to consolidate various categories of environmentally load into monetary terms is published. Strengthening and improving total Group power regarding safety and the environment MCHC has established the Group Synergy Office and reinforced the foundations in a Group-wide and cross-sectional manner. The aim of these moves is to combine Group expertise in areas such as disaster prevention, environmental protection, occupational safety and health, production technologies (manufacturing), in order to enhance Group strategy through unified functioning. Taking things a step further, general managers in charge of safety, the environment, and production technologies (manufacturing) from the four core Group companies, Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Mitsubishi Plastics Inc. and Mitsubishi Rayon Co. Ltd., attend Four-Company Cooperation Council meetings which are held periodically. At these meetings, the attendees work closely to exchange information and opinions regarding the courses of action, activities and issues at each company. MCHC leverages its leadership abilities to draw out information such as the state of management in these areas.In order to assess and confirm the details of management at each company and work to prevent trouble from occurring. By continuing to promote the activities MCHC is working towards in terms of ensuring safety and reducing environmental load in a more convincing and proactive fashion through these consultative meetings, MCHC hopes to contribute to the provision of KAITEKI value. 80 Information about these safety and environmental activities being undertaken at each Group companies is also reported in detail on each company’s website. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions As goals for reducing domestic greenhouse gas MCHC Group GHG emissions in Japan emissions, in 2007 the MCHC Group set the targets of a 20% reduction from 1990 levels in 2015 and a 50% reduction in 2025 (both of which include the reduction contributions during product use). Towards meeting these goals, each of the Group companies has focused on reducing greenhouse gas emissions at their respective offices and plants, and at the same time carried out initiatives aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions across society as a whole through energy-creating and energysaving products. Consequently, the results for total Group emissions, excluding Mitsubishi Rayon Group newly added in 2010 showed a 14% reduction from 1990 levels in 2010, even without the contributions mentioned above, indicating that the Group is making steady progress towards its initial reduction target. MCHC revised its GHG reduction target in APTSIS 15 to reflect: ・the addition of the Mitsubishi Rayon Group ・a much larger contribution to the reduction of GHG emissions during product use than originally assessed as shown below. As a goal focused on greenhouse gases among the newly established MOS indexes, MCHC has declared the target of achieving 17% reduction inside Japan in 2015 from to 2005 levels. While 2010 emissions were down 9% from 2005 levels, since production volume increased sharply from 2009, when the effects of the global financial crisis were still being left, emissions recorded a slight year-on-year increase. Looking ahead, MCHC will continue to make Group-wide reduction efforts towards meeting our 2015 reduction goals. Contribution to the Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions During Product Use The MCHC Group has stipulated sustainability as one of its strategic criteria for business since the inception of APTSIS 10 as the previous mid-term management plan. MCHC has also cultivated business as associated materials, and components that make significant contributions to reducing greenhouse gases across society as a whole as a key growth business. As a result, MCHC has launched an LED-related business, a business to provide lithium-ion battery materials for electric and hybrid vehicles and other ventures. Looking ahead, by popularizing products that incorporate these technologies in society, MCHC expects to make significant reductions to the production of greenhouse gases compared with the use of conventional products. 81 The MCHC Group has stipulated its contribution to greenhouse gas reductions during such usage as one of the MOS indexes in APTSIS 15, and is seeking business development that enables significant increases in this index. MCHC also formulated assessment guidelines and methodologies to monitor this reduction contribution in quantitative terms. MCHC then followed these assessment techniques and predicted the reduction contribution for five kinds of products and materials based on forecasts made by each business sales and product performance. As a result, for a MOS index target value MCHC has come up with the reduction contribution figure of 4 million tons of CO2 per year compared with business-as-usual (BAU) in 2015. While this figure has been determined based on the applicable products, the degree of popularization due to business development and the level of improvement in product performance over conventional products, improvements in the index can be regarded as considerable boosts in KAITEKI value for the world. The basic approach behind our assessment technique is as follows: 1. Applicable Products: End-consumer goods incorporating MCHC Group products, the final products of which, as of 2010, were new products with a penetration rate of no greater than 20% (inapplicable for the products that are already used in general) 2. Scope: In this case, only the reduction during usage is assessed. Manufacturing, assembly, disposal, and so on fall outside the scope of assessment. 3. Target for Comparison: Of goods with a similar intended function, those goods that have been most commonly offered on the global market for the one year period of 2010 (standard goods) are targeted for comparison. 4. Contribution Ratio: Since the goods the MCHC Group supplies are often parts and materials, MCHC requires an approach to considering the ratio of contribution with respect to total reductions. Basically, the CO2 emission reductions from final products in which the parts or materials are used are multiplied by the contribution ratio for those parts or materials. The contribution ratio identifies (1) the essential components that make a difference in environmental terms in the final product; and (2) key factors that are in essence non-substitutable with similar goods, and the value within that is regarded as the contribution ratio. 5. As for usage scenarios give priority to worldwide statistical data on use, and if not available MCHC uses Japanese statistical data. Calculation Formula: (Contribution of Reduction of GHG) = (Energy Usage of Standard Product – Energy Usage of Applicable Product) × Annual Sales Volume × CO2 emission coefficient × contribution ratio As this represents the annual reduction due to sales volume in that year, when goods are used in multiple years, the annual reduction is tallied for the period of their estimated life. To obtain a valid result, it is necessary to properly select scenarios as well as the scope of assessment. To that end, MCHC has received a third-party review of the assessment and calculation methodology discussed above from Bureau Veritas. Its target value has been determined accordingly. 82 a third-party review Initiatives for biodiversity Of the effects that human activities have on the global environment, the impact on biodiversity at various levels has recently attracted particular attention. Biodiversity brings us many benefits in the form of ecosystem services. These services are essential to our lives as well as to corporate activities, and their marked deterioration has been pointed out in studies such as the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment conducted by the United Nations. Further, at the COP10 Convention on Biological Diversity held in Nagoya in October 2010, the Aichi Target was adopted and nations were called upon to take effective and urgent action towards halting the loss of biodiversity by 2020, making the issue a pressing one. In 2010, the MCHC Group participated in the Declaration of Biodiversity by Nippon Keidanren*1 as a corporate group, and began voluntary, ongoing activities to reduce the impact on biodiversity of its business activities. The chemical industry uses an enormous volume of fossil fuels and water resources and is a sector responsible for manufacturing large quantities of chemical products. As such, it has become crucial to look at the entire lifecycle of these products to identify at what stages and in what ways they are likely to affect biodiversity, and to develop responses in this regard. To monitor the effect on ecosystems through our business activities, MCHC pursues these initiatives based on the Guidelines for Private Sector Engagement in Biodiversity produced by the Ministry of the Environment and the Corporate Ecosystem Services Review (ESR)*2 83 As a specific initiative in this regard, in fiscal 2010 MCHC began a model study of the Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation (MCC) Yokkaichi Plant, aiming to conduct assessments in terms of the effects that chemical substance management and reduction activities have on biodiversity at our plants and offices. If MCHC is able to establish the assessment methodology through this study, MCHC plans to expand activities to assess across-the-board biodiversity impacts based on these methods. Going forward, MCHC will continue to bear in mind the effects our business activities have on biodiversity throughout the lifecycles and take steps to build sustainable business. *1 Declaration of Biodiversity by Nippon Keidanren: A declaration announced by the Nippon Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) in March 2009 and comprising seven pillars dealing with, such as the promotion of resource recycling-oriented management, and other issues. *2 The Corporate Ecosystem Services Review (ESR): Guidelines to help companies develop strategies to manage the business risks and opportunities that occur from their reliance on ecosystem services and the effect they can have. The guidelines were developed on a joint basis by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the World Research Institute (WRI). Initiatives for safety management regarding chemicals While MCHC seeks the realization of KAITEKI with chemicals as its key technology, in providing the diverse chemical substances that support our lives it recognizes the primary importance of ensuring that its customers can use these products with peace of mind. At the World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD) in Johannesburg Summit in 2002, a goal for action to “chemicals will be used and produced in ways that lead to the minimization of significant adverse effects on human health and the environment by the year 2020” was established As part of the efforts to reach the 2020 goal, the Strategic Approach to International Chemicals Management (SAICM) was adopted at the 1st International Conference on Chemicals Management (ICCM1). To achieve the WSSD agreement, the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) has encouraged Global Product Strategy (GPS) activities, based on “risk-based chemicals management throughout the supply chain” and “the disclosure of risk management information of the chemicals and products” as voluntary industry initiatives. In response to these developments, MCHC began GPS activities in 2009. As a part of these activities, MCHC conducts chemical risks management related to the substances MCHC manufactures, which in publishes in the GPS Safety Summaries to ensure the safe use of chemicals. In 2010, MCHC conducted risk assessment trials of seven substances handled by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation and its Group companies and standardized our risk assessment methods. Based on the methodologies established through this process, MCHC hopes that these activities lead to risk assessments and communication activities at each of the Group companies. MCHC has set the target of conducting GPS assessments on all chemical substances dealt with in the Group by 2018. MCHC intends to manage the achievement rate of these risk assessments under GPS activities by introducing the figure as an MOS index item. 84 Basic Approach Here at Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (MCHC), we make every effort to adequately and promptly disclose information to our shareholders, investors and other stakeholders, to ensure transparency, to promote a clearer understanding of our corporate activities, and consequently to earn the public’s trust. Basic Policy on Dividends We determine shareholder dividends based on our consolidated performance. From a broader perspective however, we also try to ensure stable dividends over the medium to long term and continue to secure sufficient internal reserves in order to fund the future development of the MCHC Group. Based on this policy, we paid out year-end dividends at the rate of ¥5 per share in fiscal 2010. Combined with interim dividends (¥5 per share), total dividends for fiscal 2010 came to ¥10 per share. Here at MCHC, we have adopted a basic practice of distributing dividends from retained earnings twice a year, once halfway through the year and once again at the end of the fiscal year. Whereas the Board of Directors determines interim dividends, year-end dividends are decided via a Shareholders’ Meeting. In light of current conditions, we intend to use internal reserves to reduce interest-bearing liabilities, in order to strengthen our underlying foundations, and to finance priority capital investment, other loans and investments, and R&D, in line with the basic strategy set out under APTSIS 15, our new mid-term management plan that came into effect in April this year. 【 Net Income and Dividends per Share 】 85 Basic Policy on Disclosure The first step towards earning the public’s trust is to ensure that information is adequately disclosed to shareholders, investors and all of our other stakeholders as and when necessary. With that in mind, we not only disclose information relating to management, our business strategies and performance, as required by the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act and other legislation, but we also publish accurate, up-to-date information on product defects, accidents and other matters that may not portray the MCHC Group in a positive light. We are determined to be open to the public in everything we do. Improving IR Tools As part of our efforts to disclose information to our shareholders and investors here at MCHC, we produce regular publications outlining our business strategies and performance in simple terms, including our IR NAVI biannual shareholder newsletter and annual reports. We also post press releases on the MCHC website as soon as they are released, and have IR NAVI shareholder newsletters and our established an “Investor Center” section to annual report enable investors to access information whenever they like, including documents from results briefings, shareholder newsletters, annual reports, information on MCHC shares and our calendar of IR events. Investor Center section of the website Ideas for Shareholders’ Meetings To enable as many of our shareholders as possible to exercise their voting rights and attend our Shareholder’s meetings, we avoid holding Shareholders’ Meetings on peak days when lots of other companies are holding theirs. We also send out notices to convene Shareholders’ Meetings as early as possible, announce meetings via the MCHC website, produce English language documents, and have introduced an electronic voting system. More than 800 shareholders attended our 6th Shareholders’ Meeting on June 24, 2011. 86 Communication with Investors and Analysts 【Communication with Individual Investors】 We have been holding briefing sessions for individual investors since fiscal 2008, in order to give investors a more in-depth understanding of our operations and performance here at MCHC. Sessions in fiscal 2009 raised numerous questions regarding business development and our plans for the future, and offered an invaluable opportunity to communicate with investors. We also had opportunities to make presentations in seminars organized by securities companies during fiscal 2009. In fiscal 2010, opportunities for providing information to as many individual investors as possible were created by holding briefing sessions for individual investors at the Chemistry Plaza in the head office building and by attending more seminars organized by securities companies. 【Communication with Institutional Investors and Analysts】 We actively engage in dialog with institutional investors and analysts on a continual basis here at MCHC. We make the most of communication technology for instance, by holding online question and answer sessions for institutional investors and analysts at the time of announcement of our quarterly results. In addition to Analyst Meetings, which provide more detailed explanations about our management plans, main operations, and other specific strategies, we also organize tours of our production facilities around the country, to enable investors and analysts to see our operations for themselves and gain a better understanding of what we do here at the MCHC Group. To keep overseas shareholders and institutional investors informed meanwhile, our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) regularly travel to other countries to provide details about our management strategies and performance. In addition to creating more opportunities to improve communication, our CEO and CFO went to visit overseas institutional investors in fiscal 2010. At the request of an investment institution signed up to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), in June 2011 we took part in a workshop where we explained the thinking Analyst Meeting behind KAITEKI value and our efforts to introduce and use the Management of SUSTAINABILITY (MOS) indexes to put KAITEKI into practice. 87 【 Shareholder Distribution (as of March 31, 2011)】 Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) (as of June 2011) Investors are increasingly engaging in socially responsible investment (SRI), taking into account environmental and social initiatives and focusing their attention on socially responsible companies. As of June 2011, MCHC is a component of the FTSE4Good Index Series, the Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Index 2010, and the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index. 88 Our Basic Approach The major earthquake that recently struck Japan has made us reaffirm how the foundations that support our lives are each related to one another, and how significant the effect of a single blow to our intricately woven value chain can be. In addition, we have become acutely aware that in a globalized society and in a society where the impact on the environment due to the human activities has become immense, there is a need to conduct our business activities from the perspective of the entire value chain and not just based on those activities which directly affect us. In today’s society, for us to have people use the products and services we provide with a sense of trust, and for us to continue the innovation that creates such products and services, we regard dialog and concerted action with our customers and business partners to be the most important factor. The Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Group (MCHC Group) hopes to build relationships of trust by communicating with its customers and business partners, all the while deepening partnerships and working hand in hand to contribute to achieve KAITEKI in our society. Initiatives to Achieve Social Justice through Procurement Considering the expansion of the Group and the impact it has, we realize the need to further strengthen the green procurement and CSR procurement that each Group company has autonomously implemented to date and the importance of implementing them Group wide. Among the MOS iIndexes currently implemented are including Green Procurement (S-3-1), which aims to reduce the burden on the environment and the impact of hazardous substances, and CSR Procurement (S-3-2) which aims to achieve social justice in the value chain. In fiscal 2011, we are confirming the procurement policies and business partner standard set forth by each company and investigating compliance with them. The various levels of standards and methods at each company will be scrutinized, focusing mainly on activities such as reviews and the expansion of the scope of application, aiming to raise their level to the finest level by 2015. The Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Technology Forum The Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Technology Forum introduces the innovation sought by Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation (MCHC) and the direction of technological development to achieve it. The forum has been held each year since 2008 as an opportunity for us to consider these themes together with our stakeholders, including customers and business partners. In fiscal 2010, the Third Technology Forum was held under the theme of “Sustainability, Health, Comfort.” The forum featured the following lecturers and topics, and was enjoyed by a large audience. 89 Lecturer: Motoko Ishii [Lighting designer, Representative of Motoko Ishii Lighting Design Inc.] Theme: “Light Creates Beauty” Lecturer: Akihiko Kondo [Professor, Director of Biorefinery Center, Kobe University] Theme: “Biorefineries that Achieve Sustainable Chemistry” Lecturer: Hideyuki Okano [Professor, Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Keio University] Theme: Regenerative Medicine and Biotechnology Drug Research using iPS Cells: Current Status and Future Developments Lecturer: Kazuo Suzuki [President and Representative Director, Molecuence Corporation] Theme: “The Search for Biomarkers for Better Diagnosis and Treatment — The Challenge of Molecuence” Lecturer: Glenn H. Fredrickson [Executive Director, The KAITEKI Institute, Inc.; Professor, University of California, Santa Barbara] Theme: “Perspective from The KAITEKI Institute: Vision for a Sustainable Chemical and Materials Enterprise” 90 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Chemistry Plaza MCHC has opened the Chemistry Plaza showroom inside its head office building as a forum for communication with customers and business partners. The Chemistry Plaza uses more than 1,000 products and technical materials and over 200 displays to showcase Group products, technologies and applications, while allowing visitors to understand and experience the potential of the MCHC Group. The Chemistry Plaza hosted 4,082 visitors in fiscal 2010, helping to deepen communication with customers and business partners. Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Information Center Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings has established Information Center for responding to inquiries about the wide range of Group products and technologies. Utilizing the Group’s product database and networks, the Center provides the best proposals to solve the issues raised from inside and outside the Group. In fiscal 2010, of the 7,855 inquiries handled, 3,864 were regarding products and technologies, 191 requests for Group marketing support, 1,047 regarding non-business activities, and 2,753 other inquiries. Breakdown of Inquiries (FY2008 – 2010) 91 Our Basic Approach to Initiatives Concerning Human Rights and Labor The Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Group (MCHC Group) participates in the United Nations Global Compact and endeavors to comply with its ten principles. Consequently, in compliance with basic principles such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the fundamental principles of the International Labor Organization with regard to labor, we have developed the Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Group Corporate Ethics, the Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Group Compliance Code of Conduct and other regulations. Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation (MCHC) regards its employees as its most precious asset, and in the APTSIS 15 mid-term management plan that is currently underway, we have established items concerning employees as stakeholders in one of the MOS Indexes that serve as management indicators. We have stipulated quantitative targets with these items as a priority for employee policies and measures within the Group. Based on this kind of approach demonstrated by MCHC, each of the Group companies develops activities autonomously in compliance with its own basic policies concerning human rights and employment while striving to respect the dignity and rights of individuals and develop a pleasant and fulfilling workplace for each and every person. MOS indexes related to Human Rights and Labor S-3 Implementation of CSR procurement Employee satisfaction (job, workplace, etc.) Workplace where various individuals can contribute C-2-2 Workplace where work-life balance can be achieved Self-growth and improved awareness of contributions to society C-3-2 Fifty percent reduction in accidents that suspend operations 92 Respect for Human Rights Respect for human rights is an essential matter for a company that engages in business activities around the world. Our basic approach to this is outlined below. Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation — Basic Approach to Human Rights 1. We will comply with the United Nations Global Compact and the Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Group Corporate Ethics, respect the dignity and rights of all people in every aspect of our business activities, and never engage in unjustifiable discrimination whatever the circumstances, whether race, gender, religion or otherwise. 2. In the promotion of specific enlightenment activities, each Group company will set policies and priority issues in an autonomous fashion. We will consistently put into practice activities aimed at becoming a corporate group that offers a pleasant work environment, is spiritually fulfilling, is accepted by society, and has a highly developed awareness of human rights. At the same time, we will seek to work together as a group. In addition, with the globalization of economies and expansion of the value chain, it has become important for us to monitor all processes concerning our products, from the procurement of raw materials to their manufacture, sale, disposal and recycling, and to select appropriate business partners while keeping potential human rights issues in mind. Towards achieving this, in addition to sharing the principles and directions of MCHC across the MCHC Group, we endeavor to comply with the legal principles applicable in each country, foster best practices concerning human rights and raise the satisfaction levels of the employees in each country. We also strive to promote business activities associated with appropriate value chain management. The establishment of subsidiaries tasked with developing and strengthening the supervisory functions of overseas Group companies (which is introduced in other section) is one example of specific initiatives in this regard. 93 Initiatives to Promote Human Rights In keeping with our basic approach to respect human rights, we actively conduct training to educate people about human rights in a manner consistent with circumstances at each Group company. Results of Human Rights Training (Group Training) FY2009 FY2010 Number of trainings Participants Number of trainings Participants Group total 529 18,025 568 17,439 Each Group company conducts other enlightenment activities in addition to the group training, and in the future we will strive to develop workplaces that feature a high level of awareness concerning human rights by further strengthening these initiatives. For example, the Mitsubishi Chemical Group also conducts a human rights e-learning program over its company intranet and solicits human rights slogans to commemorate Human Rights Week. According to its results for fiscal 2010, a total of 16,742 employees took part in human rights e-learning and 16,220 suggestions for human rights slogans were received. In addition to focusing on these enlightenment activities, “human Human Rights Training rights counselors” have been put in place at head office and [Mitsubishi Chemical Group] each office and plant and together with the Group companies, we are working to respond swiftly and appropriately to various human rights issues in the workplace. 94 Towards Becoming a Corporate Group Enlivened by its Human Resources Based on the idea that Group employees leading fulfilling lives by feeling satisfied by their work and growing through that experience not only contributes to the happiness of individual employees but raises the corporate value of their company and by extension leads to the realization of KAITEKI, the MCHC Group has set targets by means of MOS Indexes. Of all the social issues Japan faces with the advancement of declining birthrates and an aging population, one of our highest priority issues is to create a workplace that is welcoming for all kinds of people and that can respond flexibly to the needs of each person’s family life. From that perspective, each Group company works to enhance diversity and devise innovations to create a pleasant workplace. Helping Women Fulfill their Potential: Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation Amid an ever-shrinking workforce due to the declining birthrate and aging population and the increasing diversity of individual values, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation (MTPC) is promoting the development of pleasant workplace environments to allow employees to perform and contribute to the best of their individual potentials. As one example of this, in the area of childbirth and childcare periods which pose a challenge for female employees continuing on with their careers, when resuming work after taking childcare leave (to care for a child up to three years of age), employees are able to utilize reduced working hours until the end of March in the year their child reaches the third year of elementary school. We have also developed schemes to allow employees to use time effectively and continue to work during the period of child-rearing, including to utilize flextime work in combination with reduced working hours. In recent years, 100% of employees expecting a child have returned to work after taking childcare leave, and each year between 50 and 70 employees start taking childcare leave. Moreover, while the labor force survey conducted by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare has pointed out that female workers still have a shorter lengths of service compared with their male counterparts, at MTPC there is only a slight difference in the length of service*1 between men and women. Further, as a result of female employees remaining continuously employed, the scope of their opportunities for contribution has also broadened. For instance, the promotion of female employees to expert rank*2 and above has been expanded. In this way, at MTPC we have fostered a corporate culture where women continuously develop their careers. *1 Average length of service for all employees: 18.8 years (Men: 19.2 years / Women: 17.2 years) *2 Expert Rank: Equivalent to the rank of assistant manager, an employee of expert rank assumes an expert or leadership role. 95 Promotion rate of female employees to expert level or higher FY2009 7.21% FY2010 7.69% Creating a Workplace in which People with Disabilities can Engage in Active Work: Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation Based on the principle of normalization, in 1993 we established a special subsidiary* to help persons with disabilities grow and contribute to society by taking on work involving responsibility. We have also made progress with improvements to the workplace environment. Since achieving the statutory employment ratio of people with disabilities in 2001, each year we have maintained employment levels well above the statutory employment ratio. * Company Name: Kasei Frontier Service, Inc. Main Business Activities: Information processing services, general printing, consigned work from Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation, etc. No. of Employees: 124 (of which 81 are people with disabilities) (As of April 1, 2011) We have set the following targets to build a “workplace in which a diversity of human resources is able to flourish.” Increase the ratio of women placed in leadership positions. Increase the promotion rate of local staff to key posts at local subsidiaries outside Japan. 96 Expanding and Improving Work-life Balance Support Programs: Mitsubishi Rayon Co., Ltd. In June 2010, Mitsubishi Rayon Co., Ltd. (MRC) received a 2010 Excellence Award from the Director of the Tokyo Labor Bureau in the Family Friendly Corporation category as part of the Corporate Awards for the Promotion of Gender Equality and Good Work-Life Balance organized by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. MRC was recognized for having adopted the perspective of all employees to expand and improve its unique work-life balance support programs. Number of employees utilizing childcare *1 Combined total of Mitsubishi Rayon and Mitsubishi Rayon Engineering At the Mitsubishi Rayon Group (MRC Group), we will continue to carry out initiatives aimed at promoting management strategies that utilize diverse human resources (diversity management) and realizing a good work-life balance from the perspective of “management that makes use of people.” We have set the following targets to build a “workplace able to achieve a good work-life balance.” By fiscal 2015, reduce the proportion of workers putting in long hours by 20% from fiscal 2010 levels. By fiscal 2015, raise the paid vacation utilization rate to 70%. We also believe that the growth of each and every employee through their business career also leads to the development of a fulfilling workplace, and undertake efforts to support the personal growth of employees at each company. 97 Supporting Correspondence Courses for Personal Development for 20 years: Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. A wide variety of policies are implemented by companies to promote efforts aimed at personal growth. For 20 years, Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. (MPI) has supported correspondence courses for personal development. From themes directly related to work to those dealing with life enjoyment courses, we currently offer 240 courses which are taken by a total of 360 employees annually. For most courses, MPI subsidizes half the cost of the course upon completion. In addition, amid the growing momentum of globalization in recent years, we have improved the language courses on offer to accommodate a wider range of employees who wish to develop their skills in English, Chinese and other languages. We have set the following targets to improve “personal growth and the awareness of contributing to society.” By fiscal 2015, raise the percentage of workers engaging in personal development and the total course hours taken to 70% and 100 hours/year, respectively. By fiscal 2015, raise the percentage of people taking part in volunteer and social contribution activities to 30%. We undertake efforts to help employees maintain their health. 98 Specific health counseling : Mitsubishi Chemical Mitsubishi Chemical is proactively conducting activities to maintain mental and physical health. One of the measures for maintaining physical health is specific health counseling* provided as a follow-up measure to the health checks conducted by the company. This was undertaken at the request of the Mitsubishi Chemical Health Insurance Association. *Specific health counseling: Checkups and health counseling to prevent lifestyle related diseases, with emphasis on prevention and elimination of metabolic syndrome for insured persons and dependants age 40 to 74. Classification of specific health counseling 99 Corporate Citizenship Activities Having set out a groupwide policy for corporate citizenship activities, we provide a range of financial support via each of our operating companies, from donations to various organizations and research institutions, to research subsidies, to aid for areas affected by disasters. We are also actively involved in community activities, including taking part in local events at our plants and research centers, providing support for employee volunteer activities and opening up recreation and welfare facilities to the local community. Given the global reach of our operations here at the Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (MCHC) Group, we signed the UN Global Compact and took the opportunity to get involved in a joint project in partnership with local citizens and NGOs in six countries in West Africa and Asia, by funding and helping to organize the Local Citizens Building Schools Project from 2006 through to 2009. We are considered that the project achieved a certain results therefore we organized follow-up activities last year. In addition to activities such as these, we are always on the lookout for corporate citizen activities in which all MCHC Group employees can get involved on an ongoing basis. As the United Nations General Assembly has designated 2011 as the International Year of Chemistry, we are organizing a series of activities aimed at promoting and raising awareness of chemistry here at the MCHC Group. We have also joined forces to provide support for employees engaging in volunteer activities in wake of the Great East Japan Earthquake. 1. Corporate Citizenship Activities Policy The Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (MCHC) Group has been engaged in corporate citizenship activities in accordance with policies such as its Group Philosophy and Code of Conduct. The Group has now begun considering a new and clearer policy to encompass these activities. 100 2. Unified Corporate Citizenship Activities as the MCHC Group In addition to the various corporate citizenship activities carried out by our operating companies to date, we are also exploring the possibility of organizing groupwide activities in the future, through dialog with NPOs. We are planning to finalize and begin implementing specific activities by the end of the current fiscal year. All of our operating companies are getting involved in corporate citizenship activities as part of the International Year of Chemistry. Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation for instance is organizing science classes at elementary schools in the vicinity of its head office and plants. Science class (head office) Science class (Kashima Science class (Kurosaki Plant) Plant) Also, the MCHC Group has supported volunteer activities by employees at areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. 1. Employee volunteer activities by 1. Period: July 19 to December 2011 *Could be extended depending on circumstances 2. Eligibility: Employees of MCHC Group companies (in Tokyo and Yokohama areas for the time being) 3. Place: Based at Ichinoseki (Iwate Prefecture), Kesennuma, Rikuzen Takada, Ohfunato, and Kamaishi areas 4. Description: Carrying furniture and other items into temporary housing (July-August); subsequent volunteer work done not yet known (Conducted in collaboration with the NPO Peace Winds Japan) 5. Number of volunteer activities: 100 in total (two nights in three days/session; schedule: two sessions/week) 6. Number of participants: up to 800 (8 persons/ session x 100) 2. Support by the company Offering employees the opportunity to participate in volunteer activities, and paying part of the costs for volunteer activities by employees (transportation costs and volunteer insurance premiums) 101 3. Measures by Operating Companies Each of the operating companies has addressed unique activities, in addition to contributing to various organizations and research institutes, offering subsidies for research activities, participating in community activities in the neighborhood of their plants and research centers, supporting volunteer activities by employees, and making companies’ welfare facilities available to local residents. Corporate Citizenship Activities under APTSIS 15 102 Initiatives at Overseas Group Companies We also engage in corporate citizenship activities at overseas MCHC Group companies, in line with our groupwide policy on corporate citizenship activities, and make every effort to raise awareness of cultures and customs in other countries and regions. This year, we will be profiling initiatives in China, where we have a substantial number of MCHC Group facilities. 1. Love and Donation Activities Since 2007, Shanghai Baoling Plastics Inc. has been donating personal computers and composite printers at the expiration of their lease, along with athletic gear and study tools, as its commitment to contributing to the local community. In 2010, the fourth year of this activity, the President led a group of five representatives of the company on a visit to Zhuqiao Private Elementary School in Jiading Industrial Zone, to present the donation in person. In response to the President’s remarks that, “15 years have passed since our foundation in the Jiading Industrial Zone, and our company hopes to continue developing along with the local community,” a student representative thanked the company and a school representative also expressed appreciation. The company plans to continue the activities and its contributions. 2. Dalian Rayon Environmental Equipment Co., Ltd. Dalian Rayon Environmental Equipment Co., Ltd. was established in May 2002, in Dalian economic and Technological Development Zone, Liaoning Province. The company assembles and processes drainage treatment film elements. In response to the need of Dalian Japanese School for water of better quality to ensure that all students gargle as a measure for preventing influenza, the company donated eight units of business-use Cleansui water purifiers to the Elementary School, in cooperation with Mitsubishi Rayon Cleansui Co., Ltd. 103 104 FY2006 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Net sales (Billions of yen) 2,622.8 2,929.8 2,909.0 2,515.1 3,166.8 Operating income (Billions of yen) 128.6 125.0 8.2 66.3 226.5 Net income (Loss) (Billions of yen) 100.3 164.1 (67.2) 12.8 83.6 ROA* (%) 6.1 8.5 (1.5) 1.4 5.1 R&D expenses (Billions of yen) 91.2 112.1 127.8 136.9 130.8 *ROA: Income before income taxes/Total assets (average of beginning and end of fiscal year) 105 MCHC Group MCHC Group Environmental and safety data of domestic plants in fiscal 2010 GHG Emissions (1,000 t) 9680 PRTR Substance Emissions (t) 820 VOC Emissions (t) 6100 SOx Emissions (t) 3100 NOx Emissions (t) 9700 Particulate Emissions (t) 260 Total Nitrogen (t) 5300 Total Phosphorus (t) 110 COD Emissions (t) 2500 Water Usage (million m3) *excluding seawater 190 Water discharge (million m3) 130 Waste generated (1,000 t) 430 Final disposal of waste (1,000 t) (Landfill disposal volume) 12 106 107 By business corporation Environmental accounting Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Tanabe Mitsubishi Plastics Mitsubishi Rayon Chemical Pharma Domestic Plants Domestic Plants Domestic Plants Domestic Plants Overall Expense Expense Expense Expense Investment Investment Investment Investment Environmental Amount Amount Amount Amount Cost (million yen) 4,570 26,400 42 1,480 1,403 4,022 569 3,917 Environmental Amount of Economic Amount of Economic Amount of Economic Amount of Economic Protection Effect Effect Effect Effect Economic Benefits (million yen) 41 1,472 1,171 108 Environmental indices Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Tanabe Chemical Plastics Rayon Pharma Domestic Domestic Domestic Domestic Plants Plants Plants Plants GHG Emissions 7,900 120 350 1,320 （1,000t-CO2e）* PRTR Substance 480 10 42 290 Emissions (t) VOC Emissions（t） 4,650 240 240 940 SOx Emissions (t) 2,320 8 11 770 NOx Emissions (t) 7,700 40 110 1,800 Particulate Emissions (t) 150 1 14 98 Total Nitrogen (t) 5,230 35 14 600 Total Phosphorus (t) 100 2 4 10 COD Emissions (t) 1,470 48 16 950 Water Usage (million m3) 116 9 15 53 *excluding seawater Water discharge 75 8 14 38 (million m3) Waste generated 280 18 46 83 (1,000 t) Final disposal of waste (1,000 t) 7,700 150 310 3,880 (Landfill disposal volume) *Greenhouse gas covered by the Law Concerning the Promotion of Measures to Cope with Global Warming and emissions from emission sources that are not specified in the law are included in this part. 109 Basic Information Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Tanabe Chemical Plastics Rayon Pharma Number of 6,031 4,957 2,815 3,088 Employees Number of Male 5,420 3,968 2,489 2,676 Employees by Gender Female 611 989 326 412 20s or 1,087 469 420 548 younger Number of 30s 1,948 1,159 817 807 Employees by Age Group 40s 1,781 2,071 1,027 943 50s or 1,215 1,258 551 790 older Average Age 38.9 42.8 40.9 42.1 Number of New 60 41 75 172 Employees Number of People 104 33 32 26 Resigning Number & Percentage of 4,143 3,899 1,949 2,280 Unionized Employees 68.7% 78.7% 69.2％ 73.8％ Layoffs 0 0 0 0 110 Diversity Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Tanabe Chemical Plastics Rayon Pharma Percentage of Female 10.1 20.0 11.6 13.8 Percentage of Female 2.8 7.7 1.0 5.3 Managers ※ Percentage of Persons 2.2 1.9 1.7 2.0 with Disabilities ※ Number of People Rehired 468 176 104 378 Post-Retirement ※Figures contain data of selected group companies. Work-Life Balance Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Tanabe Chemical Plastics Rayon Pharma Number of Employees 77 115 13 20 Taking Childcare Leave Male:7 Male:１ Male:0 Male:2 ※ Female:70 Female:114 Female:13 Female:18 Number of Employees Taking Nursing Care 0 1 0 1 Leave Acquisition Rate of Paid 70.8 60.0 58.4 79.0 Holidays ※Figures contain data of selected group companies. Other Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Tanabe Chemical Plastics Rayon Pharma Number of Employees 43 12 0 2 Taking Volunteer Leave 111 Occupational Health Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Tanabe Chemical Plastics Rayon Pharma Health Examination 99.4 100.0 94.3 97.3 Response Rate Frequency of Injuries Resulting in Lost Work 0.32 0.00 0.50 0.14 Time (per million hours) 112 ［Overview］ Company name Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Established October 3, 2005 President Yoshimitsu Kobayashi Paid-in capital ¥50.0 billion Listings Tokyo Stock Exchange, Osaka Securities Exchange Management of Group companies (development of Group strategies, Activities allocation of financial resources, etc.) Business domains Performance products, health care, and industrial materials Consolidated net ¥3,166.8 billion sales Consolidated ¥226.5 billion operating income Group employees 53,882 URL http://www.mitsubishichem-hd.co.jp/english/ (All figures are for the year ended March 2011.) Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation (MCHC) is developing businesses in the areas of performance products, health care and industrial materials. Through the decision criteria for our corporate activities : Sustainability, Health, and Comfort, we will seek to achieve KAITEKI based on Good Chemistry, with its limitless potential and expansion. 113 ［History］ October, Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings jointly established by Mitsubishi Chemical and 2005 Mitsubishi Pharma by means of a stock-for-stock exchange Mitsubishi Plastics becomes wholly owned subsidiary October, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma formed from merger of Tanabe Seiyaku and 2007 Mitsubishi Pharma April, 2008 New Mitsubishi Plastics established to integrate functional product businesses April, 2009 The KAITEKI Institute established March, 2010 Mitsubishi Rayon becomes consolidated subsidiary November, Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings America, Inc. established 2010 January, Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (Beijing) Co., Ltd. established 2011 ［Group Motto］ 114 ［Organization］ ［Financial Highlights］(Consolidated) 115 ［R&D］ ［Business domains］ 116 ［Global Network］ Operations in over 30 countries worldwide 117 Third-party Opinion Mika Takaoka Professor, College of Business, Rikkyo University Overall, this is an excellent report serving as evidence that the management and business plans reflect the Group philosophy of Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (MCHC): Good Chemistry for Tomorrow – Creating better relationships among people, society and our planet. In its APTSIS 15 mid-term management plan that began in April 2011, MCHC incorporated Management of SUSTAINABILITY (MOS) indexes in addition the conventional management indexes. The greatest feature of the Report is that it makes this point clear. Last year, I stated as a third-party opinion that in striving for “KAITEKI Society, as advocated by Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings, the Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Group initially needs to clarify Sustainability, Health and Comfort, which have been stipulated as strategic criteria for its corporate activities, as key indicators. These then have to be combined with financial indicators to serve as criteria in steering business selection and focus.” This year’s Report specifically presents these indexes as Management of SUSTAINABILITY (MOS) indexes. We can clearly see from the Report that the Company has set a policy of appraising its business activities based also on a third axis, MOS indexes, in addition to the Business Administration axis and Management of Technology (MOT) axis. It is unusual and difficult to firmly establish SUSTAINABILITY as an appraisal axis of major business activities, instead of using it just as a term or for the purpose of social contribution, removed from the major business activities. The MCHC Report is admirable for frankly disclosing the Company’s challenge in this aspect. The Report also systematically evaluates the business activities and in-house efforts (related to occupational health, safety and diversity in employment, and other matters) by Mitsubishi Chemical, Mitsubishi Plastics, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma and Mitsubishi Rayon based on the three sets of indexes. This makes the Report consistent and clear. It is also interesting to find a brief history of the birth of MOS indexes in the Special Feature article. The article conveys the importance of leadership by top executives. I am sure other companies will also find this informative. I would also like to comment on the statements related to corporate governance as a global company. The MCHC Group is, literally, a global enterprise, targeting an increase of its overseas sales ratio upward of 45% by 2015. As stated in the Report by the Group’s Managing Executive Officer, Chief Compliance Officer and General Manager of the Internal Control Office Noboru Tsuda, the importance of risk management rises in overseas businesses. We can therefore conclude that the MCHC Group’s decisions to establish wholly owned subsidiaries—Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings America, Inc. in the United States in November 2010 and Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (Beijing) Co., Ltd. in China in January 2011—were wise in view of the target to establish and consolidate overseas 118 management framework that give instruction and guidance related to the functions for representing the Group to outside parties, risk management and compliance systems, and internal audit organizations. On the other hand, I still have a suggestion I want to put forward. It would be desirable to globalize MOS indexes as well. For example, the Report states that environmental load is to be reduced by 30% (in Japan) compared to fiscal 2005 to help reduce the burden on the planet. The target itself shows integrity, but there should also be a target that takes overseas situations into consideration. Finally, I would like to mention that the data set contents have been expanded and improved. Specifically, data such as the ratio of female workers in each Group company were added. Despite this being a rather low-profile improvement, it holds great significance. Third-party Opinion Kazutaka Okubo Certified Public Accountant Managing Director, Ernst & Young ShinNihon Sustainability Institute Co., Ltd. Partner, Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC It has been quite some time since the Japanese economy began to slow. In the meantime, the values of the high growth period of the past have undergone great change, and the expectations and demands that stakeholders have of their companies have also changed significantly. Companies aiming to achieve sustainable growth in this environment need to step up their corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities centered on their corporate philosophy and respond effectively to the needs of society. Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation (MCHC) positions CSR activities as one of the axes in its four-dimensional management of KAITEKI, such that they are part of its management direction. It has integrated them into its business using the numerical targets for its management activities. For instance, it has established MOS indexes with the aim of quantifying and visualizing the state of progress in CSR activities by incorporating them into APTSIS 15, its mid-term management plan. These initiatives deserve high praise. In particular, as MCHC describes the positioning of MOS indexes in its management and the background and concepts of the quantification in a detailed and easy-to-understand manner in its feature issue, it is possible to share the objectives of CSR activities with MCHC. The introduction of practical examples of KAITEKI encourages each business segment to act on CSR as they indicate what MCHC is doing and what it should do specifically. However, to translate CSR activities into corporate value, it is important to view CSR activities from a more social perspective. It is expected that MCHC will always identify the social issues it should address from the standpoint of society (stakeholders), operating on its basic policies for social responsibility (Sustainability, Health, and Comfort) and that it will show specifically what outcomes have been produced through its CSR activities after clarifying its priorities when addressing the issues. Here, it is important to show primarily how the approaches MCHC has taken as CSR activities have contributed to society, rather than showing what MCHC has done. The purpose of CSR activities is to make a 119 contribution to corporate value through the execution of a company’s basic policies for social responsibility. Social issues cannot be resolved by companies alone. It is also necessary to create a framework for dealing with them, developing ties with nonprofit organizations (NPO) and other groups. Particularly in a society where values are diversified, the idea is not to work alone, but to join with all stakeholders through strong relationships that will enable companies to tailor approaches to diversified social values. It is expected that MCHC will position its CSR activities so that they specifically embody the basic concepts of its Group philosophy and social responsibility, and will use them to enhance corporate value through its engagement in corporate activities from a social perspective. I also believe that by making all CSR activities consistently operating on the basic concepts of its Group philosophy and social responsibility, MCHC will be able to raise the motivation of employees, encourage their voluntary efforts, and incorporate CSR activities into its business. 120 Response to Opinions Received Shigeru Tsuyuki Chief SUSTAINABILITY Officer Senior Managing Executive Officer Member of the Board Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Thank you very much for providing us with your opinions about the KAITEKI Report of Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation (MCHC). Fiscal 2011 is the first year of KAITEKI Management as declared in APTSIS 15, our mid-term management plan, and the KAITEKI Report focuses on our concepts and our specific theory. I am truly gratified to know that you understand and agree with KAITEKI Management set up by MCHC. <In response to the opinions of Mika Takaoka> With respect to the global application of the environment burden-related indexes of MOS indexes you proposed, we are fully aware of the necessity. We are currently preparing a system for collecting information to report the indexes that include overseas bases in their coverage, not only for environmental indexes but for social indexes as well. We will in the near future report on our activities to achieve the environmental and social indexes set up globally by incorporating them into our management targets, and will also report on the progress of these activities in the KAITEKI Report in the nearest future. <In response to the opinions of Kazutaka Okubo> MOS indexes are introduced in this report to show specifically what outcomes have been produced through our activities that aim at the social interest and SUSTAINABILITY based on our three decision criteria for corporate activities, namely Sustainability, Health, and Comfort. For MOS indexes to become indicatiors that will lead to true solutions for social issues, it is necessary to act in a way unique to MCHC, while seeking out opinions from stakeholders. We will develop programs to that end and constantly refine them in a few years to come. The Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Group will continue to aim to achieve sustainable growth and development by listening sincerely to society’s needs and deepening KAITEKI Management. 121 Thank you for your valuable feedback regarding the 2010 CSR Report. The feedback you have provided will guide us in our future activities for realizing KAITEKI. The results of the questionnaire are presented below. Results of the Questionnaire regarding the 2010 CSR Report Purpose of visiting this page Your position 122 Feedback received for the questionnaire on the 2010 CSR Report (an extract) I hope you succeed in filling the world with KAITEKI. But although I feel I have understood the concept, I would have liked to have seen more information on the kind of products and technologies that you will use to achieve it. (A female customer in her thirties) I support your initiatives. I was surprised to learn just how many of your products are part of my everyday life. I wish you all the best as you carry out your CSR initiatives. (A female business partner in her fifties) One of my family members has hepatitis C. One of your group companies (Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation) is working on developing new drugs related to hepatitis, and I hope that the Company will take group-wide initiatives that make use of its group companies, which are engaged in a broader range of activities such as diagnostic drug development and clinical trials. (A man in his thirties, in relation to hepatitis) I am very impressed with your promotion of KAITEKI Project. On the other hand, I also felt that your report had little disclosure in relation to the environment. I would like you to include more details about the environment. (A female customer in her forties) Your attitude of communicating with various stakeholders came through clearly, but I honestly felt that you should be collaborating more with NPOs. (A female customer in her twenties.) I would like you to write in a way that is easier to read and easier to understand. (A man in his thirties who is in charge of CSR and the environment for a company/organization) I received information about your website via ecomail, but there is no need to go to the trouble of posting the information if it is available on the web. (A man in his thirties who is in charge of CSR and the environment for a company/organization) It is important to report accurately on policies, approaches, and the results of initiatives, but I also like the way that you have included sections like this page where employees speak directly in a way that is familiar and easy to understand. (A male business partner in his forties) I am extremely impressed with the way that you have collected information about projects and feedback from stakeholders, and then incorporated this into projects and published some of the details on your website. However, I also think that more disclosure is required, such as information about the results of quarterly reviews, the degree of progress with respect to annual plans, challenges in achieving these plans and so on. (A male business partner in his forties) Thank you for your valuable feedback. 123 1.Strategy and Analysis Item Indicator Contents Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent 1.1 Message from the President senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. Message from the President Part1：KAITEKI Description of key impacts, risks, and 1.2 Management Initiatives opportunities. Part3：Initiatives toward KAITEKI 2.Organizational Profile Item Indicator Contents 2.1 Name of the organization. Group Information Group Information 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Group Businesses Operational structure of the organization, including Group Information 2.3 main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, Group Outline and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Group Information Number of countries where the organization Corporate Citizenship operates, and names of countries with either major 2.5 Activities operations or that are specifically relevant to the Global Network sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Group Information Markets served (including geographic breakdown, Group Information 2.7 sectors served, and types of Worldwide Activities customers/beneficiaries). Scale of the reporting organization, including: Number of employees; Net sales (for private sector organizations) or Communication with net revenues (for public sector Shareholders and Investors 2.8 organizations); Group Information Total capitalization broken down in terms of Data debt and equity (for private sector organizations); and Quantity of products or services provided 124 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including: The location of, or changes in operations, including Response to the Great East 2.9 facility openings, closings, and expansions; and Japan Earthquake Changes in the share capital structure and other Group Information capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations). Towards Becoming a 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Corporate Group Enlivened by its Human Resources 3.Report Parameters Item Indicator Contents Report Profile Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for 3.1 Editorial Policy information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Editorial Policy 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Editorial Policy Contact point for questions regarding the report or 3.4 Editorial Policy its contents. Report Scope and Boundary Process for defining report content, including: Determining materiality; 3.5 Prioritizing topics within the report; and Editorial Policy Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, 3.6 subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, Editorial Policy suppliers). Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions State any specific limitations on the scope or 3.7 Towards Becoming a boundary of the report. Corporate Group Enlivened by its Human Resources Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other 3.8 entities that can significantly affect comparability not applicable from period to period and/or between organizations. 125 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Initiatives to reduce calculations, including assumptions and techniques greenhouse gas emissions 3.9 underlying estimations applied to the compilation of Communication with the Indicators and other information in the report. Shareholders and Investors Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., 3.10 Editorial Policy mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting 3.11 periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement Editorial Policy methods applied in the report. GRI Content Index Table identifying the location of the Standard GRI Guidelines Reference 3.12 Disclosures in the report. Table Assurance Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the 3.13 sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of Third-party Opinion any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). 4.Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Item Indicator Contents Governance KAITEKI Project Governance structure of the organization, including Organizational Structure committees under the highest governance body 4.1 Corporate Governance responsible for specific tasks, such as setting Internal Control / Risk strategy or organizational oversight. Management / Compliance Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, 4.2 if so, their function within the organization's Corporate Governance management and the reasons for this arrangement). For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the 4.3 Corporate Governance highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 126 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to 4.4 provide recommendations or direction to the Corporate Governance highest governance body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, 4.5 and executives (including departure Annual Report arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest governance 4.6 Corporate Governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest 4.7 governance body for guiding the organization's Corporate Governance strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Message from the President Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings' Social Responsibilities Part1：KAITEKI Internally developed statements of mission or Management Initiatives values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to 4.8 Part2：The Process of economic, environmental, and social performance Creating MOS Indexes and the status of their implementation. Initiatives concerning Human Rights and Labor Corporate Citizenship Activities Group Information Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and KAITEKI Project 4.9 social performance, including relevant risks and Organizational Structure opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance KAITEKI Project body's own performance, particularly with respect 4.10 Organizational Structure to economic, environmental, and social Annual Report performance. Commitments to External Initiatives Risk Management Strengthening and improving total Group power Explanation of whether and how the precautionary regarding safety and the 4.11 approach or principle is addressed by the environment organization. Initiatives for safety management regarding chemicals 127 Externally developed economic, environmental, Basic approach to social 4.12 and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to responsibilities which the organization subscribes or endorses. Initiatives for biodiversity Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: Has positions in governance bodies; Corporate Citizenship 4.13 Participates in projects or committees; Activities Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or Views membership as strategic. Stakeholder Engagement Communication with stakeholders Communication with List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Shareholders and Investors 4.14 organization. Communication with Customers and Business Partners Third-party Opinion Basic approach to social responsibilities Communication with Shareholders and Investors Communication with Basis for identification and selection of 4.15 Customers and Business stakeholders with whom to engage. Partners Initiatives concerning Human Rights and Labor Corporate Citizenship Activities Communication with Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Shareholders and Investors 4.16 frequency of engagement by type and by Communication with stakeholder group. Customers and Business Partners Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the Third-party Opinion 4.17 organization has responded to those key topics Feedback and concerns, including through its reporting. 128 5.Management Approach and Performance Indicators Item Indicator Contents Economic Part1：KAITEKI Management Management Approach Initiatives Economic Performance Indicators Aspect: Economic Performance Response to the Great East Direct economic value generated and distributed, Japan Earthquake including revenues, operating costs, employee Communication with CORE compensation, donations and other community Shareholders and Investors EC1. investments, retained earnings, and payments to Data capital providers and governments. Group Information Annual Report Message from the President Financial implications and other risks and Part1：KAITEKI Management CORE opportunities for the organization's activities due Initiatives EC2. to climate change. Part3：Initiatives toward KAITEKI CORE Coverage of the organization's defined benefit EC3. plan obligations. CORE Significant financial assistance received from EC4. government. Aspect: Market Presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage ADD compared to local minimum wage at significant EC5. locations of operation. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on CORE locally-based suppliers at significant locations of EC6. operation. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of CORE senior management hired from the local EC7. community at locations of significant operation. Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Development and impact of infrastructure CORE investments and services provided primarily for Corporate Citizenship EC8. public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro Activities bono engagement. Understanding and describing significant indirect ADD economic impacts, including the extent of EC9. impacts. 129 Environmental Part1：KAITEKI Management Management Approach Initiatives Environment Performance Indicators Aspect: Materials CORE Materials used by weight or volume. EN1. CORE Percentage of materials used that are recycled EN2. input materials. Aspect: Energy CORE Direct energy consumption by primary energy EN3. source. CORE Indirect energy consumption by primary source. EN4. ADD Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Initiatives to reduce EN5. improvements. greenhouse gas emissions Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or Initiatives to reduce ADD renewable energy based products and services, greenhouse gas emissions EN6. and reductions in energy requirements as a Part3：Initiatives toward result of these initiatives. KAITEKI ADD Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Response to the Great East EN7. and reductions achieved. Japan Earthquake Aspect: Water CORE Total water withdrawal by source. Data EN8. ADD Water sources significantly affected by EN9. withdrawal of water. ADD Percentage and total volume of water recycled EN10. and reused. Aspect: Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, CORE managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and EN11. areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, CORE products, and services on biodiversity in EN12. protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. ADD Habitats protected or restored. EN13. 130 ADD Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Initiatives for biodiversity EN14. managing impacts on biodiversity. Number of IUCN Red List species and national ADD conservation list species with habitats in areas EN15. affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Initiatives to reduce CORE Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas greenhouse gas emissions EN16. emissions by weight. Data CORE Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas EN17. emissions by weight. Initiatives to reduce ADD Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions greenhouse gas emissions EN18. and reductions achieved. Part3：Initiatives toward KAITEKI CORE Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by EN19. weight. CORE NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by Data EN20. type and weight. CORE Total water discharge by quality and destination. Data EN21. CORE Total weight of waste by type and disposal Data EN22. method. CORE Total number and volume of significant spills. EN23. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the ADD terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, EN24. and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity ADD value of water bodies and related habitats EN25. significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. Aspect: Products and Services Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of CORE Part3：Initiatives toward products and services, and extent of impact EN26. KAITEKI mitigation. CORE Percentage of products sold and their packaging EN27. materials that are reclaimed by category. 131 Aspect : Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total CORE number of non-monetary sanctions for Compliance: Basic Approach EN28. noncompliance with environmental laws and and Promotion Structure regulations. Aspect : Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting ADD products and other goods and materials used for EN29. the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Aspect : Overall ADD Total environmental protection expenditures and Data EN30. investments by type. Social Performance Indicators Labor Practices and Decent Work Part1：KAITEKI Management Management Approach Initiatives Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators Aspect: Employment CORE Total workforce by employment type, Group Information LA1. employment contract, and region. Data CORE Total number and rate of employee turnover by Data LA2. age group, gender, and region. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are Towards Becoming a ADD not provided to temporary or part-time Corporate Group Enlivened LA3. employees, by major operations. by its Human Resources Aspect: Labor/Management Relations CORE Percentage of employees covered by collective Data LA4. bargaining agreements. Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational CORE changes, including whether it is specified in LA5. collective agreements. Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in ADD formal joint management?worker health and Data LA6. safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, CORE and absenteeism, and number of workrelated Data LA7. fatalities by region. 132 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and Towards Becoming a CORE risk-control programs in place to assist workforce Corporate Group Enlivened LA8. members, their families, or community members by its Human Resources regarding serious diseases. ADD Health and safety topics covered in formal LA9. agreements with trade unions. Aspect: Training and Education CORE Average hours of training per year per employee LA10. by employee category. Programs for skills management and lifelong Towards Becoming a ADD learning that support the continued employability Corporate Group Enlivened LA11. of employees and assist them in managing by its Human Resources career endings. ADD Percentage of employees receiving regular LA12. performance and career development reviews. Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and CORE breakdown of employees per category according Data LA13. to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. CORE Ratio of basic salary of men to women by LA14. employee category. Human Rights Part1：KAITEKI Management Management Approach Initiatives Human Rights Performance Indicators Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices Percentage and total number of significant CORE investment agreements that include human HR1. rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. Percentage of significant suppliers and CORE contractors that have undergone screening on HR2. human rights and actions taken. Total hours of employee training on policies and ADD procedures concerning aspects of human rights Initiatives to Promote Human HR3. that are relevant to operations, including the Rights percentage of employees trained. Aspect: Non-discrimination CORE Total number of incidents of discrimination and HR4. actions taken. 133 Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations identified in which the right to CORE exercise freedom of association and collective HR5. bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Aspect: Child Labor Internal Control / Risk Operations identified as having significant risk for CORE Management / Compliance incidents of child labor, and measures taken to HR6. Initiatives concerning Human contribute to the elimination of child labor. Rights and Labor Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor Operations identified as having significant risk for Internal Control / Risk CORE incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and Management / Compliance HR7. measures to contribute to the elimination of Initiatives concerning Human forced or compulsory labor. Rights and Labor Aspect: Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the ADD organization's policies or procedures concerning HR8. aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Aspect: Indigenous Rights ADD Total number of incidents of violations involving HR9. rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Society Part1：KAITEKI Management Management Approach Initiatives Social Performance Indicators Aspect: Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any CORE programs and practices that assess and manage SO1. the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. Aspect: Corruption CORE Percentage and total number of business units Internal Control / Risk SO2. analyzed for risks related to corruption. Management / Compliance Percentage of employees trained in CORE Internal Control / Risk organization's anti-corruption policies and SO3. Management / Compliance procedures. CORE Actions taken in response to incidents of Internal Control / Risk SO4. corruption. Management / Compliance 134 Aspect : Public Policy CORE Public policy positions and participation in public SO5. policy development and lobbying. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions ADD to political parties, politicians, and related SO6. institutions by country. Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive ADD behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and not applicable SO7. their outcomes. Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total CORE Internal Control / Risk number of non-monetary sanctions for SO8. Management / Compliance noncompliance with laws and regulations. Product Responsibility Part1：KAITEKI Management Management Approach Initiatives Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed Initiatives for safety CORE for improvement, and percentage of significant management regarding PR1. products and services categories subject to such chemicals procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning ADD health and safety impacts of products and PR2. services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Aspect : Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required Contribution to the Reduction CORE by procedures, and percentage of significant of Greenhouse Gas PR3. products and services subject to such Emissions During Product information requirements. Use Total number of incidents of non-compliance with ADD regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR4. product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. Practices related to customer satisfaction, ADD Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings including results of surveys measuring customer PR5. Information Center satisfaction. 135 Aspect : Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and CORE voluntary codes related to marketing PR6. communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning ADD marketing communications, including not applicable PR7. advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Aspect : Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints ADD regarding breaches of customer privacy and not applicable PR8. losses of customer data. Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for CORE non-compliance with laws and regulations not applicable PR9. concerning the provision and use of products and services. 136
