UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2010 WE SUPPORT The Relationship Bank – our role, responsibility and contribution to society Corporate Sustainability Report 10 Contents 2010 in brief Page 1–9 Financial highlights Our role and contribution • Operating income SEK 36.9 bn (41.6) Banks play a key role in modern society, • Profit before credit losses SEK 12.9 bn (16.4) managing cash flows and providing capital for investments. We are • Operating profit SEK 11.1 bn (4.4) dependent on people trusting us and • Net profit from continuing operations SEK 8.6 bn (1.9) our business. We intend to increase our • Return on equity, continuing operations 8.65 per cent (1.89) positive contribution, securing a • Earnings per share, continuing operations SEK 3.88 (0.95) sustainable economic development. • Proposed dividend SEK 1.50 (1.00) • Core Tier I capital ratio* 12.2 per cent (11.7) Page 10–17 • Tier I capital ratio* 14.2 per cent (13.9) Our approach * without Basel II transitional floor We work in a structured way to integrate susn Kn tio ow ibu le Knowle Governance tion dge a Responsible selling & marketing ntribu nd e Tackling financial crime ic co tainability as a core capability and know this con om ic c ics on Responsible ownership Eth ea nd eco nom Eth ics Key achievements tr dg work will never end. Eight critical business To be the trusted partner for customers with aspirations priorities guide our work. Our approach is Environment Reducing our footprint Social A great place to work • There is growing interest for sustainable products from both institutional based on engaging all stakeholders and Sustainable finance & Access to financial services clients and private individuals. Assets under management with a socially investment Investing in communities Ethics maintaining an open and honest dialogue. Kn o wle d ge and economic contribut io n responsible investment profile rose to SEK 14.9bn (10.2). SEB continued to issue green bonds on behalf of the World Bank. Since inception, a total of USD 1.6bn has been issued. Page 18–35 • SEB’s carbon footprint was reduced by 18 per cent to 38,598 tonnes CO₂. Our responsibility We continued to compensate remaining emissions through investments in At SEB, we manage our sustainability verified carbon compensation projects. SEB was one of five companies that work within three areas: governance, received an A rating in the Carbon Disclosure Project’s new Nordic Carbon environmental and social responsibility. Performance Leadership Index. We progressed according to plan during • We continued to support our customers in an uncertain but gradually improv2010, and are on track to reach our ing economic environment. This included comprehensive activities in the targets for CO₂ emissions reductions. Baltic countries, aimed at securing a sustainable economic development, today and tomorrow. • SEB expanded its community engagement, for instance by establishing the Page 36–40 Mentor cooperation in Estonia and Latvia, and the SEB Next Generation tennis Our performance and KPIs Global concept in Norway. This section includes information about Reporting • Sustainability governance was strengthened by appointing dedicated rethis report and our most important key performance indicators. We report Initiative sources in divisions and major markets. We also adopted a new Corporate Sustainability Policy. according to the GRI G3 guidelines. We also provide a UN Global Compact • Communication activities were carried out to create awareness among Communication on Progress annually. SEB’s employees, customers and the general public. Our full reporting is found online. Level C More information online Our corporate website Our social media site Our micro site www.sebgroup.com/sustainability www.sebgroup.com/sustainableperspectives www.carbonchaser.com For facts & figures and reporting online. For Quiz, stories and knowledge bank. For information on Carbon Chasing and our CO₂ reduction programme. We welcome your questions and feedback! cs@seb.se Innovation Environment Development Code of Conduct Growth Opportunities Economy Anti Quality corruption Ethics Fair Business Change Trust Values Investments Finance Diversity Responsibility Climate Rights Resources Governance Society Risks It is everybody’s business to ensure that the world’s challenges are addressed in a responsible way. At SEB, our aim is to integrate sus­ tainability into everything we do. In doing so, we can capture business opportunities and strengthen relations with our customers and other stakeholders. Ultimately, it is a question of maintaining trust. CeO StAteMent Banks have a key role to play The outlook for the global economy Applying a sustainable perspective brightened during 2010. But the Modern society cannot function without its financial institutions. Banks are at the centre of the credit intermediation process, through our role as lenders, investors, payment and savyear also provided further indicaings providers, and serve as guarantors for sound risk management. This means that finantions of a world in imbalance cial stability, trust and relationships are crucial success factors for a bank. Banks also have a – environmentally and socially. key role to play in an era of shared responsibility for the common good, given our important The need to promote sustainable role in supporting economic development. Maintaining public trust is vital, and banks can economic development has become better at explaining their role in and contribution to society at large. SEB’s mission is to help people and businesses thrive by providing quality advice and perhaps never been more urgent. financial resources. Our vision is to be the trusted partner for customers with aspirations. To At SEB, the integration of sustainaapply a sustainable perspective in everything we do forms a natural part of our strategy. We bility into our business continues. know that customers want a financial partner who understands their needs, their business challenges and future ambitions. In order for SEB to learn, stay updated and become better equipped to serve our customers, we collaborate with the international community. We continue to support the UN Global Compact and work to implement the UN Principles for Responsible Investments. By adopting global initiatives and international codes of conduct, we are able to strengthen our business. Prior to the UN climate summit in Mexico, SEB signed the Cancun Communiqué and participated in a global investor call for action. During the year, we were also active in discussions regarding future governance and voting principles for Equator banks. We know that customers want a financial partner who understands their needs, their business challenges and future ambitions. Our work moves forward Our sustainability work progressed well during 2010, with a focus on business integration and engagement. The total amounts raised for World Bank Green Bonds grew to USD 1.6 bn, and we increased funds managed with a SRI-profile (Socially Responsible Investments) by 46 per cent. We see a growing demand for such products both from private individuals and from the institutional investor community. A key element in understanding our customers’ business is our work to develop position statements and sector policies for certain industries. These clarify SEB’s views on issues and industries which we believe have a key role in securing sustainable economic growth. Naturally, there are more issues and industries to consider, and we will likely expand our scope in the future. 2 SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 CeO StAteMent One of our goals is to reduce our carbon emissions by 45 per cent by 2015, from 2008 levels. We are on track to reach our goal. During 2010, SEB’s total emissions were reduced by 18 per cent, contributing to a 23 per cent reduction compared with 2008. We have switched to green electricity in a number of countries and reduced the amount of paper sent to customers. We see an uptick in business travel, mainly due to our expanding business. Our sustainability work progressed well during 2010, with a focus on establishing the platform. We are learning every day. Business integration – an evolutionary approach We know that we do not have all the answers. In our role as a lender and investor, there are difficult questions that need to be addressed. We will learn as we move along. We want to be the Relationship Bank in our part of the world; understanding customer needs, their unique situations and how they are affected by changes in society. An increased sustainable business perspective will help us strengthen our relationships – to customers, local communities and society at large. Stockholm, March 2011 Because it matters Annika Falkengren We engage in President and Chief Executive Oﬃcer corporate sustainability to: • assist and enable our customers to become more sustainable. • make lasting and relevant contributions to the communities we serve. • ensure that SEB continues to be a successful company. SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 3 COMPAnY PROFILe SEB is a leading Nordic financial services group. As a relationship bank, SEB in Sweden and the Baltic countries oﬀers financial advice and a wide range of financial services. In Denmark, Finland, Norway and Germany the bank’s operations have a strong focus on corporate and investment banking based on a full-service oﬀering to corporate and institutional clients. The international nature of SEB’s business is reﬂected in its presence in some 20 countries worldwide. The Group has about 17,000 employees. Markets Operating income Branches and repreGeographical distribution, per cent sentative oﬃces SEB representation worldwide 2010 2009 Sweden 56 (56) Beijing Geneva Norway 8 (9) Kiev New Delhi Germany1) 8 (8) Warsaw Singapore Denmark 8 (7) Shanghai Nice Finland 3 (3) New York Luxembourg Estonia 3 (3) Sao Paulo Moscow Latvia 3 (4) London Hong Kong Lithuania 4 (4) Other 7 (6) SEB’s activities principally embrace customers based in the Nordic and Baltic countries and Germany. Sweden is the single largest market, accounting for more than half of the operating profit in 2010. 1) Excluding centralised treasury operations Key ﬁgures Return on equity 1) Net profit Tier 1 capital ratio 1) Dividend Per cent SEK bn Per cent SEK bn 25 15 15 5 20 12 12 4 15 9 9 3 10 6 6 2 5 3 3 1 0 0 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 20101) Peer average Target: Sustainable profit growth Target: at least 7 per cent up to Target: 40 per cent of net profit per 1) Continuing operations and including 2008, 10 per cent share over a business cycle as from 2009, an interim until Basel III 1) A dividend of SEK 1.50 per share Target: Highest among peers effects have been analysed. is proposed for 2010, corresponding 1) 2006 Basel I.2007–2010 Basel II to a pay-out ratio of 49 per cent. without transitional rules. 4 SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 COMPAnY PROFILe SEB’s Customers Rewarding relationships are the cornerstones of our business. Ever since A O Wallenberg founded SEB in 1856, we have provided ﬁnancial services to assist our customers in reaching their ﬁnancial objectives. 2,600 Corporates and institutions 400,000 SME customers 4,000,000 Private customers SEB is the leading corporate and investment SEB offers small and medium-sized corporate SEB provides some four million individuals bank in the Nordic countries, serving large customers several customized products that with products and services to meet their ficorporations, financial institutions, banks were initially developed in co-operation with nancial needs. These include products and and commercial real estate clients with corSEB’s large corporate clients. In addition, services for daily finances, savings, wealth porate banking, trading and capital markets numerous services are specifically designed management and life insurance. SEB strives and global transaction services. Comprefor small companies and entrepreneurs. for excellence in customer service and telephensive pensions and asset management hone service is available to most of our custosolutions are also offered. mers around-the-clock, all-year round – in Sweden in more than 20 languages. Meeting places and customer interaction 2010 Branch offices 1) 375 Number of syndicated loans in the Nordic region 21 International branches and representative offices 20 (value USD 4.8bn) Automatic bank service machines 1) 2) 1,500 Number of equity capital markets transactions in the Nordic region 32 International private banking branches 12 (value EUR 4.8bn) Card transactions 435 million Number of M&A transactions in Sweden 20 Users of SEB’s Internet bank services 1) 3.4 million (value EUR 2.7bn) Answered no. of telephone calls 1) 4.6 million Life insurance intermediaries and brokers 2,000 1) Excl. Retail Germany 2) ATMs, machines for cash deposits, transfers and foreign exchange. SEB’s Business divisions Operating income Operating profit Merchant Banking – Commercial and investment banking services to large corporate SEK 17,130m (20,052) SEK 8,498m (11,428) and institutional clients in 17 countries, mainly in the Nordic region and Germany. Retail Banking – Banking and life insurance services to private individuals and small and SEK 8,569m (9,034) SEK 2,484m (2,891) medium-sized corporate customers in Sweden as well as card operations in the Nordic countries. Wealth Management – Asset management, investment management, including mutual SEK 4,384m (3,646) SEK 1,651m (1,142) funds, and private banking services to institutional clients and high net worth individuals. Life – Life insurance products for private individuals and corporate customers, mainly SEK 4,539m (4,425) SEK 2,202m (2,115) in the Nordic and Baltic countries. Baltic – Banking and life insurance services to private individuals and small and SEK 2,846m (3,794) SEK –121m (–10,363) medium-sized corporate customers in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 5 Our role in society Banks are an important part of prosperous societies. Large and small transactions ﬂow through the banking system daily. By providing ﬁnance, payments and investment solutions, we at SEB assist households, entrepreneurs and companies in reaching their ﬁnancial objectives. We are a large buyer of goods and services and our business create direct and indirect employment opportunities. By sharing our specialist knowledge, we empower people to make more informed ﬁnancial decisions and contribute to better functioning societies. Our resources also support local communities in the markets where we are active. Learn more at www.sebgroup.com 6 5 4 3 1 2 1 We promote international trade by arranging export finance, by providing secure payments solutions and through foreign ex3 We use our knowledge, time and financial resources to support children and youth development, to promote health, sports and 5 We support people in all phases of life: helping youth finance their studies; enabling people to acquire new homes or save change services. This helps create employment culture in local communities. Our community for their pensions; and providing solutions to opportunities and growth, locally and abroad. investments help people and societies grow. manage daily finances. 2 Working together with national and international organisations, governments and regulators, we take part in shaping an agenda 4 By assisting entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized companies we support innovative ideas, company growth and more 6 By financing industry development and supporting innovative technologies and sustainable business practices, we contribute to that promotes responsible banking practices. dynamic, progressing economies. sound and healthy, long-term economic growth. OUR ROLe And COntRIBUtIOn Supporting sound economic growth Banks have a fundamental role. By providing ﬁnancing and secure payments, while helping customers manage their savings, banks support economic activity, international trade and ﬁnancial security. In addition to fulﬁlling this key intermediary role, a bank must also consider its broad environmental, social and governance responsibility. SEB is a relationship bank with customers from all parts of society. direct and indirect employment opportunities, facilitating wealth We provide households with financial solutions tailored to their varicreation and paying taxes and dividends. ous needs throughout life; principally savings, loans, payments and pensions. Through loans and raising equity, we support entrepreCritical part of the economy neurs wishing to develop their business. We facilitate exports by Banks perform critical functions in society, for example by deliverproviding solutions that safeguard the interests of both buyers ing safe storage for deposits and savings and by providing reliable and sellers. In short, we help societies to grow and communities and efficient payment systems. Should the bank’s services be disto prosper. rupted or, in the worst case, should the bank cease to function this could have serious, even devastating, consequences. SEB’s market shares highlight the importance of providing unBanks have key responsibilities disrupted levels of service to our customers. More than 50 per cent in contributing to sustainable of the largest Nordic companies are SEB customers. In Sweden, our share of outgoing international (SWIFT) payments was 27 per cent economic growth, balanced in 2010. In Estonia and Lithuania, SEB accounts for nearly 25 and 30 per cent, respectively, of the lending to the general public. In lending and the maintenance of Latvia, the share is 15 per cent. strict ethical business standards. Given the importance of bank health to economic development, banks are heavily regulated and strictly monitored. The expectations on responsible behaviour by banks are high, and are increasIf we do our work successfully, we create value for both our customingly taking on a broader perspective. For us, this means meeting ers and for society: supporting economic growth, generating the broader needs of all our stakeholders. The task: inclusive and sustainable economic growth In the wake of the global ﬁnancial crisis and the European sovereign debt crisis, eyes have turned to the Nordic economies. From a regional ﬁnancial crisis in the early 1990s to some of Europe’s strongest economies today, Nordic countries have shown how to restructure banks and repair public ﬁnances. Interest in the Nordics has increased as the world looks for an alternative style of capitalism. The region is known for its strong welfare systems and social equality com­ bined with open, export­oriented economies. Here, one ﬁnds a strong commitment to protection of the environment, labour rights and social inclusion. As SEB sets out to make sustainability an integrated part of its business, its origin is an advantage. The Nordic countries are almost always found at or near the top of inter­ national comparisons on competitiveness, which in my view is the result of having a generally sustainable approach throughout these societies; in businesses as well as in the political sphere. The ﬁnancial sector has an important task in building a more inclusive and sustaina­ ble society, for instance by facilitating access to ﬁnance and creating funding for climate projects. The task is formidable but achievable, provided a comprehensive set of issues are addressed and everybody works together. Klas Eklund Senior Economist at SEB 8 SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 OUR ROLe And COntRIBUtIOn Trust is essential All banks rely on the trust of their customers and the general public, without this a bank sim­ ply cannot run its business. At SEB, we strive to maintain trust by abiding to high standards for business conduct, by deploying state­of­the­art systems and processes to secure our cus­ tomers’ funds and integrity and by always living up to rules and regulations in the markets where we operate. Addressing broader needs in society advice and solutions to customers. As the relationship bank to large We want to make sure that we remain a sound and strong bank Nordic corporates, we have considerable scope to finance change. – this is key to be able to support our customer’s ambitions over We also want to drive change as part of our ownership role and the long term. We also want to make sure that we understand the provide financial products and services that promote sustainable issues that are now driving radical transformation of a wide range development. of industries. Our sustainability agenda has a clear customer focus but natuOur direct impact is primarily related to the ecological footprint rally does not end there – a broad effort is one that addresses the we make as a services organisation, how we act in relation to our needs and wishes of all our stakeholders, not least our employees. employees and to the standards we set for our business conduct. We want our business to be underpinned by strong ethics and good In our role as a provider of financing and as an investment manager, governance, long-term relationships and committed people. we have significant indirect impact. By creating value for all stakeholders, we can make lasting conReducing SEB’s own environmental footprint is a matter of trust tributions to society. Not least, it will help us to be a respected and and acquiring competence, increasing our scope to provide good recognised corporate citizen in the markets were we are present. Our stakeholders Our economic contribution 100% ment and regulato Customers vern rs Go Interest expense s Cus yee 4.4 tome 21 % plo 00 mi mp Employees Em 7,0 lli rs Co Staff costs, excl. social charges Med ors 1 on and short-term compensation ia et i t Short-term variable cash 16 % 2% 100 % compensation rs Co l de in mmun Business partners and suppliers 35 % 12 % S h a re h o 0 0 3% 5% 4% 4% Interest and commission expense 21 co u n t i e s u ps 300,0 Supplier payments Civ dv g ro oc Business partners Governments t ri e s 34 % Interest and commission il s Taxes Su expense oc bu s p p l i e r s & ers a te Shareholders iet in e ss par t n Suppliers y oGovernments Dividends Supplier payments rg Employee an social 12,000 charges e ra 14 % is a tio n su m Governments 5% Shareholders Co n Employee social charges 4% Dividends Taxes 4% SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 9 OUR APPROACH SuStainaBility StratEGy SEB’s Corporate Sustainability Strategy Building a sustainable business as a bank means that we must address environmental, social and governance issues in all our business activities. During 2010, we strengthened our ability to manage sustainability and made further progress in our priority areas. Our efforts are based on the corporate sustainability strategy decided upon in late 2009. Short-term ambition (3 years) In three years time, sustainability has become a core capability for SEB. Governance, environmental and social aspects are integrated in the way we do business and manage the bank. SEB employees have relevant Kn n knowledge within their area of expertise. We have tio ow ibu le significantly reduced our carbon dioxide emissions Knowle Governance tion dge a Responsible selling & marketing ntribu (vs. 2008 levels), resource usage and amount of waste. nd e Tackling financial crime ic co A greater part of our financing and investments are con nom om ics Responsible ownership Eth eco placed in future-oriented, sustainable activities and ic c nd on ea businesses. Eth dg ics tr To be the trusted partner Long-term ambition (10 years) for customers with In ten years time, SEB is part of driving the sustainability aspirations agenda forward together with customers, policy makers, civil society organisations and other influential actors. Sustainability is integrated into our culture and Environment Social brand. We understand the key sustainability issues Reducing our footprint A great place to work Sustainable finance & Access to financial services facing our customers and provide relevant financial investment Investing in communities advice and solutions. We work to maximise our positive contribution and it forms a natural part of our business. Ethics Kn o wle d io n ge and economic contribut Eight business priorities SEB’s sustainability strategy is focused on Responsible ownership A great place to work eight business priorities in three key areas. – investing money responsibly – taking good care of our people By focusing our efforts on these priorities, we Ensure that we perform our Being a modern workplace, attracting ownership role responsibly, promoting the right people and providing scope for individual can contribute to better banking governance good business ethics and governance, and development by making our people feel valued, and protection of the environment, while displaying good corporate citizenship. included and engaged enhancing our social contribution. Reducing our environmental Access to financial services Responsible selling and marketing footprint – being gentle to nature €$ – being accessible for all people – being true & fair to people Managing our direct environmental Promoting equal access to financial Assist our customers in reaching impact. services regardless of socio-economic standing, their financial objectives. Ensure that our ethnic origin or other factors. customers understand the consequences of Sustainable finance and our advice and their overall dealings with us. investments Investing in communities – driving change through money – making people & societies grow Tackling financial crime Together with our customers, reduce the risk for Supporting the development of – protecting people & money negative social and environmental impact related local communities, including support of youth Actions to prevent money to our finance and investment activities. Work development and the growth of small and laundering, fraud and financing of to increase our and our customers’ positive conmedium-sized enterprises. criminal activity. tribution through offering sustainable products and services. 10 SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 OUR APPROACH prioritiES anD pErFormanCE Objectives and performance 2010 Objectives Performance Status Governance responsibility Secure deeper knowledge about our customers to Launched a Group-wide customer excellence program based on customer meet their demands in every interaction. Continue insights, and with focus on strengthening relations. Invited customers to our work to make all products and services easy to “How to handle the economic life puzzle” seminars in the Swedish market, understand and use and to reduce the levels of risks. to share knowledge on savings and long-term trends. Educated key staff in operational risks and risk handling. Implement the fraud prevention strategy and eduEducated branch office staff and risk managers in fraud prevention and cate key staff in the Know Your Customer process. Know Your Customer processes. Relevant staff trained in prevention of Continue our work with the Financial Coalition sexual exploitation of children for commercial purposes. 14,300 staff against Child Pornography – host ECPAT education. trained in information security as part of reducing reputational risks. Educate all employees on information security. Establish a governance framework for implementing Updated the ownership policy in line with UN PRI. Engaged (directly and the UN Principles of Responsible Investments (PRI) indirectly) with more than 200 portfolio companies on issues related to across the asset management business. Develop an environmental, social and governance responsibilities. ownership engagement process. Environmental responsibility Reduce our CO2 emissions (scope 2 and 3) by 20 % Total scope 2 and 3 emissions reduced by 23 per cent since 2008. 2009 (vs. baseline 2008). Establish a governance model emissions compensated through carbon offsetting investments in solar for reducing printed customer communications and cookers in China and reforestation of degraded land in Tanzania. Output paper output. Utilize Green IT as a vehicle to become manager in place, initiative progressed. CO2 emissions from paper was more energy efficient. Distribute targets and KPIs reduced by 32 per cent. Several improvements regarding customer account for CO2 emissions on divisions and countries. statements implemented. The Green IT index improved from 352 to 838 (SEB’s target: 650; average for the financial services industry: 436). Further integrate E/S/G factors in our business deciDeveloped six sector policies and three position statements. Implementasions through developing and implementing three tion delayed to 2011, due to a more extended development process. Money sector policies and one position statement. Increase raised for World Bank Green Bonds grew to USD 1.6bn. Assets under manproducts and offerings with a sustainable profile. agement with a sustainability profile increased by 46 per cent. Introduced a Pink Bond to support cancer research. Social responsibility Enhance employer branding and engagement. Employee survey performed and presented, actions are under way. The Align the diversity plan and policy with the current diversity plan and policy has been updated. Presented a new remuneration sustainability strategy. Align the compensation policy. Engagement activities: Quiz and competition on Sustainable structure with requirements of the Swedish Perspectives site, internal Sustainability Day, Ambassador seminar, photo Financial Supervisory Authority. Start engaging contest within Group Operations & IT, environmental engagements in Latvia employees and grow level of pride in our environand Estonia, running events in Estonia and Germany and cycling marathons mental and social work. in Estonia and Latvia. Some 600 SEB employees were CS Ambassadors at year-end. Continue to facilitate access to our products and Launched a new Internet bank in Estonia, a Swedish customer service on €$ services. Continue to improve financial literacy in Facebook and apps for iPhone and Androids. Launched an online game to our main markets. assist entrepreneurs with a foreign background in understanding Swedish codes in doing business. Several books were published by SEB experts. Harmonise community investments and develop The Social Responsibility strategy will be finalised during 2011. The a strategy for SEB’s Social Responsibility. Continue mentorship program was expanded and now comprises youths in to grow our community engagement and support Sweden, Germany, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. SEB’s Next Generation for youth/children. Tennis concept was brought to Norway and now engages several thousand youths in Sweden, Denmark and Norway. We continued to support SOS Children’s Villages and SEB Charity Fund in Estonia. SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 11 our approach priorities and performance Objectives 2011 Governance responsibility • Continue to act on customer insights to further improve customer experience and NPS • Render product & service offering easier to use & understand • Continue efforts to improve financial literacy among customers. • Perform a health check on fraud and any risks related to such activity • Review potential education need to raise awareness among employees. • Increase focus on ESG aspects to support engagement and investment analysis • Deeper engagement with portfolio companies on ESG issues. Environmental responsibility • Reduce CO2 emissions by 25 % from 2008 • Action plan to reduce emissions related to business travel • Evaluate pilot green branch offices • Reduce energy consumption • Improved water and waste management • Implement sector policies and position statements • Increase share of sustainable financing, investments and other savings products • Develop two new sector policies and /or position statements. Social responsibility • Improve employee engagement • Clarify employee value proposition • Develop action plan on result of VOICE employee survey. • New initiatives to further facilitate accessibility €$ of, and availability to, SEB’s services, based on customer insights. • Harmonize community investments and social partnerships • Further develop cooperation with Mentor • Decide upon applicable key performance indicators to track progress. seb corporate sustainability report 2010 11 OUR APPROACH StaKEHolDEr DialoGuE Stakeholder dialogue and engagement The results from our stakeholder assessment in 2009 still guide our work. In late 2010, we performed a meta analysis of more than 60 existing stakeholder surveys conducted during the year. We are moving in the right direction and focus on material issues. We aim for open dialogue and transparency and intend to engage all stakeholders, starting from within. All parts of society can help mitigate environmental and social tion on our ambitions, we have a presence in selected social media challenges. By listening to our stakeholders we can better underchannels and arrange events and seminars. We will continue to imstand emerging trends and material issues, and how to prioritise prove transparency during 2011. among them. The insights we recieve help us define our agenda To address employee needs we re-launched our internal and focus our work. Sustainability Portal and launched a specific microsite on our environmental engagement . Our social media site Sustainable Material issues Perspectives was launched in September, targeting employees, A key concern for many stakeholder groups is for SEB to display customers, students and the general public. It has been appreciated high ethical standards and risk awareness in all situations. In the for acknowledging the issues in a pedagogical and fun way, and for 2009 survey, SEB was asked to take a stand on environmental including stories outside SEB’s own work. issues and to manifest commitment by action. Implementing the Principles for Responsible Investment was a key concern for large Engaging people corporates. Private individuals asked for a broader offering of We intend to enhance our stakeholder dialogue and engagement responsible investments and green products. Investors and suppliduring 2011. We aim for broad engagement – of customers, suppliers wanted SEB to clearly show how we can contribute to society: by ers, shareholders and the general public. It is also crucial to increase supporting socially disadvantaged groups and helping to improve our efforts among our leaders and employees. financial literacy. Among our employees, the general awareness of During 2010, we reviewed our vision, mission and core values in SEB’s work was low. Diversity and a clear commitment to society workshops with our employees, and also performed an employee were key issues. All of the above is still valid. insight survey. The latter now serves as the platform for developing our new global employer branding strategy and value proposition. Closing the communication gap It will be finalised and implemented during 2011. We also arranged To meet the need for increased and more focused communication, seminars and workshops on culture and core values among our Balwe worked to establish a better online presence during 2010. Our tic employees. The purpose was to establish a new common founaim was to shift focus from reporting to broader communication. dation after the crisis. The motivation and spirit is high with a disThe majority of our existing web channels now comprise informatinct will to continue attending to customers needs. Sustainable Perspectives – an awareness tool Increasing employee engagement To increase awareness about sustainability both among SEB staff To inform and educate SEB employees on sustainability and what and external stakeholders, we launched the social media site it means for SEB is a high priority for us. We do this through the www.sebgroup.com/sustainableperspectives in 2010. By yearSustainability Portal on our intranet, through our social media and end, 2,000 people had concluded the Quiz on the site. campaign sites, through targeted events and tailored training. 12 SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 OUR APPROACH StaKEHolDEr DialoGuE Sustainability Day in Rissne, Stockholm To create awareness and inform about SEB’s corporate sustainability activities, we held a Sustainability Day at our largest site in Rissne, where some 3,000 SEB employees from Group Operations & IT work. It was arranged as a fair, with breakfast and lunch seminars and participation from SEB’s partners ECPAT, Mentor and WWF. Employees could learn more about how to cut car­ bon emissions, for example through a “You are what you consume” exhibition. Later in the year, Group Operations & IT arranged a photo competition, inviting staff to share their best sustainability ideas by way of a photo. One team in Riga wanted to emphasise how important the sustainability work was – they were all Corporate Sustainability Ambassadors and called for other SEB employees to follow their example. Stakeholder views Why is sustainability What is your view on SEB’s What are the key issues important for a bank? sustainability eﬀorts? for SEB to consider? Annika Andersson Banks fulfill important functions in Establishing sustainability targets for To have clear policies and guidelines Head of Corporate society and are in a position to promote different areas within the bank and for sustainability, applied throughout Governance & sustainable development. A bank can following up on them is important. the organisation. To have performance Information make a positive impact both through It is positive that SEB provides informacriteria for sustainability that are Fourth Swedish own work and through its relations, not tion about its work, including relevant adapted to the bank’s different lines National Pension Fund least demonstrating to clients and supperformance indicators. We would of business. To have continuous followpliers that sustainability is important. also appreciate more target-related up and evaluations. reporting. Teemu Purho Consumers rely on the skills of banks in In Finland, SEB facilitates high-quality SEB could consider to create some new General Manager managing their resources, and theretennis activity for young people. SEB is educational fora in order to increase Finnish Tennis fore economic, ecological and social a stable, long-term partner and a major knowledge about sustainable developAssociation sustainability are important factors in player in Finnish tennis development. ment among youths. This could lead to choosing the bank. entirely new approaches. Roine Morin Banks have an important role in SEB acknowledges that not only manuSEB can influence ethics in environEnvironmental Director sustainability, by contributing to the facturing companies can influence mental affairs, but can also influence Södra Skogsägarna, realisation of projects with an effective environmental matters. SEB can use its indirectly, by supporting companies Sweden resource utilisation. influence not least in the social area. with an effective resource utilisation. Karin Jordås To demonstrate commitment to the SEB’s cooperation with Mentor is To participate in providing youth with Secretary General outside world, and to create pride unique due to the amount of own a belief in the future, to support inteMentor Sweden among employees. To act responsibly activities within SEB and due to the gration, to perform preventive work towards current and future employees. involvement from senior management. among youth against drugs. Håkan Wirtén We are today over-consuming our reSEB pursues a systematic sustainability To review the bank’s complete footSecretary General sources and the sooner society embraceffort and seems to push it through print,including investments and lendWWF, Sweden es sustainability, the better. As a providto all areas of operation. Investment ing. To grasp the full complexity of the er of credit and investments, banks are criteria, sector policies, reduced carbon operations and its effect. To apply susimportant actors. Banks face risks if dioxide emissions and sustainable tainability criteria to managed assets. they lag behind in understanding and banking products are examples of To ensure that a sustainable business preparing for a sustainable society. good initiatives. perspective is applied throughout. SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 13 OUR APPROACH SuStainaBility riSK manaGEmEnt A question of both risk and opportunity Environmental and social factors can present both risks and opportunities to our customers, to other stakeholders and to SEB. Understanding the potential ﬁnancial consequences of business decisions and how they affect shareholder value over time is fundamental. That is why we are gradually incorporating relevant sustainability aspects into all of our business decisions. Understanding the larger trends and changes in society and what and credit approval functions supported by a toolbox of advanced impact they have on our customers and on SEB is crucial to our internal models. Board supervision, an explicit decision-making business. Evaluating and managing opportunities and risk is a core structure, a high level of risk awareness among staff, common defiactivity in a financial institution and therefore fundamental to longnitions and principles, controlled risk-taking within established limterm profitability and stability. How we manage risk affects our cusits and a high degree of transparency in external disclosures are the tomers, ourselves and ultimately society at large. cornerstones of SEB’s risk and capital management. The provision of financial solutions and products to our customOperational risks are related to internal factors such as noners means we assume numerous risks, of which credit risk is the functioning processes, erroneous systems or poor staffing. At SEB, most significant. Other risks include market risk, liquidity risk, busiwe possess experience and expertise in operational risk manageness risk, insurance risk and operational risk. Environmental, social ment, including incident reporting, operational loss reporting, and governance aspects can have an impact on all of these risks. capital modelling and quality assessment of processes. As the only Nordic bank, SEB has had regulatory approval since 2008 to use the Conservative approach, robust framework Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA) to calculate the capital Our business success is directly related to our ability to understand requirement for operational risk. our customer’s situation and needs and to evaluate, manage and price the opportunities and risks that we encounter. In order to Addressing broader risks and opportunities always be there for our customers, and to meet unforeseen events, The overriding principle of SEB’s credit granting is the consideration we need to maintain adequate capitalisation and liquidity. SEB has a of the customer’s needs and repayment ability. At SEB risk assessconservative approach and maintains capital resources and a fundment relies on expert judgment that seeks to incorporate all releing and liquidity position to match. With a reported core Tier 1 capital vant knowledge. Therefore, environmental aspects have been forratio of 12.2 per cent (11.7) at year-end, SEB belongs to the group of mally included since 1997. In 2004, the perspective was broadened Europe’s best-capitalised banks. to specifically include social aspects such as human rights, internaSEB applies a robust framework for its risk management and tional labour standards and reputational risks. In 2010, the credit have long since established independent risk control, credit analysis policy was amended to reflect SEB’s new corporate sustainability strategy with an increased emphasis on opportunities as well as risks related to environmental, social and governance aspects. There are numerous challenges on the way to building a more inclusive and sustainable society. But the risks related to climate change, resource scarcity and social imbalances also provide business opportunities for our customers and for SEB. As an example, climate change may have direct physical impact on communities and habitats as well as on loans and investment portfolios. Mitigating the direct and indirect risks with an increased focus on resources efficiency, renewable energy and innovative technology is expected to provide ample business opportunities. By increasing our knowledge and integrating sustainability into our business decisions we can be prepared for seizing opportunities, financing new innovations and technology change and providing investments that can be vital to the resilience of society. Going forward, the implementation of three position statements and six policies for certain industries will serve as a guide for an active future-oriented, dialogue with our customers and for our business decisions (see page 16). For further information, please consult the Risk Management and Corporate Governance sections of our Annual Report, pages 40-56 and 57-71 and our corporate website, www.sebgroup.com. 14 SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 OUR APPROACH SuStainaBility riSK manaGEmEnt Responsible investments SEB’s Wealth Management division has a team dedicated to responsible investments and ownership. Through signing the UN Principles for Responsible Investments (UN PRI), we are committed to work with active ownership and integration of environ­ mental, social and governance aspects into our investment processes. The responsible investment team assists SEB’s portfolio managers with all of these aspects. For 2010, our PRI implementation work focused mainly on active ownership, which we carry out directly in dialogue with holdings, as well as indirectly with the assistance of an external research provider. The topics for our active ownership work ranged from aspects such as improvements of individual companies’ emissions performance, to promoting corruption prevention together with a number of other UN PRI signatories. Our processes are supported by a systematic screening of international companies, for possible violations against international conventions and guidelines on environ­ ment, labour practices, human rights, inhumane weapons and corruption. Screening is performed twice a year by an external research provider. The governing body of SEB’s investment related sustainability work is the Corporate Sustainability Council in the Wealth Management division, chaired by the Global Head of Institutional Clients. Within the framework of PRI implementation, the Council decides on which companies to have dialogues with, and regularly follows up on progress in these processes. Project financing and Private Public Parterships Mitigating risks through sustainable sourcing There are various ways in which a financial institution can support Naturally, supply chain management is an integral part of our businew technology and the build-up of new infrastructure in society. ness. Our aim is, at a minimum, to ensure that SEB is not exposed One example is large infrastructure projects, which are typically to risks associated with purchasing from an organisation with poor complex, long term and entail inherent social and environmental standards. As an example, SEB has no tolerance for bribery and risks. That is why SEB applies the Equator Principles (EP) to ensure corruption. We seek to engage in deeper collaboration with our supthat the projects we finance address all relevant social and environpliers in order to improve both our own and our suppliers’ mental issues in a responsible manner. sustainability performance. The Principles are a voluntary set of standards developed by priDuring 2010, our standard supplier agreement was updated to vate sector banks and based on the International Finance Corporainclude more emphasis on the environmental, social, and governtion’s Performance Standards and the World Bank Group’s Environance aspects of sustainability. Our aim for 2011 is to establish a ment, Health and Safety guidelines. SEB was the first Nordic bank to Group-wide programme that addresses sustainability in all our adopt the Principles in 2007. We have put in place consistent intersupplier relations, serving as the umbrella framework for ongoing nal policies and processes and report publicly on EP transactions. sustainability activities affecting suppliers. SEB is also involved in several Private Public Partnerships, financing the construction of motorways, hospitals or schools, mainly in the UK but also in Denmark and Sweden. A value chain perspective We want to work together with customers, suppliers and other business partners to Suppliers Customers continuously improve our procedures and business practices. Sourcing, financing and investment decisions will increasingly reflect our views on sustainability issues. SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 15 OUR APPROACH SECtor poliCiES anD poSition StatEmEntS Sector policies and position statements Our ambition is to become a better partner to our customers. We also want to demonstrate a clear commitment to sustainable business practices. To learn more and encourage progress among our customers and portfolio companies, we have developed position statements and policies for certain industry sectors. They are to serve as tools for a proactive customer dialogue on sustainability. During 2010, all business divisions within SEB have been involved in Many of our large customers have already assumed sustainable developing position statements (Climate Change, Freshwater, Child business practices and some are themselves setting the standard Labour) and industry sector policies (Arms and Defence, Forestry, in their respective industries. We anticipate that the policies can Fossil Fuels, Mining and Metals, Renewable Energy, Shipping). They be helpful for many of our small and medium-sized corporate cusare to be applied in daily activities. tomers in developing their sustainable business practices. The policies highlight relevant international conventions, guidelines and standards that we wish the companies we do business Focus on collaboration with to adhere to. The primary objective is to establish a common We want to work together with our customers and portfolio compaframework for a proactive and future-oriented dialogue with our nies towards improved business practices. The policies and statecustomers. Our focus is on business opportunity, risk mitigation ments are intended to provide a framework and will form an inteand risk management. grated part of the ongoing customer dialogue. We focus initially on The development process has in itself provided valuable learnour relationships with large corporate customers, for which we have ing experience and we have gained important insight. A step-byat least yearly business reviews. For new large corporate customers, step implementation will begin during 2011, starting with large corpolicies and statements will apply automatically. We will gradually porate customers. It is vital to have a thorough understanding of include small and medium-sized companies. relevant sustainability issues and staff training will be an important part of the implementation process. To be applied broadly The policies and statements will apply to all markets where SEB Key stakeholders involved operates. Applicable financial services include corporate finance, The development process has involved consultation with our stakecorporate lending, debt capital markets activities, life insurance, holders, including non-governmental organisations and large corpoproject finance and related advisory work. The policies will also rate customers in the Nordic and Baltic countries and Germany. The apply to SEB-branded investment funds and investment products. reactions span broadly. The versions to be implemented represent a During 2011, we aim to develop two new sector policies and/or moderate baseline that is likely to be further developed over time. position statements. SEB’s credit portfolio 2010 By encouraging a discussion on corporate SEK 1,703 bn responsibility, and by committing itself to a greater knowledge about sustainability aspects affect­ Households 1 29.9 % ing its customers, we believe SEB has taken an impor­ Property management 2 14.5 % tant step in furthering the dialogue between banks Banks 12.1 % and industry. This will faciliate future work in assessing Manufacturing 11.3 % projects and companies on sustainability merits. Business and household services 7.1 % Catharina Nordeman Finance and insurance 5.0 % Director Group Environment, Health, Safety and Quality Transportation and shipping 3 4.6 % Boliden Public Administration 4.4 % Wholesale and retail 3.6 % Electricity, gas and water supply 2.7 % Other 4 4.8 % 1. Household mortgage 23.6 %, Other 6.3 % 2. Commercial real estate 8.0 %, Multi-family property 6.5 % 3. Transportation 2.4 %, Shipping 2.2 % 4. Construction 1.2 %, Mining and quarrying 1.0 %, Agriculture, forestry and fishing 0.5 %, Other 2.2 % 16 SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 OUR APPROACH SuStainaBility GoVErnanCE Sustainability governance We strengthened sustainability governance in several ways during 2010. Dedicated corporate sustainability coordinators were appointed to all business divisions and SEB’s German operation. We adopted a new Corporate Sustainability Policy and adjusted relevant policies accordingly, including our Credit Policy. All our business dealings are guided by SEB’s Code of Business Conduct. The Board of Directors is responsible for safeguarding the delivery At SEB, each business division and support function is responsible of our Corporate Sustainability (CS) Strategy. Depending on the for delivering on our eight sustainable business priorities. During issue at hand, matters are dealt with by the Board or by any of its 2010, the Bank’s Senior Economist was added to the committee. established committees: the Risk and Capital Committee; the Audit and Compliance Committee and the Remuneration and Human Group Corporate Sustainability Resources Committee. Chairman of the Board is Marcus Wallenberg. On the operational level, the Group Corporate Sustainability (GCS) function is responsible for delivering the sustainability strategy and Group Executive Committee for reaching agreed targets on the corporate level. This means that The Group Executive Committee (GEC), with thirteen members, GCS has the overall responsibility to monitor progress and to support oversees the development and implementation of the CS Strategy Group entities in their work on the eight business priorities. GCS is within SEB. The GEC deals with, among other things, matters of comalso responsible for engaging with SEB’s internal and external stakemon concern to several divisions, strategic issues, business plans, holders on sustainability issues. financial forecasts and reports. The function has three staff members: the Head of Group Corporate Sustainability, an Environmental Manager and a CS CommunicaCorporate Sustainability Committee tions and Reporting Manager. The Corporate Sustainability Committee in SEB is an operational steering group responsible for coordination, anchoring and impleGovernance highlights 2010 mentation of the corporate sustainability strategy and action plan. To assist in integrating sustainability into business divisions, The Committee is chaired by Bo Magnusson, the deputy President, sustainability coordinators were appointed to all divisions and to CEO and Head of Business Support, and it has 14 members, SEB’s German operation. A new Corporate Sustainability Policy representing senior management from all business divisions, was adopted and a number of policies were adjusted accordingly, support functions and the most important group staff functions. including the Credit Policy. Remuneration philosophy SEB has established a remuneration policy which applies to all employees. The policy is based on a clear remuneration strategy. It promotes an internal culture that long­term steers in the beneﬁt of the customers and thus over time will give the Bank’s share­ holders the best return. The competence and commitment of SEB’s employees are crucial to the Bank’s development. The remuneration system also reﬂects sound risk management by taking into account the cost of capital employed and liquidity required. In SEB it is important that the remuneration is competitive in the markets and segments where the Bank operates in order to motivate high performing employees. This is the basis for a remuneration structure based upon three major components: • Base pay • Variable pay – short­term cash­based compensation and long­term equity­based compensation • Pension and other beneﬁts. SEB adheres to the new Swedish regulatory framework for remuneration within the ﬁnancial sector. Our remuneration report is available on the website. www.sebgroup.com SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 17 17 To support youth development, we have worked together with the Mentor Foundation for more than ten years. In 6 4 addition to all on-going activies, 10 we arranged the Baltic Mentorship Tour in 2010, a three-week sailing trip on the Brig Tre Kronor across 9 the Baltic Sea, with several stops in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. 18 SEB channeled broad support for the Haiti earthquake victims. On a group level, financial aid was given to the Red Cross, Save the Children and Unicef. We also facilitated for our customers to provide support. And SEB U-assist, an employee charity foundation, made significant donations. 16 SEB is co­ﬁnancing two run­of­ the­river hydropower plants 19 Through our support for the Norwegian Strømme Foun­ (HPPs) in Chile, with a total capacity of dation, SEB has been able to 310 MW and estimated to reduce CO₂ support Jamii Bora, the most emissions by 800,000 tonnes/year. La rapidly growing microﬁnance Higuera became the country’s ﬁrst run­ organization in Kenya with of­the­river HPP to register under the UN over 225,000 members. Clean Development Mechanism and La Conﬂuencia is applying for registration. 11 Making 1 Windpower in the Baltic countries SEB is a major provider of sustainable finance in the Baltic countries. In 2010, SEB 4 Borkum West II wind park (EP) SEB participates in the financing of the Borkum West II offshore wind park. It is the largest an eﬀort financed approximately one-third of the wind energy project in the German North Sea and installed wind power capacity in Estonia, the first municipal offshore wind farm in Europe, Latvia and Lithuania. including 34 municipal sponsors. The total capacity of the 40 wind turbines is 200 MW, providing Through our customer relations 2 Danish National Archives (PPP) SEB was sole lender to the consortium that green electricity to 200,000 households. and daily business we help build strong societies. Some of these won the concession for the design, construction, financing and operation of new Danish National Archives in Copenhagen. The purpose is to ensure 5 “Dreams come true” In 2010, SEB sponsored the televised Lithuanian children charity event “Dreams come dealings have a more distinct permanent and adequate storage facilities for true” for the eighth year. It raised a total of LIT sustainable proﬁle than others. existing and future national records. 1.5m (SEK 3.9 m) to be used for dental care and They include community initiatives, reading tools for children in need. “green” ﬁnancings, Equator Principles (EP) transactions and ﬁnanc3 Municipal energy plants SEB is financing the build-up of two municipal energy plants in Porvoo and Oulu. 6 Connecting energy markets (EP) SEB has provided finance to a submarine ings for Public Private Partnerships The CHP plants will utilise biofuels (Porvoon and subsoil link called the ’East-West InterconEnergia) and waste (Oulu Energia) to produce nector’, linking the electricity grids of Ireland and (PPPs). Here are 21 highlights. enough energy to support +30,000 households. Britain. It is due to be completed in 2012. 7 14 20 SEB’s ﬁrst carbon offset project was to provide solar cook­ 12 3 ers to households in the rural Ningxia Hui region in the northwest of China. 1 2 5 13 15 8 21 In 2010, the solar energy company REC opened its new manufacturing facility in Singapore, thus far the largest clean energy investment in Singapore. SEB has supported REC in raising NOK 14 billion in a combination of debt and equity. 7 World’s cleanest coast guard vessels SEB provides finance for numerous Norwegian 10 Schools for the future (EP/PPP) SEB took part in the financing of Essex Schools, a project comprising the design, build, 13 Hannover enercity SEB is financing modernisation of a steam turbine and investment in a new gas Coast Guard vessels. The Barent Sea class, a financing and operation of three new schools in turbine in a Stadtwerke Hannover AG (“enercity”) hybrid vessel, is the world’s greenest coast guard the county of Essex, UK. It forms part of a governpower plant. The target is to increase the efficiency vessel. When running on gas, it reduces its NOx ment plan to improve all secondary school faciliof the plant and to reduce the CO2 emission by emissions by 90 % and CO2 emissions by 25 %. ties in England. 210,000 tonnes per year. 8 Reforestation to mitigate climate change In 2010, some 75 per cent of SEB’s carbon comp11 Electricity to rural Argentina World Bank Green Bonds have been used to finance a project in Argentina to provide 14 Gabrielsberget wind farm (EP) SEB has provided finance to the southern phase of the Gabrielsberget wind farm project ensation investment was directed to the reforestaccess to electricity to 8,000 homes and 1,900 in Northern Sweden. The southern phase includes ation of degraded land in Tanzania. Since forests schools using primarily solar and wind energy. 20 wind power turbines of 2.3 MW each. absorb CO2 through photosynthesis, this can be useful in mitigating climate change. 12 Bond to support cancer research In 2010, SEB launched a Pink Bond, 15 Financing biogas plants (EP) SEB is one of two banks that has pro9 Supporting disabled children SEB in New York supports the New York Institute for Special Education, an educational an investment product which distributes at least 10 per cent of its yield to the Swedish Cancer Fund. Some 900 customers invested a total of vided a EUR 64 million syndicated loan facility to Deutsche Biogas, which produces and distributes power and heat from 34 biogas plants located facility which provides quality programs for SEK 52 m in the bond. in Germany. disabled children. OUR ReSPOnSIBILItY GoVErnanCE Managing a responsible, customer-focused business 2010 was a year of progress for SEB’s governance responsibility. We focused on customers and the customer experience, on reducing ﬁnancial crime risk and on our role as an owner. Responsible selling and marketing Tackling financial crime We are continuing our work to become a truly customerWe strive to do everything in our power to prevent money oriented bank. An important tool is SEB Way, a Grouplaundering, fraud and financing of criminal activity. wide programme that streamlines processes and increases quality These activities can have a potentially devastating effect on our so that resources and time can be used for meeting customer needs customers and other stakeholders, on our business performance, and for generating new business. During 2010, a Group-wide initiaand on society at large. tive focusing on improving the customer experience was launched. Our main focus during 2010 was to implement the new Fraud As part of this, and based on in-depth customer interviews, we have Prevention Strategy, which was introduced in 2009. This included started to redesign our processes, beginning with mortgage lending training of an additional 1,000 staff in the Swedish, German and Baland corporate retail lending in our Swedish operations. tic retail division, as part of mandatory site security reviews. Increased regulatory scrutiny require banks to more closely For the first time, SEB in Sweden experienced zero robberies. monitor a broad range of products to identify non-compliance Overall, SEB was exposed to three robberies. The safe introduction issues and record activities. To address this ongoing challenge, we of the euro in Estonia was a key security priority during the year. have implemented a comprehensive “Compliance Eye” system and routines in our investment banking business, in order to comply Responsible ownership with the brokerage rules and regulations such as MAD (Market Performing our ownership role responsibly, promoting Abuse Directive). good business ethics and governance and displaying Much effort has gone into validating and strengthening risk good corporate citizenship is vital. management processes during the year. One example is the “Go Safer In 2010, we participated in 21 election committees and exercised Globally” programme within Group Operations & IT. As part of this our voting rights at 45 Annual General Meetings. We engaged in programme, some 1,300 staff underwent operational risk manageownership dialogue (directly and indirectly) with over 200 portfolio ment training. Tracking incidents is crucial to address faulty processes companies. We also updated our Ownership Policy to include a or behaviour. Our incident reporting system, ORMIS, captured nearly section on responsible investments and amended our Policy for 30,000 incidents in 2010. Responsible Investments to reflect the fact that SEB, in addition to As one of the first banks, SEB made available direct debit products consulting external expertise, also has own in-house capacities to with Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA) functionality. To ensure that support the implementation of the Principles for Responsible all relevant SEB functions are involved in the interpretation of internaInvestments in the investment management business. Prior to tional payments regulations, we established a Payment Compliance the Climate Conference in Cancun, SEB and 258 global investors Interpretation Council. published a call for action to world leaders. Ownership dialogues high on the agenda Anette Andersson manages some SEK 2.7 billion in two SEB funds with a socially respon­ sible investment proﬁle. Meeting with portfolio companies to discuss sustainability issues forms an important part of her job. “Addressing sustainability is becoming increasingly important for asset managers and aligns the broader interests of society with the interests of SEB and our customers,” she says. “The main beneﬁt is that it leads to increased environmental and social respon­ sibilities among our portfolio companies.” The ﬁnancial reasons are also compelling. “Since we believe that structured sustaina­ bility work in our portfolio companies leads to long­term value creation, it should ulti­ mately improve ﬁnancial returns for our customers.” “Structured sustainability work in our Anette Andersson portfolio companies is a good thing for Portfolio Manager, Investment Management our customers, for society and for SEB.” 20 SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 OUR ReSPOnSIBILItY GoVErnanCE Savings Days 2010: Solving the economic life puzzle Saving money for tomorrow should not preclude living the good life today. This was the theme of the “Savings Days 2010” campaign, where 2,000 Swedish SEB customers met with SEB experts and invited guests in ﬁve inspiring events. The purpose was to raise customer awareness about long­term savings and share our knowledge. Early success for coalition against child pornography SEB has taken an active stance to prevent and obstruct paySEB uses the Net Promoter Score (NPS) tool to monitor customer satisfaction on a 135,000 customer interviews ments for child pornography through the Swedish financial daily basis. Across system and is a member of the Swedish Financial Coalition our Retail and Private Banking units in Sweden, Estonia, Latvia and against Child Pornography. In 2010, relevant business units and Lithuania, we performed more than 135,000 customer interviews support functions within SEB received crime detection training during 2010. Tracking customer satisfaction forms an important from the coalition partner ECPAT. ECPAT’s mission is to end child part in performance follow-up and target setting. prostitution, child pornography and trafficking of children for sexual purposes. According to the Swedish Police, the Responsible lending coalition and similar international initiaWe always base our credit approvals on the repayment capacity tives have been a constructive force in reof our customers. Swedish mortgage customers must therefore ducing the commercial viability of sexual be able to meet significantly higher interest rates than today’s exploitation of children via the Internet. levels. SEB adheres to the 85 per cent national leverage ratio The Swedish coalition is investigating regulations; in addition, SEB customers generally cannot borrow possibilities to set up similar coalitions in more than five times the household income. If the Baltic countries, starting in Estonia. the customer has a leverage ratio above www.ﬁnanskoalitionen.se 70 per cent, SEB recommends annual amortisations of 2 per cent. 75 per cent of Swedish mortgage customers have a leverage ratio of below 50 per cent. Battling 100 card fraud Doing things right During 2010, more than 500 employees within SEB’s Wealth 75 To reduce card fraud, we division took part in a training programme aimed at improving have implemented various customer quality. The Vision Zero project focuses on improv­ new systems and routines in ing processes and controls, clarifying roles and responsibili­ 50 recent years, resulting in an ties and increasing knowledge about operational risk. Training encouraging outcome. Card is mandatory for all staff within the division. By creating a fraud costs were reduced by common knowledge platform in the areas of Operational Risk 25 SEK 31 m in 2009 and a furmanagement, Legal and Compliance, we provide the tools for ther SEK 46 m in 2010. doing the job right from the beginning, thus leading to fewer 0 mistakes and improved customer satisfaction. 2008 2009 2010 For stories, achivevements and more visit www.sebgroup.com/sustainableperspectives SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 21 Being there through good times and bad As a bank we must be ﬂexible, seeking to ﬁnd solutions tailored to the needs of our customers. This is equally true in both good times and bad. SEB was one of the ﬁrst banks to warn about overheating in the Baltic coun­ tries. We decided early on that a crisis had to be dealt with in the most re­ sponsible way possible, and that we would like to exit the crisis as the most respected bank. One of our priorities was to seek solutions with our private customers that would enable them to stay in their residential homes. I am proud to say that we have done a lot to support our customers, both during the crisis and throughout the subsequent economic recovery. Ainārs Ozols Head of SEB Latvia Encouraging customer dialogue As early as 2007, SEB established a unit for problem loans in the Baltic countries. Among other things, the unit has analysed all Baltic credits and assessed the portfolio of loans to commercial properties and homes. Throughout this process, we have been committed to working together with our customers to ﬁnd common ground and viable solutions. In public campaigns such as the one from Lithuania to the right, SEB has sought to connect with private customers who consider their mortgage to be a burden, but lack the courage to ask the bank for a grace period. By amend­ ing amortisation requirements, offering to capitalise interest payments and adjusting our margin requirements, we managed to sort out the situation for hundreds of customers. Today, the vast majority – approximately 90 per cent – of our home mort­ gage customers in the Baltic countries are making payments on their loans. OUR ReSPOnSIBILItY EnVironmEnt Adressing our direct and indirect environmental impact During 2010, we continued our work to reduce SEB’s direct environmental impact as well as offer possibilities for our customers to enhance their contributions. SEB’s own CO₂ emissions were reduced by 18 per cent. Reducing our environmental footprint We made substantial progress in Green IT during the year. We now SEB’s goal is to reduce CO2 emissions by 25 per cent re-use heat generated in our Swedish computer centres and have by 2011 and by 45 per cent by 2015, compared with the introduced numerous other measures , including hot and cold aisles. 2008 baseline. This is to be achieved by reducing emissions from We are implementing double-sided printing as a Group standard and energy consumption, paper consumption, business travel and comhave increased video conferencing by more than 20 per cent. pany cars. Expanding the use of renewable energy sources, chang$ 1.6 bn ing travelling patterns and improving energy and resource efficiency throughout SEB are among actions undertaken. Our total CO2 emissions were reduced by 18 per cent to 38,598 tonnes (47,320) in 2010. The major source for reductions was the switch to green electricity in Germany, Estonia and Finland. Money raised for World Bank Green Bonds We also reduced emissions from paper and company cars. since inception CO2 emissions from business travel rose by more than 30 per cent in 2010, due to the rebound in business activity. This is a concern for us. To counter this trend, and supported by our new travel Sustainable finance and investments policy adopted in 2010, we have launched an initiative aimed at inWe want to work together with our customers to reduce creasing the number of travel-free meetings and using more envithe risk for negative social and environmental impact ronment-friendly travel options. One challenge is the international related to our finance and investment activities. growth ambitions we have for our Merchant Banking and Wealth One of our most important projects during the year was the Management divisions, whose business activities are particularly development of position statements and industry sector policies, travel intensive. see page 16. Further funds were raised for World Bank Green Bonds, originally developed by SEB in close cooperation with the World -23% Bank. Since the inaugural issue in 2008, SEB has assisted in issuing USD 1.6 billion in Green Bonds. These bonds fund investments in developing countries designed to mitigate climate change or help people and communities adapt to it. SEB also assisted the World CO2 emissions vs. 2008 Bank affiliate IFC, the International Finance Corporation, in issuing its first green bond. We gradually improve our ability to capture all our footprint. This We supported a wide range of projects targeting sustainable deexplains why our indicators for energy consumption, water consumpvelopment, both in our on-going business and in our project finance tion and waste generation rose during the year. Also, for a period of activities. Ten financings were reported under the Equator Principles time and due to the move of office premises in Denmark and framework. We also continued to offer rebated financing in Sweden Lithuania, we have maintained more office space than needed. for buyers of green cars, i.e. the Green Car Loan. Energy (CO₂ emissions) Paper (CO₂ emissions) Business travel (CO₂(CO emissions) -39 % -32 % +35 % 2010: 17,545 t CO₂ 2009: 28,979 t CO₂ 2010: 2,115 t CO₂ 2009: 3,121 t CO₂ 2010: 15,196 t CO₂ 2009: 11,280 t CO₂ 24 SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 OUR ReSPOnSIBILItY EnVironmEnt Customers don’t want paper! Every year, SEB distributes 500 tonnes of paper to customers in the form of account statements, transaction reports and agreements. Fredrik Nilson, SEB’s Output Manager, was appointed in 2010 and is charged with reducing this number signiﬁcantly. “By increasing the use of digital distribution, apply­ ing two­sided printing and collating several dispatches to one, we have already come some ways. But we have much more to do.” In 2010, SEB’s Life division reduced paper consumption by 10 tonnes by using two­sided printing for its half­yearly statements. Responsible investments Carbon oﬀsetting 2010 on the rise 12 SEB’s work to reduce our environmental footprint is based on our own reductions combined with carbon offsetting. We offset our remaining CO2 emissions through purchasing certified emissions 9 reductions from projects under the Kyoto Protocol’s Clean SEB manages 12 funds with Development Mechanism or emissions reductions verified to a socially responsible invest6 the Voluntary Carbon Standard, VCS. ment profile. Assets under SEB invested SEK 10 million in carbon compensation in 2010, management in these funds 3 to offset the 2009 emissions of 47,320 tonnes CO2. We invested rose by 46 per cent in 2010. in two projects: the reforestation of degraded land in Tanzania 0 2008 2009 2010 and the provision of solar cookers to the rural Ningxia Hui region in China. Green oﬃces at SEB We continuously seek to improve the environmental performance of our premises. Work to establish a green office standard in Sweden, for both retail branches and main buildings, has been initiated. In 2010, SEB Finland was awarded the WWF Green Office certification, in recognition of the many actions taken there. We also moved to new, more environmentally-friendly buildings in Copenhagen, Denmark and Vilnius, Lithuania, the latter www.carbonchaser.com contributing to an annual CO2 saving of some 130 tonnes. Company cars (CO₂ emissions) Water (consumption) Waste (generation) -5 % +2 % +2 % 2010: 3,742 t CO₂ 2009: 3,940 t CO₂ 2010: 150,058 m³ 2009: 147,628 m³ 2010: 1,745 tonnes 2009: 1,710 tonnes For stories, achivevements and more visit www.sebgroup.com/sustainableperspectives SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 25 OUR ReSPOnSIBILItY EnVironmEnt Great to see that finance can make a diﬀerence Since we issued the ﬁrst World Bank Green Bonds in 2008, investors have become increasingly interested. These bonds are now part of numerous institutional investor portfolios, principally in the US and the Nordic countries. The bonds are available in 16 different currencies, and this has contributed to the strong demand. We have learnt that Green Bonds, in which raised funds target sustainable development in World Bank customer countries, must match other capital markets products in terms of pricing. Green bond issuers cannot expect to fund themselves cheaper, just because funds are directed at worthwhile causes. However, there is a considerable ‘feel good­factor’. Knowing that Green Bonds actually make a difference to people and communities is important to investors and their stakeholders. The best part of my job is the positive feedback I get from customers and colleagues. It makes you realise that working with ﬁnancial services you can also be part of creating a better society. Christopher Flensborg Head of sustainable products and product development, Merchant Banking We appreciate SEB’s entrepreneurship and collaboration The capital markets are playing an increasing role in mobilizing funds from the private sector to ﬁnance projects that mitigate climate change and help coun­ tries adapt to its effects. The challenge is to design products that meet investor preferences and needs. Working closely with SEB and investors, the World Bank designed World Bank Green Bonds – a high grade ﬁxed income asset that allows investors to support these types of activities and be part of the solution. We appreciate SEB’s entrepreneurship and collaboration in developing this product for its clients. Doris Herrera­Pol Global Head of Capital Markets, The World Bank OUR ReSPOnSIBILItY SoCial Focus on knowledge, people and communities We are committed to contributing to the economic and social development in the communities where we operate. We work to improve banking access and ﬁnancial literacy, engaging and developing our staff, and supporting entrepreneurs, children and youth. A great place to work Access to financial services To make sure that we understand the needs of our cus€$ Our goal is to serve our customers whenever and tomers and provide them with good advice and approwherever they desire. We are commited to making priate financial solutions, we need to employ highly skilled people financial services accessible to all, regardless of economic standing, and shape the workplace so that it brings out the best in every indiethnic origin, disability or other factors. vidual. SEB strives to be a preferred employer among young profesDuring 2010, we launched iPhone, iPad and Android applications sionals and students. for our corporate, institutional and private customers, increased our We continued to invest in strengthening the SEB employer presence in social media such as Facebook and Twitter, and expanded brand. This work included a review of SEB’s brand platform (brand the platform for dialogue and networking that we offer financial promise, mission, vision, core values), and a specific survey among industry specialists. SEB was also the first Nordic bank to launch some 1,000 employees. The latter will serve as input to the developservices in offshore Chinese Yuan (CNH) for cash management, ment of our employer branding strategy, and SEB’s employer value trade finance and foreign exchange. proposition, to be developed during 2011. We already know that we must be better at highlighting career Investing in communities opportunities within SEB and held our first internal Career Day in Our business success depends on positive economic Sweden during the year. This concept will be continuously develdevelopments in our home markets and this requires oped and applied globally on a yearly basis. healthy and strong societies. Active involvement with local commuIn Lithuania, we signed the first local collective work agreement nity initiatives also motivates and inspires our people, and helps with SEB employees. In Germany, SEB was again certified as a familySEB to build strong community relations. friendly workplace. During 2010, we expanded SEB’s co-operation with Mentor to SEB was recognised as the most attractive employer in the Estonia and Latvia. We increased our community initiatives in the financial sector among young professionals in Sweden, and among Baltic states, manifested by a major environmental campaign in students in Estonia and Lithuania. In Sweden, we were also recogLatvia. We also expanded the SEB Next Generation tennis concept nized by the business weekly Veckans Affärer for our approach to to Norway. Our investments in community activities amounted to diversity within the organization. SEK 58m, compared with SEK 30m in 2009. Solutions for work-life balance At SEB, we want our people to have a good balance between work and private life. We therefore provide a number of differ­ ent solutions, adapted to local conditions, rules and laws. Examples include home and family services for employees with children, parents’ insurance and preventive health care beneﬁts. We place high priority on working environment issues, to identify potential risk factors and to strengthen the factors that we know create well­being. Increasingly, our employees are offered speciﬁc health proﬁle assessment programs, which can serve as a motivation for a change in life style. If our employees become seriously ill, we have a strong organisation in place to offer support and rehabilitation. Our work has resulted in a halving of the long­term sick leave ratio, from 2.2 per cent in 2007 to 1.1 per cent in 2010. 28 SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 OUR ReSPOnSIBILItY SoCial Playing games to get credit In order to increase the level of understanding between banks and entrepreneurs with a foreign background, SEB has sponsored the development of games, the Multi­ Cultural Bank (2009, targeting bank employees) and the Financing Game (2010, targeting entrepreneurs), in collabo­ ration with the Swedish Agency for Economic and Regional Growth and IFS. The Multi­Cultural Bank is part of the mandatory training for all corporate advisors and customer centre operatives in our Retail division. www.tillvaxtverket.nu/finansieringsspelet or /kulturbanken Improving financial literacy Smartphone The general public’s ability to understand financial matters is important. It allows our customers to make more informed financial access to SEB Smartphones, mobile phones decisions and strengthens society. At SEB, we share our expertise in that offer more advanced comvarious ways. Our Chief Economist regularly appears in the media puting ability and connectivity and engages with customers in a variety of fora. SEB’s equity, fixed than contemporary phones, income and FX specialists interact with customers on a daily basis. are changing the way customers In 2010, our Senior Economist Klas Eklund was granted a lifewant to interact with us. Through time achievement award for his ability to educate students and the smartphone apps, we can deliver general public on financial matters. His book Vår Ekonomi (“Our our services at their fingertips like Economy”) is now in its twelfth edition. never before. Several of our experts published books during the year. SEB’s In 2010, we launched our first Household Economist in Lithuania, Julita Varanauskiene, wrote iPhone and Android apps. The apps for our private customers “The Money Tree”, a collection of short stories seeking to educate enables account access to make payment transfers and paying women on household financial matters. In Sweden, our Welfare electronic invoices. Customers can also check their pension, Economist Jens Magnusson and the Bank’s Senior Advisor Anders market prices for stocks and funds. The apps for our Enkla Mossberg published “Securing the future welfare system”, on how Firman (“Simplicity for SMEs”) customers include a range of to maintain a welfare system given an aging population and rising services specifically tailored to small companies. In early 2011, welfare costs. Our SEB Enskilda was the first Nordic bank to launch an iPad app Swedish Housewith market data and stock analysis for institutional customers. hold Economist Gunilla Nyström published a book 44% on family law, to support imporof SEB’s managers tant decisions are female within the family. 77% of SEB’s employees 160,000 people... would recommend SEB as an employer ... from 184 countries have visited The Benche.com, SEB’s award­winning community for trade ﬁnance, cash manage­ ment and custody professionals. The site has an average of 61% 18,500 visits per month, of which 10,600 are unique visitors. growth in SEB’s community investments during 2010, www.thebenche.com excl. climate compensation For stories, achivevements and more visit www.sebgroup.com/sustainableperspectives SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 29 OUR ReSPOnSIBILItY SoCial Diversity is a business imperative for SEB I believe that Sweden and Swedish companies have much to gain from a new perspective on immigrants. To realise that knowledge about other cultures and other languages is a real asset, and that differences enrich both companies and the community. 1.8 million people in Sweden have a foreign background, nearly 20 per cent of the population. Within 20 years time, it is estimated that this share will reach 30 per cent. Moreover, many new Swedes are from cultures that have a strong entrepreneurial tradition. As a bank, we cannot afford to neglect this customer group. We have witnessed the positive energy and entrepreneurial drive that many new Swedes possess and approach entrepreneurs with a foreign back­ ground through partnerships with Tillväxtverket and IFS. We have learned that a business approach to diversity yields concrete results. To strengthen and promote diversity is an important part of building a modern society. It is a question of leveraging all resources and releasing human potential. Belgin Fortaci Diversity Sales Manager, Retail Banking SEB’s focus on entrepreneurs is a good thing Jangir Maddadi’s benches for public spaces are recognised among design lovers all over the world, and have made appearances in the Hollywood production Men in Black, among others. Since starting his business in 2008, his benches have been sold to customers in nearly 40 countries. Meanwhile, sales have increased ﬁve­fold. In 2010, Jangir Maddadi was recognised as “New Entrepreneur of the Year” in Sweden, a prize awarded to a person with a migrant back­ ground who has started his/her own business and contrib­ uted to growth in their adoptive home. “I have never considered myself as a migrant entrepre­ neur, I I have always been treated for who I am. This is probably because I decided to learn the language quickly, upon arriving in Sweden in 1993. For me, a good banking rela­ tion is about trust. I have been an SEB customer throughout the build­up of my company. I really appreciate SEB’s focus on small companies, that they want to be part of the journey from the start.” OUR PRIORItIeS loCal initiatiVES Highlighting local market initiatives Many efforts our undertaken in our local markets. In our Baltic operations, we have a tradition of supporting children and youth, and in 2010 there was also a continued focus on customers and the customer experience. In Germany, we worked to strengthen SEB’s position as an employer and performed comprehensive environmental work. Here are some 2010 highlights from the main markets. Latvia Social 77 students on inside tour The “Day of Shadows” was arranged Governance in Latvia for the tenth year. It allowed 10,000 students an inside track to working life at 1,200 staﬀ plays 400 companies. 77 students followed SEB Value Game employees, including the head of our Latvian In November, over 1,200 employees in operation, during a working day. The event SEB Latvia gathered for a whole day to study, was not only an opportunity for students to discuss the operations of SEB Latvia and understand the inner workings of a large, also to play games. The Value Game, first international company but also a chance created for SEB in Estonia, was used for SEB to meet with people that can potenas a tool to improve customer service tially become future employees. capabilities. Support for disadvantaged Security training children by bank robber A complicated social problem in the Baltic Who better to talk at a security seminar countries is the prevalence of children that than a reformed bank robber? Anders lack parental care. In Latvia, SEB supports Magnusson robbed an SEB branch in the two children’s villages in Īslīce and Valmiera, early 1990s and, after spending six years and two youth facilities in Iecava and Jelgava, Free accident insurance in prison, makes amends by sharing his as part of a collaboration with SOS Children’s SEB’s local life insurance unit in Latvia experiences to prevent future crimes. For Villages. We provide financial support and decided to provide all first-graders SEB Latvia, it offered a chance to consider engage customers in fund-raising campaigns. in Latvia with free accident insurance for a its security work from the outside . Our employees are involved in various ways, year, covering expenses up to LVL 1,000 for instance through donations of furniture, (SEK 12,000). SEB estimates that about Environment clothes and books. 20,000 children will attend school for the first time and thus will be covered by One tree for every inhabitant Head start for entrepreneurs the insurance. Together with Latvia’s State Forests, In 2010, SEB supported the establishSEB launched a pan-Latvian tree planting ment of a local Jobs & Society organisation in campaign in 2010. The goal is to make a sigLatvia. It offers free-of-charge professional Sustainability award nificant environmental contribution, educonsulting to those determined to start their for SEB Latvia cate people on how to plant and grow trees, own businesses. SEB also engaged in a camIn 2010, SEB Latvia was named not only the and ultimately improve Latvia’s position on paign to promote company start-ups. As part best bank in Latvia but also the most sustainthe global Environmental Performance Index of the initiative SEB pays bills from new able bank. SEB made progress in all six areas ranking, where it is currently ranked 21st. companies before their due date and has measured: products and services, role as emAll 5th and 6th year pupils and the genasked other large companies, municipalities, ployer, social responsibility, environmental eral Latvian population have been invited associations and incubators to give priority responsibility, and future-orientation. to plant trees, one tree for every inhabitant. to start-ups in various ways. In a collaboraWhen the campaign is finished in 2011, the tion with the Riga City Council, SEB engaged aim is to have planted over 2.2 million trees. in the “Duka” project, in which entrepreneurs The campaign has gained recognition for are offered empty business space at no being one of the best ecology and environcharge except the cost for utilities such ment campaigns in Europe (European as water and electricity. Excellence Awards). www.duka.riga.lv 32 SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 OUR PRIORItIeS loCal initiatiVES Estonia Environment Pioneer in green electricity In March, 2010, SEB in Estonia Governance switched to green electricity for the majority From kroon to euro of its activities in Estonia. The head office at On 1 January 2011, Estonia changed Tornimäe has transferred entirely to electricits currency from kroon to euro, and the ity produced from renewable energy sources. Estonian Prime Minister Andrus Ansip SEB was the first financial institution in made the first official withdrawal from an Estonia to make such a switch to minimize SEB ATM. This marked the culmination of its environmental footprint. one of the biggest projects in Estonian banking history. At SEB, we put an equivalent of Social 36 man-years preparing for the transition. To provide a smooth transition for our €$ Estonia pilot for new customers, we devoted the entire SEB Internet bank website to the euro introduction, with a The new Internet bank for private customers constant flow of information in three in Estonia has a more user-friendly look and languages. for the first time provides SEB’s customers with a simple way to keep an eye on the family Customer vote budget with an integrated financial planning of confidence tool. Over time, SEB will introduce the new Working closely together with customers design on all its other Internet banks and has been key to finding solutions to the external web sites as well. downturn affecting the Baltic countries. Customer surveys carried out during Supporting youths, 2010 show that SEB has increased its promoting sports ratings compared to before the onset of SEB in Estonia has been engaged in charity children. SEB also seeks to promote an the crisis. In Estonia, SEB was voted the for years, paying special attention to the active, health life style. One example is the most customer-friendly company in the next generation. A major activity is the support for running events such as the financial sector and also ranked by 3,000 support for SEB Charity Fund, which funds Tartu Marathon and SEB Sügisjooks private and corporate customers to be nine children’s shelters and actively works (SEB Autumn Run), the largest running the highest-quality bank. to improve the situation for disadvantaged event in the Baltic countries. Lithuania Building good employee A charity tennis event was arranged with relations UNICEF, to support vaccination of children In Lithuania, SEB has taken several steps to in Cambodia. Moreover, SEB launched initiastrengthen its employee relations. One tives to support new companies and recogSocial nised the country’s top performing students. example is the signing of the first collective €$ Improving e-banking work agreement in 2010. SEB’s Employees functionality Representation Council meets the bank’s Following an overhaul of the Internet bankPresident on a quarterly basis to discuss ing platform for corporate and institutional important issues. Preventative treatments customers in Lithuania, SEB customers can have been added to the Bank’s health insurnow conduct their transactions more easily, ance programme for employees. in one single system. The work has borne fruit. In 2010, SEB was recognized for best Broad social support Internet banking services to corporate and The collaboration with Mentor coninstitutional customers, in an evaluation of tinued. During the year, SEB Lithuania also banks in ten countries in Central and Eastern sponsored a week-long tennis academy Europe by the Global Finance magazine. summer camp in collaboration with Mentor. SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 33 OUR PRIORItIeS loCal initiatiVES Germany Governance Advanced risk method approved SEB in Germany gained regulatory approval to apply the most advanced method allowed under Basel 2 regulation for calculating capital requirement for operational risk, Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA). SEB already had regulatory approval to use this method on a Group level. To get it also and possibility to take six months of unpaid Social on the local level was a recognition of the leave in addition to the parental leave at efforts put into risk training and developRunning for Mentor some point during the first 11 years of the ment of appropriate processes and routines SEB uses its participation in Europe’s child’s life. SEB has parent/child-offices, within the German operation. largest corporate running event, the JP which enables employees to bring their Morgan Chase Corporate Challenge, to children to work as a fallback solution if donate funds to Mentor Foundation proEnvironment arranged childcare is unavailable. SEB grammes. Donations are made in relation also assists with elderly care, to support emBroad environmental to SEB participants’ running times. ployees in finding solutions for their parents. approach In early 2010, SEB in Germany switched to Family-friendly company Responsible divestment green electricity, thus contributing to a sigSEB in Germany is a certified “beruf Due to the sale of SEB’s German nificant reduction of Group CO2 emissions. und familie” company, meaning that the perretail operations to the Spanish bank It was also decided that all German postal sonnel policy and employee initiatives have Santander in 2010, many SEB employees distribution and train travel in Germany been audited by an external party. got a new employer. Considerable efforts should be climate compensated. During Among services and solutions provided were made to ensure that the divestment the year, SEB implemented an environby SEB Germany are: access to emergency process was characterized by transparency mental management system and received child care; vacation activity programmes; and openness in communication. ISO 14001 certification. promotion of part-time job opportunities Baltic Mentorship Tour At SEB, we believe it is important to help raise awareness about the status of the Baltic Sea – its condition affects customers, employees and inhabit­ ants in our local markets. In 2010, we brought together two of our partners, Mentor and the Brig Tre Kronor, in a joint initiative – the Baltic MentorShip Tour. This was an opportunity to highlight the mentoring of young people while increasing awareness about environmental conditions in the Baltic Sea. Fredrik Decker, a Swedish customer participating in the tour, comm­ ented: “I believe strongly in SEB’s support for Mentor – I like the idea of companies and people giving back to society. We need to see more of that in Sweden.” Mentors and students from SEB’s mentoring program sailed across the Baltic Sea together with SEB customers and other SEB employees. The voyage lasted 20 days with multiple stops in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia and involving more than 500 people. As part of the voyage, the crew collected water samples, both from the open sea and from the ports they visited, to measure the temperature, oxygen level and salinity of the water. On certain legs, the Brig Tre Kronor af Stockholm’s environmental manager, marine biologist Olof Cerne, held lessons on the marine environment and what impact people are having on the Baltic Sea. 34 SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 OUR PRIORItIeS loCal initiatiVES Denmark Norway Environment Social Prized – and green SEB Next Generation supported by the national tennis federaSEB’s new main office building in comes to Norway tion. It also provides youth with an opporCopenhagen was awarded the 2010 Arne We are engaged as a tennis sponsor in all tunity to grow in a positive environment, prize, in memory of Arne Jacobsen, for its our main markets, particularly focusing on both as tennis players and as individuals. design. Using seawater for cooling and youth tennis. In 2010, SEB Next Generation The Norwegian Tennis Federation expects recycling rain water for irrigation of green was introduced in Norway. It is a concept some 8,000 participants in SEB Next areas, the building is to consume a maxithat seeks to provide more youth with an Generation training camps and tennis mum of 90 kWh per sq.m. opportunity to get qualitative training schools during 2011. Finland Environment Saving the Baltic Sea In Finland, the Baltic Sea Action Group (BSAG) has been founded to encourage initiatives to protect the Baltic Sea. Eleven sovereign states, some 160 companies, organisations and individuals are committed to develop new green technology, establish research projects, help raise awareness and much more. SEB provides funding for BSAG’s secretariat and its daily operation. www.bsag.fi WWF Green Oﬃce SEB in Finland recieved a WWF Green Office certification in 2010, in recognition of the many actions taken there. These include installing biowaste bins in all units, configuring printers to duplex printing as default, abolishing disposable paper cups and soda/water vending machines, and switching to green electricity. SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 35 OUR RePORtInG KEy pErFormanCE inDiCatorS Key performance indicators eCOnOMIC IndICAtORS nOte UnIt 2010 2009* 2008* 2007* Direct economic value generated and distributed Total operating income 1 SEKm 36,879 41,575 38,063 37,080 Total operating expenses 1 SEKm 23,951 25,198 22,479 20,169 Total operating profit (pre tax) by region 1 SEKm 11,105 4,351 12,434 16,748 Sweden SEKm 5,993 6,760 10,299 8,145 Nordic countries (excl Sweden) SEKm 3,349 4,129 2,282 3,113 Baltic countries SEKm 456 -8,282 1,417 3,903 Germany SEKm 145 747 1,178 1,291 Other countries and eliminations SEKm 1,162 997 -2,742 296 Total operating profit (pre tax) by division 1 SEKm 11,105 4,351 12,434 16,748 Merchant Banking SEKm 8,498 11,428 8,098 n/a Retail Banking SEKm 2,484 2,891 3,112 n/a Wealth Management SEKm 1,651 1,142 2,011 2,637 Life SEKm 2,202 2,115 1,063 1,802 Baltic SEKm -121 -10,363 1,017 2,462 Other including eliminations SEKm -3,609 -2,862 -2,867 n/a Interest expense (customers) 2 SEKm 13,169 23,873 50,777 44,046 Employee compensation, pensions and other staff costs (employees) 3 SEKm 11,575 11,366 11,939 12,332 Interest and commission expense (business partners) 4 SEKm 21,373 24,762 32,477 30,340 Supplier payments (suppliers) 5 SEKbn 9.1 9.2 9.5 9.3 Number of suppliers Number 12,300 15,000 16,500 18,000 Dividends (shareholders) 6 SEKm 3,291 2,193 0 4,451 Taxes (governments) SEKm 2,521 2,482 2,351 3,376 Employee social charges (governments) SEKm 2,429 2,420 2,574 2,589 Reinvested in the company 7 SEKm -126 15,940 7,010 9,452 Financial assistance recieved from government SEKm 0 0 0 0 Community investments Economic contribution to social partnerships, share of operating profit (pre tax) % 0.5 0.7 0.1 0.1 Economic contribution to social partnerships (incl mgmt costs for activation and climate compensation) 8 SEKm 57.9 30.0 18.3 18.2 enVIROnMentAL IndICAtORS nOte UnIt 2010 2009 2008 2007 Carbon dioxide (CO₂) emissions Total Co2 emissions 9 Tonnes 38,598 47,320 50,404 n/a Co2 emissions from energy consumption Tonnes 17,545 28,979 29,401 n/a Co2 emissions from business travel Tonnes 15,196 11,280 13,547 8,021 Co2 emissions from paper consumption Tonnes 2,115 3,121 3,369 n/a Co2 emissions from company cars Tonnes 3,742 3,940 4,087 n/a Total Co2 emissions/employee Tonnes 2.0 2.3 2.4 n/a Other indicators Total energy consumption (in buildings) MWh 161,351 150,889 153,944 n/a Electricity MWh 124,676 126,262 123,737 n/a Other energy sources MWh 36,675 24,627 30,207 n/a Total paper consumption Tonnes 1,650 2,327 2,483 2,744 Graphic paper consumption Tonnes 753 1,007 1,407 1,757 Supplies paper consumption Tonnes 897 1,320 1,076 987 Waste generation Tonnes 1,745 1,710 2,150 1,909 Water consumption m3 150,058 147,628 196,925 n/a 36 SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 OUR RePORtInG KEy pErFormanCE inDiCatorS GOVeRnAnCe IndICAtORS nOte UnIt 2010 2009 2008 2007 Tackling financial crime Percentage employees completed Code of Business Conduct training % 93 87 n/a n/a Percentage of employees completed anti-money laundring education % 98 89 n/a n/a Percentage of employees completed fraud prevention education 10 % 49 43 n/a n/a Percentage of employees completed information security education % 70 n/a n/a n/a Markets with “Know-Your-Customer” (KYC) process and instructions implemented Number 21 19 n/a n/a SOCIAL IndICAtORS nOte UnIt 2010 2009 2008 2007 Headcount Total headcount, including part-time employees Number 20,599 20,835 22,443 22,177 Employees by gender Male % 42 42 42 41 Female % 58 58 58 59 Total employee turnover % 10.9 11.0 13.8 12.1 Share of employees that would recommend a friend to work at SEB 11 % 77 70 n/a 64 Corporate Sustainability Ambassadors Number 600 200 n/a n/a Gender by management type all managers (male/female) % 56/44 58/42 56/44 60/40 Senior managers (top mgmt fd) % 74/26 73/27 75/25 74/26 Middle managers % 61/39 61/39 64/36 64/36 First line managers % 47/53 51/49 46/54 54/46 Staff % 42/58 40/60 39/61 37/63 Total number of employees on parental leave during the year 12 Number 1,864 1,842 1,789 1,673 Sick-leave rate, share of ordinary working hours 12 % 2.7 3.0 3.5 3.9 Average vacation utilisation 13 % 82 76 n/a n/a Total employee renumeration (including social charges) 1 SEKm 14,004 13,786 14,513 14,921 Number of employees participating in any form of long term incentive programme Number 7,900 n/a n/a n/a Share of employees participating in Share Savings Programme during the year % 29 26 33 n/a Sustainable finance and investments Equator Principles, number of investments 10 0 5 0 Category A transactions approved Number 0 0 0 0 Category B transactions approved Number 7 0 5 0 Category C transactions approved Number 3 0 0 0 Number of Socially Responsible Investment/ethical funds Number 12 12 12 11 Total assets under managements in SRI/ethical funds SEKm 14,910 10,211 5,534 7,638 nOteS 1. 2009–2008 restated and 2007–2006 pro forma, reflecting the divestment 10. Primarily targeting front line sales and employees managing transactions. of SEB’s German retail operations. 11. 2010: Survey among 1,000 employees. 2. Deposits from credit institutions + Deposits and borrowings from the public 2009 and 2007: Group-wide employee survey Voice. (see Annual Report, p. 91, note 3) 12. Sweden. 3. Excluding social charges. 13. Sweden, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia. 4. Interest expense on Interest-bearing securities, Subordinated liabilities and Other interest costs + Fee and commission expense (Annual Report, p. 91, notes 3 and 4). 5. Paid out to suppliers during the year. Reporting scope 6. Dividends for the fiscal year, paid out to shareholders the following year. We currently account for the CO2 emissions from operations over which we have 2010: Proposed. control, such as energy and electricity use in our own buildings, paper consumption 7. Calculated as the difference in total equity during the year. and business travel (Scope 2 and 3 emissions according to the Greenhouse Gas 8. Increased due to new contracts with the Norwegian Tennis Federation Protocol). We include the emissions from eleven countries, accounting for 98 per and Mentor in Latvia and Estonia. cent of our employees. 9. Courier, taxi and security transportation is not included in emissions scope. For our complete sustainability reporting and more information visit www.sebgroup.com/sustainability SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 37 OUR RePORtInG aBout tHiS rEport/Gri inDEx About this report SEB adheres to internationally agreed principles for corporate resthe scope and boundary. SEB currently reports according to level C in ponsibility accounting and measurement and, reports its results in the GRI application level system, in which companies can either selfaccordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s GRI G3 Guidelines, assess or independently verify the extent to which the G3 Guidelines Financial Services Supplement. have been applied in sustainability reporting. The report has not The report is published annually, covering the preceding fiscal been reviewed by an external party. year. The previous report, covering the fiscal year 2009, was pubSEB’s GRI Content Index is found below. lished in April, 2010. It identifies the location of Global Reporting During 2010, we have sought to improve our reporting. Our Initiative (GRI) Standard Disclosures in this environmental reporting is now performed quarterly. Targets for CO2 report and other communication. Page refemissions are broken down on units and are implemented into busierences relate to the Corporate Sustainability ness plans. Our social indicators have been expanded geographically. Report 2010 (CS), the Annual Report 2010 (AR) There have been no significant changes from the previous report in and www.sebgroup.com/sustainability (www). GRI COntent Index 1 Strategy and analysis Commitments to external initiatives 1.1 CEo statement CS 2-3 4.11 Explanation of if and how the precautionary approach or SEB adopted the un Global 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities: principle is applied Compact in 2004, which deals with the precautionary approach i) SEB’s key impacts on sustainability and effects on stakeholdCS 6-9 in Principle 7. The Corporate Susers tainability Strategy, developed ii) the impact of sustainability trends, risks and opportunities CS 14-16 in 2009, is one example of how on the organisation SEB exercises the precautionary principle. 2 Organisational profile 4.12 Association to externally developed charters, principles, or CS inside back cover other initiatives 2.1 Name of the organisation CS inside back cover 4.13 Memberships in associations CS inside back cover, www 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services CS 4-5 Stakeholder engagement 2.3 Operational structure CS 4-5 4.14 List of stakeholder groups CS 9 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters CS inside back cover 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with CS 12-13 2.5 Countries of operation CS 4-5 whom to engage 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form ar 16-17 4.16 Approach to stakeholder engagement CS 12-13 2.7 Markets served CS 4-5 + ar 6-9 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engageCS 12-13 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation CS 4-5, 36 + ar 89-90 ment, and response by the organisation 2.9 Significant operational or other changes during the reporting ar 18 period Economic performance indicators 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period CS inside back cover + ar 9 Disclosure on management approach ar 4-5 + CS 10-11 + www Economic performance 3 Report parameters EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed CS 9, 36 Report profile EC2 Risks and opportunities for the organisation due to climate CS 14-16 3.1 Reporting period CS 38 change 3.2 Date of most recent previous report CS 38 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligaar 96-97 3.3 Reporting cycle CS 38 tions. 3.4 Contact for questions regarding the report CS inside back cover EC4 Financial assistance received from government CS 36 Report scope and boundaries Market presence 3.5 Process for defining report content CS 10, 12 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local Not disclosed minimum wage 3.6 Boundary of the report CS 38 EC6 Purchasing from locally-based suppliers Not disclosed 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. CS 10, 38 EC7 Local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from Not disclosed 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased www the local community facilities, etc Indirect economic impact 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations CS 36-37 + www EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided primarily Not disclosed 3.10 Comparability with previous reports CS 36-37 + www for public benefit 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the CS 38 EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent CS 6-9, 14-16; 36 scope, boundary, etc of impacts. GRI content index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in Current document Environmental performance indicators the report. (www) Disclosure on management approach CS 14-16, 24-25 + www 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external CS 2010 has not been externally assurance for the report. assured Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume CS 36 4 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement EN2 Recycled input materials www Governance Energy 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation CS 17 + ar 55-72 EN3 Direct energy consumption CS 36 + www 4.2 Role of the Chairman of the Board in the organisation CS 17 + ar 55-72 EN4 Indirect energy consumption CS 36 + www 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive board members ar 58 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improveCS 24-25 ments. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide ar 56-58 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy CS 24-27 recommendations etc to the Board based products and services 4.5 Remuneration to Board members, senior managers and execuar 59; 70-72 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption CS 24-25 tives, and link to the organisation’s performance Water 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interest in the Board ar 55 EN8 Total water withdrawal CS 36 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of ar 58 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Not disclosed the Board members for guiding the organisation’s strategy on EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Not disclosed economic environmental, and social topics Biodiversity 4.8 Mission, values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to CS 10-11 economic, environmental, and social performance EN11 Location and size of land in protected areas and areas of high Not material issue, not disclosed biodiversity value 4.9 Board procedures for overseeing economic, environmental, CS 17 and social performance, including relevant risks and opEN12 Impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity Not material issue, not disclosed portunities EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not material issue, not disclosed 4.10 Processes for evaluating Board performance, particularly with ar 58 EN14 Managing impacts on biodiversity Not material issue, not disclosed respect to economic, environmental and social performance EN15 Number of iuCn Red List species and national conservation list Not material issue, not disclosed species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. 38 SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 OUR RePORtInG aBout tHiS rEport/Gri inDEx Emissions, effluents and waste Society EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions CS 24-25; 36 Disclosure on management approach CS 28-30 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Not material issue, not disclosed Community EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions CS 11; 24-25 SO1 Programs to assess and manage the impacts of operations Not material issue, not disclosed EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Not material issue, not disclosed on communities EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions Not material issue, not disclosed EN21 Water discharge by quality and destination Not material issue, not disclosed Corruption EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method CS 36 SO2 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption Not disclosed EN23 Significant spills Not material issue, not disclosed SO3 Employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies CS 37 EN24 Hazardous waste Not material issue, not disclosed and procedures EN25 Water bodies and related habitats affected by water Not material issue, not disclosed SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Not disclosed discharges Public policy Products and services SO5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying www EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products CS 14-16; 20; 25 and services SO6 Contributions to political parties, politicians, and related www institutions by country. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials Not material issue, not disclosed that are reclaimed Anti-competitive behaviour Compliance SO7 Legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour Not disclosed EN28 Fines and non-monetary sanctions Not disclosed Compliance Transport SO8 Fines and sanctions for noncompliance with laws and Not disclosed regulations EN29 Environmental impacts from transportation CS 24; 36 Overall Product responsibility EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments Not disclosed by type. Disclosure on management approach CS 20 Customer health and safety Social performance indicators PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Not material issue, not disclosed products and services are assessed PR2 Non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes conNot material issue, not disclosed Labor practices and decent work cerning health and safety impacts of products and services Disclosure on management approach CS 28-30 + www Product and service labeling Employment PR3 Product labelling and information Not material issue, not disclosed LA1 Total workforce by employment type and region. CS 37 + AR 101-102 PR4 Compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Not material issue, not disclosed LA2 Employee turnover CS 37 product and service information and labeling LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees www PR5 Customer satisfaction CS 21; inside back cover + AR 9 Labor/management relations Marketing communications LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining www PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary www agreements codes for marketing communications LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes www PR7 Compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Not disclosed Occupational health and safety marketing communications LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in health and safety Not disclosed Customer privacy committees PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses Not disclosed LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism CS 37 + AR 101 of customer data. LA8 Programs to assist workforce members regarding serious CS 28 + www Compliance diseases PR9 Fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning Not disclosed LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with Not disclosed the provision and use of products and services trade unions Training and education Financial Services Sector Specific Disclosure LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee Not disclosed Disclosure on management approach LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning www FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components CS 10; 16;17 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and www applied to business lines. career development reviews FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and CS 14-16 + www Diversity and equal opportunity social risks in business lines. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and workforce CS 17, 37 + ar 64-67 + www FS3 Clients’ implementation of and compliance with environCS 14-16 + www mental and social requirements included in agreements or LA 14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women Not disclosed transactions. FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement CS 16 Human rights environmental and social policies and procedures Disclosure on management approach FS5 Interactions with stakeholders regarding environmental and CS 12-13; 16; 20 Investment and procurement practices social risks and opportunities HR1 Consideration of human rights with regard to investments CS 14-16; 20 Product portfolio HR2 Screening on human rights among significant suppliers Not disclosed FS6 Business composition by region and sector CS 4-5; 36 + AR 89-90 HR3 Training on human rights aspects relevant to operations Not disclosed FS7 Value of products and services designed to deliver a specific CS 18-19; 24; 37 social benefit Non-discrimination FS8 Value of products and services designed to deliver a specific CS 18-19; 24; 37 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Not disclosed environmental benefit Freedom of association and collective bargaining Audit HR5 Operations where freedom of association and collective SEB employees can exercise FS9 Audits to assess implementation of environmental and social Not disclosed bargaining may be at significant risk freedom of association and policies and risk assessment procedures collective bargaining Active ownership Child labour FS10 Companies with which the reporting organisation has interNot disclosed HR6 Operations where there is risk for incidents of child labour SEB’s business activities are acted on environmental or social issues concentrated to northern Europe. No part of the operations have FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environNot disclosed significant risk of incidents of mental or social screening. child labour FS12 Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues Not disclosed Forced and compulsory labor Society performance HR7 Operations where there is risk for incidents of forced or SEB’s business activities are FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvanNot disclosed compulsory labour concentrated to northern Europe. taged areas No part of the operations have FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadNot disclosed significant risk for incidents of vantaged people forced or compulsory labour Product and service labeling Security practices FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and CS 20-21 + www HR8 Security personnel trained in human rights aspects relevant Not material issue, not disclosed services. to operations. FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary. CS 28-29 Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Not material issue, not disclosed indigenous people and actions taken For our complete sustainability reporting and more information visit www.sebgroup.com/sustainability SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 39 OUR RePORtInG un GloBal CompaCt UN Global Compact Communication on Progress WE SUPPORT SEB signed the UN Global Compact in 2004, a strategic policy initiaCommunication on Progress. This Communication on Progress tive for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations covers the preceding fiscal year 2010 and consists of this report, our and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas Corporate Sustainability Report 2010 (CS) and www.sebgroup.com/ of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. The UN sustainability (www). It highlights a number of activities, and proGlobal Compact is the world’s largest corporate citizenship and vides direction to further information, which shows that we support sustainability initiative, with around 8,700 corporate participants the 10 Global Compact principles in our everyday business. and other stakeholders from over 130 countries. As part of SEB’s commitment to this initiative, we report on our activities and performance in an annual UN Global Compact Un GLOBAL COMPACt PRInCIPLeS GRI IndICAtORS ReFeRenCe tO CS Human Rights Principle 1 EC5, LA4, LA6-9, LA13-14, CS 14-16; 20–21; 28-29; Business should support and respect the protection of internationally HR1-9, SO5, PR1-2, PR8 32-35, www proclaimed human rights Principle 2 HR1-9, SO5 CS 14-16; 20–21; 28-29; Businesses must ensure their own corporations are not in complicit in 32-35; 39, www human rights abuse Labour Standards Principle 3 LA4-5, HR1-3, HR5, SO5 CS 14-16; 20–21; 28-29; Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 32-35; 38-39, www recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 HR1-3, HR7, SO5 CS 14-16; 20–21; 28-29; Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and 38-39, www compulsory labour Principle 5 HR1-3, HR6, SO5 CS 14-16; 20–21; 28-29; Business should support the effective abolition of child labour 38-39 Principle 6 EC7, LA2, LA13-14, CS 11; 14-16; 28-29; Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect HR1-4, SO5 32-35; 37, www of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7 EC2,EN18, EN26, EN30, CS 10-11; 14-16; 20; Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental SO5 24-25; 32-35; 36-37; 39 challenges Principle 8 EN1-30, SO5, PR3 CS 10-11; 14-16; 20; Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 24-27; 32-35, www responsibility Principle 9 EN2, EN5-7, EN10, EN18, CS 10-11; 14-16; 20; Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of EN26-27, EN30, SO5 24-27; 32-35 environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10 SO2-6 CS 14-17; 20-21; 37, Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including www extortion and bribery 40 SEB CorporatE SuStainaBility rEport 2010 Awards and recognitions 2010 Awarded by Customers Best Bank for Cash Management in the Nordic and Baltic region Euromoney Best Foreign Exchange service provider, Latvia Global Finance Best Private Bank in the Nordic region The Banker, Professional Wealth Management Best bank in Latvia Emea Finance Best corporate reputation, Latvia TNS Latvia Business bank of the year, Sweden Finansbarometern Highest-quality bank in Estonia EPSI Baltic Financial Advisor of the Year in the Nordic region Financial Times and Mergermarket Most likeable financial brand in Estonia TNS Emor Employees Best employer among banks, young professional survey, Sweden Universum Most attractive employer in financial sector, Estonia TNS Emor Most attractive employer, Lithuania Verslo Žinios 6th best employer overall, student survey, Sweden Universum Please Environment Best bank for environmental responsibility, Latvia Diena/Reputation Top Nordic Carbon Performance Leadership Index (SEB one of five companies included) Carbon Disclosure Project recycle me! We like our communications to have an impact on you – but not on the enSustainability indices Index provider vironment. We therefore compensate all emissions related to printed matter. ECPI Ethical index Europe ECPI This report is associated with a carbon Nordic Sustainability Stars Ethixs SRI Advisor footprint of 65.4 g CO2-equivalents OMX GES Sustainability Nordic Index Nasdaq OMX/GES per m2 printed product, corresponOMX GES Sustainability Sweden Index Nasdaq OMX/GES ding to 0.2 kg CO2 equivalents per report. The selected printing company is climate compensated and has ISO 14001 environmental certification. If International commitments Adopted/signed you no longer have use for this report, CDP Water Disclosure Project 2010 please recycle it. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) 2008 Principles for Responsible Investments (PRI) 2008 UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) 2007 UN Equator Principles 2007 UN Global Compact 2004 OECD guidelines for Multinational Enterprises 2000 The FSC logo identifies products ICC Business Charter on Sustainable Development 1995 which contain wood from wellmanaged forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council. Contact us Cecilia Widebäck West Head of Group Corporate Sustainability Telephone: +46 8 763 50 00 © Copyright Skandinaviska Enskilda E-mail: cs@seb.se Banken ab, 2010. All rights reserved. Internet: www.sebgroup.com/sustainability No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, Head office or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photoPostal Address: SE-106 40 Stockholm, Sweden copying, recording, or otherwise, Visiting address: Kungsträdgårdsgatan 8, Stockholm, Sweden without the prior written permission Corporate registration number: 502032-9081 of Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken ab. Production: SEB and REWIR Photos: Joachim Lundgren m.fl Printing: PÅ Media AB Welcome to SEB 2,600 large corporations and financial institutions, 400,000 small and medium-sized companies and four million private individuals have chosen to bank with SEB. We have a presence in some 20 countries, with 17,000 employees, half of whom are based outside Sweden. We help our customers thrive by providing quality advice and financial resources. Our vision is to be the trusted partner for customers with aspirations. Sustainable economic development is a key concern at SEB. We see our role not only as a facilitator for sound economic growth and a guardian of a secure payment system, but also as a company with real opportunities to drive change. This means offering sustainable finance and investment solutions that can help mitigate climate change and tackle other environmental and social challenges. It means participating in creation more sustainable cities, in the construction of new infrastructure and in the nurturing of new technology and innovations. We also stimulate entrepreneurship and support children and youth. By sharing our knowledge we help improve financial literacy. This is good for society, for the economy as a whole and therefore also for us. We work to reduce our environmental footprint. Our target is to reduce carbon emissions by 45 per cent by 2015. We compensate for emissions we cannot avoid or reduce. As a result, we contribute positively, reduce costs and increase our knowledge. It is a matter of being credible in our dialogues with customers. SEB has been in business for more than 150 years; supporting customers, engaging our people and playing an active role in society. We have an integrated approach to corporate sustainability because we know it is good for business – we want to strengthen our relations and also support our customers in the future. Please join us. To learn more, visit sebgroup.com/sustainability or contact us at cs@seb.se
