tesa SE: Our Responsibility – Our Commitment Report 2010 A vivid tradition of responsibility Ban Ki-moon, U.N. Secretary-General (UN Photo/Mark Garten) Global Compact January 31, 2001, at the World Economic Forum in Davos: Then UN Secretary General Kofi Annan calls on companies that operate internationally to take an active stance in meeting the challenges presented by globalization. His vision: a global pact based on universally accepted social and environmental principles. Today, companies from more than 80 countries, international The ten principles of the UN Global Compact employee associations, civil society organizations, governments, and United Nations organizations are involved in the Global Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect internationCompact. Under the auspices of the current UN Secretary Genal human rights in their own sphere of influence eral, Ban Ki-Moon, the world’s largest corporate citizenship initiative is moving forward. Principle 2: They must ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses The ten principles on which the pact is based, covering the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and Principle 3: Businesses should uphold freedom of association the fight against corruption, have long formed part of the corpoand the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining rate values of tesa. Our membership in the Global Compact underscores this vivid tradition. All of tesa SE’s activities related to Principle 4: All forms of forced and compulsory labor must be commitment and involvement are subject to a continuous imeliminated provement process. In this current issue, the Progress Report 2010, we provide an insight into the development of our activities Principle 5: The use of child labor must be abolished and projects – with regard to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and our own corporate responsibility strategy. Principle 6: Discrimination with respect to employment and occupation must be eliminated Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Initiatives should be undertaken to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: The development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies is to be encouraged Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 2 Progress Report 2010 As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, we have improvement process. With more than 50 affiliates worldwide, committed ourselves to reporting annually on the progress of our there are a large number of projects involved. For that reason, this initiatives. This helps facilitate a regular interchange of informareport is limited to a representative selection of current initiatives. tion with those around us and documents our projects aimed at In line with the modern communication channels used by our putting the ten principles of the Global Compact into practice stakeholders, we began publishing our Progress Report in an and firmly implementing them within our company. online version in 2008. In addition to the advantage of better The Progress Report 2010 provides you with an overview of accessibility, an online report also offers opportunities for regular our worldwide commitment and involvement in the fields of human updates. You can also visit the “Responsibility” section of our rights and labor standards, environmental protection, the fight website for comprehensive information on the topics of the enviagainst corruption, and society. tesa has traditionally taken a susronment, quality, employees, and social matters: tainable approach that ensures both continuity and a continuous www.tesa.com/company/responsibility. Declaration of Support Human Rights and Labor Standards Membership based on firmly held convictions The human factor as a determinant of success We are firmly convinced that binding values and a sustainable Conduct guidelines and activities in the areas of employee qualibusiness policy are prerequisites for economic success. fications as well as occupational health and safety characterized >> Page 4 the year 2010. >> Page 5 Environmental Protection Fighting Corruption Worldwide initiatives Integrity and proper conduct At present, tesa is making progress on over 50 environmental In our Code of Conduct, the Purchasing Charter, and the tesa projects. Examples from the areas of energy, solvents, and enviAntitrust Compliance Program, we take a clear stance on the ronmentally friendly products. >> Page 10 rules of conduct that apply on a binding basis at tesa. >> Page 16 Social Projects Strategy with regional facets With its focus on children and young people, our social commitment and involvement is reflected in over 40 projects worldwide. >> Page 17 3 Declaration of Support “Our responsibility is multifaceted, ranging from Thomas Schlegel, CEO of tesa SE environmentally friendly technologies to volunteer work.” “We are responsible for what we do and for what we do not do.” environmental efforts have also focused French Enlightenment philosopher Voltaire gave us this piece of on our products. Since January 2010 we wisdom, which tesa has been taking to heart for generations. have been offering consumers extremely Around the world, we combine our economic actions with ecologienvironmentally friendly solutions under the new tesa ecoLogo® cal and social measures, which we pursue and implement systemsub-brand, including refillable products, recycled materials, reatically. They comprise both large-scale investments in progressive newable raw materials, and ecologically friendly production techtechnologies and tiny actions – from consistently raising awareness nologies. We are planning to continually expand our range, both to the personal commitment of our employees. Our membership in in office supplies and in the DIY segment. the United Nations Global Compact underscores this sustainable 2010 also saw us continue with our social activities and adbusiness policy. vancing Corporate Volunteering internationally. Volunteer work is With numerous projects, tesa once again demonstrated in free but not for nothing: Disadvantaged children and teenagers 2010 that many small elements add up to make a big impact. benefit, as do the tesa employees – especially from the shared One of our outstanding achievements was the commissioning of pleasure of reading together, renovation projects or leisure activia unique production unit in Hamburg that produces doubleties. sided acrylate adhesive tapes. From an economic point of view, Furthermore, tesa continues to focus on systematically exthis new site enables us to gain a foothold in promising business panding its range of further training opportunities for its employsegments. At the same time, the new procedure – developed ees. An integral part of many further training measures are the and patented by tesa – is a ground-breaking innovation in ecotesa values and guidelines, as we are convinced that responsible logical terms: In contrast to conventional processes, solvents are and sustainable business is only possible if our employees are only used in the first stage of production. During the subsequent suitably qualified. drying process they are extracted again and added back into the For nearly 100 years, the tesa name has stood for innovative cycle. The result speaks for itself: The annual use of solvents and solutions, high quality, and dependable service. We will continue energy is reduced by 50 percent, in addition to which we have our efforts to uphold these standards into the future – along with decreased CO2 emissions by 2,000 metric tons and do not emacting sustainably and following the spirit of the UN Global Comploy any process water. pact. We have continued to systematically pursue our ambitious environmental goals. We have resumed and implemented costintensive projects that we were forced to put on ice in 2009 owing to the impact of the global economic crisis. They include a state-of-the-art ventilation system at the Hamburg plant. Our 4 Human Rights and Labor Standards The human factor as a determinant of success People are the foundation of our business success – people like In 2010, the number of notifiable work-related accidents fell our own employees as well as customers and suppliers. With again and we were able to further reduce our below-average this in mind, compliance with and advocacy of international huaccident figures. In addition, in this reporting year we implementman rights are just as much a part of our principles as unimed targeted communication measures for the “tesa Antitrust peachable labor standards. We have firmly established these Compliance Program” introduced in the previous year with trainprinciples with initiatives that include the internationally applicable ing courses and an e-learning program. This helps orient emtesa Code of Conduct and the worldwide tesa Purchasing Charployees regarding fair competition and prevents possible antiter, which governs our cooperation with suppliers. The content of trust law violations. the policies and rules associated with these initiatives has formed an integral component of numerous staff development measures since their introduction. Code of Conduct Purchasing Charter Binding rules of conduct Minimum standards for strategic purchasing The tesa Code of Conduct defines clear values and conduct Supplier qualification, evaluation, and development have been guidelines for all employees of the tesa Group. Its content is an harmonized across the Group. This helps us ensure that our integral component of training courses and workshops. >> Page 6 internationally binding minimum standards are met. >> Page 7 Employee Qualification Occupational Health and Safety Range of further training expanded Low accident figures Our employees are the most important capital for securing tesa’s We improved our occupational health and safety once again in success. Our corporate culture and targeted staff development 2010, as attested by an overall reduction in occupational acciand support initiatives take this fact into account. >> Page 8 dents by 20 percent overall. >> Page 9 5 Code of Conduct The tesa Code of Conduct defines values and clear conduct guidelines. Its content is an integral component of training courses and workshops. Binding rules of conduct The Code of Conduct establishes our most important principles in six main topics: Respect, honesty, trust, tolerance, and integrity – these are the principles we apply in our business, principles that have not only 1. Adherence to legal regulations made us successful in the past, but also guide us in the present We do business lawfully and strictly observe the laws of the and will continue to do so in the future. The rules of conduct countries in which we are active. associated with these principles are specified in a mandatory 2. Fair competition worldwide Code of Conduct. During this reporting year, we imWe do not gain market advantages through unfair or illegal plemented communication and training initiatives to ensure that practices. these ideas take even firmer hold within the company. 3. Protection of tesa net assets The rules and criteria incorporated into the tesa Code of ConWe deal carefully with the company’s legally protected inforduct, which is derived from our corporate values and the ten mation, net assets and resources. principles of the UN Global Compact, provide clear guidance. 4. Socially acceptable working environment The Code of Conduct strengthens trust in the performance and We ensure a socially acceptable, reliable and motivating workintegrity of the tesa Group. No matter what their position or title, ing environment. We soundly reject child and forced labour, we expect all employees to abide by our ethical principles and discrimination or the like. We also expect the same from our consistently apply them in everything they do. We demand that business partners. our executives not only demonstrate exemplary compliance with 5. Personal integrity the rules of conduct, but also ensure at the same time that they We promote the highest level of personal integrity, and fairactively communicate the rules to others. ness among our employees and avoid situations where perSince the Code of Conduct was introduced, all executives sonal interests conflict or may conflict with those of our comhave been required to complete an e-learning program. For the pany. current communication process with employees we also make 6. Social commitment supporting presentation material available to all management We take our responsibility to future generations seriously and levels. In order to keep the topic at the forefront, the Code of work to ensure sustainable development in all the relevant arConduct is also an integral component in our introduction semieas: economic, ecological, and social. nars for new employees, leadership training, in the “Sales Qualification Program” and in our management development programs for executives and junior managers. These latter got off to a sucDownload „Code of Conduct“ cessful start in 2010. 6 Purchasing Charter The qualification, evaluation, and development of suppliers are handled according to standard criteria at all tesa locations, ensuring that our binding worldwide minimum standards are met. Minimum standards for strategic purchasing We at tesa are firmly convinced that sustainable, responsible damental principles of the UN Global Compact. In our cooperacorporate conduct must go beyond the individual company itself. tion with suppliers, we strive to establish long-term strategic That’s why our internal rules of conduct have long applied to our partnerships and pursue a continuous improvement process. cooperation with suppliers around the globe as well. To provide a This includes jointly established goals and monitoring the degree standardized framework for our internationally applicable core to which they are met, site visits, and certification under the ISO principles, the Strategic Purchasing division of tesa established 14001 environmental standard and ISO 9001 quality standard. the tesa Purchasing Charter in 2008. Since then, we have continuously promoted the minimum standards we apply worldwide We have also been supporting compliance with our minimum and expect our partners to meet in the areas of human rights, standards by implementing our SRM (supplier relationship manlabor standards, environmental protection, and the fight against agement) process. Under this process, supplier qualification, corruption. evaluation, and development follow the same systematic approach throughout the entire tesa Group – from initial contact via By signing our contract terms and conditions, suppliers make a a questionnaire to in-plant product qualification. binding commitment to operate in accordance with the ten funDownload „Purchasing Charter“ 7 Employee Qualification and Training Our employees are the most important capital for securing our success. Our corporate culture and targeted support initiatives take this fact into account. Quality increase in continuing tasks. The appropriateness of this initiative became evident education and training shortly after its introduction. Already with the first group of participants from all over the world we were able to position futureAll over the world, employee integration and development are oriented topics such as sustainability and corporate responsibilamong the most important factors contributing to our success. ity in a meaningful and straightforward way. In addition to the In 2010 we used this to qualitatively expand on the good foundaspecialized content, such topics as Corporate Compliance and tion of our extensive training program, focusing in particular on the tesa Code of Conduct are also integral components of the the successful Sales Qualification Program. Thus we refined the courses. training portfolio, which at present comprises 30 courses, to target employees from international Sales and Research & DevelIn this reporting year tesa also gave the internationally valid leadopment specifically. The concept of receiving core course conership principles a new framework: “Leadership Excellence” tents in the existing variety of languages remains unchanged. promotes the so-called situational style of leadership, which The tesa Code of Conduct, with its rules of conduct, continues deals with the different needs, strengths, weaknesses, and goals to be a key component of all sales-related training and activities. of employees. The revised leadership principles are to serve Altogether 660 employees participated in 385 training days in the superiors and employees alike as orientation and therefore be current reporting year. integrated into future training. The six principles in detail: 1. M  aintain mutual respect and mutual trust. Under the slogan “From presenter to trainer” tesa initiated the 2. Agree upon clear goals. new international continuing education program “Train the train3. Give employees leeway. er”. The aim of this is that employees pass on their expert knowl4. Create a feedback culture. edge as trainers in the framework of internal courses. In compact 5. Increase performance through an atmosphere of challenge seminar units, tesa trainers receive methodical-didactic and and encouragement. communicative tools to transmit course contents in a profes6. Be a model. sional and diverse manner. In the current reporting year the first There are four to five open questions for each principle – as an 45 speakers were trained. incitement to think about one’s own style of leadership and recognize potential for improvement. In 2010, we also launched some continuing education concepts which were designed in the previous year. Of particular note here is the successful implementation of a program for the qualification of junior staff who show potential for future management 8 Occupational Health and Safety We raised our high worldwide standards for occupational health and safety once again in 2010. Low accident figures Prevention is the best form of protection from injuries and jobment and elimination system in line with the TOP principle. This related health risks. Our extraordinarily low accident rates demanalytical tool, which covers three categories – “technical”, “oronstrate that we are on the right track with our occupational ganizational”, and “personal” – is used to assess potential hazhealth and safety initiatives and training measures at all plants. ards and facilitates the evaluation and prioritization of potential solutions. One major factor in this process is our internal reporting systems to reduce risk. The combination of risk assessments conducted We also consistently advanced our high standards in terms of through an occupational safety management system, employee occupational health and safety initiatives during the project planresponsibility, and an improvement process that incorporates ning of new systems and facilities. The early identification of poseveryone involved has enabled the company to identify and elimsible danger areas was the focus. The aim was to take the corinate many potential hazards. rect precautionary measures in advance. In 2010, this principle was successfully put into practice in India, where the new tesa All around the world, tesa is subject to our Occupational Safety Converting Center was opened in the seaport city of Chennai. To Guidelines, which are aligned to the international OHSAS 18001 prevent potential accidents, the topic of occupational health and standard. In terms of safety, we regularly raise employee awaresafety played a crucial role from the start, even during the planness of the issue worldwide – including through training on conning and construction phase. duct that is conducive to safety and health, prevention of explosions and fires, fire extinguishing drills, detailed operating procedures for all production facilities, and targeted employee training. This approach has ensured a steady decline in the number of occupational accidents subject to mandatory reporting. Across all international tesa locations, the number fell from 20 in the previous year to 16 in 2010, an average decrease of 20 percent overall. At tesa, the systematic identification and risk assessment of potential hazards form the cornerstone of our ability to preclude faults, mistakes, and improper conduct wherever possible. To this end, in 2010 we were able to further develop our risk assess9 Environmental Protection Worldwide initiatives Leaving an intact environment behind for subsequent generaconserve energy. At the beginning of 2010, we also launched the tions is one of tesa’s stated corporate goals. All of our long-term new tesa ecoLogo® sub-brand. We will continue to expand this production sites are certified according to the international ISO range of particularly green products in 2011 focusing on office 14001:2004 environmental standard. In addition, our new tesa and do-it-yourself products. Converting Centre in the seaport city of Chennai in India, which Ongoing monitoring and improvement of specific key indicaopened its doors in 2010, is at the planning stage. We take a tors, such as reduction of energy consumption, CO2 emissions, precautionary approach, promoting the international exchange of VOC emissions, and waste, have long been an integral compoinformation between our environmental experts and actively taknent of our approach to environmental management. We also ing the initiative. Part of this strategy is the development of our expect our suppliers to uphold comparable standards. In total, own production technologies to enable solvent-free production. our environmental commitment and involvement encompassed In addition, we are increasingly pursuing our commitment and 53 individual projects in this reporting year. By way of example, involvement at product level: For instance, we now offer a large the section that follows cites some of our initiatives. number of product solutions that help customers and consumers Environmental goals, 2007 through 2012 Energy International activities Raising awareness Clearly formulated goals are the key to our ambitious environExemplary projects at the tesa plants in Offenburg and in Hammental program, which encompasses projects spanning the burg-Hausbruch led to energy reduction. >> Page 12 entire globe. >> Page 11 Reduced solvent use Waste management Environmentally friendly technologies Small steps, big impact Compared with conventional processes, the patented ACX techChanges in behavior start with the right mindset: Reducing nology developed by tesa offers huge environmental benefits. waste and proper recycling protect the environment and conThe system, which is globally unique, was launched in fall 2010. serve resources. >> Page 14 >> Page 13 Commitment at product level Consumers benefit from tesa Products aimed at conserving energy and sustainably produced merchandise help protect the climate. The winners? People all over the world. >> Page 15 10 Environmental Goals, 2007 through 2012 Clearly formulated goals are the key to our ambitious environmental program, which encompasses projects spanning the entire globe. International activities Environmental goals 2007 through 2012 Our environmental program for the period from 2007 through VOC emissions 50 % 2012 involves ambitious, binding goals. We monitor the degree to which we meet these internationally applicable environmental Solvents used 15 % goals through a global monitoring program based in each case on constant production quantities. The current five-year plan also Energy consumed 10 % includes emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Our activities in this area have already yielded clear successes: From Waste 5% 2007 until 2010, we were able to achieve a 39 percent reduction. CO2 emissions in Europe 10 % That means that as things currently stand, we will in all likelihood meet our target of a 50 percent reduction by 2012. This is also directly connected with the ongoing further development of our production technologies, where we are consistently eliminating solvent use wherever possible. This approach led to a decrease of seven percent in 2010. As in the crisis year of 2009, our final figures for energy consumption in 2010 fell short of our expectations, but slightly improved on the previous year’s level. With regard to the constant 2006 production volume, which we use as the fixed basis for comparison across all areas, we posted a slight increase in energy consumption in Europe of four percent, which also impacted on our CO2 emissions. 11 Energy In 2010, tesa once again launched a number of energy-saving measures. Raising awareness The after-effects of the worldwide financial and economic crisis the future, it will save about 500 megawatt hours of energy a could still be felt in some areas in 2010. In this reporting year they year. In the Hamburg plant in the course of the last year a heat affected among other things energy consumption and generated transfer plant was also replaced. In 2011, we expect an annual waste. Nevertheless, the company was able to implement conenergy saving of approximately 630 megawatt hours with this tinuous and targeted improvements. For example, in the tesa measure. plant in Offenburg, the project begun in the previous year “Active Environmental Protection through Reduced Waste and Energy Further projects at the end of 2010 included a comprehensive Use” continued successfully. Under the motto “Small steps, big technical modernization of the ventilation system and the correimpact”, employees contributed numerous suggestions for imsponding plant control in the technology center of tesa SE. In this provement, resulting in 26 individual projects in 2010. Following we calculate annual savings on energy consumption of approxion from 2009, the plant in Offenburg for example implemented mately 2,770 megawatt hours with a simultaneous reduction of another project for heat recovery. In the context of another enerCO2 emissions of over 650 metric tons. Both in the planning and gy-saving project, the plant also renewed a transformer and reorin the implementation phases the project received funding from ganized electricity supply. These two projects together reduced the Hamburg Federal State Authority for Urban Development and energy consumption by 682 megawatt hours in 2010. the Environment. Furthermore, in the tesa plant in Offenburg and at tesa Bandfix GmbH in Switzerland, energy-saving projects in New energy-saving projects were also on the agenda at other IT areas were implemented – including the harmless rise in temtesa locations in 2010. Plans were again taken up and realized perature in the server areas to lower the energy consumption for that tesa had had to put on hold due to the economic crisis in air conditioning. Comparable measures are also planned in 2009 – including the installation and start-up of a state-of-the-art Hamburg in 2011. ventilation system in the tesa plant in Hamburg-Hausbruch. In 12 Reduced Solvent Use tesa received financial support from the German government’s Environmental Innovation Program for its new eco-friendly ACX technology. Environmentally friendly technologies Part of our continuous improvement process, and an essential production unit started up in the tesa plant in Hamburg-Hauscomponent of the tesa environmental program, is our consistent bruch. The particular feature here: Compared with conventional shift toward eco-friendly production technologies. Since the first technologies, the new method uses solvents only in the first large-scale system for solvent-free coating was put into operaprocess step, extracts them again immediately during the followtion at the tesa plant in Offenburg in 2002, we have been detering drying process and returns them to the cycle. The outcome: minedly expanding on this technology, which was developed and 50% less solvent and energy consumption annually, a reduction patented by tesa. Our plants in Offenburg and Italy have proof approximately 2,000 metric tons in CO2 emissions and the duced the majority of their products without using solvents for complete elimination of process water. These results have won several years now. In the case of products that, for technical praise on a political level as well: The Federal Ministry for the reasons, cannot yet be produced without solvents, we use adEnvironment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety recogvanced systems for solvent recovery and reuse. nized the investment project with funding from the Environmental Innovation Program. tesa has succeeded in making a particular technological breakthrough with its proprietary ACX technology, a state-of-the-art method that enables eco-friendly production of double-sided acrylate adhesive tapes. In September 2010 the globally unique 13 Waste Management Changes in behavior start with the right mindset: Reducing waste and proper recycling protect the environment and conserve resources. Small steps, big impact Producing goods of any kind necessarily involves generating nications raise staff awareness of the issue and, when combined waste. When it comes to reducing the quantity of waste generwith incentives offered as part of employees’ variable bonuses, ated and protecting both the environment and natural resources, help prompt employees to proactively make suggestions for we hold regular training sessions worldwide to ensure that everyimprovements. one involved becomes aware of how to prevent unnecessary waste and how to recycle properly. At some of our locations, the In 2010 the tesa plant in Offenburg implemented numerous suggreat importance of this topic is reflected in the fact that the indigestions and measures. These included the installation of a specator of waste quantities is even included in the personal targets cial system for measuring surface weight. It enables the continuset for the responsible employees. This ensures that when probous measuring of amounts applied and leads to clear waste savlems occur, all of the relevant departments are involved in the ings – in particular in the event of product changes. Moreover, at resolution process, which raises each and every person’s awarevarious plants the diameter calculators were optimized, which ness of the issue. Beyond that, we are always looking for new keeps leftover run lengths to a minimum. The use of raw material technical solutions and partners that enable us to recycle as much ends as feeder material on the bundles also brought substantial as possible. progress. These three projects alone saw savings amount to approximately 30 metric tons of waste per year. The overall The tesa plant in Offenburg cast a spotlight on this topic in 2009 project for waste reduction covers eleven individual projects. with its project “Active Environmental Protection through Reduced Waste and Energy Use”. As in the area of energy, the project’s motto is also “Small steps, big impact”. Posted commu14 Commitment at Product Level Products aimed at conserving energy and sustainably produced merchandise help protect the climate. The winners? People all over the world. Consumers benefit from tesa Responsibility for the environment involves all of us – at tesa, we For many consumers, the fact that saving energy is not only are convinced of it. That’s why we consistently pursue our envigood for the environment, but also has a positive effect on budgronmental commitment at product level. In the recent past in ets, is the crucial factor in deciding to do something about the particular, tesa has added groundbreaking solutions to its prodworst energy wasters in the home – roofs, windows, and doors. uct range in this area. Consumer tips abound, but hardly any of them are as easy to put into practice as simply sealing gaps around windows, a segment Public discussion of climate change has put the topic of environwhere tesa leads the market with its classic tesamoll®. Consummental protection in sharper focus among consumers as well. A ers in Germany can conserve up to 35 percent of the heat engrowing number of people desire sustainably produced goods. ergy they use every year, cutting their costs by triple-digit figures, With the new tesa ecoLogo® sub-brand, tesa is emphasizing according to findings by independent engineering firm ebök, “green” products. Refillable containers, recycled materials, rewhich is based in the German city of Tübingen. newable resources, and eco-compatible production technologies are among the company’s most important criteria. Since With the tesa ISO SYSTEM®, launched in 2009, tesa offers 2010 the first products, such as refillable tesa® adhesive and homeowners in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland the option of correction rollers or the tesa® Easy Cut tape dispenser, have simple do-it-yourself interior roof insulation. The results of these conquered the market, and tesa is consistently expanding its kinds of measures speak for themselves: While a single-family range. For example, with tesafilm® Eco & Clear as well as tesahome without heat insulation loses over 12,000 kilowatt-hours of pack® Eco & Strong. In the do-it-yourself area, tesa is already energy every year, the figure for a comparable insulated home is “green” – including in the field of masking tape. only about 3,000. 15 Fighting Corruption The new tesa Antitrust Compliance Program helps ensure fair competition by providing information on aspects relevant from an antitrust law standpoint. Integrity and proper conduct Integrity and responsibility are vital and essential components of tesa traditionally stands for trust. This image is associated with our actions. We conduct our business as a company in strict virtues that guarantee free markets and fair competition. To encompliance with laws and regulations. The tesa Group categorisure that this is the case consistently, all over the world, we escally rejects all forms of corruption and unlawful or immoral contablished the tesa Antitrust Compliance Program at the end of duct. In 2010, the Management Board therefore passed an anti2009. It raises our employees’ awareness of antitrust issues in corruption guideline for the Group, in coordination with order to prevent potential violations. We operate a special intranBeiersdorf, which is intended to help employees recognize coret platform that features the most important information on asruption risks and avoid breaches of law. The guideline will be pects that are relevant from an antitrust law standpoint as well as further implemented and included in training measures in the guidelines for conduct that complies with antitrust law in our course of 2011. day-to-day business dealings. When a company does business worldwide, it is forced to apIn June 2010 we successfully concluded training sessions in peal to its partners’ own sense of responsibility to a certain exGermany for all decision makers and employees with contacts tent. With the tesa Code of Conduct, we give our own employees that could involve antitrust law issues, such as sales and marketa clear understanding of our values. It provides guidance and ing employees. Since the fourth quarter of 2010, an e-learningfosters both integrity and responsible conduct. And if questions program has been available in several languages, with the assistarise in individual cases, a Compliance Manager is available to ance of which we have already trained all the European affiliates. act in an advisory capacity. We also expect our suppliers to upLikewise, in 2011 we will train colleagues in North and South hold values and standards that are comparable to our own. Our America as well as in Asia via e-learning. cooperation with our partners is defined in the tesa Purchasing Charter. 16 Social Projects Strategy with regional facets The intensive social commitment of tesa SE and its affiliates was encompasses four main areas. Alongside fostering creativity, also evident in 2010 in numerous projects. These projects are in promoting education, and developing future talent in science and line with our Corporate Giving Strategy, which we first formulated technology, these main areas also include providing support to in 2007 and which is incorporated into the tesa Code of Conduct. institutions that assist sick and socially disadvantaged children. Our Corporate Giving Strategy specifies the topics on which In our activities, we focus in particular on volunteering among our activities focus, while also giving our affiliates the ability to tesa employees. Examples of this concept of “Corporate Volunadjust their approaches regionally according to local circumteering” include our support for the Hamburg-based initiative stances. On the whole, we set great store by achieving lasting Mentor – die Leselernhelfer Hamburg e. V. or the assistance effects through long-term initiatives that respond to the specific provided to the Suzhou Sunshine School in China for children conditions and situations that apply in the region. Our commitfrom families of migrant workers. We would like to present a few ment and involvement focusing on children and young people of these projects, which span all the fields in which we are active. Fostering Creativity Promoting Education Multifaceted commitment Improving educational opportunities “Das macht Schule”, “Tesalino & Tesalina” and Hamburg-based Educating children and young people is part of our Corporate initiative Mentor e. V. are involved in fostering children’s creativity. Giving Strategy. Examples from China and Mexico. >> Page 19 >> Page 18 Developing Future Talent in Support for Institutions for Sick Science and Technology and Socially Disadvantaged Children Early specialization Improving opportunities In our role as a technology company, we support education and With scholarships, sponsorships, and volunteer work, we are training opportunities for future talent, along with specific educacommitted to helping disadvantaged children and young people. tional institutions. >> Page 20 >> Page 21 17 Fostering Creativity Multifaceted commitment – our social commitment is reflected in over 40 projects worldwide, focusing on children and young people. Germany “Helping hands” by tesa Reading makes children smart – and happy Even in a metropolis such as Hamburg, tight finances in many For ten years now, tesa has championed the cause of supportschools are causing a renovation back log. In the context of a ing children’s reading skills in order to prepare them better for new corporate volunteering program, employees from tesa’s school and their later professional lives. In this regard, we are headquarters showed that the climate of well-being can be concooperating with the Hamburg-based initiative Mentor – die siderably improved with fresh color and volunteer commitment. Leselernhelfer Hamburg e.V. Taking the road less traveled to find In cooperation with the non-profit association “Das macht joy in books is one way to think of the work done by the volunSchule”, four tesa teams set to work with students in October teer mentors. For one hour a week, the mentors take time to 2010. Prior to this, the schools had described their renovation pass on their love of reading to children aged eight to 16 in a fun needs and applied for assistance. In addition to the volunteer laand entertaining way. For a rising number of tesa employees as bor, in each case tesa made suitable products available such as well as the children, the weekly reading hour has become a fixmasking tape, tesa EasyCover® covering sheets and tesamoll® ture in their calendars. Together with their reading mentees – for sealing windows who often find access to books difficult – they dive into the fantasy world of stories. It’s a win-win solution for both sides: The Write stories and do craft projects with Tesalino & Tesalina children enjoy the undivided attention of their mentors for an The “Tesalino & Tesalina” competition is among the biggest and hour while striving to perfect their reading skills, considered the longest lasting projects promoting child literacy and creativity. In gold standard in education, and the adults get to have fun relivits eleventh year in the 2010 academic year, over 1,300 classes ing a bit of their childhoods. with a total of about 30,000 children took part. To date, the “Tesalino and Tesalina” competition initiated by tesa and Stiftung Lesen (the Reading Foundation) in 1999 has captivated almost 450,000 students. In 2010, children’s author Achim Bröger, winner of the German Children’s Literature Award, wrote the beginning of a story, which dealt with the world of animals. Writing, painting and crafting, the children of the participating elementary schools and special education centers took up the thread, imaginatively weaving the story still further. The topic for 2011 has already been decided: “Tesalino & Tesalina hot on the trail through Europe”. 18 Promoting Education Improving educational opportunities – educating children and young people is part of our Corporate Giving Strategy. Examples from China and Mexico. China Mexico Educational opportunities for children of migrant workers Scholarship program for disadvantaged children According to estimates, between 150 and 200 million migrant The tesa affiliate in Mexico has been a member of the team of workers in China have moved from rural regions to the booming supporters contributing to the Foundation for the Protection of cities and coastal regions in recent years. For the children of Children (Fundación para la Protección de la Niñez) since 2008. these families, there is hardly any opportunity for a continuous Together with its sponsors, the private institution has been able education. To improve their prospects, employees of the tesa to help more than 100,000 disadvantaged children throughout plant in Suzhou assist the neighboring Suzhou Sunshine School. the country in recent years. The Foundation focuses on health, With scholarships, assistance with teaching and joint learning, fighting poverty, culture, and education. tesa Mexico is contributthey help ease the children’s path to a successful future. Caming by establishing its own scholarship program and by ensuring paigns such as fundraiser bazaars or shared recreational activithat a number of children in Mexico City receive the necessary ties are part of the concept. In 2010, for example, the affiliate learning materials as well as school uniforms and school meals. arranged for 30 students to spend a day in an interactive training At Christmas 2010 the affiliate also introduced a new volunteercentre in the Suzhou industrial estate. ing program: Employees renovated children’s rooms, decorated a Christmas tree, brought gifts, but most important gave their time and attention. 19 Developing Future Talent in Science and Technology Early specialization – in our role as a technology company, we are committed to training future talent, and we support specific educational institutions. Brazil Expertise for professional practice academics an attractive start to their professional life – including In 2010, tesa Brazil and the Escola Theobaldo de Nigris (SENAI) at an international tesa location, depending on requirements. college further expanded on the partnership they had started in the prior year. Since 2007, training courses for the paper industry Switzerland have been a firm component of the curriculum of the school for Promotion of training and continuing education at graphics and design, which ranks among the best known worldtesa Bandfix AG wide in this industry. In 2010, tesa employees once again offered As one of the currently 17 members of the “Sponsorengruppe für the teaching units “Technology, Cellulose and Paper” and “Procdie Weiterbildung im Malerund Gipsgewerbe” (Sponsor Group esses Used in Paper Production”. In further practical and theofor Continuing Education in the Painting and Plastering Trades), retical courses, students also acquire important knowledge tesa Bandfix AG supports selected schools and workshops in about adhesive tapes for the printing market. In addition, tesa Switzerland. The association, which was founded back in 2000, provides printing plate mounting tapes and organizes extracurfocuses on providing ideas and funding to support specific ricular events such as visits to companies. As a result, tesa Brazil course programs aimed primarily at foremen and certified master often facilitates the initial contact between students and the pacraftsmen in the trades of painting and plastering. In addition, in per industry. 2010 tesa Bandfix AG expanded its commitment to training painters and flexo print specialists. In various cities in SwitzerGermany land, a tesa employee volunteers to provide instruction on topics Active promotion of junior management talent such as adhesive technology and applications engineering or the tesa SE remained an active supporter of the Northern Institute of theory and practice of mounting printing plates. Technology (NIT) in Hamburg in 2010. In addition, the company is represented in the relevant industry advisory committees of Reutlingen University and the University of Applied Sciences (Hochschule für Technik und Wirtschaft) Berlin. The objective remains to maintain close cooperation between training institutes and tesa in order to discover and support talents early on. In addition, tesa has continued and expanded its cooperation with other key universities. The related activities primarily pursue two goals: On the one hand, tesa strives to contribute to the promotion of scientific and technical talent, and, on the other hand, tesa’s involvement provides the opportunity to offer young 20 Support for Institutions for Sick and Socially Disadvantaged Children Improving opportunities – with scholarships, sponsorships, and volunteer work, we are committed to helping disadvantaged children and young people. Czech Republic Bringing joy to sick children orphans find a new home. tesa Shanghai maintains sponsorFor three years now, the tesa affiliate in the Czech Republic has ships for ten of these children. The tesa employees’ commitment been supporting University Hospital Motol in Prague, a transplant to the facility also includes a volunteering program. The program center for bone marrow donations to treat leukemia. In cooperainvolves regular visits to the institution that focus on shared play, tion with the resident medical staff, employees help in the plansinging, and reading with the children. Employees also use ning and execution of recovery weeks for sick children. Also in events such as tesa family days and Christmas parties to bright2010, the young patients were able to experience a week away en the boys’ and girls’ everyday lives, including by collecting from hospital life not far from Prague – under medical supervision monetary donations, toys, clothing, and books. and with the support of psychologists, nurses and parents, but with a varied program in an idyllic environment. The goal of comColombia mitted tesa employees sounds simple and yet weighs so heavily Sponsorships for socially disadvantaged children after the intensive medical treatment: bring joy. Children with developmental disorders, especially autism, receive therapeutic care at the completely privately financed Centro InThe Netherlands ternacional de Investigación Clínico-Psicológico María Eugenia tesa employees get going Colmenares (María Eugenia Colmenares International Clinical For a few years now, tesa has supported the “Princess Maxima” Psychological Research Center). Through targeted sponsorships, riding school in the Netherlands, whose emphasis is therapeutic tesa Colombia supports those children whose parents cannot riding for physically and mentally handicapped children. Apart afford the fees on their own. The goal of the center is to provide from funding, tesa employees also volunteer on the yard. In the children, who range in age from three months to 12 years, 2010 three teams took up tools and tapes. The result was eviwith clear guidance, focusing on developing their abilities to learn dent: In an “open-air exercise area” made of wood, the children autonomously, play with peers, and deal with fears and aggrestoday receive speech therapy – supported by their four-legged sion. Within just a few years, this approach is intended to help friends, whose presence causes enthusiasm and indirectly stimchildren stabilize their personalities to such an extent that they ulates the children to speak. A new tool cupboard was also recan attend conventional schools and get by in everyday life. built and sorted. In another homemade cabinet the children can now keep their riding helmets safe. China Sponsorships and volunteering Contact: tesa SE, Quickbornstraße 24, D-20253 Hamburg, At the Shanghai Children’s Welfare House, sick and disabled Tel.: +49(0) 40-4909-6597, Fax: +49(0) 40-4909-2236, responsibility@tesa.com, www.tesa.com/company/responsibility 21
