MEDIUM d.o.o. ŽIROVNICA 60 c 4274 ŽIROVNICA SLOVENIA www.medium.si, www.ekosvet.net medium@medium.si COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 Message by the Medium d.o.o. CEO Medium d.o.o. developed from a small workshop established in 1984 and has existed in its current form as a company since 1992. Our basic activity remains printing, our complementary services are design, prepress production, photography, illustration and promotional products offer ... In 2009 our assortment of promotional products has been upgraded with ''green'' products, presented in our online shop www.ekosvet.net (the name means Eco-world). During the years of operation, our team has gained priceless experience that enables us to fulfil customer wishes more effectively and recognize their needs faster. Our main advantages are quality, flexibility, fast responsiveness and printing with environmentally friendlier materials. In all other forms of printing and design we provide, we encourage our clients to make the choice of using print and design types, where the usage of colour and paper is minimized or to use recycled paper or paper with FSC/PEFC certificate instead of environmentally more opposable paper. In these ways we strive to keep and upgrade our competitive advantage, which is mostly associated with preserving the environment. Each year we prepare a collection of calendars, appointment books and planners, whereby half of the collection is on recycled paper. In 2010 the other half of our new-years collection, was on paper with FSC certificate. We aim at providing our services in line with sustainable development principles. In 2010 we obtained ISO 14001 certificate and at the end of January 2011 the final confirmation of EMAS environmental scheme. Apart from formal acknowledgement, this also means that we are aware of the influences we have on our environment and we strive towards such development that these influences are minimized and will not harm future generations. The Slovenian chapter of the UN Global Compact was established in 2007. We joined the UN Global Compact in April 2008, in order to be a part of this international organization of different partners, who all aspire after a better world, as we do. Becoming a member of the UN Global Compact opened new opportunities and business connections for our company through meeting other involved Slovenian companies. Last year we published our COP for the first time. In this year we complemented it with novelties. We continuously support the UN Global Compact and try to incorporate the ten principles into our business. Miran Dolar, CEO Actions and outcomes In the past 3 years, since we joined the Un Global Compact, the following actions regarding the ten principles, have been taken: Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our company supports the United Nations universal Declaration of Human Rights. We support and protect human rights of all people we work with; business partners, customers, suppliers and employees. We provide safe and healthy working conditions for our employees. In 2006 we moved our activities in a newly built building. We provide medical examination for our employees and basic health insurance for employees and their close family members (children, spouses). Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. All employees in our company are free to be a member of any association, including trade union. We encourage informal relationships between employees and their superiors. Employees are encouraged to spend time together outside their work place. In order to achieve positive working conditions the company organizes a few field trips a year, i.e. hiking, rafting, skiing, cycling trips, … Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Medium d.o.o. does not employ children and makes all efforts to exclude potential cases of child labour or any other forms of forced and compulsory labour. We try to ensure, our suppliers use the same practice. Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We strongly resist any variation of discrimination in employment and occupation. We do not treat our employees differently because of characteristics not related to their merit or the inherent requirements of the job. These characteristics are: age, gender, race, colour, marital status, religious belief, national extraction, disability, trade union membership, sexual orientation, political opinion, social origin, HIV/AIDS status or other status. Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. We have an aim to minimize our impact on the environment. In 2010 we obtained ISO 14001 certificate and in 2011 EMAS standard. For acquiring the certificate and standard we had to satisfy required elements regarding environmental issues. The ISO 14001 and also EMAS are designed to address the delicate balance between maintaining profitability and reducing environmental impact. In order to obtain ISO and EMAS the company needed to fulfil several legislative and other conditions. We therefore fulfilled the demands in the fields of preventing accidents and course of action in case of accidents. Principle 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. One of the main principles of Medium is sustainable development. Because we are aware of the impacts our doing has on the environment, we strive toward such development that will reduce these impacts and will not harm future generations. We stimulate our employees to be environmentally friendly on the workplace and also at home. We also educate our customers with daily publishing eco news on our website www.ekosvet.net and on Facebook – Ekosvet.net group. Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The company’s production and bureaucratic activities are in line with Slovenian and EU legislation and ISO and EMAS standards. Along with the consideration of price, when buying new equipment the company also takes into account several other aspects, i.e. energy consumption, life expectancy of the product, possibility of degradation after the final use and similar. The company is committed to the principles of sustainable development. We know the effects our actions have on the environment and we are also aware of the need for such development. It is necessary to minimize the consequences of our actions in order not to harm future generations. We are continuously upgrading our actions in the environmental field and we try to mediate our good practice to all interested parties and companies. Our monitoring of different indicators (energy, Co2 emission, water, waste) is published in our Environmental Statement on website www.medium.si and it is updated every year. Three years ago we made our first carbon footprint calculation. Its main purpose is to determine the main sources of greenhouse gases, plan measures to decrease them and monitor the omissions through time. In Medium we have been following the carbon footprint for about three years, and in 2009 we were able to reduce it by approximately 20% in comparison to 2008. This means our omissions have been reduced by 21 tons. Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Medium d.o.o. does not accept bribery, extortion and other forms of corruption as a method of work, neither cooperates with companies and people who accept such practices.
