North Delhi Power Limited UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (FY 2010-11) North Delhi Power Limited (A TATA Power & Delhi Government Joint Venture) Celebrating ‘Sustainability’ as the theme of the year Message from MD Sustainable business practices encompassing social, environmental and economic responsibilities has always been one of the prominent feature of the Tata business culture. Inclusive growth of business, people & planet has always been key touch points of the company’s initiatives. North Delhi Power Ltd. is committed to ensure a healthy and unbiased work ambience for its employees and to care for the environment and society. Climate Change, Safety, Innovation & Corporate Sustainability have been identified as the focus areas of the company. Global Compact principles from the spheres of Human Rights, Labor, Environment & Anti-corruption are well reflected in the vision, mission and the value systems of the company. It not only describes the goal & objectives the company seeks to achieve, but also conveys the essence of what sets the direction for growth & development of the company. Caring for environment & human rights, adding economic value to the society and building human capital has been reflected throughout the year in the initiatives undertaken by the company. North Delhi Power Ltd. committed to support the UN Global Compact principles through its policies, processes and services. We, at NDPL believe that creating sustainable systems of functioning is the key to become a benchmark and a trend setter in the industry. Sunil Wadhwa MD, NDPL Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights There are specific provisions for human rights in the company’s policies. The sub-stratum of these policies ensures its employees enjoy the fundamental human rights. NDPL has provisions and comprehensive systems for Safety, Occupational Health, Environment & Disaster Management (SHE & DM), housing and education. The company follows IMS procedures for Quality, Safety, Health, Environment & Social Accountability complying with the standards of ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 & SA 8000 management standards. The company complies with all applicable safety, health, social accountability & environmental laws & legislations. Following are the various steps taken by the company for IMS commitment and implementation:  All contents of the IMS are complied by various means, identified & defined in NDPL.  Environmental & OHS Risk Assessment are regularly updated whenever there is addition of new activity / after completion of IMP (Integrated Management Program) identified for any significant aspect / risk or at least annually.  All applicable legislation identified & quarterly statutory compliances are monitored through SRSC (Statutory & Regulatory Score Card) meetings. Safety measures As a Power Distribution Company, NDPL ensures reduction and prevention of possible discomfort and harm from its operations. NDPL has a well defined IMS Policy in place and also carries out Safety Audits of system, network, NDPL installations, sub stations & public installations etc., reports of which are complied at various levels and reviewed from time to time at different levels. Company also imparts safety training to NDPL employees and business associates personnel. Health care & healthy working condition for employees NDPL is committed to provide health amenities & healthy work environment to its employees. There are seven dispensaries operating at different locations providing the primary health care to the employees and their dependants. A mobile dispensary has been deployed to provide the health care facility at the work place of the employees. We have 61 hospitals, 11 Dental centers, & 8 eye hospitals/ centers on our panel. 31 Diagnostic centers & 81 chemists for indoor treatment, investigations & medicine purchase. 2028 employees have been covered through annual health check up and 50 canteen boys had 6 monthly health checkups complying with SA 8000 norms. 1361 employees were given training on first aid & CPR and 52 employees were certified as First Aid Champions. Positive trend in employee satisfaction survey results Employee satisfaction survey done once in two years shows a rise in the satisfaction chart of the employees. As compared to the 65% satisfaction level of employees in the year 2006-07, the survey carried in the year FY 08-09 saw a rise in employee satisfaction index to 70 % and further rise to 72% in 2010-11. Care for the safety of community at large NDPL carries out Safety audits of public installations like cinema halls, hospitals, shopping malls, schools etc. as part of our social responsibility. In case there are any non-conformances at NDPL’s end they are corrected immediately and those at the consumer end are communicated to the consumer. Regular follow up is done to ensure compliance in the broader interest of public safety. NDPL also stages street plays (Nukkad Natak) for enhancing safety awareness of general public in its operational area. Education of employees NDPL trains its employees regularly to update themselves professionally, managerially and technically. NDPL encourages its employees to improve their educational and professional qualification by giving suitable incentives, study leave, etc.  NDPL has tied up with Management Development Institute (MDI), Gurgaon for “Post Graduate Course in Energy Management”. 9 employees have been sponsored till FY 2010-11.  Bachelor of Science (B.S.) Degree in Power Engineering to the employees of the company through distance learning program in association with Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS), Pilani has been introduced. First batch of 40 employees have passed out getting B.S. degree.  NDPL has tied up with International Management Institute for part time MBA for sponsoring 5 executives every year and 50% of fee is borne by NDPL.  40 employees are sponsored for 3 years program of ‘Advanced diploma in Power Distribution Management’ in collaboration with University of Petroleum & Energy Studies (UPES) & Indian School of Petroleum & Energy (ISPE), Dehradun.  NDPL has tied up with ITI, Dheerpur for training of 32 employees in a 2 year program. Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.  NDPL is a joint venture of Tata Power and Delhi government and being a part of Tata legacy ensures that dignity of individuals is preserved and there are no instances of human rights abuse as the organization has in place strong and effective HR rules and practices.  Several channels of grievance redressal exist for employees to voice their concerns. The grievance redressal procedures are documented and communicated to all employees.  The Ethics Management framework with its three tier escalation mechanism with the at the helm, ensures that no case of human right abuse occurs. Any compliant on violation of ethical conduct is promptly acted upon and guilty is punished.  Joint Interaction Forums exist where employees mutually sort out their issues with the objective of improving employee-management relations.  NDPL employees can also register their grievances through an electronic helpline (SARTHI) which has built-in timelines for resolution and in instances of non-resolution; the complaints are escalated to appropriate levels and addressed in due course of time.  The company also has a Sexual Harassment Policy in place, supported by a Sexual Harassment Committee, which guarantees a safe workplace for female employees and ensures that they work without fear of gender bias and sexual harassment. Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.  NDPL has three segments of employees workmen, supervisors and executives. The interests of the employees are taken care of by the employer and several benefits and social security schemes are also provided to them.  Employees have their unions/associations that interact with the NDPL management to ensure that mutual interests are addressed in a fair and transparent manner. Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor.  No prospective employee is required to deposit any sum of money for employment in NDPL.  FAQ’s for relevant labor laws and statutory provisions have been uploaded on the intranet so that they can be referred by employees whenever required.  Any amendment/revision in statutory provisions are immediately implemented and communicated and the same are implemented for employees/ ensured for implementation for Business Associate employees.  The appointment letters issued by the company to new joiners state clearly the various terms and conditions of employment and NDPL Code of Conduct which they need to adhere to.  All policies related to the employees are posted on the intranet for public viewing.  Non – executive employees have the facility of overtime payment and holiday pay for working beyond the prescribed working hours as and when required.  NDPL also ensures safety, welfare and social security of the employees and ensures that employees working under Business Associates are extended full protection through various statutory compliances.  NDPL strictly adheres to all the provisions of labor laws and statutorily compliances and there is no instance of any forced or compulsory labor practices. Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labor.  For appointment in the company, the minimum age prescribed and scrupulously followed is 18 years.  All contractors are forbidden to engage child labor. Contractors are signing NDPLs General Conditions of Contract, clause 16 of which forbids them to engage child labour in compliance to the CHILD LABOUR(PROHIBITION ABD REGULATION )Act 1986  Government enforcement agencies like Inspectors from labor department are free to inspect the sites to check for employment of child labor. Those found guilty are liable for punitive action by the Government.  NDPL has a SLA (Service Level Agreement) with business associates to uphold principal enshrined in global compact, compliance with all applicable Labor laws etc.  NDPL has got Child Remediation Policy in place with a process defined for discouraging and steps to be taken after the detection of child labor. It also talks about engagement of the child labor found in educational & vocational skills till he/she remains in the minor age group. A Child Remediation team is also in place having representation from Corporate Sustainability, Finance, HR, BA & Legal, labor union, Corporate Strategy & Planning and partner NGO. Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.  NDPL code of conduct & NDPL Ethics policy equipped with the recruitment & promotion rules takes proper care of eliminating such discrimination.  Job specifications have been laid down for the purpose of recruiting the right person for the right job.  NDPL follows a grievance procedure that can be invoked by aggrieved employee relating to wage payment, increment, recovery of dues, working conditions, leave, allotment of quarters, medical facilities, Seniority, Transfer, Promotion and like issues. The grievance address process in NDPL is carried out in 3 different wayso through SARTHI – the employee helpline o through Public Grievance Cell o through direct responsibility centers as & when it occurs.  Unions and associations representing the various levels of employees have easy access to the management to discuss and resolve discriminations, if any, quickly and effectively.  Preference is given to SC/ST candidates in campus recruitments by transparently lowering qualifying marks, without diluting merit.  Special provision has been made in the job portal on NDPL website to invite applications from SC/ST candidates.  NDPL’s commitment on Affirmative Action has been displayed on the website.  The company provides equal opportunity to females to be a part of the NDPL family and as a result, the male female ratio in the company is improving every year. Year / No. of Employees Male Female 2008-09 3538 427 2009-10 3544 454 2010-11 3771 464  Quality and cost being equal, NDPL shall give preference to enterprise of SC/ST promoters for inclusion in its supply chain, provided such companies transparently and voluntarily share this information prior to bid participation. It has included members of Dalit Vyapar Association in its supply chain. Principle 7: Business should support a pre-cautionary approach to environmental challenges. NDPL Climate Change Policy : ‘NDPL will play a leadership role in climate change by being knowledgeable, responsive and trustworthy and by adopting environment friendly technologies, business practices & innovation, while pursuing our growth aspirations and enhancing shareholder value. NDPL will measure its carbon footprint and will strive to :  Be the benchmark in the segment of industries on the carbon footprint of our operations.  Engage actively in climate change advocacy and the shaping of regulations of business.  Incorporate ‘green’ perspective in all key organizational processes.’ NDPL IMS Policy: ‘We ensure a safe & healthy environment and workplace conditions with due regards to environmental protection, compliances, applicable laws and regulations’. This is achieved by:  Ensuring continual improvement in our Environmental, Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems to protect natural resources and eliminate/reduce occupational health hazards and safety risks.  Combat Climate Change committee in place to work on the initiatives which can be taken to address the concerns of Climate Change & Global warming. It monitors & evaluates various processes to reduce the carbon emission, carbon foot print calculation, defining abatement levers for cutting down the carbon emission, conservation of natural resources, optimization of energy used, sensitization of stakeholders and various other means to curb the effects of Climate Change.  Complying with all applicable Environmental, Occupational Health & Safety laws and legislations.  Institutionalizing effective resource management with specific focus on energy saving, land utilization, tree plantations and strengthening pollution prevention & waste minimization practices.  Enhancing environmental, health and safety awareness amongst all stakeholders through communication and training.  Being an ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007 certified company; NDPL has established an environmental management system that helps them to demonstrate environmental responsibility.  NDPL has done extensive Environmental Aspect & Impact Assessment and for Significant Aspect it has defined mechanism in place through documenting Work Instruction / Operating Guidelines. On a regular basis “Environmental Aspect & Impact Assessment” is updated so that it remains current & effective.  Operations related wastes are disposed of in the most appropriately suited manner. For e. g. 1. Waste oil is collected by an authorized collection agency and disposed in an appropriate manner 2. Lead Acid batteries which are hazardous are also disposed of to agencies which deal specifically with the disposal of these 3. Biomedical wastes which are hazardous in nature are also appropriately disposed off 4. Nonferrous scrap is sold off through authorized recyclers only 5. Regular awareness messages are also circulated in NDPL on Environment protection.  A 108 MW combined cycle gas based power plant has been commissioned recently. Following measures have been adopted to address the which risks which may arise: An ON & OFF Disaster Management Plan has been prepared which specifies the safety instructions to be followed to prevent any incident that can pose a threat to the environment. A Safety Team at site with well defined duties and responsibilities has been constituted to prevent any untoward incident that can pose a threat to environment. Continuous Emission Monitoring System (CEMS) will be installed to monitor all stack emissions and remedial measures shall be taken if the emissions exceed the statutory norms. Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. A few of the processes initiated to promote greater environment responsibility are given below Reduction of Aggregate Technical & Commercial loss from 14.47% in FY 2009-10 to 13.20% in the FY 2010-11.  Plantation of 7500 saplings across the zones, public places, district offices & training center of NDPL against the target of 5000 saplings given by Delhi Govt. Company signed a MoU with Govt. of Delhi, becoming its Greening Agent for plantation across North & North West of Delhi.  Consumer groups are made aware for climate change & other environmental concerns through RWA meetings, distribution of pamphlets & booklets in consumer meets, message on bills and through banners & posters at various locations.  A monthly Climate Change newsletter containing information about company’s initiatives to combat the adversities of climate change & other useful information on Climate Change & Global Warming is circulated every month to employees. Also, climate change quiz, documentaries, presentations & other resource materials are regularly shared with employees.  Carbon footprint of NDPL calculated. 7 employees have been trained as Climate Change Champions & have carried Carbon footprint mapping in other Tata group of companies. 4 employees have been trained as Climate Change assessors.  NDPL being a responsible power distribution company advocates energy conservation through a sustained campaign in schools in its areas through NDPL Energy Club in schools. Since the inception of NDPL Energy Club in year 2004, it has touched upon the lives of approximately 10 lakh individuals through network of 140 schools. Through NDPL Energy Club, company has been able to sensitize over 1 million individuals since its inception and had conserved about 1.4 million units of electricity in past 2 years cutting the down the carbon emissions by 1.5 million kgs which otherwise would have been generated in producing these many units of electricity by burning coal. In FY 11-12, 50 new schools have been taken up enhancing the total membership of NDPL Energy Club to 190 schools.  NDPL has signed a tripartite agreement with Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) & CQuest Capital to implement Bachat Lamp Yojana(BLY) in its service territory, on 29 June 2010. BLY is a CDM project which targets mass replacement of Incandescent Bulbs with CFLs by selling CFLs at the price of Rs.15. Full scale distribution of CFLs would commence from September ‘2011. Envisaged deemed savings from the project60 MW or 62000 tCO2  NDPL has tied up with leading manufacturers to offer rebate based buy back scheme for NDPL consumers and Employees under which consumers/ employees can exchange their old Refrigerators and Air Conditioners and get new BEE star rated appliances at the discounted rates (in addition to the salvage value of the existing appliance). Objective of the scheme is to increase the penetration of the BEE star rated Appliances (ACs & Refrigerators) among NDPL consumers and thus help in conserving the electricity. th  NDPL is a member of steering committee on developing the 12 Five year plan for Demand Side Management & Energy Efficiency  NDPL has replaced metal halide Fixtures (750W/Hoarding) with LED fixtures (140W/ Hoarding) for its advertising hoarding. The project has resulted into 80% energy savings.  NDPL has replaced 250W HPSV lamps with 100W LED fixtures for 18 streetlights on a pilot basis. . The energy savings were to the tune of 65% and illumination level of LEDs was also comparable to HPSV.  NDPL has replaced the existing T12/T8 fixtures (Number of Fixtures: 351) with LED tube lights at its Corporate Office leading to reduction of 11.5 KW per fixture  In order to promote energy efficiency, NDPL is emphasizing upon use of energy efficient appliances. With regard to this, NDPL is ensuring that the appliances purchased henceforth are star rated & energy efficient ones. To begin with, NDPL has issued guidelines to its procurement group for the following items:  Air Conditioners (5 Star Air Conditioners)  Distribution Transformers (3 Star)  T5 tube lights & electronic ballast (instead of T12 tube lights & magnetic chokes) Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies. The waste generated in NDPL is disposed off as per applicable DPCC (Delhi Pollution Control Committee) Guidelines. List of waste produced with quantity, quality (i.e. analysis performed) and disposal routesDomestic General domestic waste from canteen Office and Site waste Hazardous Reusable transformer oil Non ferrous waste –cable Bio medical waste  Storage of waste Transformer oil is stored in Sealed Drums. The oil is sold to recyclers approved by DPCC (Delhi Pollution Control Committee). Office waste of domestic nature are collected and disposed off in MCD (Municipal Corporation of Delhi) bins, bio medical waste generated at various dispensaries of NDPL is sealed in a puncture proof plastic bag and sent to registered Bio-Medical waste treatment centers approved by DPCC. Old Lead Acid Batteries are stored in concrete floor and sent to suppliers under “Buy Back Scheme”  Ozone Depleting substances (Chloro Floro Carbon): NDPL does not use any Ozone Depleting substance (CFC). All ACs used by the company have R-22 & R-134 gas & star rated by BEE.  Company is working in collaboration with Tata BP Solar for accelerating the deployment of Solar Water Heaters in NDPL area and planning to spread awareness through Resident Welfare Association meetings.  A pilot project for replacing High Pressure Sodium Vapor lights with LED lights for street lighting purpose is over. A baseline measurement & study of its performance is in process.  LED lighting proposed in upcoming 108 MW gas based plant. A pilot project for LED street lighting over. A pilot project for using solar power for traffic light is already over. 1 MW solar power panel is under is in the installation process in one of the offices.  Use of 5 star rated ACs in the company. Audio & video conferencing for employees to reduce the carbon footprint due to travel for meetings.  NDPL is propagating whitening of roof which decreases the temperature of the room significantly and less of power is used in cooling of rooms. One such pilot project is completed successfully.  NDPL is propagating sun reflect paint for roof and exterior walls which decreases the temperature of the room significantly and less of power is used in cooling of rooms. One such pilot project is completed successfully. Subsequently a sensitization session about the Cool roof paint was conducted at one of the RWA meets.  NDPL in association with Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) and ICF (consultant) has developed an Appliance Replacement Program for Refrigerators and Air conditioners (for NDPL consumers). Under the proposed scheme, star rated refrigerators and ACs would be offered to NDPL residential consumers at the substantial discounted rates (against the prevailing Market Operating Prices) and existing appliances would be bought back by the manufacturers for the safe disposal. Program is expected to be launched by Feb, 2012.  NDPL is in regular interactions with Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL) to promote the use of Gas Water heaters among the residential consumers as an alternative to the electric geysers. Principle 10 : Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.  The company focuses on extensive counseling to the employees for promotion of ethical behavior in the organization. NDPL is driven by its strong value system which has its roots in the TATA Code of Conduct. NDPL Code of Conduct is signed by every employee while joining pledging to abide by the code of conduct. It states that “NDPL and its employees shall neither receive nor offer or make, directly or indirectly, any illegal payments, remuneration, gifts, donations or comparable benefits which are intended to or perceived to obtain business or uncompetitive favors for the conduct of business. The company shall cooperate with governmental authorities in efforts to eliminate all forms of bribery, fraud and corruption.”  The organization’s Ethics and value system has been assimilated and institutionalized in the form of an Ethics policy. A fully fledged ethics committee is in function which is chaired by CEO, NDPL. The committee is comprised of an apex team of 13 senior management members at its top followed by 21 member team of Ethics Officers coming from middle management. These Ethics Officers cover every nook & corner of company with each officer having 5 to 7 Ethics Champions under him taking care of every unethical practice including anti corruption acts.  A full-fledged Vigilance Department exists which is headed by a Head of Governance. The head of group is responsible for ascertaining a fair and an unbiased investigation process as well as ensuring the execution of the penalty if awarded. Vigilance cases are regularly monitored by this group and reports are put up on a regular basis to the competent authorities. The disciplinary actions taken are as per the service rules.  Pro Active Vigilance group came into existence for carrying out surprise raids, on spot checking of Field staff executives & BA staff at consumer’s premises, checking of materials at stores and receiving & resolving IVRS complains.
