Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Contents About this report 03 Employees 61 Working conditions 63 Letter to the stakeholders 04 Health and safety 67 Corporate profile 06 Training 70 Structure 07 Winning talents 73 Business review 08 Demographic change 74 Reporting scope 09 Diversity 76 Society 78 Strategy 11 Focus areas 80 Employee engagement 82 Values and principles 12 Disaster relief 83 CR strategy 13 Products 84 Relevant topics 14 Research and development 86 Goals 15 Energy and environmental technologies 88 CR organisation 18 Healthcare 90 CR management 19 Data collection 22 Key Data 91 Capital markets 23 Supply chain 24 Financial indicators 92 Stakeholder engagement 26 Environment and safety 93 Employees 100 Fields of action 29 GRI 106 Index 107 Ethics and compliance 29 Application level check 111 Corporate governance 32 Compliance programme 33 Global Compact 112 Safety 35 Product stewardship 37 Assurance report 115 Transport safety 41 Environment 44 Energy 47 Climate protection 49 Water 53 Resources and materials 56 Further emissions 57 Waste 58 Biodiversity 60 This is the PDF download of our Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011. The report is only available online. www.linde.com/cr-report Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 About this report p. 3 About this report HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT Letter to the stakeholders Corporate profile Reporting scope STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT The Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 is Linde’s sixth sustainability report. In it, we provide information on our corporate responsibility performance, priorities and challenges. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Letter to the stakeholders p. 4 Letter to the stakeholders HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT “With a broad portfolio of energy and environmental technologies, we are actively Letter to the stakeholders contributing to the goal of sustainable development.” Corporate profile Professor Dr Wolfgang Reitzle, Chief Executive Officer of Linde AG Reporting scope STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA In 2010, we continued our all-round positive performance, achieving significant growth in ASSURANCE REPORT both sales and operating profit. We capitalised on the favourable economic climate, building on our global footprint and strong positions in emerging markets, especially in Asia. Sustainability remains one of our strategic drivers. We thus continue to systematically implement our holistic concept aimed at lasting efficiency and productivity gains. So, for instance, we regularly verify our energy consumption patterns. In 2010, this allowed us to identify potential electricity savings of 290,000 megawatt hours – the equivalent of around 114,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions. A good example of how we synergise cost management and climate protection. Our efforts remain focussed on further strengthening our stable foundation so we can capitalise even more effectively on global megatrends such as energy and the environment, healthcare and dynamic growth in emerging markets. With a broad portfolio of energy and environmental technologies, we are actively contributing to the goal of sustainable development. Our solutions, for example, help reduce the current environmental impact of fossil fuels and reduce CO2 emissions. And our innovative range of medical gas products and services is helping to meet the challenges of an ageing population and overstretched healthcare systems. To achieve our goals, we build on the outstanding commitment of our team. With our People Excellence initiatives, we encourage our employees to give their very best. Key to our future success is also the ability to embrace diversity through international teams. Over 70 percent of senior managers at Linde come from countries other than Germany representing over 40 different nations in total. In 2010, we held our first global employee survey. 73 percent of all employees participated voluntarily in the questionnaire. They confirmed, for instance, that safety and environmental protection are actively lived at Linde. Moving forward, we will be closely examining any improvement suggestions made by our employees. For the first time, this Corporate Responsibility Report publishes figures on compliance training at Linde and on incidents reported to our Integrity Line reporting system. We have included these indicators to emphasise the fact that integrity is not negotiable at Linde. Our aim is to report additional corporate responsibility indicators over the coming years. The United Nations Global Compact remains a valuable compass for our actions. We are committed to upholding the Global Compact principles across all of our corporate responsibility fields of action. We see corporate responsibility management as an ongoing process and are always aiming to improve our performance. This report outlines our progress to date, the goals we have set ourselves and the biggest challenges we face moving forward. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Letter to the stakeholders p. 5 HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT Letter to the stakeholders Corporate profile Professor Dr. Wolfgang Reitzle Reporting scope Chief Executive Officer of Linde AG STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Corporate profile p.6 The Linde Group HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT The Linde Group is a world-leading gases and engineering company with approximately Letter to the stakeholders 50,000 employees working in more than 100 countries worldwide. Corporate profile Structure As a global market leader in industrial, process and specialty gases and one of the most Business review profitable engineering companies worldwide, The Linde Group is the partner of choice for Reporting scope customers in almost every industry. The strategy of The Linde Group is geared towards longSTRATEGY term, profitable growth and focuses on the expansion of its international business with FIELDS OF ACTION forward-looking products and services. The company’s headquarters are located in Munich. KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT The Linde Group manufactures gases and engineers plants for customers in the food and drinks, steel and automobile, healthcare, construction, electronics and solar industries. A broad, well-balanced customer base ensures stability. Customer segmentation within the Gases Division Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Structure p. 7 Structure of The Linde Group HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT Letter to the stakeholders The Linde Group comprises three divisions: Gases, Engineering (the two core divisions) and Corporate profile Gist (logistics services). Structure Business review Gases Division Reporting scope The Linde Group is a world leader in the international gases market. The company offers a STRATEGY wide range of compressed and liquefied gases as well as chemicals and is the partner of FIELDS OF ACTION choice across a huge variety of industries. KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Linde gases are used, for example, in the energy sector, steel production, chemical processing, environmental protection and welding, as well as in food processing, glass production and electronics. The company is also investing in the expansion of its fast-growing Healthcare business, i.e. medical gases, and is a leading global player in the development of environmentally friendly hydrogen technologies. The largest division, Gases, has three operating segments: EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) Asia/Pacific and America, which are subdivided into nine Regional Business Units (RBUs). The Gases Division also includes the two Global Business Units (GBUs) Healthcare (medical gases) and Tonnage (on-site) as well as the two Business Areas (BAs) Merchant & Packaged Gases (liquefied and cylinder gases) and Electronics (electronic gases). Engineering Division Linde Engineering is successful throughout the world, with its focus on promising market segments such as olefin plants, natural gas plants and air separation plants, as well as hydrogen and synthesis gas plants. In contrast to virtually all competitors, the company can rely on its own extensive process engineering know-how in the planning, project development and construction of turnkey industrial plants. Linde plants are used in a wide variety of fields: in the petrochemical and chemical industries, in refineries and fertiliser plants, to recover air gases, to produce hydrogen and synthesis gases, to treat natural gas and in the pharmaceutical industry. Other activities Other activities of the Linde Group consist mainly of Gist, Linde’s logistics services. > More on each division's business performance as well as a breakdown of division sales by operating segment (region) and business segment Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Business review p. 8 Business review 2010 HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT Letter to the stakeholders In the 2010 financial year, The Linde Group achieved sales of EUR 12.868 billion, a 14.8 Corporate profile percent increase on the prior year. Group operating profit was up 22.6 percent at EUR 2.925 Structure billion. Business review Reporting scope Sales and operating profit by business segment STRATEGY The Linde Group FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT In the 2008 financial year, Linde began implementing its HPO (High Performance Organisation) efficiency programme. In 2010, the Group continued to execute this strategy systematically. HPO is a holistic concept for lasting process optimisation and productivity gains and should result in total gross cost savings in the financial years from 2009 to 2012 of between EUR 650 million and EUR 800 million. It should also make an ongoing contribution to Group competitiveness irrespective of the economic climate. In this context, additional key performance indicators for the measurement of productivity were introduced for all operating units and integrated into Linde’s value-based management system. All individual efficiency improvement measures are centrally monitored and reviewed for lasting success. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Reporting scope p.9 Report profile HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT This report provides information on Linde’s corporate responsibility strategy, Letter to the stakeholders management, targets and challenges. It is aimed at all Linde Group stakeholders – Corporate profile employees, customers, business partners and shareholders as well as neighbours and Reporting scope representatives of the general public and all other parties interested in our company. STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION Issues and spotlight topics KEY DATA Our aim is to cover all sustainability issues relevant to Linde in our corporate responsibility ASSURANCE REPORT report. To this end, we follow internationally recognised standards on sustainability reporting, such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. This report was prepared in line with the latest GRI standard (G3.1). This report also serves as a Communication on Progress within the framework of our commitment to the UN Global Compact. We report on how we integrate the ten Global Compact principles into our business activities. A combined GRI and Global Compact Index table provides detailed information on all relevant topics. Our choice of CR focus topics is also guided by the expectations of our customers, shareholders, employees and other stakeholders. We regularly assess the relevance of these topics for both our business and our stakeholders. > More on our materiality analysis, the Global Reporting Initiative and the UN Global Compact Reporting format This year's corporate responsibility report is available exclusively online. The report can be downloaded in whole as a PDF document. The individual sections can also be downloaded. We also provide further information on our sustainability performance in our Financial Report and on our corporate website. To ensure this report is clearly structured and to avoid repetition, we refer to these two sources wherever appropriate. >More in our 2010 Financial Report and on our corporate website Reporting period and scope This report refers to all consolidated Group companies in which Linde has at least a 50percent stake. The reporting period for key figures is the 2010 financial year. We also refer to events and developments that took place in the 2011 financial year prior to the editorial deadline (August 2011). Key CR indicators We use key indicators to benchmark our performance. They enable us to monitor our progress and identify scope for improvement. Wherever possible, we present our performance indicators over a four-year period. Key performance indicators supplement the information presented in this report on our CR strategy, management and action item progress. > More on CR performance indicators and data collection Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Reporting scope p.10 Reporting standards and audit HOME Selected key performance indicators in this report were independently reviewed and ABOUT THIS REPORT subsequently assured by KPMG Sustainability. The audit was carried out in line with the Letter to the stakeholders International Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. Corporate profile Reporting scope The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) confirmed that this report qualifies for the highest STRATEGY application level (A+) defined under the GRI standards. FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA > More on the GRI application level and the assurance ASSURANCE REPORT Changes since the previous year We have made significant changes to the structure of last year’s report. For instance, we have expanded on a number of topics, such as compliance, and added new indicators in these areas. It is our aim to make our corporate responsibility performance transparent as defined by GRI guidelines and to meet rising demands for information from our stakeholders. CR reporting timeline The Linde Group published its first corporate responsibility report in 2005. We did not release a report in 2006, the year that Linde acquired the British gas company BOC. Since 2007, the report is published each year in English and in German. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Strategy p.11 Corporate responsibility at Linde HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY Values and principles CR strategy CR organisation CR management FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Our vision is to be the leading global gases and engineering company, admired for our people – who provide innovative solutions that make a difference to the world. We act responsibly towards our shareholders, business partners, employees, society as a whole and the environment – the world over. Our corporate responsibility management system anchors our high standards into our everyday working lives. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Values and principles p.12 The Linde Spirit: our corporate culture HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT Our values and fundamental principles provide both a foundation and a compass for STRATEGY the way we do business. They are captured in the Linde Spirit. Values and principles CR strategy Our values CR organisation Our four key corporate values define how we as a company plan to move towards our goals – CR management namely through outstanding people who have the ability to innovate for our customers, trust FIELDS OF ACTION each other and embrace cultural diversity. KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Our principles We have defined four basic principles that guide our activities. They establish the values of key importance to us – both within and beyond company walls. We don’t want to harm people. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 CR strategy p.13 Corporate responsibility strategy HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT We act responsibly towards our shareholders, business partners, employees, society and STRATEGY the environment – in every one of our business areas, regions and locations across the Values and principles globe. Our corporate responsibility strategy anchors our high standards into our day-toCR strategy day business. Relevant topics Goals Our corporate responsibility activities are built on four cornerstones: CR organisation CR management 1. Continuous improvement: We aim for high corporate responsibility standards. In addition, we continually assess sustainability opportunities and risks for our company, develop FIELDS OF ACTION strategic measures to further improve our CR management activities, and set goals that KEY DATA enable us to benchmark our performance. ASSURANCE REPORT 2. Holistic approach: Our corporate responsibility activities extend across the entire value chain of our products. We help our customers improve their own sustainability performance and expect contractors and suppliers to also step up to our corporate responsibility goals. 3. Stakeholder engagement: We also adapt our corporate responsibility activities to reflect changing expectations among our stakeholders. Because we view stakeholders as partners, we incorporate their demands into our CR strategy. 4. Transparency: We regularly report on our progress across all of our corporate responsibility action items. We use key indicators to track our economic, ecological and social performance. At Linde, our Corporate Responsibility Policy defines our sustainability principles. We have developed additional guidelines and standards for individual action items to ensure our commitments are translated into concrete action in our everyday working lives. These guidelines include our SHEQ Policy, which covers safety, health, environment and quality, as well as our ethical-legal procurement guidelines, which govern our global purchasing activities. Our binding Code of Ethics ensures our conduct aligns with legal requirements and internal guidelines. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Relevant topics p.14 Identification of relevant topics HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY Our aim is to identify all sustainable development issues relevant to Linde, evaluate these Values and principles and, where necessary, implement measures to improve our performance. We regularly CR strategy evaluate the relevance of issues for CR management at Linde. This process defines the Relevant topics spotlight topics in our CR strategy. Goals CR organisation To do this, we follow internationally recognised standards and recommendations in CR management sustainability management and sustainability reporting, such as the Global Reporting FIELDS OF ACTION Initiative (GRI) and capital market requirements for sustainable business practices (SRI KEY DATA ratings). ASSURANCE REPORT We communicate with our stakeholders in a number of ways to ensure we understand and their requirements and can take them into account where appropriate. These include: Personal discussions with investors, customers, journalists and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) Employee surveys Participation in public political discussions Collaboration with sustainability networks such as UN Global Compact and econsense At the same time, we evaluate the impact of various issues on long-term business success, drawing, for example, on findings from internal workshops with industry and strategy experts and on insights from interdisciplinary round tables. In 2010, for instance, we focused in particular on further developing our environmental strategy and the CO2 footprint of selected products. We also feed information on potential environmental and social risks identified by Group risk management into this issue management process. We then map the results of this process (materiality analysis) to a matrix, which rates each topic by weighing stakeholder relevance against the impact on our business activities. This enables us to develop concrete measures for issues that are high on our stakeholders’ priorities, and provide new information on these subjects. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Ziele p.15 Our goals HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY Our commitment to continuous evaluation and improvement also extends to corporate Values and principles responsibility. We therefore set, and regularly assess, regional and global goals to benchmark CR strategy our performance. Relevant topics Goals In our last corporate responsibility report, we announced a wide range of short-term goals for CR organisation our individual CR action items, the majority of which we have achieved. If we have not yet reached specific targets, we explain the reason(s) in the corresponding section of this report. CR management FIELDS OF ACTION The following table provides an overview of our most important global CR goals and their KEY DATA status during the period under review: ASSURANCE REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Ziele p.16 HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY Values and principles CR strategy Relevant topics Goals CR organisation CR management FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Ziele p.17 HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY Values and principles CR strategy Relevant topics Goals CR organisation CR management FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 CR organisation p.18 Implementing corporate responsibility HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT The Corporate Responsibility Council steers our sustainability strategy at the highest STRATEGY level. Our Corporate Responsibility department coordinates the execution of this Values and principles strategy in collaboration with the various departments and regions. It is also the CR strategy contact point for stakeholders within and outside of the company. CR organisation CR management Corporate responsibility organisation FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT The Corporate Responsibility Council has been the highest-level decision-making body in all CR matters since 2004. The Council comprises Professor Wolfgang Reitzle, Chief Executive Officer of Linde AG, and Dr Aldo Belloni, Member of the Executive Board, together with managers responsible for the following global and central functions: Communications & Investor Relations, Human Resources, Internal Audit, Legal and SHEQ (Safety, Health, Environment, Quality). The Council meets each year to define the cornerstones of our CR strategy. It also receives reports on the status of the previous year's targets and decides on new goals for our CR action items. The decisions made by the Corporate Responsibility Council are binding for the entire company. The Council discusses and approves a wide range of sustainablility topics, including climate protection activities: In 2010, we communicated a global, quantitative climate protection goal. In 2011, the Corporate Responsibility Council also received also a status update on this goal and advised on the further evolution of our environmental strategy. Implementing our CR strategy Our Corporate Responsibility department coordinates the CR strategy at operational level. It works closely with the various departments responsible for implementing the individual spotlight topics. This process is supported by CR sponsors in the different regions and local companies. The Corporate Responsibility department is also responsible for regular reports on our CR strategy and performance. In addition, it coordinates dialogue with internal and external stakeholders. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 CR management p.19 Corporate responsibility management HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT With our corporate responsibility management system we implement our CR strategy STRATEGY throughout the company. We integrate our voluntary commitments into our business Values and principles processes through the regional and global standards and management systems in place CR strategy at our various units. CR organisation CR management The objective of CR management is to identify and evaluate sustainability issues of relevance to Linde, minimise risks and explore business opportunities. Under our issue management Data collection process, we evaluate sustainability risks and opportunities. To do so, we communicate closely Capital markets with stakeholders such as customers, shareholders, political circles and the general public. Supply chain Stakeholder engagement New markets for energy and environmental technologies are opening up business FIELDS OF ACTION opportunities for Linde as a company. And our healthcare products are helping to treat KEY DATA chronic illness, combat rising therapy costs and relieve the pressure on overburdened ASSURANCE REPORT healthcare systems. We systematically evaluate risks under our risk management programme. This is complemented by risk analyses at department level. > More on products and technologies and on issue management Risk management The Linde Group, a technology company with global operations, is exposed to a great variety of risks. To identify and evaluate these risks and steer our responses to them, the Linde AG Executive Board has established a comprehensive, systematic and efficient integrated risk management system (Enterprise Risk Management [ERM] system), the basic principles of which are laid down in Group guidelines. Our risk management system also provides a standardised framework to evaluate CR issues such as environmental, safety, HR and legal risks, along with risks resulting from political, legal and social upheaval or from pandemics. Different departments, such as our safety, health, environment and quality (SHEQ) department, assess the risks within their areas, for example plant or product safety risks, and channel this information into Group risk management activities. We investigate alleged compliance violations and violations of occupational and social standards by or at our company or by our suppliers through our Integrity Line reporting system. > More on risk management and on our compliance programme Safety, health, environment and quality management At Linde, we have defined global safety, health, environment and quality (SHEQ) standards and responsibilities for our production processes. Our SHEQ management systems enable us to identify and minimise risks in these areas. The management systems are closely aligned with the individual workflows in the various business units. We also involve contractors and other suppliers in our SHEQ management activities. Our SHEQ Policy steers our management activities alongside binding regional and global standards, which are communicated worldwide via our global database Linde Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 CR management p.20 Systems and Standards (LiMSS). We implement our SHEQ guidelines, other Group-wide HOME guidelines and legal regulations through various internal management systems. Our aim is ABOUT THIS REPORT to continually improve existing processes across all relevant lines of business. Our global STRATEGY corporate responsibility indicators help us achieve this goal by helping us benchmark our Values and principles progress and identify scope for improving our SHEQ performance. CR strategy CR organisation Evaluation tools and certification CR management We use a wide range of tools and measures to assess whether we are meeting our commitments and standards. These include internal audits on process safety, occupational Data collection health and safety, environmental protection and quality at our locations across the globe. Capital markets Supply chain In 2010, we performed or commissioned occupational health and safety audits at over 53 Stakeholder engagement percent of our sites, and environmental protection audits at around 48 percent of our sites. FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA Proportion of sites in which health, safety and environmental audits have been conducted ASSURANCE REPORT The Linde Group We also include findings from our internal statistics and from reports on incidents and nearmisses (incident reporting) in our annual audit plan. In 2010, we focused in particular on audits carried out within the framework of our Major Hazard Review Programme (MHRP) – an initiative for systematically assessing risks that could result in accidents or damage to property or the environment. We systematically train our employees in the areas of occupational health and safety as well as in product safety and environmental risks. The need for training is regularly assessed at our individual sites, and our training offering is tailored to current requirements. We also run campaigns and initiatives aimed at strengthening employee awareness of the importance of safety and environmental protection. Proportion of employees who have taken up HSE training opportunities (in percent) Gases Division Figure included in the Group Management Report of the Annual Report 2010 of The Linde Group. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 CR management p.21 HOME Figure included in the Group Management Report of the Annual Report 2010 of The Linde ABOUT THIS REPORT Group. STRATEGY Values and principles Many of our locations are certified to international norms as proof of our high standards on CR strategy safety, environmental protection and quality. CR organisation CR management The ISO 9001 set of standards for quality management is particularly important for our Gases Data collection and Engineering Divisions. More than 200 of our sites are certified in accordance with the environmental management standard ISO 14001. Many of our sites are healthand safetyCapital markets certified in accordance with the OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Supply chain Series) or SCC (Safety Certification Contractors) standards. Stakeholder engagement FIELDS OF ACTION Proportion of certified sites KEY DATA The Linde Group ASSURANCE REPORT We intend to maintain current levels of certification in our Gases and Engineering Divisions. In the case of food-grade gases, we provide proof of compliance with the relevant quality standards. Within the framework of the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI), we intend to have another 71 sites certified by the end of 2012. This certification includes the ISO 22000 standard (food safety). Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Datenerhebung p.22 Sustainability indicators HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY Global key figures are crucial tools for successfully steering our economic, environmental Values and principles and social performance. Key performance indicators (KPIs) enable us to measure and CR strategy document our progress in corporate responsibility over the years as well as identify scope CR organisation for improvement and develop targets in areas such as health, safety, environment and HR CR management management. Data collection Capital markets We select and publish our non-financial data also in line with internationally recognised Supply chain standards, including: Stakeholder engagement FIELDS OF ACTION The sustainability reporting guidelines in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) KEY DATA The Greenhouse Gas Protocol published by the World Institute and the World Business ASSURANCE REPORT Council for Sustainable Development Recommendations from the European Industrial Gases Association (EIGA), the Responsible Care initiative and the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) We collect selected key indicators for health, safety and the environment with the help of a global database that we rolled out across the entire Group in 2008. This system has enabled us to collect environmental data more efficiently and improve data quality. The information is gathered at the individual production sites each year, entered into the system and evaluated at several levels of the company. Our brochure Corporate Responsibility Accounting. Overview of HSE (Health, Safety, Environment) Indicator Reporting” explains how we define and collect our HSE indicators. We collect our HR indicators in a Group-wide database. In 2010, we continued to roll this system out across the Group. The database provides high levels of data security and enables key HR data to be accessed on demand. We continually evaluate the possibility of including other non-financial indicators in our external reporting. In this year’s report, for example, we publish data on our global compliance training measures and Integrity Line consultations for the first time. In addition, we are currently developing global key indicators for our community involvement activities. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Kapitalmarkt p.23 Linde as a sustainable investment HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY The capital market also assesses the impact of responsible business practices on a company's Values and principles long-term success. It does this by ranking investments in line with sustainability criteria CR strategy (socially responsible investments, SRI). CR organisation CR management The Linde Group already ranks highly in several SRI ratings. We aim to qualify for further SRI Data collection indices and funds by continually improving our performance in CR management, ensuring Capital markets transparent sustainability reporting in line with international standards, and maintaining open Supply chain dialogue with interested analysts, investors and rating agencies. Stakeholder engagement FIELDS OF ACTION In 2010, we were included in the German Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). This KEY DATA internationally recognised index is ranked by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), a group of ASSURANCE REPORT investors who assess the success of organisations’ climate protection activities. In addition to participating in international sustainability rankings in 2010, we also held a number of personal talks with investors on key corporate responsibility topics. Our top 75 shareholders currently hold around 3.5 percent of Linde shares in SRI funds. The top 75 shareholders represent 65 percent of Linde’s shares. Our share is listed on all German stock exchanges. > More on stakeholder dialogue Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Lieferkette p.24 Supply chain management HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY We do business with suppliers across the globe and demand the highest levels of quality and Values and principles reliability from our partners. In addition we expect them to comply with environmental and CR strategy social standards. CR organisation CR management We source various resources, materials, premanufactured products and services from Data collection suppliers in our different business fields. In the Gases Division, purchasing covers an Capital markets extremely broad range of products and services including energy, gases, gas cylinders and Supply chain valves, tanks and tank equipment, vehicles, healthcare equipment, components for largeStakeholder engagement scale plants and complete small plants, IT hardware and software, plus a wide range of FIELDS OF ACTION services. Engineering Division purchases also cover a range of apparatus, machines and other components as well as office equipment and services. KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT In the 2010 financial year, we spent around EUR 9.7 billion on purchasing across a wide range of markets worldwide. Around EUR 7.8 billion of this is attributable to the Gases Division and around EUR 1.9 billion to the Engineering Division. Reliability and quality Our success hinges on our ability to reliably source products and services, to the appropriate levels of quality, in the right quantities and at fair market prices. We use uniform tools to select and assess suppliers and also ask suppliers for selfassessments. In addition, we perform audits to assess whether our suppliers meet our quality standards. Environmental and social standards The Linde Code of Ethics informs our employees about the importance of compliance with environmental and social standards on the part of our suppliers. Environmental and social standards are also covered by our ethical-legal procurement guidelines. These guidelines provide a framework for our dealings with business partners and outline how we expect them to behave. They are binding for all employees of Linde AG and its subsidiaries, and are aimed in particular at employees who deal directly with suppliers, contractors and other business partners. Where necessary, we also inform our suppliers of special requirements, for example, regarding environmental protection and safety. In 2010, we informed suppliers in Southeast Asia about our Golden Rules of Safety . We involve our contractors in our environmental and safety management activities; offering, for example, driver safety training courses for contractors commissioned by Linde to transport gases. Compliance with minimum occupational health and safety guidelines and environmental protection standards are included in contractual agreements with contractors whose employees are working on Engineering Division construction sites on behalf of Linde. Our CR data management also extends to contractors. We report, for example, on the number of contractor workplace accidents per million hours worked (lost time injury rate, LTIR). Any violations of our basic standards or principles can be reported via various channels, our whistleblower system (Linde Integrity Line) included. All reports of suspected instances of Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Lieferkette p.25 non-compliance along our supply chain that we receive are investigated. Our assessments HOME can also result in termination of contracts with suppliers. ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY > Download of our Ethical-Legal Principles Procurement Values and principles CR strategy CR organisation CR management Data collection Capital markets Supply chain Stakeholder engagement FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Stakeholder engagement p.26 Engaging with stakeholders HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY Stakeholder trust is a crucial factor for our success. Which is why we maintain close dialogue Values and principles with our key audiences, including employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, NGOs, CR strategy politicians, scientists, our neighbours and the general public. CR organisation CR management In 2010, internal stakeholder engagement activities focused amongst other things on our Data collection first global employee survey. Dialogue with external stakeholders centred on a number of Capital markets important issues including sustainability across our supply chain and our activities for climate Supply chain protection. Our involvement in international networks also provided us with valuable impetus Stakeholder engagement for CR management. FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA Customers ASSURANCE REPORT Quality, safety and reliability in all of our products, technologies and services are key to building relationships of trust with our customers. We systematically measure customer satisfaction levels worldwide as part of our customer experience management programme. We use the results of surveys, our customer complaint management service and further information channels to help us improve our products and offerings. In recognition of our commitment to customer satisfaction, Linde Korea received the 2010 Customer Satisfaction Management Award from the Korea Economic Daily, a leading daily newspaper in Korea. Corporate responsibility is moving up the agenda of our customers as well. We receive increasing numbers of requests about the environmental and social aspects of our activities. We take great care in answering these queries and use them to map our performance against customer requirements. In 2010, for example, we talked to customers about the CO2 balance of our products. Employees Employee satisfaction is very important to Linde. Employees have the opportunity to say whether current conditions meet their expectations in one-on-one meetings with line managers. In 2010, we also carried out our first global, voluntary employee survey. We also believe it is important that our employees understand the strategic importance of corporate responsibility for the Group's success. We therefore involve our employees in different CR initiatives, for example, via in-house communication channels or employee competitions on environmental issues. An example of this in 2010 was the publication of a newsletter on green ideas in the South Pacific region. > More on our employee survey Capital markets In fiscal 2010, we continued to communicate closely with capital market players, conducting more than 300 personal conversations with financial analysts and investors. Shareholders and potential investors were given the opportunity to speak to members of the Executive Board at a total of 25 conferences and roadshows. Sustainability issues have also gained in importance. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Stakeholder engagement p.27 > More on capital markets HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT Politics STRATEGY We aim to be a trusted partner in public discussions and political decision-making processes, Values and principles bringing the expertise and views of a global player to the table. CR strategy CR organisation Our actions are guided by the following fundamental principles: CR management Data collection We support demands for a lobby register at national and European level as a means of Capital markets ensuring ethical and transparent representation of interests. We believe that this should be Supply chain a voluntary engagement. We do not post our employees to public institutions. This applies to state, national and Stakeholder engagement European institutions. We respect the individual confidentiality obligations of all employees FIELDS OF ACTION who previously worked in the public sector. KEY DATA The Linde Group does not make donations to political parties or candidates. ASSURANCE REPORT The Linde Group has a representative office in Berlin and has allocated three staffing positions to this office. We are also engaged in political dialogue in collaboration with numerous national, European und international industry and business associations. In Germany, for example, we are a member of the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI), the German Engineering Federation (VDMA) and the German Industrial Gases Association (IGV). On a European level we are member of the European Industrial Gases Association (EIGA). Suppliers We believe in maintaining transparent communication with suppliers. We focus on personal communication, although we also use online supplier portals. We have also developed awards to recognise exemplary suppliers. Community involvement We also put our know-how to work for local communities. In North America, for instance, we teamed up with other companies to offer training programmes that help communities deal with traffic accidents involving dangerous substances. The courses, held under the banner of TRANSCAER® (Transportation Community Awareness und Emergency Response), were run in New Jersey, Delaware and Pennsylvania. Non-profit organisations We also communicate with non-profit organisations within the framework of our community involvement activities. Education, science and research are key areas here. Science and research We are committed to offering products and technologies that unite the goals of customer value and sustainable development. To this end, we collaborate closely with numerous partners from the science and research community. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Stakeholder engagement p.28 We also partner with the science and research community to further our community HOME involvement initiatives. ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY Values and principles > More on current projects in the products and community involvement sections CR strategy CR organisation Memberships and networks CR management We play an active role in industry and business associations at national, European and Data collection international level. The Linde Group is also a member of carefully selected corporate Capital markets responsibility networks that enable us to exchange experiences with other members, learn Supply chain from each other and further shared interests in sustainable development. Stakeholder engagement FIELDS OF ACTION UN Global Compact supports the enforcement of human rights, compliance with work and social standards, environmental responsibility and the fight against corruption. As a KEY DATA participant of UN Global Compact, we are committed to the organisation’s principles. In July ASSURANCE REPORT 2007, Linde and around 150 other major international companies signed Global Compact's declaration on climate protection ( Caring for climate: The business leadership platform ). Linde has been a member of econsense (forum for sustainable economic growth in Germany) since 2007. > More on our UN Global Compact communication on progress Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Ethics and compliance p.29 Ethics and compliance HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION Ethics and compliance Corporate governance Compliance programme Safety Environment Employees Society Products KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Ethics and compliance p.30 Ethics and compliance HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT Our Code of Ethics describes our commitment to respect laws and regulations, not STRATEGY to harm people or the environment and to ensure that we always act honestly and FIELDS OF ACTION fairly. This Code builds on the Linde Spirit, our corporate philosophy which defines the Ethics and compliance principles and core values that guide the way we do business. Corporate governance Compliance programme Integrity and respect are two of the four core values anchored in the Linde Spirit. Our Code of Ethics defines how we live these core values in our daily business dealings – through clear Safety standards governing our relationships with each other as well as with our customers and Environment suppliers, with official authorities and with other business partners. This Code covers the Employees following areas: Society Products Import and export laws and regulations as well as competition and antitrust laws KEY DATA Insider dealing, protection of trade secrets and company assets plus data privacy ASSURANCE REPORT Conflicts of interest and corruption, including guidelines for dealing with presents and invitations Dealing with public authorities and politics Safety, health and environment standards as well as product and process quality Guidelines governing financial reporting, communication and advertising Ethical conduct among suppliers Upholding human rights Fairness and respect between Linde employees If local laws or other Linde regulations dictate stricter or higher standards than our Code of Ethics, we uphold the local policies. The Code of Ethics is binding for all employees of Linde AG and its affiliates worldwide. We also encourage our business partners to uphold the standards defined in our Code of Ethics. Additional, complementary guidelines give greater execution clarity in our action areas. These include regulations governing competition and antitrust law, the assessment of business partners, safety, health, environment and quality management (SHEQ Policy) plus our ethical/legal procurement guidelines. Our compliance programme and internal guidelines for environment, safety, health protection and personnel management help us to deliver on our commitments. As part of this framework, we identify areas of responsibility and accountability, standards, monitoring instruments (such as audits) and the process flow in the event of non-compliance with standards. We implement these standards through our internal management systems. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Ethics and compliance p.31 Ethics and compliance HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT Our Code of Ethics describes our commitment to respect laws and regulations, not STRATEGY to harm people or the environment and to ensure that we always act honestly and FIELDS OF ACTION fairly. This Code builds on the Linde Spirit, our corporate philosophy which defines the Ethics and compliance principles and core values that guide the way we do business. Corporate governance Compliance programme Integrity and respect are two of the four core values anchored in the Linde Spirit. Our Code of Ethics defines how we live these core values in our daily business dealings – through clear Safety standards governing our relationships with each other as well as with our customers and Environment suppliers, with official authorities and with other business partners. This Code covers the Employees following areas: Society Products Import and export laws and regulations as well as competition and antitrust laws KEY DATA Insider dealing, protection of trade secrets and company assets plus data privacy ASSURANCE REPORT Conflicts of interest and corruption, including guidelines for dealing with presents and invitations Dealing with public authorities and politics Safety, health and environment standards as well as product and process quality Guidelines governing financial reporting, communication and advertising Ethical conduct among suppliers Upholding human rights Fairness and respect between Linde employees If local laws or other Linde regulations dictate stricter or higher standards than our Code of Ethics, we uphold the local policies. The Code of Ethics is binding for all employees of Linde AG and its affiliates worldwide. We also encourage our business partners to uphold the standards defined in our Code of Ethics. Additional, complementary guidelines give greater execution clarity in our action areas. These include regulations governing competition and antitrust law, the assessment of business partners, safety, health, environment and quality management (SHEQ Policy) plus our ethical/legal procurement guidelines. Our compliance programme and internal guidelines for environment, safety, health protection and personnel management help us to deliver on our commitments. As part of this framework, we identify areas of responsibility and accountability, standards, monitoring instruments (such as audits) and the process flow in the event of non-compliance with standards. We implement these standards through our internal management systems. > More on values and principles Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Corporate governance p.32 Corporate governance HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY Sound corporate governance is fundamental to a company’s long-term success. The FIELDS OF ACTION Supervisory and Executive Boards of Linde AG are firmly committed to upholding the Ethics and compliance principles of sound corporate governance. Their management and supervision actions are Corporate governance always guided by a strong sense of responsibility. Compliance programme Safety Linde AG follows the German Corporate Governance Code released by the Government Environment Commission as amended from time to time and complies with the Code’s guidelines to a large Employees extend. Any deviations are explained in detail in our annual report. The Supervisory Board Society and Executive Board will continue to follow developments in this area closely and adapt Products existing corporate governance structures wherever necessary or beneficial to the Group. KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT > More on corporate governance Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Compliance programme p.33 Global compliance programme HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY To support compliance with legal regulations and our voluntary commitments, we are setting FIELDS OF ACTION up a global compliance programme. The programme’s primary aim is to prevent violations Ethics and compliance by providing employees with continuous information and targeted training opportunities. At Corporate governance the same time, we actively encourage staff to report any suspected violations of our Code of Compliance programme Ethics. We have established a set protocol for responding to those reports. If the allegations Safety prove to be founded, we take the appropriate corrective action. Environment Employees Since 2008, Linde’s Head of Compliance has been responsible for developing the compliance Society programme. The Head of Compliance oversees the implementation and verification Products of compliance measures and heads up the compliance office within the Group Legal department. Compliance officers have been appointed in the divisions, business units and KEY DATA operating segments to support Group-wide implementation of the compliance programme. ASSURANCE REPORT The Executive Board and the audit committee of the Supervisory Board are regularly informed about current developments and progress within the compliance organisation, including measures aimed at communication, training employees and updating rules of conduct. Preventing violations We inform employees about the legal regulations and other standards that apply to their particular areas of work. All employees receive a copy of the Code of Ethics when they start working at the company and must confirm in writing that they have read and understood it. Furthermore, we provide Group-wide e-learning and classroom-based courses to familiarise our employees with the Code of Ethics. Over 30,000 e-learning courses had been completed by 2011. In 2009 and 2010, we held over 3,000 face-to-face training sessions on competition law and the avoidance of corruption for employees. We have thus achieved our prior-year target to maintain and expand employee training on compliance with the Code of Ethics. In 2010, the Executive Board of Linde initiated further anti-trust and anti-corruption training measures for specific target groups. Also in the same year and continuing into 2011, the Group approved and communicated new global internal directives on anti-trust compliance and the assessment of business partners (for example, agents, sponsors and consultants). When expanding our compliance and anti-corruption programme, we are also guided by Transparency International’s Business Principles for Countering Bribery. Identification of misconduct Employees wishing to report suspected violations of the Code of Ethics or make enquiries about the Code can contact their direct line manager or department head . Alternatively they can contact a representative from the Internal Audit, Personnel or Legal/Compliance departments. Our Integrity Line global reporting system is one of the key pillars of our compliance programme. It provides employees and stakeholders with a channel for reporting doubts or suspected violations – anonymously, if desired. We have set up various channels to report suspected violations to our Integrity Line: Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Compliance programme p.34 A dedicated Internet portal available in seven languages HOME A worldwide, toll-free hotline operated by an independent company that takes calls in all ABOUT THIS REPORT languages STRATEGY A confidential e-mail account FIELDS OF ACTION A postal address Ethics and compliance Corporate governance Every report is initially assessed by Linde’s Integrity Line Facilitator, who forwards allegations to the Linde Integrity Committee. The committee comprises representatives from Internal Compliance programme Audit, Legal/Compliance, Corporate Responsibility and Human Resources departments. The Safety committee examines the reports and determines further courses of action. Our Integrity Line Environment policy outlines the exact protocol to be followed and ensures that reports remain confidential Employees and data is protected. Reports of violations submitted via other channels are forwarded to the Society Integrity Line system to ensure that all cases are investigated with the same protocol. Products KEY DATA In 2010, our Integrity Line was contacted 334 times. Each one of these contacts was assessed ASSURANCE REPORT to determine whether it entailed a general enquiry or an allegation of misconduct. Without exception, concrete accusations were systematically investigated. Most of the reports last year were related to personnel topics (approx. 40%) and offences against property (approx. 20%). In additional to the regular consulting and auditing activities carried out by our compliance organisation, Internal Audit and HR management, 54 audits were instigated in 2010 as a result of reports to the Integrity Line. Consequence management Linde employees who violate laws or regulations must be prepared to face sanctions. The guidelines in our Code of Ethics are binding and non-negotiable. Repercussions for violations can involve dismissal and prosecution under criminal or civil law. With our Integrity Line Consequence Management process we want to ensure that appropriate, corrective action is taken if allegations prove justified. If an internal investigation reveals that a report is substantiated, we explore the measures that have subsequently been implemented – following a set protocol and timeframe. The responsible line managers are always asked to comment on the incident and are involved in this process. If our compliance systems uncover any circumstances or events requiring further criminal investigation, we work very closely with the authorities. In 2010, we actively contacted the Munich public prosecutor’s office to share Internal Audit findings that called for further clarification. The findings in question involved joint projects with other companies that were investigated by public prosecutor for suspected bribery. Linde was not found to be in breach of the law. The state prosecutor did, however, establish that external third parties had acted unlawfully. Investigators estimated that Linde benefitted indirectly from these violations by a sum of money in the amount of EUR 35 million over the years. The Group made a compensatory payment in this amount to redress the situation. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Safety p.35 Safety HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION Ethics and compliance Safety Product stewardship Transport safety Environment Employees Society Products KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Safety p.36 Safety HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT Safety is a number one priority at Linde. Here we focus not only on our internal STRATEGY business processes, but also on how our products are used. The main aim of our safety FIELDS OF ACTION management activities is to protect employees, business partners, customers and Ethics and compliance neighbours from harm. Safety Product stewardship Safety is one of our four fundamental principles. With our global safety management system we minimise risks for human beings and the environment. Another focus Transport safety area is the protection of our company property. Our global SHEQ function coordinates Environment the implementation of our safety standards in our business units worldwide. Safety Employees representatives are appointed at regional and local level. Our safety standards align with our Society global SHEQ Policy. Products KEY DATA Through our Group-wide integrated management system we systematically identify ASSURANCE REPORT and assess risks, implement local and global safety standards, and define areas of responsibility. Using defined monitoring mechanisms we check whether our safety standards have been put in place. We also rely on transparent incident reporting mechanisms to evolve and improve our safety systems. We record all incidents and near-misses – whether they be related to accidents, explosions or leaks – that occur at our sites or during transport.This includes incidents that occur in connection with the use of our products by customers. The lessons learned from our incident reporting are then sent to our global communication networks so that we can learn from them and prevent similar incidents from happening again. Whenever necessary, we adapt our safety measures. In 2010 we communicated over 130 such incident reports. They include a description of the incident, key causes and learnings. We made them available to our employees and posted them on our site safety notice boards. We involve contractors, customers and suppliers as well as authorities and local communities in our safety activities. Raising safety awareness among employees We sensitise our employees to potential hazards through regular training sessions (for example, safety videos) and a risk matrix. Our aim is to foster a sense of safety awareness and responsibility among all managers – beyond the responsibility of our safety officers. At Linde Gas Germany, for example, managers at all levels are obliged to conduct a set number of safety talks with their team members every year. We highlight examples of best practices in safety. Each year, for example, Linde holds its Linde Group Safety Awards, recognising selected sites in three separate categories: The Site Safety Award for the best location or facility, the Company Safety Award for the best company within the Group, and the Improvement Award for the site or company that has made most progress in reducing lost time injury rates. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Produktverantwortung p.37 Product stewardship HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY Our product stewardship activities cover the entire lifecycles of our products. We FIELDS OF ACTION systematically identify, assess and control potential sources of danger and the associated Ethics and compliance risks at all stages of the value chain – from materials purchasing through product Safety manufacturing to use of our products at customer sites. Our efforts here extend beyond Product stewardship minimum legal requirements. Transport safety Environment Product development and launches Employees Our analysis of potential safety, health and environment hazards in a product’s lifecycle Society starts as early as at the development phase of new solutions. We take particular care when Products launching new products and technologies as rarely have long years of experience to fall back KEY DATA on. Our new product introduction (NPI) process outlines the different steps that have to be taken before a product can be brought to market. ASSURANCE REPORT Purchasing Product stewardship starts with the procurement of key resources and materials. We have determined standardised processes for supplier selection and assessment. They ensure, for instance, that materials and products meet the highest quality requirements and that all applicable packaging and transport safety regulations are followed. We also include safety, health and environment risks when assessing suppliers. > More on supply chain management Safety at our sites At all of our sites, we identify and evaluate risks that our plants might pose to employees and any neighbouring companies or people living in the vicinity. Our major accident prevention policies (MAPPs) define concrete responsibilities and processes at regional level. In recent years, we have also rolled out a Group-wide management programme to systematically identify the most serious risks at all sites. This major hazards review programme (MHRP) creates a uniform basis for measuring risks at all locations and defining specific control mechanisms to minimise these risks to the greatest possible extent. The major hazards in focus cover all key aspects of occupational health, safety and environmental protection relevant to The Linde Group. We have developed regulations and instructions for our employees, visitors and employees from other companies to ensure their safety at our production sites and make sure they are aware of our safety requirements. Employees from other companies are also bound by the regulations in our material safety data sheets. This document is always an integral part of Linde contracts. Prerequisite for the employment of security guards at our sites is a suitability vetting process. The security personnel at our sites respect human dignity and human rights and comply with local laws and regulations. In safeguarding the security of our sites we act in accordance with international standards such as the UN basic principals on the use of force. We require that all Linde guards are trained accordingly. Our crisis management agenda includes emergency planning for major catastrophes such as fire, explosions, natural disasters, crime and pandemics, and the impact these would have Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Produktverantwortung p.38 on our sites and business processes. We have defined areas of responsibility and decisionHOME making channels for these scenarios at local, regional and Group level and developed ABOUT THIS REPORT guidelines for structured communication during crises. We reviewed our crisis planning STRATEGY worldwide in 2010. FIELDS OF ACTION Ethics and compliance Health, safety and environmental metrics are an integral part of plant planning and Safety engineering. Design reviews are crucial here, with interdisciplinary teams checking compliance with all HSE criteria at every stage of plant construction. The scope of our Product stewardship inspections extends to our suppliers. Transport safety Environment Regular audits enable us to ensure compliance with our internal management system, as well Employees as with industry standards and individual national and international regulations. Operational Society audits are performed using a risk-based approach, i.e. the higher the risk, the more frequent Products the audit. In 2010, we performed or commissioned occupational health and safety audits at KEY DATA over 53 percent of our sites. MHRP audits were an important part of our safety activities in ASSURANCE REPORT 2010. As a minimum requirement under MHRP, all locations operated by Linde that store or process hazardous substances must hold a valid licence awarded following an internal audit. Many of our locations have been certified in line with international safety standards. 22 percent of our sites, for example, are certified in accordance with the international standard OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series) or with SCC (Safety Certification Contractors). > More on occupational safety, on supply chain management and on environmental audits Storage, packaging and distribution Products and packaging are labelled in line with international and local statutory regulations, international standards and our in-house standards. At the beginning of 2011, we completed notification of classification and labelling notification for our substances to comply with the European Union CLP regulations (classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures). This is a key step under the new European regulations on hazardous substances. Customer sites When we hand over our products to our customers, we want them to be aware of all necessary safety measures and fully understand our products and their properties. Providing clear information is the first step here. Our product safety datasheets plus extensive information on the handling, storage and labelling of gas products can be easily accessed, for example, via our online customer portals. We also offer special customer safety training sessions covering the properties of gases, potential risks and important safety measures for transport, use and storage. We complement our offering with an extensive portfolio of gas supply services, ranging from risk assessment through explosion avoidance documents to the inspection, maintenance and repair of customer gas supply systems. In the Gases Division, for example, specially trained Linde employees carry out customer screenings prior to delivery, assessing whether all requirements for the safe and proper handling of gases have been met. Our product list details the different gases where customer screening is mandatory. Linde emergency teams are also on hand to help customers outside of business hours and on weekends. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Produktverantwortung p.39 Medical gases call for consistently high quality standards in relation to the purity of the gases HOME as well as the safe handling. Linde Healthcare follows Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) ABOUT THIS REPORT and Good Distribution Practices (GDP) covering, among other issues, quality management, STRATEGY production and quality control of medicinal products as well as the processes involved in the FIELDS OF ACTION storage and distribution of medicinal gases. Ethics and compliance In addition, we work with clinical specialists, healthcare providers and regulatory authorities. Safety At hospitals and other care facilities, we continue to introduce and implement training, Product stewardship systems and procedures to ensure safe and effective gas handling, proper controls, timely Transport safety response and adherence to guidelines and standards. Environment Employees As quality standards in the supply of medical gases to patient are also affected by Society activities within the hospital, Linde Healthcare helps customers to meet these challenging Products requirements by offering a complete range of services under the brand name QI Medical KEY DATA Gas Services. These are practical services that include all areas of medical gas supply ASSURANCE REPORT from planning efficient gas delivery through ensuring emergency supplies to managing maintenance and repairs. Ongoing monitoring and staff training are also available. Our high safety standards were also recognised by our customers in 2010. In Thailand, Cargill Meats, an important customer in the food industry, presented Linde with the Safety Award – Best Contractor of the Year . Disposal and recycling We constantly strive to avoid waste, decrease the volume of waste we generate, and reduce its risk potential. When we cannot recycle waste, we dispose of it in line with legal regulations. In 2011 we published a global standard and training materials for asbestos management in our operations. These outline steps required to ensure that asbestos materials are handled and disposed of safely. > More on waste management Meeting legal requirements: REACH The European Union has reformed the law governing chemicals in the EU. The new REACH regulation stipulates that all companies manufacturing or importing chemical substances in the EU in quantities of one tonne or more per year must assess the impact of these chemicals on the environment and register them according to a strict timeline. The Linde Group meets all requirements set down in REACH to the full extent. To do this, we set up a project team of over 30 specialists across Europe headed by a REACH Europe manager to coordinate compliance with REACH. We work actively with the European Industrial Gases Association (EIGA) and other industry associations to ensure compliance with REACH. In 2010 for example, we led a consortium formed mainly of EIGA members to complete the registration of carbon monoxide for intermediate uses. We also work with our customers and suppliers to ensure successful execution. Our REACH website we provide detailed information on how we are meeting our legal obligations within the framework of REACH as a manufacturer, importer and user. We also detail the substances we have registered and explain how we inform our customers and suppliers about this. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Produktverantwortung p.40 > More about our activities for REACH and on use of resources HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT Working together for more safety STRATEGY We also collaborate with industry associations and local communities to promote the FIELDS OF ACTION safe handling of gases. For example, we joined forces with the European Industrial Gases Ethics and compliance Association (EIGA) to take part in a campaign promoting the safe handling of oxygen. Safety Product stewardship Our commitment to safety in the US includes sponsoring a safety day for handling industrial Transport safety gases on the campus of Pennsylvania State University in DuBois, Pennsylvania. An event for Environment customers, fire fighters and emergency services in July 2010 focused on the safe handling of Employees cryogenic and compressed gases. Society Products KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Transport safety p.41 Transport safety HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY At Linde, transport incidents have a particularly high profile within the safety risks we FIELDS OF ACTION monitor. We aim to further reduce the number and frequency of transport-related accidents – Ethics and compliance among our own transport fleets and those of our contractors. Safety Product stewardship Gas transports are governed by various regulations such as the European Agreement Transport safety concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road (Accord européen relatif Environment au transport international des marchandises dangereuses par route, ADR). Correct handling, Employees sufficient knowledge of properties and the right packaging significantly reduces transport Society risks. Products KEY DATA We document and store all transport requirements for Linde in our global management ASSURANCE REPORT databases. These stipulate everything from the requisite driver qualifications and training levels to detailed instructions on how to equip transport fleets to comply with our safety standards. Engaging our transport service providers Our Gases Division transports the majority of its products to customers itself, using pipelines or its own transport fleet. We also actively engage our contractors working for all of our divisions in our transport safety management policy, for example through safety training. As an approved training institute within the framework of the ADR, we also offer third-party training seminars across Germany. These courses are an integral part of our LIPROTECT® safety service. Focus on transport safety The number of serious transport incidents involving trucks per million kilometres driven in 2010 remained level with the previous year at 0.08. Serious traffic incidents involving trucks (per 1 million km driven) Gases Division The figures relate to the transport fleet run directly by The Linde Group as well as those run by our transport contractors. The exact definition can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Accounting brochure. To ensure a safe and secure logistics chain from source to customer, we again upped our efforts in transport safety. In 2010 we developed a new package of global transport safety measures comprising the following four components: Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Transport safety p.42 Revision of local and global minimum transport safety standards and their integration in our HOME global standards database ABOUT THIS REPORT Employee training sessions covering these revised standards STRATEGY Audit programme to check compliance with standards FIELDS OF ACTION Global implementation of our new transport safety driver training programme (ActSafe for Ethics and compliance Drivers) Safety Product stewardship We have defined a timeline for each element. At least 95 percent of the standards must be reviewed and incorporated in the database, and the associated employee training Transport safety measures implemented by the end of 2012. We intend to have audited compliance with Environment these standards at 60 percent (minimum) of all sites involved in transport by the end of Employees 2015. The new ActSafe for Drivers training programme is to be implemented at 30 percent Society (minimum) of our sites by 2015. Products KEY DATA In our regional business unit Continental and Northern Europe for example, about 2,500 ASSURANCE REPORT tanker drivers from our own and our contractors fleets took part in training sessions in 2010, covering topics such as fatigue and speed management, roll-over protection, defensive driving and loading. Drawing on input from Linde drivers, we have also created a new safety training DVD called “Staying in control”. The DVD has been localised into a number of languages and is being used worldwide to support transport training. Our strong commitment to transport safety was recognised on several occasions. The European Industrial Gases Association (EIGA) presented Linde with the Road Safety Award 2010 for the lowest tanker accident rate with an annual driven distance of over five million kilometres. In the US, Linde was presented with the Thoroughbred Chemical Safety Award in 2010 by transport company Norfolk Southern Corporation in recognition of our outstanding safety track record in transporting chemicals by rail. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Transport safety p.43 Revision of local and global minimum transport safety standards and their integration in our HOME global standards database ABOUT THIS REPORT Employee training sessions covering these revised standards STRATEGY Audit programme to check compliance with standards FIELDS OF ACTION Global implementation of our new transport safety driver training programme (ActSafe for Ethics and compliance Drivers) We have defined a timeline for each element. At least 95 percent of the standards must Safety be reviewed and incorporated in the database, and the associated employee training Product stewardship measures implemented by the end of 2012. We intend to have audited compliance with Transport safety these standards at 60 percent (minimum) of all sites involved in transport by the end of Environment 2015. The new ActSafe for Drivers training programme is to be implemented at 30 percent Employees (minimum) of our sites by 2015. Society Products In our regional business unit Continental and Northern Europe for example, about 2,500 KEY DATA tanker drivers from our own and our contractors fleets took part in training sessions in ASSURANCE REPORT 2010, covering topics such as fatigue and speed management, roll-over protection, defensive driving and loading. Drawing on input from Linde drivers, we have also created a new safety training DVD called “Staying in control”. The DVD has been localised into a number of languages and is being used worldwide to support transport training. Our strong commitment to transport safety was recognised on several occasions. The European Industrial Gases Association (EIGA) presented Linde with the Road Safety Award 2010 for the lowest tanker accident rate with an annual driven distance of over five million kilometres. In the US, Linde was presented with the Thoroughbred Chemical Safety Award in 2010 by transport company Norfolk Southern Corporation in recognition of our outstanding safety track record in transporting chemicals by rail. > More indicators on transport safety Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Environment p.44 Environmental protection HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION Ethics and compliance Safety Environment Energy Climate protection Water Resources and materials Further emissions Waste Biodiversity Employees Society Products KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Environment p.45 Environmental protection HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT With our innovative technologies and products, we are helping to tackle major STRATEGY ecological challenges of our time – especially when it comes to protecting our climate FIELDS OF ACTION and water resources. Our processes are optimised to reduce emissions and ensure the Ethics and compliance efficient use of resources, materials and energy. Safety Environment In our Safety, Health, Environment and Quality (SHEQ) Policy, we set out our commitment to mitigating ecological harm to the best of our ability. Here we focus in particular on conserving Energy resources, maximising plant and product safety and minimising emissions and waste. Climate protection Water We understand the environmental impact of our processes and are therefore able to develop Resources and materials and implement plans to reduce and control such effects. We have SHEQ management systems Further emissions in place to help us identify environmental risks throughout the world, define responsibilities Waste and implement local and global environmental standards in our business areas. SHEQ officers are appointed at regional and local level to coordinate these environmental activities. Biodiversity Employees We routinely examine our environmental protection performance in the course of our Society worldwide audits. Our Group risk management process also systematically assesses Products environmental risks on a global level. In addition, many of our locations are certified to KEY DATA international standards like the ISO 14001 environmental management standard. ASSURANCE REPORT Prior to constructing a new plant, we always draw up a detailed environmental protection plan. This includes an emissions list, a framework for obtaining official environmental clearance and specifications for noise protection measures. The emissions list must include plans for drainage, wastewater treatment and air pollution control. These are incorporated in the plant operating manuals. Between 2008 and 2010, we completed more than 500 internal environmental projects across the globe, which included schemes to reduce CO2 emissions and save water. In 2010, our main priorities in the field of environmental protection included further development of our global environmental strategy and calculation of the carbon footprint or balance of our products. Raising environmental awareness among employees The cooperation and commitment of our employees is vital to achieve our environmental protection aims. Information campaigns and recognition for outstanding environmental management raise awareness and encourage initiative. We have awarded Linde employees in several regions for their useful climate protection ideas for the workplace. We also included environmental protection questions in our Group-wide employee survey in 2010. Complaints related to the environment We always follow up suggestions for improvement that we receive. During the reporting year, we received 19 environment-related complaints (2009: 18). Most of these concerned noise or odour issues. In addition, we were aware of 31 environmental incidents that had to be reported to the authorities (2009: 24). In the main, these involved minor discharges of oil or diesel, and there were also a few cases of air emissions that fell under reporting requirements. These resulted in small environmental fines and warning fees to the total amount of around EUR 38,900. Eco-friendly solutions For many of our customers environmental protection – and climate protection in particular – are playing an increasingly important role. That is where we come in, working in Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Environment p.46 collaboration with our customers to create eco-friendly solutions. We focus on using HOME resources more efficiently, reducing emissions, eliminating the use of harmful substances and ABOUT THIS REPORT developing solutions for clean water. STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION > More on our environmental and energy technologies as well as environmental audits and Ethics and compliance international certification Safety Environment Energy Climate protection Water Resources and materials Further emissions Waste Biodiversity Employees Society Products KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Energie p.47 Energy management HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY Energy efficiency is an important success factor for Linde. As such, one of our key challenges FIELDS OF ACTION lies in finding ways to reduce energy consumption and the associated emissions of Ethics and compliance greenhouse gases. We differentiate ourselves from the competition with products that help Safety to make fossil fuels more environmentally friendly and drive the advance of renewable Environment energy sources. Energy Climate protection Improving energy efficiency Water The manufacture of industrial gases is an energy-intensive activity: electricity accounts for Resources and materials over half of the associated costs. As our air separation units account for around 85 percent Further emissions of our electricity consumption, we are focussing our efforts on improving energy efficiency Waste and productivity in these units. We are continually investigating ways to make our air Biodiversity separation units more efficient with a view to conserving resources and preventing indirect Employees greenhouse gas emissions. To measure our performance, we have set ourselves a global goal for theseproduction processes. Society Products Energy management at Linde combines climate protection with effective use of resources. KEY DATA We conduct internal audits to check the energy efficiency of our plants and processes across ASSURANCE REPORT the globe and verify that resources are used as efficiently as possible. The potential energy savings discovered during the audits are then realised where possible. In 2010, we identified over 280 projects worldwide which will enable us to reduce our energy consumption and CO2 emissions. Projected savings correspond to 290,000 MWh and 114,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent. Energy consumption During 2010, our total energy consumption amounted to over 50 terawatt hours (2009: 47 TWh). The reason for this higher figure was an increase in production compared with the previous year Energy consumption (in GWh) The Linde Group Within KPMG assurance scope. The assurance report for the reporting year 2010 is available here. Figure included in the Group Management Report of the Annual Report 2010 of The Linde Group. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Energie p.48 The exact definition can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Accounting brochure. HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT Electricity and natural gas together account for about 85 percent of the energy carriers we STRATEGY use. We primarily use them to operate our air separation and HyCO plants. Over 85 percent of FIELDS OF ACTION the electricity we consume is being used in air separation plants, while around 85 percent of Ethics and compliance our natural gas consumption is attributable to our HyCO plants. Safety Environment Energy balance 2010 Energy The Linde Group Climate protection Water Resources and materials Further emissions Waste Biodiversity Employees Society > More on our global energy efficiency and climate protection target, on products and Products services for resource efficiency and renewable energies as well as on consumption of KEY DATA resources ASSURANCE REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Climate protection p.49 Climate protection HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY Climate protection is a fundamental principle throughout the value chain of our products. FIELDS OF ACTION From research and development through production to storage and transport, we focus on Ethics and compliance resource-efficient processes and eco-friendly solutions. Our products and technologies help Safety our customers to make renewable energies economically viable, cut consumption of natural Environment resources and reduce or even eliminate harmful emissions. Energy Climate protection Our climate protection management activities are organised around clear lines of Water responsibility and systematic analysis of how our activities and processes affect the climate. Resources and materials We rely on innovative technologies and energy efficiency measures to conserve resources, reduce greenhouse gases and ensure sustainable commercial success. Further emissions Waste All of our divisions employ measures for climate protection. These measures are applied Biodiversity at different stages of the respective process chains. We focus in particular on the energyEmployees intensive air separation plants of our Gases Division, which generate nitrogen, oxygen and Society argon. They are responsible for over 85 percent of our electricity consumption and therefore Products the bulk of our indirect CO2 emissions. In the Engineering Division, climate protection KEY DATA measures are likewise integrated into every key process – in particular the preparation of tenders and plant planning. ASSURANCE REPORT As part of our Group risk management programme, we systematically assess risks in relation to climate change. These risks include regulatory risks, physical risks (natural disasters) and risks associated with energy supplies. We combine our climate protection expertise across the Group to exploit opportunities. For example, we formed a cross-business interdisciplinary round table team focussed on carbon applications. This team has investigated possible applications for CO2 and assessed market opportunities for climate protection solutions. In 2010, one of the topics under review was internal guidelines on how to calculate product carbon footprints. One of our climate protection targets in 2010 was to develop a standardised, Group-wide method of calculating a product’s carbon footprint and train key individuals on this process. We have already prepared lifecycle assessments evaluating the eco balance of key products such as oxygen and hydrogen. We regularly measure and evaluate company processes with relevance to climate protection, publishing the findings in our annual corporate responsibility report in line with internationally recognised standards. In 2010, we participated once again in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) survey on climate protection reporting and performance. Climate protection p.50 Greenhouse gas emissions in CO2 equivalents HOME The Linde Group ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION Ethics and compliance Safety Environment Energy Climate protection Water Resources and materials Further emissions Waste Biodiversity Employees Society Products KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Global goal for climate protection For the first time in 2010, we announced a global goal for energy efficiency and climate protection. By 2013, we aim to improve energy intensity in our plant designs by three percent per quantity of gas produced relative to 2008. This goal represents a potential saving corresponding to around 630 GWh of electricity. Based on a global average value used to calculate CO2 emissions, this translates to a saving of around 270,000 tonnes of CO2. In 2010, we managed to improve efficiency by 2.3 percent. Specific energy intensity air separation units The Linde Group Linde Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Climate protection p.51 We are making advance preparations to accommodate any requirements that may arise HOME from the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) as of 2013 at our hydrogen and ABOUT THIS REPORT synthesis gas plants. Our plants are well equipped to work within the scheme as they are STRATEGY designed with state-of-the-art technologies. FIELDS OF ACTION > More on energy efficiency projects Ethics and compliance Safety Greenhouse gas emissions at Linde Environment We track the greenhouse gases emitted at different stages of our products’ value chain, using Energy the guidelines of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol as our basis. We distinguish between direct Climate protection and indirect CO2 emissions from our production activities and emissions resulting from nonWater Linde processes. In 2010, Linde emitted 15.7 million tonnes of greenhouse gases (2009: 14.4 Resources and materials million tonnes). The increase on 2009 can be explained by our higher production volumes. Further emissions Greenhouse gas emissions 2010 Waste The Linde Group Biodiversity Employees Society Products KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT * includes direct emissions from HyCO plants, indirect emissions from air separation plants and other greenhouse gases Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Direct emissions refer to all the greenhouse gases which Linde is directly responsible for releasing into the atmosphere. Around 80 percent of our direct CO2 emissions are the result of chemical reactions in our plants producing hydrogen, carbon monoxide and synthesis gas (HyCO plants). The Linde Group’s transport fleet is also responsible for a share of the direct CO2 emissions. Process losses resulting in the release of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere are also counted as direct emissions. Indirect emissions include CO2 emissions caused indirectly when we consume energy (electricity and steam) generated by energy providers. Most of our indirect CO2 emissions result from the large amounts of electricity required by our air separation plants to produce nitrogen, oxygen and argon. To determine indirect emissions not resulting from our production processes, we calculate the emissions of our contractors’ transport fleets on a Group-wide basis. In 2010, these emissions came to around 410,000 tonnes. We intend to expand our reporting in this category. To achieve this, we examined our value chain in 2010 using the emissions categories of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol as a guideline. This will help us to further develop our data collection for climate protection reporting. Linde Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Climate protection p.52 Emissions balance 2010 HOME The Linde Group ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION Ethics and compliance Safety Environment Energy Climate protection Water Resources and materials Further emissions Waste Biodiversity Employees Society * For selected gas applications, we report greenhouse gas emissions resulting from product use Products KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Reducing transport emissions We have put several measures in place to reduce emissions released during the transport of our products. These include optimal routing, improved capacity planning and training courses in fuel-efficient driving. Around 90 percent of the vehicles in our logistics company Gist’s fleet comply with the Euro 5 emission standard, compared with 60 percent in 2009. We have set out CO2 emission targets in a car policy for our fleet in Germany, which numbers almost 1,000 cars, and we have replaced over one third of our vehicles to comply with the new targets. In addition, we introduced an incentive system for fuel-efficient driving. Through these measures, we were able to reduce our average greenhouse gas emissions of our German fleet from 167 grams per kilometre in 2008 to 147 grams per kilometre in 2011. This translates into total carbon savings of 240 tonnes between 2008 and 2010. In recognition of this sustainable company car strategy, TÜV Süd, a German testing, inspection and certification company, presented its GreenFleet Award to Linde in 2011. This was the second time we received this award. Helping customers reduce their carbon footprint Our gases can help our customers significantly cut their emissions and become more energy efficient. Across various industries, our gas applications help make production processes more eco-friendly. They can do this in a variety of ways, for instance by making combustion processes more efficient or by replacing harmful substances. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Water p.53 Water HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY The responsible use of water resources is one of the principles of our in-house environmental FIELDS OF ACTION management programme. At all of our locations throughout the world, we focus on using Ethics and compliance water resources sustainably. We concentrate on making a special effort to save water in Safety regions affected by shortages and to prevent emissions to water. In addition, our gases can Environment be used in multiple ways to improve the quality of water. Energy Climate protection To save water, we use water circulation systems, for example, and we try to use grey Water water where possible to reduce our consumption of drinking water. We also monitor water Resources and materials used at our locations as part of our worldwide energy management commitment. In 2010, for instance, we examined the efficient use of water pumps. In the same year, we also Further emissions performed a situation analysis of locations across the world where water poses a risk, due to Waste supply shortages, for example. We will include the findings in our evaluation of local water Biodiversity targets and incorporate them in our target-defining process. Employees Society We regularly report on our water consumption and emissions to water in our CR report. In Products 2010, we participated once again in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) survey on water KEY DATA consumption and opportunities for water-related products. ASSURANCE REPORT Our employees also got involved in water conservation projects during the year, notably engaging in environmental protection programmes in New Zealand and in the South & East Asia region. Water demand and water consumption We mainly use water in product manufacturing, steam generation, plant cooling processes and office buildings. In 2010, The Linde Group used approximately 255 million cubic meters of water worldwide (2009: 242 million m³). The increase on 2009 can be explained by our higher production volumens. Over 80 percent of this water was sourced from rivers and lakes and used as once-through water to cool our plants. As this cooling water does not come into contact with products or sources of contamination, it can be returned to the water cycle with no further treatment at a temperature that does not pose any risk to the surrounding ecosystem. Water balance 2010 The Linde Group In 2010, our consumption of drinking water and process water amounted to approximately 43 million cubic meters. Around 75 percent of this was industrial and process water and around 25 percent was drinking water. The Linde Group’s consumption of industrial water and process water in 2010 totalled 32 million cubic meters. Over half of this water was used in our air separation plants. In addition Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Water p.54 to once-through systems, we also use water circulation systems to recirculate water several HOME times. Only a small percentage of this water needs to be replaced in the process. The amount ABOUT THIS REPORT varies depending on the water quality and the equipment within the plant. However, since STRATEGY the water must be chilled prior to reuse, we are working to reduce the energy required in FIELDS OF ACTION this process as much as possible. Our drinking water consumption in 2010 totalled 11 million Ethics and compliance cubic meters. Safety Water consumption (in million m3) Environment The Linde Group Energy Climate protection Water Resources and materials Further emissions Waste Biodiversity Employees Society Products KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Within KPMG assurance scope. The assurance report for the reporting year 2010 is available here. Figure included in the Group Management Report of the Annual Report 2010 of The Linde Group. 1 Water consumption refers to drinking water and process water. It does not include oncethrough water for cooling systems, which is simply drawn from local water sources and heated. After use, it is pumped back into the original water source. The exact definitions can be found in our brochure Corporate Responsibility Accounting. Waste water Where necessary, we purify the wastewater from our production and sanitary facilities either by using our own treatment systems or by sending it to municipal or industrial plants. In 2010, we produced around 8.4 million cubic meters of waste water at our locations throughout the world. Waste water (in million m3) The Linde Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Water p.55 The exact definition can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Accounting brochure. HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT To assess our level of water pollution, we measure the amounts of phosphorus, nitrogen STRATEGY and organic compounds we release. Heavy metals can occur in the wastewater from our air FIELDS OF ACTION separation plant cooling processes. These are present in the metal pipes and their protective Ethics and compliance coating and are released by corrosion. We use phosphates as anti-corrosion agents here. Safety Environment The nitrogen and phosphate levels in 2010 were similar to those measured in the previous Energy year. The fact that the figures for chemical oxygen demand and biochemical oxygen demand were down on the previous year can primarily be explained by restructuring in Ecuador and Climate protection improved production processes. Water Resources and materials Water emissions Further emissions The Linde Group Waste Biodiversity Employees Society Products KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Water treatment solutions Our water solutions for customers help to improve the quality of untreated water and drinking water. We also offer solutions to optimise the treatment of wastewater. In addition, we offer carbon dioxide as a solution for treating high levels of sulphate and acid in lakes and mine water that pose an environmental threat to ground water. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Resources and materials p.56 Raw materials and materials consumption HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY The conservation of resources is an economic and ecologic principle for the Linde Group. As a FIELDS OF ACTION leading global supplier of industrial gases, our most important resource is the atmospheric air. Ethics and compliance We do, however, need other materials for our processes. Safety Environment We consumed approximately 65,700 tonnes of materials in 2010, including metal required to Energy manufacture components and parts, calcium carbide used to produce acetylene, ammonium Climate protection nitrate to produce laughing gas as well as coolants and other chemicals. Water Resources and materials Materials consumption (in tonnes) Further emissions The Linde Group Waste Biodiversity Employees Society Products KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT The exact definition can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Accounting brochure. Packaging materials Most of our products are delivered to customers in gas cylinders or tanks. Other products such as welding materials, however, need to be packaged, which in turn puts the spotlight on waste management and resource conservation. In 2010, we needed approximately 6,300 tonnes of packaging materials. Packaging materials (in tonnes) The Linde Group The exact definition can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Accounting brochure. Paper, cardboard and plastic are the main packaging materials we use. In line with industry standards, gas cylinders are not defined as packaging materials. After use, gas cylinders are refilled and reused. On average, our cylinders are reused three and a half times a year, and they have a lifespan of approximately 20 years. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Further emissions p.57 Air emissions and noise protection HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY We control air emissions at all of our sites around the world. As well as greenhouse gases, we FIELDS OF ACTION also analyse emissions of air pollutants. Our production processes result in air emissions of Ethics and compliance inorganic gases such as carbon monoxide (CO), sulphur oxides (SOX), nitrogen oxides (NOX), Safety ammonia (NH3) and volatile organic compounds (VOC). The VOC emissions are primarily Environment released during the painting and cleaning of metals such as gas cylinders, storage tanks Energy and plant components. The majority of CO, NOX and SOX emissions arise from combustion Climate protection processes, while NH3 may be emitted during nitrous oxide or acetylene production. Water Resources and materials We remain committed to our goal of further reducing air emissions or – where possible – Further emissions eliminating them altogether. In 2010, we managed to lower our air emissions relative to the Waste previous year. Biodiversity Employees Air emissions Society The Linde Group Products KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT We work closely with our customers to develop solutions aimed at reducing emissions. Pure oxygen, for example, offers a range of environmental benefits for foundries, heat treatment facilities, steelworks, non-ferrous metalworks, waste treatment plants and recycling facilities. Replacing air with oxygen eliminates nitrogen ballast in combustion and reheating processes. It also improves energy efficiency and reduces CO2 and NOX emissions. Noise protection measures In the interests of both our employees and neighbours, we aim to minimise noise emissions at our locations. We regularly measure noise levels both within and beyond our sites and improve ratings where appropriate by installing sound buffers, for instance. If we receive complaints about noise, we systematically follow these up. Noise protection for our employees is an important aspect of occupational safety. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Waste p.58 Waste HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY We continuously look for way to avoid waste. Where this is not feasible, we try to keep FIELDS OF ACTION our volume of waste to a minimum and reduce its environmental risk potential. In 2010, Ethics and compliance we undertook a review of the types of regional waste in order to assess potential targets Safety across our locations. We will incorporate the findings in the rocess to define global waste Environment management targets. Energy Climate protection Waste from our business operations mainly consists of oils and oil-contaminated materials Water from our plant compressors, chemicals, and metallic waste, or gas cylinders that have Resources and materials reached the end of their useful life. The majority of gas cylinders are fully recyclable and Further emissions only a few types need to be disposed of at landfill sites, as is the case, for example, with old Waste acetylene cylinders. Biodiversity Closed product cycles play an important role in increasing material and resource efficiency Employees levels and reducing waste volumes. Lime slurry for example, a by-product of acetylene Society production, is not included in our waste figures as it can be used in other industries without Products further processing or cleaning. We do not classify lime slurry as waste as over 75 percent of it KEY DATA is reused. ASSURANCE REPORT Our commitment to responsible waste management extends to working with our customers and business partners. For instance, we offer a waste collection and disposal service to some of our customers. Also, compared with conventional processes, recycling with industrial gases can help to lower emissions and energy consumption across a wide range of materials, including aluminium and rubber. In California, US, Linde and a US waste management company jointly received the “2010 Governor’s Environmental and Economic Leadership Award” for a jointly owned and operated plant that produces a sustainable supply of biofuel from landfill gas. By displacing 2.5 million gallons of diesel a year, the renewable biogas the plant produces eliminates nearly 30,000 tonnes a year of transport-related greenhouse gases. Nitrogen oxides (NOx) are reduced by almost 200 tonnes and particulate matter emissions by four tonnes a year. Total waste (in tonnes) The Linde Group The exact definition can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Accounting brochure. In 2010, Linde generated around 75,500 tonnes of waste worldwide. We classify the waste generated by our business activities as hazardous or non-hazardous in line with national legislation. Hazardous waste in the Gases Division primarily consists of oil and oilCorporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Waste p.59 contaminated materials from compressors in our air separation, acetylene and hydrogen HOME plants as well as oil-contaminated sludges generated when oil/water separators are ABOUT THIS REPORT cleaned. STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION Hazardous and non-hazardous waste (in percent) Ethics and compliance The Linde Group Safety Environment Energy Climate protection Water Resources and materials Further emissions Waste Biodiversity Employees We classify waste as hazardous or non-hazardous in line with local legislation. The exact Society definition can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Accounting“. Products 1 Not including metallic waste KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Disposal Our waste management activities also includes the proper, responsible storage and disposal of waste. We have introduced guidelines defining minimum standards here, with local legal requirements always acting as the baseline. Waste by by disposal method The Linde Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Biodiversity p.60 Biodiversity HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY As part of our environmental management programme, we examine the potential impact FIELDS OF ACTION of our activities on biodiversity. Most of our locations are in industrial or commercial zones, Ethics and compliance which means that our activities are unlikely to cause any significant additional impact on Safety biodiversity. When setting up new locations, we use standard procedures as a basis to Environment assess the potential environmental impact of our activities. This includes for example the UN Energy Voluntary Guidelines on Biodiversity-Inclusive Impact Assessment. Climate protection Water If bird sanctuaries, protected bodies of water or other sensitive habitats are located in the Resources and materials immediate vicinity of our plants, we take measures to ensure that they are not negatively Further emissions impacted. We do an on-the-spot needs analysis before deciding what measures to take. Waste Noise protection measures are one of the options here. Biodiversity Employees > More on our contributions to biodiversity with solutions for fish aquaculture and on Society environmental projects as part of our social commitment Products KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Employees p.61 Our employees HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION Ethics and compliance Safety Environment Employees Working conditions Health and safety Training Winning talents Demographic change Diversity Society Products KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Employees p.62 Our employees HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT Qualified, motivated employees are crucial to our business success. Our Group-wide HR STRATEGY strategy focuses on winning and developing the best talent and building long-term FIELDS OF ACTION loyalty to Linde as a company. Ethics and compliance Safety In 2008, we introduced a holistic concept for lasting process optimisation and productivity Environment gains (High Performance Organisation, HPO). As a cornerstone of this efficiency programme, Employees people excellence frames our overall HR strategy. This strategy has three main pillars – talent development, corporate culture and performance. Working conditions Health and safety We are committed to offering our employees safe working environments and attractive Training conditions, treating them with fairness and respect, and rewarding outstanding performance. Winning talents In return, we expect our employees to assume responsibility for the company's success Demographic change and live its values. Our Code of Ethics provides clear guidelines on how to do this, covering Diversity everything from compliance with laws and regulations to showing a sense of responsibility in Society our dealings with each other. Products KEY DATA In 2010, we had 48,430 employees a slight rise on the previous year's figure. Personnel ASSURANCE REPORT expenses at The Linde Group came to EUR 2.527 billion. The average global fluctuation rate was 5.7 percent, varying from 1.8 to 9.9 percent depending on the region. The average duration of employment in 2010 amounted to 9.7 years. Employees The Linde Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Working conditions p.63 Working conditions HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY We are committed to providing employees with fair working conditions that inspire FIELDS OF ACTION excellence. This includes recognising and acknowledging outstanding performance and giving Ethics and compliance employees the opportunity to balance personal and professional goals. Safety Environment Performance-related pay Employees Our different remuneration components encourage our employees to identify with the Working conditions company's long-term, strategic objectives. This mix includes targetand performance-related Health and safety remuneration for managers as well as a global performance management system including Training regular feedback between employees and line managers. From a certain level of seniority Winning talents upwards, remuneration includes a variable component. It is related to the company's success Demographic change in realising targets as well as the performance of the individual manager. Diversity Society We do not differentiate payment based on gender. Our employees are paid solely on the basis of their role, qualifications and performance. Our global performance management Products system includes assessments of all management positions, thus ensuring transparency, KEY DATA equality and fair-market-value remuneration. We regularly benchmark remuneration levels ASSURANCE REPORT internally and externally to ensure payments are appropriate and in keeping with established market practice. We disclose the remuneration payable to the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board in our annual report in compliance with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code. Social benefits We offer around 36,500 employees in over 50 countries company and employee-financed pension schemes and healthcare benefits. Almost 76 percent of the Group-wide workforce is thus covered by company benefit schemes. Social responsibility is a key factor for long-term schemes such as pension plans. Payments must align with the social standards of the country in question, yet also remain financially viable for the respective companies in the long term. To ensure these goals remain harmonised, The Linde Group has introduced binding pension governance guidelines that regulate the introduction, termination or modification of pension schemes. Before changes can be made to local pension schemes, they must first be approved by the Global Pension Committee. The committee is made up of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and experts from Accounting, Treasury and Human Resources. In 2010, we introduced or prepared to introduce four pension schemes in companies in Eastern Europe and Southeast Asia. In the US, we harmonised our pension structure by consolidating schemes. In 2010, we also reviewed our pension scheme structure in the UK – the largest fund in The Linde Group. In the 2010 financial year, we spent a total of EUR 178 million (2009: EUR 186 million) on pensions and support. We provided occupational pensions for 28,620 current employees who are active members of schemes. 18,479 former employees have acquired a non-forfeitable entitlement to a company pension (deferred pensions) and 32,584 pensioners drew a Group occupational pension. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Working conditions p.64 Co-determination HOME The relationship between employees, employee representatives and unions is based on a fair ABOUT THIS REPORT balance between our business interests and the interests of our people worldwide. In 2010, STRATEGY 54.9 percent of our payroll was employed under collective wage agreements (2009: 55.3 FIELDS OF ACTION percent). Ethics and compliance Safety In Germany, the Works Constitution Act regulates cooperation between company Environment management and employee representatives. Employee representation is two-tiered, Employees consisting of decentralised works councils in the individual units and a central works council Working conditions for the Group as a whole. In addition to this dual co-determination system, Linde has Health and safety maintained a European Works Council with 28 members since 2007. This body promotes communication between European employee representatives across national borders. Training Winning talents Talks between the company and employee representatives in Germany in 2010 focused, for Demographic change instance, on compliance training, the assignment of childcare places and financial subsidies Diversity for childcare. Group Works Agreements were concluded on each of these subjects. Society Products The European Works Council of Linde AG initiated a project in 2011 to improve collaboration KEY DATA between management and the European Works Council on cross-country HR matters. ASSURANCE REPORT This initiative aims to establish a consultation protocol, which will enable employee representatives to express concerns in good time and give them a reasonable degree of influence over HR developments that affect more than one country. The project is supported by the European Union and is scheduled to finish in summer 2012. We provide timely reports to our employees and employee representative committees on key operational changes. Employees covered by collective wage agreements (in percent) The Linde Group Figure included in the Group Management Report of the Annual Report 2010 of The Linde Group. Benefit plans We offer our employees various benefit plans. These are organised at local level and vary from location to location. Examples include occupational pension plans and childcare subsidies. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Working conditions p.65 Work-life balance HOME We help employees balance private and professional goals by offering flexible work schemes, ABOUT THIS REPORT childcare support and support for employees with family members who require special care. STRATEGY In addition to flexitime and teleworking options, we offer part-time work models. In 2010, FIELDS OF ACTION 1.9 percent of The Linde Group workforce were part-time employees. 332 employees in total Ethics and compliance took parental leave in 2010, and 21 of these were men. Safety Environment Since the beginning of 2007, our employees in Germany have had access to a professional childcare support service that helps them find au pairs as well as emergency or holiday Employees childcare services. In 2008, this programme was expanded to include support for employees Working conditions looking after family members who require special care. Linde covers consultation and serviceHealth and safety finding fees. We also offer a number of daycare places in and around Munich. To meet rising Training demand, we increased the number of places from 20 to 37 in 2011. The places are awarded Winning talents according to social circumstances. Beyond the Munich area, we offer financial childcare Demographic change subsidies for employees living in Germany. Diversity Society We also offer employees in the US consultation and service-finding support to help them find Products childcare services and care services for family members who require special care. Employees at our British company have the option of childcare vouchers. The vouchers are issued by a KEY DATA service provider and can be redeemed at state-approved childcare facilities. ASSURANCE REPORT Labour and social standards We are actively committed to protecting and promoting human rights. Our Code of Ethics advocates the core principles of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights, and outlines our commitment to uphold human rights worldwide. These include the right to dignity, the prohibition of discrimination and harassment, the right to privacy, the prohibition of slavery and servitude, the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association as well as the right to fair remuneration. We also expect our suppliers to uphold labour standards and human rights. Binding worldwide, our Ethical-legal Principles Procurement align with the principles anchored in the conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. They include: entitlement to occupational safety and health, compliance with legislation governing hours of work and remuneration, the right to equal opportunities and equality of treatment, the prohibition of forced and child labour and the guaranteed availability of communication channels and negotiation structures between employers and employees. Non-compliance with any of these principles has an impact on our assessment and selection of business partners. Our employees work in countries with varying conventions governing hours of work per week. These standards are based on national regulations and collective wage agreements. Suspected instances of non-compliance with our Code of Ethics or our Ethical-legal Principles Procurement can be reported at any time to our Linde Integrity Line reporting system. Our endorsement of the UN Global Compact means that we also commit to upholding the principles governing human rights and labour standards. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Working conditions p.66 > More on the Linde Integrity Line and on our participation in the Global Compact HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT Employee satisfaction STRATEGY In 2010, we carried out a global voluntary employee survey for the first time. 73 percent of FIELDS OF ACTION forms were completed and returned, confirming a high level of interest among employees. Ethics and compliance Based on this survey, our Employee Engagement Index is on a par with equivalent global Safety figures reported by other companies. The index is based on four key questions about Environment employee satisfaction in the workplace. Employees Working conditions The results of the survey point indicate widespread support for our corporate strategy. Health and safety Furthermore, employees confirm that our commitment to safety, health, environment and quality is lived throughout the company. Participants also showed great willingness to Training translate the results of the survey into concrete actions. Winning talents Demographic change The survey also provided us with valuable insights into ways of increasing employee Diversity satisfaction. For instance, our employees would welcome improvements in the areas of Society personnel management and talent development as well as communication to support this. Products KEY DATA Following evaluation of the survey results, team meetings were held in all lines of business ASSURANCE REPORT to discuss the current status, plan binding improvement action plans and track performance. We are planning a follow-up survey in 2012 to assess the success of these action plans and reevaluate employee satisfaction levels. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Health and safety p.67 Occupational health and safety HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY Our occupational health and safety standards protect our employees and contractors against FIELDS OF ACTION work-related risks at Linde und help them stay healthy. We use our management system for Ethics and compliance safety, health, environment and quality (SHEQ) to systematically identify workplace risks Safety worldwide and define measures to control these risks. Environment Employees We benchmark and evaluate our performance in these areas against key performance Working conditions indicators (KPIs), including, for example, statistics on workplace incidents and injuries and the Health and safety number of safety training sessions attended. We verify and document compliance with our Training standards through regular internal audits. Winning talents Demographic change Each year, we acknowledge best practices in safety through our Improvement Award. Part of The Linde Group Safety Awards, this recognition is presented to the site or company that has Diversity made the most progress in reducing Lost Time Injury (LTI) rates. Society Products > More on HSE training and audits, on The Linde Group Safety Awards and on product safety KEY DATA activities ASSURANCE REPORT Raising awareness amongst our employees Through regular, systematic training, we promote a high level of health and safety awareness amongst employees and contractor personnel, and want to ensure that our requirements are implemented correctly. We regularly assess the need for training at individual locations and develop training programmes accordingly. In parallel, we also run campaigns and initiatives targeted at health and safety. > More on safety training for our customers Occupational health measures In 2010, we introduced new Group minimum requirements for occupational health management following a Group-wide qualitative review in this area. Under the umbrella of this initiative, we are gradually rolling out additional key performance indicators (KPI) for health management. In addition, we defined binding and uniform role profiles for regional health experts in 2010. The aim is to identify specific training needs and support the implementation of our new Group standards across our lines of business. We offer our employees a range of health schemes tailored to the different risks and requirements of our business divisions. Especially in our international plant engineering business, many employees are required to live and work abroad – in many cases, contending with unfamiliar climates and health risks. Appropriate medical check-ups, for instance, are therefore mandatory for employees prior to on-site assignments abroad. We also ensure that reliable medical care is available at the foreign destination. In addition, we align our health programmes with regional needs. In some regions we have implemented local health programmes. In Germany for example, Linde has been subsidising non-smoking courses for many years. Also in Germany, negotiations are underway for a Group Works Agreement supporting the reintegration of employees who have been off work for extended periods of time due to illness. Our South African subsidiary Afrox has had its own HIV and Aids programme for employees since 2003. Employees can use the Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Health and safety p.68 programme to register for treatment anonymously. By 2010, 70 percent of Afrox employees HOME had taken part in a special HIV/Aids awareness course. These courses are a mandatory part ABOUT THIS REPORT of introductory training for new employees. STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION In the 2010 financial year, the average number of days lost due to sickness per employee totalled 5.3. Ethics and compliance Safety Days sick leave (average per employee) Environment The Linde Group Employees Working conditions Health and safety Training Winning talents Demographic change Diversity Society The exact definition can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Accounting brochure. Products Figure included in the Group Management Report of the Annual Report 2010 of The Linde Group KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Over the coming years, we intend to further expand and globally harmonise our integrated SHEQ management system. In the area of occupational health and safety, we are focusing in particular on the safe handling of chemicals, noise exposure, as well as health risks resulting from manual or repetitive work. Occupational safety measures Our occupational safety programme includes Group-wide minimum requirements and guidance on a wide range of operational and SHEQ management topics and activities. The Linde Golden Rules of Safety set out global minimum standards for seven critical activities in our business, focusing on incident reporting driver and vehicle safety, contractor management, working at heights, lifting operations, engineering change management and permits for safety-critical work. The lost time injury rate (number of workplace lost time injuries per million hours worked) was further reduced in 2010 to 1.9 per million hours worked. The lost time injury rate for contractors increased to 2.2 per million hours worked. Workplace accidents per million hours worked (lost time injury rate; LTIR) The Linde Group The exact definition can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Accounting brochure. Within KPMG assurance scope. The assurance report for the reporting year 2010 is available here Figure included in the Group Management Report of the Annual Report 2010 of The Linde Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Health and safety p.69 To keep our LTI rate as low as possible, we continually evolve our extensive safety HOME management system and implement a wide range of initiatives and programmes to further ABOUT THIS REPORT improve our safety culture and our risk management. STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION It is with sadness that ouwe report six fatalities at The Linde Group in 2010. Two involved Ethics and compliance our own employees and four involved contractor employees. All fatalities were vehicleSafety related as a result of transport operations. Linde continues to focus on the causes of transport Environment incidents and puts measures in place to further reduce the risks. Concrete measures include Employees the implementation of an extensive driver training programme and vehicle roll-over training. Working conditions Health and safety Training Winning talents Demographic change Diversity Society Products KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Training p.70 Vocational education and training HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY In today’s highly competitive marketplace for talent, we focus on recruiting and retaining FIELDS OF ACTION high potentials and building long-term loyalty with our employees. Cornerstones of our Ethics and compliance HR management programme include training for young talent and ongoing, needs-driven Safety professional development for employees worldwide. Environment Employees Talent development measures Working conditions Regular review meetings with Linde employees focus on steering professional development. Health and safety In this context, we are currently expanding our Group-wide performance management Training system. Winning talents We offer a wide range of programmes to constantly build employee skills and foster a Demographic change positive attitude to change and learning in general. The individual programmes are designed Diversity to meet the varying needs of the different professional profiles across the company. The main Society emphasis of training initiatives is on practice-oriented learning. Products KEY DATA We have bundled international training and development programmes in leadership and ASSURANCE REPORT business management under the umbrella of the Linde University. The Global Talent Circle, which we started in 2010, is one example of these initiatives. It is aimed at executives in middle management. We partner with leading business schools for this initiative. The Global Talent Circle aims to give participants in-depth knowledge and skills in business administration, management and personnel leadership. The programme was held twice in 2010. We continued our Global Leadership Development Circle (GLDC) in 2010 at the Linde University. The programme was developed in collaboration with the Business School at the University of Oxford. Various experts ensure that the latest scientific findings and management theories are channelled into the learning experience. GLDC is targeted at experienced managers with a high level of staff responsibility. Earmarking tomorrow’s leaders We bring talented young employees together under the umbrella of our Junior Circles and Regional Talent Circles. These programmes enable us to identify potential leaders, strengthen their interpersonal, leadership and management skills, and build long-term loyalty to the company. Junior Circles are key programmes in the three regions of Continental and Northern Europe, Eastern Europe and the Middle East, and the UK & Ireland. The programmes are part of our people excellence initiative. In addition, we expanded our Line Manager Development Programme for first and second line managers in 2010. This programme teaches a number of core skills, including how to effectively steer and actively engage employees. 3.900 of our 5.000 or so executives had already completed the training course by mid 2011. In summer 2011, we started the second phase of our Line manager Training as a pilot project in order so ensure the long-term impact of the training. On completion of these pilots, we intend to implement the programme globally. We also offer employee development programmes at local level, tailored to regional requirements. Our Linde China University, for example, focuses on our managers in China. In 2010, over 200 employees took part in our internal regional mentoring programmes. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Training p.71 In 2010 we joined the European Institute for Industrial Leadership, an organisation that HOME specialises in coaching managers from scientific/technical companies. The institute's courses ABOUT THIS REPORT enable our employees to network with participants from other companies and industries and STRATEGY exchange experiences. FIELDS OF ACTION Every employee spent an average of two days in training during 2010. The company spent Ethics and compliance EUR 241 on training per employee (2009: EUR 216). The number of employees who availed of Safety training opportunities rose by 5 percent. Environment Employees Employees who have taken up training opportunities (in percent) Working conditions The Linde Group Health and safety Training Winning talents Demographic change Diversity Society Products KEY DATA Figure included in the Group Management Report of the Annual Report 2010 of The Linde Group ASSURANCE REPORT We identified a number of priorities for our HR development programme for 2011 and 2012. These include the targeted development of female talent at management level, the expansion of our performance management system and the continued expansion of our management training portfolio. Within the umbrella of Linde University Campus Asia Pacific, we are, for instance, planning a leadership development programme for the entire Asia Pacific region. Training opportunities at Linde We offer a wide range of industrial/technical and commercial training opportunities worldwide. In Germany, for example, we offer apprenticeships in twelve professions. In 2010, we were able to maintain the number of training positions in both the Gases and Engineering Divisions in Germany. Each division hired between 25 and 30 percent of the young people who completed their training. We partner up with universities and third-level institutes that offer dual study programmes to train up-and-coming engineers in process technology, industrial engineering, construction and electrical engineering. In 2010, apprentices and trainees accounted for 1.3 percent of the entire workforce. Over 50 percent of these were based in companies outside of Germany. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Training p.72 Proportion of apprentices and trainees (in percent) HOME The Linde Group ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION Ethics and compliance Safety Environment Employees Working conditions Health and safety Training Winning talents Demographic change Diversity Society Products KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Winning talents p.73 Winning talents HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY We provide a wide range of starting-out and skill-building programmes for young talent. FIELDS OF ACTION Work placements give school goers and university students an early opportunity to get to Ethics and compliance know our company. Students can complete their thesis research (bachelors, masters or PhD) Safety on the basis of a challenging business or technical project with the support of a dedicated Environment mentor and our various experts. We also offer student workers the opportunity to flank their Employees learning with practical experience in one of our areas of expertise. Working conditions Health and safety Attracting graduates to Linde Training We maintain contact with past interns and trainees at Linde Engineering via our loyalty Winning talents programme Continue . As part of this programme, we organise interesting talks, business Demographic change exercises, workshops and other activities in order to win graduates directly over to Linde. Diversity Society Our trainee and graduate programmes ensure that college and university graduates are Products ideally equipped for a subsequent career at Linde. We offer business and technical graduate KEY DATA programmes within the different divisions and business units. These usually last between ASSURANCE REPORT 16 and 24 months and include at least one post abroad. They provide an ideal, international platform for graduates to gain early professional experience and quickly build networks. In addition, we offer regional programmes for talented university graduates such as the graduate programme for the Continental and Northern Europe region as well as Eastern Europe and Middle East region. We recruited 16 graduates for this programme in 2011. There is a lack of engineers in South Africa. The graduate programme of our South African company Afrox is therefore geared towards the next generation of engineers. Each year, Afrox selects ten to fifteen of the best engineering students after their first year at university as future managers and finances the remainder of their studies. The students can complete internships at the company during semester vacations to get to know the company before joining. Afrox also offers grants to build loyalty at an early stage with students in mechanical engineering, industrial chemistry and electrical engineering. In the South Pacific region, Group member BOC focuses on winning graduates from six target universities for its graduate programme. For all of these talent development initiatives, The Linde Group also cooperates with different schools, universities and foundations. In Germany, for example, we partner with the Technical University Munich (TUM), the Technical University Dresden, the secondary boarding school Schloss Hansenberg and the Bayerische Eliteakademie (Bavarian Elite Academy). In Singapore, we offer educational tours of our HyCO plant on Jurong Island to students pursuing chemical engineering studies. In 2010, 90 students from the chemical engineering faculty of the National University of Singapore and from Temasek Polytechnic participated in the tours. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Demographic change p.74 Demographic change HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY We created the work/life balance taskforce in 2008. It brings together employer and FIELDS OF ACTION employee representatives to addresses issues such as the effects of demographic change. Ethics and compliance We also carried out a demographics analysis of our companies in Germany. Safety Environment Around 60 percent of our permanent workforce were between 31 and 50 years of age in Employees 2010. The proportion of employees aged 50-plus has increased continuously in recent years Working conditions and now accounts for almost a quarter of the entire workforce. Health and safety Training Age structure of employees (in percent) Winning talents The Linde Group Demographic change Diversity Society Products KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Figure included in the Group Management Report of the Annual Report 2010 of The Linde Group Recruitment activities Competition for qualified specialists is rising in many industrialised countries due to demographic shifts. We must therefore continue to increase our appeal as an employer and step up the efficiency of our recruitment efforts. Health and working environment In light of changing demographics, we aim to increasingly adapt working environments to meet the needs of older workers. Here we focus in particular on maintaining physical and mental performance. In Germany, we are currently planning activities into achieve this in cooperation with the health insurance fund BKK. Another example of our proactive stance in this area is the active encouragement of learning among older members of staff through the WeGebAu (Weiterbildung Geringqualifizierter und beschäftigter älterer Arbeitnehmer in Unternehmen) programme. Linde is organising this scheme in conjunction with the educational institute of industry and commerce in Bavaria (Bildungswerk der bayerischen Wirtschaft). Demographics fund We set up a demographics fund in conjunction with a number of other companies in the chemical industry. Each year, we pay 300 euros for each employee with a collective wage Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Demographic change p.75 agreement into the fund. The proceeds of this fund will contribute to the company pension HOME scheme and help finance part-time contracts for older workers. ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY > More on pension plans FIELDS OF ACTION Ethics and compliance Demographic change and healthcare solutions Safety Longer life expectancy, the growing number of chronically ill patients and the resulting Environment increases in healthcare costs present society with new challenges. Employees Working conditions Our healthcare products can make an important contribution to resolving these challenges – Health and safety helping older patients, for example, who rely on mechanical ventilation. Training Winning talents > More on healthcare products Demographic change Diversity Society Products KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Diversity p.76 Opportunities through diversity HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY At the end of 2010, The Linde Group employed over 48,000 people in more than 100 FIELDS OF ACTION countries. Each member of our workforce brings his or her unique perspectives, experiences Ethics and compliance and skills to the table. We regard this as a huge opportunity for the company. Our aim is build Safety the best teams worldwide that understand customer needs on the ground, know the local Environment markets and understand and respect cultural differences. Employees Working conditions We have long recognised the benefits of a diverse, multicultural workforce as we believe this Health and safety is one of our key success factors. Over 70 percent of employees in senior management, for Training example, are from 40-plus countries other than Germany. Diversity is one of our key values Winning talents and a cornerstone of our corporate culture. Demographic change The international makeup of Linde AG’s Executive Board reinforces the multicultural nature Diversity of our company. In 2011, Sanjiv Lamba from India was appointed to the Executive Board Society of Linde AG. Based in Singapore, he is responsible for the company's gases business in Products Greater China, South & East Asia and the South Pacific regions, Asian joint ventures and the KEY DATA Electronics Business Unit. 2011 saw the appointment of Prof. Ann-Kristin Achleitner to the ASSURANCE REPORT Supervisory Board of Linde AG. Prof. Achleitner has extensive international experience. She was voted in at the 2011 annual general meeting to replace a Supervisory Board member who stepped down from the Board. > More on values and principles Diversity Management Our diversity management programme gives us a framework to capitalise on the opportunities presented by a varied workforce. Our Code of Ethics prohibits discrimination in any form at Linde. What this means, for example, is that open positions must be awarded to the best candidate, regardless of gender, race, nationality, ethnic origin, religion, ideology, disability, age, sexual persuasion or identity. Remuneration at Linde is also based solely on each individual's tasks, qualifications and performance. Violations of these standards can be reported to line managers, the appropriate HR department or our central Linde Integrity Committee at any time. Diversity management activities pursued by our various companies are shaped by the respective social context. At our South African company Afrox, for example, Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) continues to play a key role by supporting segments of the population who suffered discrimination under the Apartheid regime. Female representation is a much debated issue in Germany. We also expect our suppliers to uphold the principles of equal opportunities and equality of treatment. We refer to these standards in our Ethical-legal Principles Procurement. In 2011, we signed the diversity charter, a corporate initiative in Germany that supports diversity in companies – thus underscoring our commitment to diversity. Female staff We are committed to equality between women and men. The percentage of women in The Linde Group has remained constant over the past years at 20 percent. The number of women Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Diversity p.77 in management positions varies significantly at each management level and decreases HOME as responsibility increases. In 2010, 10.3 percent of senior managers were women. The ABOUT THIS REPORT percentage of women in management positions has thus increased slightly compared with STRATEGY previous years. FIELDS OF ACTION Proportion of women (in percent) Ethics and compliance The Linde Group Safety Environment Employees Working conditions Health and safety Training Winning talents Demographic change Diversity Society Products Figure included in the Group Management Report of the Annual Report 2010 of The Linde Group KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT We are committed to further increasing the percentage of female workers in the general workforce and at management level across The Linde Group. 2010 saw us take further action to increase our appeal as an employer for women. In North America, we created a new graduate programme for technical sales engineers. Five of the seven participants are women. In the Continental and Northern Europe region, 50 percent of participants in the region's graduate programme are women. We also intend to raise the percentage of women in our Global Leadership Development Circle and Global Talent Circle programmes. In addition, we plan to recruit 20 female high potentials from around the world for a global female technical talent programme. The company also intends to launch an in-house awareness campaign promoting opportunities for women in management. Supporting severely disabled employees Our commitment to equal opportunities includes supporting employees with severe disabilities or health issues. A Group Works Agreement governing the reintegration of employees who were not able to work for extended periods back into working life has been in place since 1995. A new Group Works Agreement on reintegration management is currently under discussion. The aim is to find tailored solutions that enable individuals to return to work. In our German companies, the percentage of employees with disabilities has remained constant over the years. In 2010, 251 people with severe disabilities were employed by Linde in Germany. This corresponds to 3.5 percent (2009: 3.3 percent). The value of orders that we placed in Germany with workshops for people with disabilities rose to over 80,000 euros during the period under review. We also offer people with disabilities appropriate work opportunities at sites beyond Germany where there are no comparable legal regulations. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Society p.78 Social commitment HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION Ethics and compliance Safety Environment Employees Society Focus areas Employee engagement Disaster relief Products KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Society p.79 Social commitment HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT For Linde, taking responsibility also means being a good neighbour – as a business STRATEGY partner, an attractive employer and a corporate citizen committed to actively shaping FIELDS OF ACTION the communities in which we live and work. We ensure that our social engagement Ethics and compliance ties in with our core business and encourage our employees to get actively involved in community projects. Safety Environment Across the globe, The Linde Group participates in numerous community projects and Employees initiatives to support local communities. This engagement takes the form of donations, Society sponsorships, foundations or simply time devoted by our employees. Our strategy here is Focus areas shaped by a number of key criteria and aims: Employee engagement Disaster relief Alignment with core business: We provide long-term support for projects that harmonise in Products particular with our own philosophy and strategy. KEY DATA Focus areas: We have defined focus areas for our community activities. So we support in ASSURANCE REPORT particular initiatives that promote research, education and science, plus projects where we can step up to our responsibility as a corporate citizen and good neighbour, contributing our specialised know-how as a technology player and industrial gases expert. Local context: We are particularly committed to the communities where our employees live and work, and align our activities with local social needs. Employee involvement: We encourage staff to get involved in social and environmental activities in their local communities, and provide support them in doing so. Emergency relief: Linde as a company and our employees provide fast, efficient emergency relief in the wake of disasters. Donations: Our donation guidelines provide a standardised framework for donations within The Linde Group, aligned with the aims of our corporate citizenship strategy. Cross-regional activities are organised by the Group headquarters in Munich. Local activities are coordinated at regional level. South African Group member Afrox, for instance, donates one percent of its after-tax profits each year to good causes. As a company, Linde does not make donations to political parties. In the US, however, employees of Linde have set up a federal political action committee to collect donations for politicians, political parties and associations. We remain committed to our aim of providing key indicators to substantiate our corporate citizenship activities and their contribution to society. In 2010, we carried out a survey of our regional sponsoring initiatives and CR activities across the globe, evaluating around 200 projects. We intend to report global corporate citizenship indicators as of 2012. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Focus areas p.80 Strategic focus areas HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION Research, education and science Ethics and compliance By promoting education and science, we are investing in the communities where we operate. Here we focus on projects that are closely linked to our core business and initiatives that Safety stand to benefit from our know-how as a technology player and industrial gases expert. Environment Employees For instance, we foster interest in natural sciences among children and young adults. The Society BOC Gases Challenge, for example, is a competition run in secondary schools in the UK aimed Focus areas at inspiring pupils to develop innovative ideas in the area of chemical technology. The best Employee engagement entries receive a prize. Under the motto “It’s a Gas , Linde experts from the UK & Ireland Disaster relief Regional Business Unit also visit schools and universities to raise interest in industrial gas Products applications. In 2010, Linde employees also visited schools in Korea and North America as science ambassadors from the world of industry. KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT In Germany, Linde is a sponsor of Schloss Hansenberg, a secondary boarding school for especially talented and motivated pupils. We also support the Physics Prize, which is awarded by Bavaria’s state universities to students who produce the best school-leaving results. The Deutsches Museum in Munich plays an important role in fostering interest in science and technology among children, young people and adults. As one of the founding members of the museum’s Future Initiative programme, we are supporting the renovation and modernisation of the world's largest science and technology museum with a total donation of 5 million euros over a ten-year period. Education is also a big priority in the regional projects that both the company and its employees support across the globe. In 2010, for example, South African Group member Afrox invested most of its corporate citizenship budget in maths and science programmes as well as in other educational programs and scholarships in local communities. As part of a regional project we have started a pilot in Ecuador, based on a partnership with Junior Achievement, an international organisation represented in more than 100 countries. Junior Achievement helps prepare school children for professional careers by providing them with general economic and entrepreneurial skills. The organisation primarily targets young adults from disadvantaged backgrounds. We have undertaken a host of initiatives to help universities train the engineers and scientists of tomorrow. The Carl von Linde Academy at the Technical University of Munich (TUM) is sponsored by Linde. It gives budding engineers, natural scientists and computer scientists a grounding in intellectual, cultural and social studies that extends far beyond pure technical knowledge. At the Technical University of Dresden, the Group sponsors the Linde Award, a series of prizes that recognise outstanding research projects and theses in the fields of process technology and chemical engineering. Focus on medical aid Linde Healthcare is involved in a number of community activities around the world to help improve quality of care, broaden the understanding of medical conditions, provide information and training as well as raise the level of hospital effectiveness. Health is one of the core areas into which we channel science and research funding. In 2010 we set up the Linde Healthcare REALfund to continue Linde’s tradition of innovation in Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Focus areas p.81 healthcare, by supporting and stimulating novel ideas, research and projects relating to the HOME use of gases in therapeutic focus areas. The REALfund supports projects for new applications ABOUT THIS REPORT of gases, devices for safe and effective application of gases or monitoring of effects and STRATEGY success of gas-related therapies, as well as complementary products and services in the field. FIELDS OF ACTION Recent REALfund awards have been made for further research on how oxygen therapy can Ethics and compliance help patients with the lung disease COPD; research on the use of nitric oxide in the treatment of infections for cystic fibrosis; investigation of the effect of oxygen on headaches, including Safety migraines; and investigation of how new technology can be used to monitor patient oxygen Environment saturation and heart rate from home rather than in hospital. The four grantees, selected from Employees over 30 applications, received a total EUR 300,000 in funding in 2011. Society Focus areas In Australia we co-operate with Redkite, a national charity that provides practical, financial Employee engagement and educational assistance for children with cancer and their families. Over the course Disaster relief of 2010, we increased our long-standing commitment to this organisation and now offer Products employees in Australia the chance to donate part of their paid annual leave (Kitetime) to KEY DATA Redkite in the form of a cash payment. In Germany Linde Healthcare sponsors AtemWeg, an ASSURANCE REPORT organisation dedicated to further exploring the causes and potential treatments of chronic lung disease, linking basic research and clinical treatment. In 2010 we provided the charitable organisation INTERPLAST with nine mobile oxygen concentrators for on-site oxygen generation. These are earmarked for INTERPLAST trips to Ecuador, Sierra Leone, Rwanda, Tanzania and Nepal. INTERPLAST could thus carry out 130 surgical interventions during a three-week mission in Sierra Leone alone. Commitment to environmental protection Our employees are involved in environmental projects at many sites around the globe. The “Where There’s Water” environmental programme in New Zealand was instigated by Linde employees, for instance. Its goal is to promote water conservation. The project is run by the environmental organisation Water New Zealand with financial support from our local company. Environmental protection was also the central theme of the HELP programme in the South & East Asia region during the course of 2010. Linde and other neighbouring companies in Penang’s Free Industrial Zone launched a major programme to clean the nearby river Parit MOX, named after local Linde Group member MOX-Linde Gases. The companies are supplying the necessary biological materials, while their employees are investing their free time to form thousands of mud balls made of red earth, molasses, bio-compost and bacteria. This continuous biological purification method stops algae growth, inhibits pathogen development and regulates the ammonia content of the water. In India, employees of BOC, a member of The Linde Group, teamed up with a regional NGO to plant 10,000 trees in a number of villages including those devastated by the 2009 cyclone Aila. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Employee engagement p.82 Active involvement from our employees HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY Many of our employees are committed to helping their local communities through a range FIELDS OF ACTION of activities including projects that focus on children, young people and environmental Ethics and compliance protection, or through relief efforts following natural disasters. At many of our sites, we Safety support the voluntary efforts of our employees in their local communities by enabling them to Environment take time off work, by providing financial support or matching donations. Employees Society In North America, Linde has made a tradition of its annual Giving Campaign. Here, volunteers Focus areas organise various initiatives to collect financial donations for charitable causes and Employee engagement organisations. The company then doubles the final sum. In 2010, the company raised 380,000 Disaster relief US dollars, 12 percent more than in 2009. A third more employees took part in the project Products than in the previous year. KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Our South Pacific and Africa Regional Business Units (RBUs) channel their sense of corporate citizenship into Community Involvement Programmes. In Australia and New Zealand, the corporate citizenship programme focuses on three main areas: supporting the families of children suffering from cancer (Redkite initiative), developing improved road safety awareness among driving aged school children and promoting environmental projects, in particular water conservation (Where There's Water). At our South African Group member Afrox, a large share of the workforce is involved in the company’s regional Community Involvement Programme. Employees work with the local authorities at the various Afrox locations throughout South Africa and in various other African countries to identify pressing needs and align aid activities accordingly. Support for disadvantaged children is a top priority here. In 2010, Afrox supported around 80 projects to the benefit of over 7,000 children. In the South & East Asia region, we established the HELP Community Involvement Programme in 2010. This bundles a varying range of aid, sponsorship and environmental activities. Our employees are actively involved in the programme at ground level. HELP represents four areas that are particularly important to Linde: Healthcare, Education, Local community development/assistance, and environmental Protection. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Disaster relief p.83 Emergency relief HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY In the event of emergencies, we provide help fast by donating money and equipment and FIELDS OF ACTION providing on-site assistance. Following the severe earthquake in Haiti in January 2010, our Ethics and compliance North American company immediately began working with the American Red Cross and set Safety up a website for employee donations. Employees donated over 30,000 US dollars, which Environment the company matched to bring the grand total to over 60,000 US dollars. The Linde Group Employees Corporate Center in Munich supported local aid organisations with an additional donation of Society 100,000 euros. Focus areas Employee engagement Catastrophic flooding in Pakistan following heavy rainfalls in 2010 affected millions in the Disaster relief country, causing severe hardship for many people whose homes were seriously damaged or Products completely destroyed. We quickly mobilised rebuilding assistance, also providing financial KEY DATA support and offering paid leave to employees who wanted to give voluntary assistance. Staff donations from Pakistan and the South & East Asia regional head office in Singapore were ASSURANCE REPORT also collected, amounting to around 112,000 euros. This money went to two local non-profit organisations specialised in emergency flood relief and reconstruction in Pakistan. In Thailand, flooding devastated 21 provinces in the past year and rendered 890,000 people homeless. Here, similar to Pakistan, Linde employees and their families were affected. We set up temporary accommodation near our premises and provided food, drinking water and financial support. We also provided emergency aid to victims in the nearby province of Saraburi. In addition, we made a corporate donation to the national flood relief fund, while employees at various locations organised donations of money, rice and dried foodstuffs for victims of the flooding. Linde Indonesia supported the Indonesian Red Cross in 2010 with funds to assist victims affected of the volcano eruption, andslides and tsunami that struck the Indonesian Mentawai Islands. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Products p.84 Products for a sustainable future HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION Ethics and compliance Safety Environment Employees Society Products Research and development Energy and environment technologies Healthcare KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Products p.85 Products for a sustainable future HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT We are committed to solutions that unite the goals of customer value and sustainable STRATEGY development. These include technologies aimed at reducing the current environmental FIELDS OF ACTION impact of fossil fuels and reducing CO2 emissions, as well as products for protecting Ethics and compliance water resources and contributing to improved healthcare. Safety Environment As the world’s population increases, so too does demand for environmentally friendly technologies and solutions that have the ability, for instance, to secure energy supplies, Employees purify drinking water and optimise healthcare delivery. We have prioritised three megaSociety trends and intend to align our business activities increasingly with those. Within each of Products these focus areas, we make an active contribution to the goals of sustainable development Research and development with our products and technologies. Energy and environment technologies 1. Energy and the environment: Our portfolio already includes numerous products and Healthcare technologies that help our customers minimise their environmental footprint. We focus KEY DATA on climate protection, energy efficiency, the efficient use of resources, as well as on the ASSURANCE REPORT responsible management of water resources. 2. Healthcare: Ageing populations and the growing prevalence of chronic diseases are opening up new growth markets for us as a leading supplier of healthcare products. Our portfolio of medical gases supports the treatment of chronic diseases and helps to ease some of the pressure caused by rising treatment costs and over-burdened health systems. 3. Emerging economies: Linde is already very well-positioned in the fast-growing economies. Asia and the Middle East alone already account for almost half of our Engineering Division’s contract wins. We are helping to satisfy the emerging economies’ rising demands for energy and environmental technologies as well as for high-quality medical care. > More on customers and markets and on product safety and quality Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Research and development p.86 Research and development HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY We continuously open up new application opportunities for our gases and optimise existing FIELDS OF ACTION process technologies. To ensure the best possible fit for individual needs, we work closely Ethics and compliance with our customers. In the last financial year, we spent a total of EUR 94 million on research Safety and development and filed 232 new patent applications. Environment Employees Expenditure for research and development (in € million) Society The Linde Group Products Research and development Energy and environment technologies Healthcare KEY DATA ASSURANCE REPORT Figure included in the Group Management Report of the Annual Report 2010 of The Linde Group Focus on eco-friendly technologies Our R & D activities are focussed on those global megatrends that stand to benefit substantially from our products and technologies. We have identified six trends of particular relevance and will be aligning our R & D projects even more closely with these market dynamics in future. They are as follows: reduced environmental impact, industrial process efficiency, clean energy, healthy eating and convenience food, geographic and demographic shifts, and performance materials. Our research activities focus in particular on the environmental impact of production processes. Key priorities include the need to increase energy efficiency across technological processes and plants and cut the emissions released during production – by both Linde and our customers. As in previous years, the Engineering Division’s R&D expenditure in 2010 was targeted at developing new and existing technologies in its four product lines – air separation plants, olefin plants, natural gas plants and hydrogen and synthesis gas plants. As always, efforts concentrated on ways to improve energy efficiency and further reduce the environmental impact of plants. The search for a sustainable, climate-friendly source of energy is increasingly throwing the spotlight on renewable raw materials. Our work here includes research into ways of generating hydrogen from biogenic raw materials. At our site in Leuna (Saxony-Anhalt, Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Research and development p.87 Germany), we have constructed a pilot plant that produces hydrogen from glycerol. The HOME technology used in this process was developed by our engineers and has already been ABOUT THIS REPORT lab tested. With the pilot plant in Leuna we have demonstrated industrial-scale technical STRATEGY feasibility and are now able to supply hydrogen-powered fuel-cell vehicles with certified FIELDS OF ACTION “green” hydrogen. Ethics and compliance Safety When measuring our innovation performance, we do not rely solely on lagging indicators, such as the absolute number of patents registered. We have also introduced a leading Environment indicator to benchmark the Group’s innovative contribution to environmental and climate Employees protection. Going forward, we intend to make greater use of this Environmental Innovation Society Performance Indicator (EIP) to evaluate our innovation processes. Products Research and development Innovation award Energy and environment The Linde Innovators Club was set up to promote a culture of creativity and inventiveness technologies among the Group’s engineers and technicians. 2010 marked the fifth year of honouring Healthcare the most outstanding innovations under the Linde Group Patent and Innovation Award KEY DATA umbrella. Awards are presented for the ten best patents registered during a calendar year in ASSURANCE REPORT each of the following categories: technological invention, commercial invention and Group innovation. The outstanding patent applications are often directly linked to environmental and climate protection. Examples include innovations in the fields of renewable energy and hydrogen technology, CO2-free power generation and emissions reduction, as well as new technologies to increase plant efficiency. > More on our research and development outlook Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Energy and environmental technologies -p.88 Energy and environmental technologies HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY With a range of innovative technologies and products, we are helping to tackle major FIELDS OF ACTION ecological challenges of our time. We have, for instance, a broad technology portfolio aimed Ethics and compliance at reducing the current environmental impact of fossil fuels and reducing CO2 emissions. In Safety addition, we are driving the development of alternative fuels and renewable energy sources. Environment Employees Technologies for energy efficiency and climate protection Society We provide modern energy-saving technologies and clean energy solutions to support Products a climate friendly transition to new forms of energy production and usage. In 2010, we Research and development collaborated on a number of environmental and climate protection projects with partners Energy and environmental from industry and science. technologies Healthcare Low-emission coal-fired power plants: We are involved in the development of key carbon KEY DATA capture and storage (CCS) processes. These projects look at separating carbon dioxide from ASSURANCE REPORT coal-fired power plant flue gases, purifying it and then compressing it for storage. We teamed up, for instance, with the Vattenfall energy group to pilot CCS technology in Brandenburg (Germany). Making natural gas accessible: Our engineers are building natural gas treatment and liquefaction plants all around the globe to make natural gas on of the most eco-friendly fossil fuels more readily accessible. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) releases around 20 percent less CO2 than conventional diesel during combustion. Recycling: As part of a joint venture with a US waste management company in California, we have built and put on stream the world’s largest plant for transforming landfill gas into green biogas. The plant has two key benefits: it prevents the discharge of biogas from the landfill site into the atmosphere and replaces diesel as a fuel. Hydrogen technologies: We are pioneering the advancement of hydrogen technologies. As the world’s largest engineer of hydrogen plants and a leader in hydrogen fuelling station hardware, our long-term aim is to produce hydrogen from renewable sources and create a fully sustainable energy value chain. We are working on various innovative technologies that explore different approaches. Solar industry: We deliver the specialty gases for eco-friendly solar cell production. In April 2010, we announced that, from 2010 onwards, customers in the electronics industry will be able to reduce CO2 emissions from production processes by a quarter of a million tonnes by replacing nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) with fluorine (F2), which can be produced cost-effectively with Linde on-site generators. This corresponds to the volume of CO2 emitted each year by 125,000 large family cars. Pure oxygen for greater efficiency: Using pure oxygen instead of air can reduce fuel consumption across many combustion processes in the chemicals, glass and steel industries. A case in point is the Linde REBOX® oxyfuel solution used in steel production. CO2 recycling: Our Gases Division is the world’s leading supplier of CO2. We focus on capturing carbon dioxide generated as a by-product from industrial processes and putting it Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Energy and environmental technologies p.89 to good use – also to the benefit of the environment. In the Netherlands, for example, CO2 HOME captured from a refinery is pipelined to greenhouses in the vicinity. ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY We have established a cross-disciplinary Clean Energy Group to combine and advance our FIELDS OF ACTION expertise in energy and sustainability. Ethics and compliance Safety Water solutions Environment Linde gases have been successfully used to improve water quality for many years now. They Employees can improve the quality of untreated and drinking water and treat waste water. Our large Society offering includes process technologies for treating water with pure oxygen and treating Products alkaline waste water. Research and development Energy and environmental We also have tailored solutions for fishfarming. Aquaculture plays a role in preventing further overfishing at sea and securing healthy food supplies. With over 500 reference plants technologies worldwide, Linde Gas is leading in the application of oxygen solutions in aquaculture. Healthcare KEY DATA > More on current projects and collaborations, on hydrogen from biogenic raw materials and ASSURANCE REPORT on waste and recycling Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Healthcare p.90 The growing Healthcare market HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY Medical gases are used across a broad spectrum of applications, supporting patients FIELDS OF ACTION and healthcare institutions in achieving higher standards of care and quality of life. Our Ethics and compliance Healthcare products are used in anaesthesia, resuscitation, respiratory failure, peri-operative Safety oxygenation and pain management. Linde Healthcare products also help treat various Environment conditions such as chronic respiratory disease, asthma and sleep apnoea. Employees Society Ageing populations and chronic disease Products Medical gases have long been used in hospitals. Ageing populations and the growing Research and development prevalence of chronic disease is driving further innovations in gas-enabled care programmes Energy and environmental and therapies for patients outside of the hospital. These include intermediate care centres technologies for ventilated patients and specialised services for oxygen-dependent patients in the home. Healthcare Therapies for ventilation, oxygen, aerosol and sleep are all particularly relevant in meeting KEY DATA the challenges of chronic disease and conditions of old age. ASSURANCE REPORT Rising healthcare costs While the burden on healthcare systems rises, there is also an inevitable pressure on budgets. We have introduced a number of programmes designed to help practitioners and payers manage the realities of healthcare. In all of our solutions, we work to ensure that healthcare resources are being used as effectively as possible while maintaining quality of care and patient well-being. Medical gas therapies Our innovative programme for long-term ventilated patients responds to the needs of an ageing population and the challenges of COPD, one of the fastest-growing chronic diseases. This programme improves the care of long-term ventilated patients, combining clinical and medical resources in specialised health service centres. Among our programmes and therapies, we continue to develop the REMEO® programme. The centres shorten the time spent in hospital intensive care units and offer professional treatment in surroundings more similar to home. In 2010 we continued to expand our offering here, particularly in the major Homecare markets of Europe and the Americas. New REMEO® ventilation centres were opened in the US, Colombia and Germany. Further therapy solutions from Linde Healthcare offer relief to patients suffering from sleep apnoea or pain and thus improve patient quality of life. Through LISA, Leading Independent Sleep Aide, we are extending our efforts to provide dedicated support and services for patients with sleep apnoea. This disorder is characterised by intermittent upper-airway collapse during sleep leading to irregular breathing and repeated awakening. Our LIVOPAN®/ENTONOX inhaled nitrous oxide/oxygen mixture meets a growing demand for rapid, effective and non-invasive acute pain relief across a number of applications, including emergency care, paediatrics, obstetrics and diagnostic procedures. We have also developed a dependable, quality solution that uses oxygen to treat cluster headache a chronic condition where patients suffer periodically from intensely painful headaches. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Key data p. 91 Measuring corporate responsibility HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA Financial indiators Environment and safety Employees GRI Global Compact ASSURANCE REPORT We use key performance indicators to track our economic, ecological and social performance. They enable us to benchmark our progress and identify scope for improvement. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Financial indiators p.92 Financial indicators HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA Financial indiators Environment and safety Employees GRI Global Compact ASSURANCE REPORT Our financial figures are published in the Group financial statements in line with the International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS). p.93 p.94 p.95 p.96 p.97 p.98 p.99 Employees p.100 Employees HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA Financial indiators Environment and safety Employees GRI Global Compact ASSURANCE REPORT Employees p.101 HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA Financial indiators Environment and safety Employees GRI Global Compact ASSURANCE REPORT Employees p.102 HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA Financial indiators Environment and safety Employees GRI Global Compact ASSURANCE REPORT Employees p.103 HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA Financial indiators Environment and safety Employees GRI Global Compact ASSURANCE REPORT Employees p.104 HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA Financial indiators Environment and safety Employees GRI Global Compact ASSURANCE REPORT Employees p.105 HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA Financial indiators Environment and safety Employees GRI Global Compact ASSURANCE REPORT Collecting and validating HR indicators We have adapted and consolidated our Human Resources indicators to reflect The Linde Group’s organisational structure. The figures are reported as full-time equivalents, with 31 December as the closing date for each year. Wherever possible, we benchmark our HR indicators against the same-period figures reported over the previous four years. We highlight any indicators that are also included in The Linde Group’s 2010 Annual Report. The Group Management Report was audited by KPMG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 GRI p.106 Global Reporting Initiative HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY We report our corporate responsibility performance in line with the recommendations FIELDS OF ACTION of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), a multi-stakeholder organisation that publishes KEY DATA internationally recognised guidelines on sustainability reporting. We used the latest version Financial indiators of the guidelines, G3.1, for this year's report. It was awarded the highest GRI standard Environment and safety application level of A+. Last year's report was rated application level B+ (self assessment). Employees GRI The GRI index provides an overview of core and supplementary indicators. It also provides Index links to further information on each topic in this report. If an indicator has not been covered Application Level Check or only partially covered, we explain why this is the case. The index also contains links to Global Compact additional information relating to Global Compact. ASSURANCE REPORT > GRI Index GRI Index p.107 GRI Index HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA Financial indiators Environment and safety Employees GRI Index Application Level Check Global Compact ASSURANCE REPORT GRI Index p.108 GRI Index HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA Financial indiators Environment and safety Employees GRI Index Application Level Check Global Compact ASSURANCE REPORT GRI Index p.109 GRI Index HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA Financial indiators Environment and safety Employees GRI Index Application Level Check Global Compact ASSURANCE REPORT GRI Index p.110 GRI Index HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA Financial indiators Environment and safety Employees GRI Index Application Level Check Global Compact ASSURANCE REPORT Application Level Check p.111 Application Level Check HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA Financial indiators Environment and safety Employees GRI Index Application Level Check Global Compact ASSURANCE REPORT Global Compact p.112 United Nations Global Compact HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY As a participant in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we publish a progress FIELDS OF ACTION report (Communication on Progress) each year. We have included this in our Corporate KEY DATA Responsibility Report. The Communication on Progress outlines how we incorporate the ten Financial indiators principles of the UN Global Compact in our business activities. We use the Global Compact Environment and safety logo to highlight any information relevant to Global Compact. Our GRI Index also links to this Employees content. GRI The following table provides an overview of the commitments, standards and management Global Compact systems that we use at Linde to incorporate the principles of Global Compact into our ASSURANCE REPORT business processes. In the text passages under each field of action we report on the progress we have made during the year under review. Global Compact p.113 HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA Financial indiators Environment and safety Employees GRI Global Compact ASSURANCE REPORT Global Compact p.114 HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION KEY DATA Financial indiators Environment and safety Employees GRI Global Compact ASSURANCE REPORT Assurance reportp.115 Independant assurance report HOME ABOUT THIS REPORT STRATEGY FIELDS OF ACTION To the readers of the Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 of Linde AG KEY DATA Introduction Financial indiators We have been engaged by the Executive Board of Linde AG (further referred to as ‘Linde’) to Environment and safety provide limited assurance on the 2010 data for the indicators listed in the section ‘Context Employees and scope’ together with the related explanatory information in the publication: ‘Corporate GRI Responsibility Report 2010/2011’ (further referred to as ‘The Report’). The Executive Board Index of Linde is responsible for preparing The Report, including the identification of stakeholders Application Level Check and material issues. Our responsibility is to provide an assurance report on the 2010 data for Global Compact the indicators listed in the section ‘Context and scope’ together with the related explanatory ASSURANCE REPORT information in The Report. Context and scope Our engagement was designed to provide readers of The Report with limited assurance on whether the 2010 data for the indicators listed in the table below together with the related explanatory information are prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) of the Global Reporting Initiative together with internal reporting criteria as published on Linde’s website. Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed at determining the plausibility of information and are less extensive than those for a reasonable level of assurance. Assurance reportp. 116 Reporting criteria HOME Linde applies the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) of the Global Reporting Initiative ABOUT THIS REPORT together with its internal reporting criteria for reporting on sustainability as described on STRATEGY Linde’s website. We believe that these criteria are suitable in view of the purpose of our FIELDS OF ACTION assurance engagement. KEY DATA Financial indiators Assurance standards Environment and safety We conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard for Assurance Employees Engagements (ISAE) 3000: Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical GRI Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. Index This Standard requires, amongst others, that the assurance team possesses the specific knowledge, skills and professional competencies needed to understand and review sustainaApplication Level Check bility information, and that they comply with the requirements of the Code of Ethics for Global Compact Professional Accountants from the International Federation of Accountants to ensure their ASSURANCE REPORT independence. Work undertaken Our procedures included the following: Performing a media analysis and internet search to obtain information on relevant sustainability issues for Linde in the reporting period; Reviewing the design and existence of the systems and processes for data management, internal control and processing of the selected indicators as defined under Context and scope at corporate, regional and local level by: Interviewing staff at corporate level responsible for the collection, analysis and reporting of the data Visiting four selected regional offices in Europe, South America, Africa and Asia Visiting five selected production sites in United Kingdom, Italy, Venezuela, South Africa and Taiwan; Performing analytical review procedures of the data reported by the production sites under operational control of Linde; Reviewing data trends and discussions with management thereto; Assessed whether the comparable figures for 2008 and 2009 are accurately taken from the 2008 and 2009 CR Reports of Linde AG, for which we provided limited assurance on the same scope as this year’s assurance. As part of our assurance procedures we discussed changes to the draft reports with Linde and reviewed the final version of The Report to ensure that it reflected our findings. Our conclusion Based on our procedures performed, nothing came to our attention to indicate that the data for the indicators as defined under Context and scope together with the related explanatory information are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) of the Global Reporting Initiative together with internal reporting criteria as published on Linde’s website. Amstelveen, October 28, 2011 W.J. Bartels, partner, on behalf of KPMG Sustainability, part of KPMG Advisory N.V.
