UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2010 ABOUT RØRBÆK og MØLLER Arkitekter At Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter we work to influence and develop the built environment. Our projects and buildings shall offer daily joy and inspiration, both now and in the future, while working in harmony with their surroundings and history of which they are a part. We work hard to maintain a sustainable growth, all the while developing our project competencies, as well as establishing strategic partnerships, both inside and outside Denmark. Development Innovation, by its broadest definition, is a central tenet of the firm. It is of great importance that every member of staff is part of a professional environment that works on development and improvement in relation to changes in the society and the profession. Our core skills within planning and building are constantly being improved, through a continued systematic evaluation of our work. Responsibility for strategic skills within intelligent design, building and material techniques, as well as sustainability, is handled by individuals that ensure this knowledge is an integral part of any project group. We are, over and above this, extremely involved in employing new, young, talented staff, where they can gain experience, and utilize us as a learning platform. Sustainability The latest knowledge within sustainability is integrated into all our projects. Our staff is aware that the architectonic essentials have a fundamental influence on sustainability in building. Key members of staff ensure the firm is up to speed with the latest developments in this area, and take part in developmental project concerning, for example energy renovation and Cradle 2 Cradle building. Trust Mutual trust between a client and us as a company is a central element of our success through more than 60 years. Many of our projects are completed for clients with whom we have, over many years, developed a very close relationship. As well as demanding high standards in building and building technique, we concentrate on speedy and effective decision making processes. We are very aware of the responsibility controlling budgets involve and offer the creative and visionary sparring our clients are entitled to. Qualified staff Rørbæk og Møller are a core group of skilled, experienced staff that ensure quality and continuity in the services we offer. The staff make up is balanced around a range of professional experience levels, and project groups are composed in reference to the skill sets our clients request. As well as our regular staff, we can also draw on a network of freelance staff that ensures flexibility in the staffing of our projects. THE TEN PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuse. Our Commitment Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter support the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Actions and Outcome We operate in Denmark and comply with the Danish National Legislation, which meets the international conventions. A major part of our staff works with accessibility on a daily basis as most of our projects have to live up to strict accessibility standards as defined by UN’s Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. One employee has attended relevant courses/seminars in order to keep our practise updated on the latest accessibility measures. Future Actions We will continue to respect and uphold the human rights principles. Accessibility for all will continuously have our focus, and we will make sure our staff is updated on the latest accessibility measures. LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our Commitment Rørbæk og Møller support the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Actions and Outcome At Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter we respect all employees right to enter into associations and recognize the right to collective bargaining. All employees have individual contracts stating terms, conditions of service and notice of leave. Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter offer equal opportunities to all present and future employees, regardless of gender, age, race, religion, nationality, ethnic and social origin, disability, political or sexual orientation and family status. When we hire a new employee his/her workplace is checked by an occupational therapist to minimize the risk of occupational injuries. We follow the Danish Working Environment Act and according to our latest Work Assessment carried out in 2009 our staff is very satisfied with the working environment. In addition to the national healthcare insurance in Denmark, Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter have provided all employees with an extra private healthcare insurance which covers access to treatment at private hospitals, psychological counselling, physiotherapy etc. Rørbæk og Møller Arkiteker do not employ children under age. Future actions We will continuously strive to improve the working environment and focus on individual needs. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our Commitment At Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter we believe that quality architecture and sustainability are two sides of the same coin. One does not work without the other. Buildings in the future require a strong sustainability strategy. But most important of all is to have a holistic perspective on the human being in the centre, because we make buildings for people. What makes the building usable and durable and thereby sustainable is the indoor climate, the indoor environment, the outdoor environment, the daylight, the architectural design, the social relations, the energy flow and the functionality. Through general building approaches such as location and orientation of the building, use of daylight, reducing material consumption, money and time, we are making energy saving architecture by using simple classical architectural principles. In order to meet the present environmental challenges we constantly have to keep ourselves up to date with the latest technologies within the building industry. Actions and Outcome Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter make proactive efforts to minimize the environmental effects of our building projects and in the daily operation of our two offices. Green Lighthouse, see more information under Examples of Energy-efficient Projects In terms of our building projects we implemented an environmental policy almost 20 years ago, and we make an effort to advise our clients to choose environmentally friendly solutions instead of standard solutions. Not all environmentally friendly solutions are feasible, but we aim at setting new standards regarding sustainable architecture. Therefore, a group of three employees are continuously retrained and oversee all projects to guarantee a continuous development of our firm within this area. A great deal of our projects include the transformation and/or renovation of existing buildings for future function, and we make an effort to incorporate sustainable solutions as a result of the massive resources represented in the existing buildings, and the huge amount of resources required to replace them. Furthermore, Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter joined the Danish public/private innovation forum GATE 21 in 2009. Gate 21 is a partnership of municipalities, trade and industry and knowledge institutions that develops, tests and demonstrates future climate change solutions and energy solutions. In a cooperation across the partner entities, Gate 21 create public-private innovation within building, use of buildings, transport and energy supply. The projects generate new solutions, knowledge sharing, networking and skills development with emphasis on practical action. See www.gate21.dk for more information. Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter are an active member of GATE 21’s innovative subgroup called Plan C, where we together with public municipalities, private consultancy companies, research and knowledge institutions, as well as contractors, develop new methods and processes to make energy efficient renovations more successful and environmentally friendly. We have two employees and one partner who regularly participate in the monthly meetings. See www. plan-c.dk/ for further information. In terms of our office we opened a branch office in the city centre of Copenhagen in the beginning of 2010. This was done for two reasons; to be close to our clients and building sites and to reduce transportation by car. So now our employees in Copenhagen use two company bicycles and public transportation to and from meetings/building sites, which has contributed to reducing the CO2 emission on a small scale. Furthermore, half of our staff cycle to work, and each year we participate in the public campaign “We cycle to work”. Future Actions Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter will continue to participate actively in Gate 21 to further develop and promote sustainable, energy saving and environmentally friendly architectural solutions. We will also keep looking for projects where we can use our influence to promote environmentally friendly solutions. In the office we have begun archiving digitally, and plan on implementing it on all new projects in the office, which will reduce our paper consumption significantly. Examples of Energy-efficient Projects Green Light House, Competition Client: The Danish University and Property Agency Location: Nørre Campus, Copenhagen Year: 2008 Area: 840 square metres Rørbæk og Møller were shortlisted to participate in the competition to design Denmark’s first CO2 neutral Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter were shortlisted to participate in the competition to design Denmark’s first CO2 neutral building for The University of Copenhagen in 2008. Our project was designed as a compact energy optimized volume and located in the University Campus in Copenhagen. The building’s roof, which also is the south facade, is a large ovalshaped energy producing disc that clearly signals that the building fully integrates the use of renewable energy. Under the energy producing roof, the building’s functions are divided into three floors: The public functions for the students are located on the ground floor, offices on the first floor and the Faculty Club on the second floor. The architectural concept and the energy concept are effectively integrated into a coherent whole and the project is a “State of the art” example of sustainable construction. Future Daycare Centres, Competition Client: The City of Albertslund Location: Three locations in the City of Albertslund, Denmark Year: 2008 Area: In total approximately 1,100 square metres Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter participated in the turnkey competition Future Daycare Centres in cooperation with an Austrian contractor, engineer and a renowned passive house specialist. The selected materials are based on sustainable materials: Concrete, brick and wood blocks, which can be produced and used with limited impact on the environment and, in turn, can be removed and recycled after the building’s life span without a negative impact on the environment. The choice of insulation is often a delicate balance with regard to the environment. Based on our Austrian specialist’s extensive experience in building passive houses in Austria, we chose to make exterior insulation with thick, stable and durable foam boards covered with plaster or wood panelling. We used pvc-free materials, sealing materials without toxic fumes and in general materials with fumes at a low level, including Keim Biocide paints. The result was a passive house that because of its heavy construction would also be extremely durable.A hundred years from now the building would, with the correct maintenance, still remain intact and usable. The heavy construction provides a healthy, temperature-stable working environment, because the construction accumulates heat and humidity an additional advantage. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our Commitment Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter support The United Nations Convention Against corruption and fully comply with Danish and international legislation. Actions Rørbæk and Møller Arkitekter only operate in Denmark and have never been involved in any kind of corruption. According to The 2010 Corruption Perceptions Index Denmark has the lowest rate of corruption together with Singapore and New Zealand. Future Actions Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter will continuously uphold Danish and international legislation. Our COP will be available both on the United Nations Global Compact website and our own website and intranet. CONTACT INFORMATION RØRBÆK OG MØLLER ARKITEKTER APS JÆGERSBORG ALLÉ 1A 2920 CHARLOTTENLUND DENMARK NICOLAI OVERGAARD PARTNER PHONE: +45 39 40 10 11 E-MAIL: NO@R-M.DK WWW.R-M.DK
