2010 Company Report We passionately create enthusiastic customers and build a better future. Overview. Key fi gures (in CHF million) 2010 2009 Change Net sales 3,930 3,845 +85 Operating result 268 172 +96 Cash flow from operating activities 376 487 –111 Net income 142 78 +64 Employees (as at December 31) 20,305 19,709 +596 Net sales (in CHF million) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 4,118 4,667 4,700 3,845 3,930 Operating result (in CHF million) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 600 500 400 300 200 100 422 533 450 172 268 This is Hilti. We supply the construction industry with technologically superior products, systems and services. We provide innovative solutions that feature outstanding added value. We passionately create enthusiastic customers and build a better future with approximately 20,000 team members located in more than 120 countries around the world. We live clear values. Integrity, the courage to embrace change, teamwork and commitment are the foundations of our corporate culture. We combine long-term financial success with comprehensive responsibility toward society and the environment. Reciprocal tenets of openness, honesty and tolerance apply to team members, partners and suppliers alike. Our corporate goal is to generate sustainable profitable growth. Topics. 04 Editorial 06 Strategy 10 Customers 16 Areas of business 22 Products 28 Team members 34 Corporate responsibility 52 Executive Board 54 Board of Directors 56 Key figures 68 Trades Publisher: Hilti Corporation, Corporate Communications, PO Box 333, 9494 Schaan, Liechtenstein Editor-in-chief: Jessica Nowak Editorial team / Text / Translation: Nicole Bays, Matthias Hassler, Stephan Moosbrugger, Jessica Nowak, Anja Nöstler-Büchel, Susie Wellendorf, Chris Larson Design: Jeannine Merkli Photography: Uli Reitz, Alex Bayer Visionstudios (Balgach, Switzerland), Lisa + Dr. W. Bahnmüller Fotografie und Journalismus (Geretsried, Germany), Hans Lippert Fotografie (Geretsried, Germany), Miller Photography, Inc. (Tulsa, USA), Roland Korner Close up AG (Triesen, Liechtenstein), Elisabeth Real (Zurich, Switzerland), Beng Chye Studio Friend (Singapore) Printed by: BVD Druck + Verlag AG (Schaan, Liechtenstein) Image processing: Miro Repro (Hamburg, Germany) The Company Report is published in German and English. Duplication, even in part, only with permission of the publisher. The complete Financial Report, principles of corporate governance, a Group organizational chart, list of consolidated companies and information on the Martin Hilti Family Trust may be found on the Internet at www.hilti.com. This Company Report was printed on paper bleached without chlorine. Editorial 2010 Hilti Company Report Dear Readers, After a difficult 2009 that was characterized by reHilti speaks a uniform and persistent language – structuring and cost-cutting measures, we once not only in brand communication, but also in the again returned to a clear course of growth in 2010. design of our products. This was seen most reWe grew our activities, expanded into new areas of cently in the presentation of the Red Dot Design business and strengthened our competitive posiAward, where Hilti earned the prestigious “Design tion. We worked closely together with our customTeam of the Year” award for our consistent, branders and once again awakened a great deal of enconforming product design. thusiasm for our products and our company with innovative new developments. We have a full agenda in 2011. We want to better understand the needs and requirements of our As the outstanding results of numerous greatcustomers and further strengthen their loyalty. We place-to-work surveys show, we provide a workwill substantially expand our activities in developing environment for our team members where they ing countries as well as in the new business areas can develop their abilities and themselves while of mining, energy and industry. Not least of all, we enjoying a sense of well-being. We are proud of want to increase our productivity at all levels this the fact that we can count on highly motivated year, bringing numerous new and innovative prodteams around the world. These teams use couructs to the market. age, commitment, integrity and teamwork to achieve the best possible results. In the process, To successfully exploit the new challenges and they help make our company better. We see this opportunities, we need the support of our custompositive attitude in the results of this year’s emers, our employees and our suppliers and partners. ployee opinion survey, which reached a peak in Cooperation and partnership is the only way to 2010. generate sustainable growth. It also allows us to jointly pursue a successful future. Our brand is stronger than it has ever been, something that we have been consistently working on for years. The red toolbox and our products and services stand for the highest quality and reliability and reflect our product development aspirations. Pius Baschera Bo Risberg Chairman of the Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer 7 8 Strategy 2010 Hilti Company Report All signs point to growth. Chief Executive Officer Bo Risberg: “We emerged from the economic crisis in good shape thanks to the rapid and consistent implementation of the measures we initiated. Now we must use all our strengths to tackle the challenges of the future.” 9 The world has changed and we have changed with it. The economic crisis has passed and Hilti has emerged from it in a stronger position. The company now plans to maintain its successful level of growth in emerging countries while gaining market share in core markets and conquering new areas of business. Just how Hilti will do this is one of the things discussed in an interview with CEO Bo Risberg. Mr. Risberg, you forecast flat sales development and How did the currency situation develop? a significant increase in profitability for 2010. Did this Bo Risberg: The currency effect once again had a negative scenario play out? influence on our figures. In local currencies, we grew over Bo Risberg: Yes, although sales were a bit better than anticseven percent, but we lost five percentage points due to the ipated. This not only was due to the fact that the markets strength of the Swiss franc. recovered positively but also because we successfully invested in new areas of business such as solar. In terms of What are you doing to reduce the currency risk? profitability, our return on sales of roughly seven percent Bo Risberg: We are persistently working on improved hedgwas as we predicted. ing. This is accomplished with global supply chain initiatives 10 Strategy 2010 Hilti Company Report as well as through financing measures in different currencies. Our balance sheet has included safeguards in the past few years, primarily where the dollar is concerned. We continue to actively pursue the optimal safe hedge for other currencies. Which company development pleased you most in 2010? Bo Risberg: I’m very pleased with the fact that we not only further developed quantitatively but also in quality terms. The way in which we implement measures, how we have further developed in emerging countries and how we have seized new areas of business through organic growth and acquisitions is very positive. We also have laid a solid foundation for the future in our core markets in Europe and North America, although the situation in these places will remain difficult in the coming years due to the flat development of the construction industry. While emerging countries are growing, there is stagnation in North America and Europe. Does this mean that a geographic shift in the focus of Hilti’s activities is the future? Bo Risberg: Yes. While the economic crisis may be over, the world has changed. We will see a strong expansion into the emerging countries. But as market requirements everywhere become more diverse and demanding, we must also adapt the investment focus and certain structures within the company. In the future, we will increase the focus of our activities on Latin America, Eastern Europe, the Near and Middle East, Africa and Asia. Europe and North America will nonetheless remain very important markets for us. There, our emphasis will be to further strengthen our position and gain market share through innovation and competence. Which initiatives will be a priority? Bo Risberg: Expanding customer loyalty, further developing our product and service innovations, improving productivity and the activities in new areas of business. Concentrating on the altered market conditions and the further development in growth regions are clearly areas where we also intend to focus. How important is the product portfolio for strengthening customer loyalty? Bo Risberg: Products and services are very important if we are to get customers excited about Hilti. We develop a differentiated product portfolio for each trade. This portfolio features highly innovative products as well as those for demanding applications. When we talk about customer loyalty, we’re also talking about competence and the customer orientation of our account managers, our engineers and our administrative services as well as excellent processes such as those in logistics and repairs. What type of results do you expect to see for Hilti in 2011? Bo Risberg: I’m convinced that we will be able to grow profitably this year, albeit not equally in all markets. Overall, we expect uppersingle-digit growth in local currencies and a further improvement of our results. 11 A sales discussion on the roof of the Utah Museum of Natural History in Salt Lake City, 1,300 meters above sea level. 12 Customers 2010 Hilti Company Report The art of listening. Executive Board Member Marco Meyrat: “The needs of our customers are becoming more specialized and increasingly differentiated. Our sales team is literally the ears of our company. They listen to our customers on a daily basis and know exactly what their needs and requirements are.” 13 Friendly cooperation: Big-D Construction Superintendent Jason Gates knows that he can rely on Hilti Account Manager Jim Carpenter. 14 Customers 2010 Hilti Company Report Hilti is more to the customer than a tool or a brand. ment process of our products. This ensures that Hilti is a face, a personal contact. Each customer Hilti’s innovations are not only powerful and highhas their own personal contact, someone who quality but also user-friendly. explains, demonstrates and sells tools and accessories to them. Each day the Hilti team has more This exceptionally high level of customer orientathan 200,000 individual customer contacts. This tion is appreciated by customers around the represents 200,000 opportunities to talk with the world. More than a sophisticated solution, cuscustomer, to learn their needs and to offer solutomers are interested in having someone there to tions to their problems. answer questions when they arise. A work stoppage at the construction site can be expensive. It This strong sense of customer loyalty requires a is therefore that much more valuable when the high level of quality management skills. Hilti thereHilti account manager is immediately available to fore uses the most modern training methods to help solve problems when they arise. This is what prepare its account managers and supports them Jim Carpenter did in Utah, USA. Together with the with various technical, customer relationship mancustomer and Hilti’s engineering team, he helped agement tools. The results of discussions with facilitate the development of a fastening solution customers are used specifically in the developfor the Utah Museum of Natural History, Salt Lake City, that also will serve future exhibits. 100,000 Hilti PWH WD wood screws, driven with the SID 144-A cordless impact driver, ensure that the copper panels are securely fastened to the facade of the Utah Museum of Natural History. Hilti SID 144-A cordless impact driver 15 Leaving no unanswered questions. Whether finding the best system for suspending fossilized dinosaur bones or recommending the correct anchor for specific seismic requirements, the needs of the customer are the focus of Hilti account managers. This was the case at the construction site for the Utah Museum of Natural History. Nestled in the foothills of the Wasatch Range, customer purchased approximately 15,000 feet of the Utah Museum of Natural History embodies the Hilti pre-galvanized strut because it allowed them beauty of its surroundings. Concrete forms take to provide the versatility and strength needed to on the shape of the terrain and copper panels conaccommodate multiple display changes. structed from area mines accent the mountainside hues. Curving ramps inside the building lead visi“We weren’t sure what we were looking for, but tors through the canyon-like exhibit area filled with with the help of the Hilti account manager we were ample natural light. able to get it designed and approved in a timely manner,” says Big-D Construction Superintendent Hilti’s contribution is to help the general contractor, Jason Gates. “Jim Carpenter, our contact, helped Big-D Construction, fulfill the museum’s architecus understand how to put it together to deliver a tural vision. Hilti engineers worked with Big-D sound product for years to come.” Hilti supplied a Construction to design an installation system with variety of laser measures, firestop products and the appropriate load capacities to suspend a range powder-actuated, gas and lithium-ion tools for the of dinosaur skeletons with varying weights. The jobsite. 16 Customers 2010 Hilti Company Report Approximately 100,000 of Hilti PWH WD wood screws secure the copper panels to the building’s exterior. Combined with the power of TE 50 combihammers and an assortment of bits for drilling holes, Big-D Construction used a significant amount of HIT-RE 500-SD injectable adhesive mortar and the corresponding dispensers to quickly install the doweling to meet stringent seismic design requirements. Being a trusted name with a reputation for innovation is what keeps Jason Gates turning to Hilti. “Hilti offers a well-established, researched tool that is tried and tested,” Gates says. “They’re always coming up with new ways to make the job easier.” The support offered by a dedicated account manager adds another dimension to the total package offered by Hilti. This includes answering questions, researching the required anchor and drill bit specifications for a job and training employees on the proper use of Hilti tools. “The Hilti account manager sits down to explain the right way to use the product,” he says. “He doesn’t just drop off the product and leave. He leaves no questions unanswered.” 17 A solar park in the Czech village of Šakvice. The Czech Republic was Hilti’s third-largest solar market in 2010. 18 Areas of business 2010 Hilti Company Report Delving into new markets. Executive Board Member Stefan Nöken: “Last year, Hilti’s strongest growth was in the solar business segment. As a company driven by innovation, our aim is to be ahead of the competition, even where new technologies are concerned.” 19 Simple and quick: a small number of components and pre-assembled parts are two of the advantages of Hilti’s solar photovoltaic mounting system. 20 Areas of business 2010 Hilti Company Report The family operation that began in a garage with introduced in 1989. In 1991, the company’s five employees in 1941 has developed over the product offering expanded to include installation years to become a global group that employs systems. In 1998, laser measuring systems and more than 20,000 people. As diverse as Hilti’s cutting and grinding systems followed. team members, the Hilti product portfolio has grown along with the company to become equally The business areas introduced after 2000 include wide-ranging. Hilti is now active in 15 business mining (2003), energy (2003) and solar (2008). areas. In addition to the classic areas of direct fasThese new areas of business are currently the fasttening systems (introduced in 1948) and drilling est-growing in the company. It is worth noting that systems (1964), these include anchor technology Hilti’s solar segment accounts for almost 50 percent (1967), diamond coring technology (1982), demoliof the company’s overall growth in 2010, thanks in tion systems (1982) and chemical anchors (1983). part to the successful acquisition of the US-based In 1985, the company moved into screw fastening company Unirac, the market leader in North Amertechnology, which was followed one year later by ica for solar photovoltaic mounting systems. construction chemicals, featuring various firestop and foam systems. The first cordless drills were 600 Megawatts are generated by the solar facilities that Hilti systems helped build in 2010. This is enough energy to provide 120,000 houses with electricity for an entire year. Hilti MSP-AL solar park system 21 Rising with the sun. In 2010, Hilti’s solar business segment posted the strongest growth in the whole company. Solar facilities around the world were developed using Hilti mounting systems. One of them was in the southern Czech village of Šakvice. Šakvice is a small, sleepy village in the Czech project with the customer and monitor progress. Republic. It is roughly 30 minutes from the border Petr Pospišil, the manager of Protection Consultwith Austria and sits picturesquely along the Thaya ing located in nearby Brno, is already there. With River. Most of the village’s residents are in their a cell phone pressed tight against his ear, he walks houses, preparing for the coming day. Early birds through the facility studying the photovoltaic modare already on their way to work, although the sun ules. The solar park’s energy soon will be fed into has yet to rise. the public electricity network. “In spite of the technology involved, a project like this one focuses on It is December and while the days are short, the people,” he says after his phone call has ended. first warming rays of sunshine are beginning to “They are responsible for ensuring that all composhine on the hills surrounding the village’s center. nents are produced at a high-quality level, are The Šakvice solar park is situated on a scenic lake delivered punctually and that support is there next to a campground left deserted by the winter when it is needed. I get all of this from Hilti.” Even temperatures. Generating 4.7 megawatts, it is one though he has only known Hilti for a relatively short of the largest solar parks in the region. The park time, he’s already convinced of the company’s is scheduled to begin operations at the end of professionalism and the good image of the Hilti December and preparations are now running at a brand. Petr Rojicek and Karel Javorek are pleased frantic pace. to hear this. For them, 2010 was a busy year in the booming solar sector. “In the Czech Republic and At 8 a.m., Hilti solar specialists Petr Rojicek and Slovakia, we have been involved in more than 30 Karel Javorek arrive at the construction site in their projects that will collectively generate more than red Hilti vehicle. They are here to discuss the 50 megawatts,” explained Rojicek. 22 Areas of business 2010 Hilti Company Report Hilti’s solar business is growing, not only in Eastern Europe, but in other countries as well. Whether in giant solar parks, on the flat roofs of industrial buildings or on pitched roofs of private residences, Hilti was in the thick of things this year and mounted enough solar panels worldwide in 2010 to generate more than 600 megawatts. “Our secret is that we not only deliver our products, such as photovoltaic support frames and the MSP-AL mounting system, but we provide the customer with comprehensive consulting services during the planning phase and offer worldwide logistics solutions,” says Karel Javorek. “This allinclusive service from a single supplier is what customers like about us.” Large solar parks are only part of the applications we offer. Mounting systems for flat roofs on commercial buildings or private houses are also gaining popularity. Featuring a small number of components and preassembled parts, the Hilti system provides significant installation advantages: quick assembly, safety and efficiency. This also is appreciated by customers. “I would welcome working with Hilti again in the future,” says solar specialist Petr Pospišil. “The potential for additional solar facilities in the Czech Republic exists, particularly on roofs.” The sun has now climbed high in the sky and in a few hours its radiant intensity will be at maximum levels. Petr Rojicek and Karel Javorek get back in the Hilti vehicle and journey on to the next customer. There are many solar facilities in the Czech Republic close to being finished. This means a great deal of work for them, as well as lucrative business. 23 24 Products 2010 Hilti Company Report The new office building of the Doha International Islamic Bank: Another exceptional construction project is being built amidst the already impressive skyline on the West Bay of Doha, the capital of Qatar. A focus on progress. Executive Board Member Stefan Nöken: “In developing our products, we place the greatest amount of value on productivity, quality, user-friendliness and user safety. This is the only way we can offer our customers true added value.” 25 An innovation for heavy demolition work: the new Hilti TE 3000-AVR breaker. 26 Products 2010 Hilti Company Report Hilti’s abundant product and service developments product can improve and bring greater productivity create enthusiasm again and again. Customers to customers’ day-to-day work. One outstanding play a significant role beginning in the developmenexample of this cooperation is the new Hilti TE tal process. Innovations stem from customer input 3000-AVR breaker. This tool increases efficiency and ideas. They also provide valuable advice and and flexibility on construction sites compared to feedback in the early phase of product developpneumatic hammers as there is no need for a porment and through their involvement in long-term table compressor. testing under actual construction-site conditions. This close cooperation and coordination is the only Hilti invested approximately 172 million Swiss way that Hilti can develop products for serial profrancs in research and development in 2010. This duction that take into consideration the exact commitment was upheld in the face of difficult needs and requirements of customers. economic times because the only way sustainable success can be achieved is through continuous Productivity, quality, user-friendliness and user improvement and the search for superior solutions. safety are the main priorities when the company The results of these efforts can be seen in the begins product development. In this process, Hilti more than 30 innovative new products that Hilti team members focus on the question of how the launched in 2010. All these products are characterized by solid performance and reliability that provide the customer with significant added value. The company will pursue this ambitious performance mandate again in 2011 and will continue to do all it can to simplify the work of customers while ensuring better safety. 30 percent better concrete-breaking performance is achieved through the unique form of the Hilti TE-H 28 Polygon chisel. The chisel sharpens itself as it works through hard layers of concrete. Hilti TE-H 28 chisel 27 Growth in the desert. Qatar is a country with two distinct facets. Tradition and modernity not only contrast here, they also merge into a type of symbiosis. Spectacular skyscrapers are being built here one after the other. This includes the construction of the Doha International Islamic Bank, where Hilti’s new TE 3000-AVR breaker has seen plenty of action. When strolling through the narrow alleys of the some 1.7 million people, 80 percent of whom local souk, or market, one is immersed in a sea come from abroad. After Russia and Iran, Qatar of Oriental impressions. Here vendors sell their has the third-largest natural gas reserves in the wares, such as textiles, jewelry and souvenirs, world. This wealth is reflected in the large number while the aroma of numerous spices can be of prestigious construction projects. The business detected by visitors. In the evening, street-side district in West Bay continues to grow at a rapid cafes and restaurants fill up with locals and forpace. One current project is the Doha International eigners alike. Islamic Bank office complex. A total of 65,000 square meters of office space will be housed in the A few kilometers away, in West Bay, on the other project’s 45-story, 183-meter-tall building. “This side of the semicircular inlet, the impressive skybig project is a true challenge. There are about 500 line of modern Doha rises. This is where hotels, people working here on a daily basis,” says Site banks, governmental buildings and many other Engineer Arun Silswal, a project manager with office complexes can be found side by side. The HBK Contracting Co. W.L.L. buildings rise up in every imaginable form, competing with one another for the bragging rights of Hilti’s new TE 3000-AVR breaker was used in the being considered the most impressive, highest building’s extensive foundation work. The rebar in and most unusual. The emirate of Qatar is onethe reinforced concrete pillars, which are roughly quarter the size of Switzerland and is home to one meter in diameter, had to be exposed to allow 28 Products 2010 Hilti Company Report Hilti TE 3000-AVR breaker connection work for the foundation’s floor slab. The This helps keep workers from tiring as quickly as impact performance of the new Hilti tool was quite they might when using a pneumatic hammer,” says impressive. Years of development went into this Mr. Silswal. The reduced vibrations are due to innovation. The goal was to create something that Hilti’s Active Vibration Reduction system. The TE had never been seen before: an electropneumatic 3000-AVR has decoupled side handles that help tool for heavy-duty demolition work at ground level suppress vibration levels. Another Hilti innovation that needed no compressor and also stood up to in the tool is the SR motor. The motor has no carcompressed air tools in terms of performance. Hilti bon brushes. With no brushes to be changed, the was successful. “Hilti’s new breaker has trementool’s service interval is greater. dous penetration ability. Working without a compressor also increases flexibility on the construction The Doha International Islamic Bank building should site. This also helps to significantly lower the cusbe ready for occupancy at the beginning of 2012. It tomer’s operating costs,” explains Kaj-Henrik Marwill then take its place as the latest construction tikainen, Hilti Qatar product manager. highlight in the skyline. Ten years after it opens, in 2022, Qatar is scheduled to host the World Cup Mr. Martikainen offered the workers at the Doha soccer championships. By then Doha will have International Islamic Bank construction site advice grown even more. The competition for construction and received positive feedback regarding the tool’s projects to win the title of most impressive, highest ease of use. “The tool absorbs vibrations very well. and most unusual will continue. 29 Countless Hilti team members are involved in creative and developmental processes long before a large construction site, such as the IJDock project in Amsterdam, has been set up. Being more than an employer. Executive Board Member Christoph Loos: “The people in the company are our capital. As a company, we can only grow when they have a sense of well-being.” 30 Team members 2010 Hilti Company Report 31 Father and son: Johan (left) and Marco Vet are account managers in the Netherlands. The thing particularly love about their job is the perpetual exchange they have with customers. 32 Team members 2010 Hilti Company Report Being a Hilti team member means developing Hilti wants its team members to be able to grow. one’s abilities, oneself and discovering new horiGrowth means being willing to take the occasional zons. It also means showing integrity and commitunknown path. Part of this is having team members ment, having the courage to embrace change and continue their career path in a country different possessing team spirit. The company invests a than where they began. They also may consciously great deal to ensure team members can find and develop defined, expert knowledge to a degree develop their individual strengths. This investment they had not anticipated through many years of starts with apprenticeship and in-service training, focusing on a particular activity in a special field. regular coaching and feedback discussions in addition to some 32,000 workdays of corporate Hilti’s desire is to encourage, facilitate and supculture workshops each year. port, giving each team member the chance to say, “The job I do gives me positive energy,” as is the The goal is clear: to translate the abilities of the case with the two men from the Netherlands, individual into optimal career opportunities. This Johan and Marco Vet. They enjoy working with aids team members in meeting their responsibility customers and they are proud to sell Hilti prodto lead themselves, and the entire company, to ucts. Marco Vet always found the work of his ongoing best performances. This individual supfather exciting. He therefore decided to start his port also may mean that Hilti team members concareer in the same company. Johan is proud of his tinue their career in a completely different area son. The two of them form a well-established team from where they began it. A repair center team on the construction site. member may become a product manager, or an employee may move from a business unit to Human Resources. There are many possibilities. 70 account managers are employed in the Netherlands alone. When viewed globally, two-thirds of all Hilti employees work in sales. 33 My heart is Hilti red. Johan Vet is a passionate account manager. He has been visiting customers on construction sites in the Netherlands for 15 years. He listens, gives his recommendations and is happy that Hilti products are so well-liked by construction professionals. Two years ago his son, Marco, proudly followed in his footsteps. While it’s not yet possible to see the future splenare problems or when advice is required in a dor of the buildings, the construction site dimendifficult situation. Those coming to him for advice sions are already quite impressive. Here, roughly include his son, Marco, who has been an account 500 meters from Amsterdam’s main railway stamanager for two years. “I can learn a great deal tion, is where the IJDock peninsula will rise. When from my father,” says the 22-year-old. “But discuscompleted it will house almost 90,000 square sions with customers are just as instructive. In the meters of space. In addition to three office comend they are the ones who provide us with the most plexes and two judicial buildings, the development significant information when they describe their will house 56 apartments, various shops and a needs in detail.” This was the case with the project 300-room hotel with an integrated restaurant. This surrounding the city hall in Zaandam, where the represents an enormous project for the account customer required a special solution to fasten the managers in the Netherlands. Nonetheless, everyventilation system. The customer found what they one remains calm. “Our team spirit allows us to were looking for in the Hilti MQ channel system. master any challenge,” says Johan Vet. “We stick together and offer mutual support.” The longestThere are many reasons Johan and Marco Vet give tenured account manager in the Netherlands, when asked why they are happy to work at Hilti. Johan is an example for many of his younger colIn addition to the company’s first-class products, leagues. He is often asked his opinion when there which they are proud to present, the account 34 Team members 2010 Hilti Company Report managers both appreciate the fact that each mornagreements. There are smaller success stories ing they decide on their schedule for that particular almost daily when he convinces customers of the day. “We act autonomously, kind of like entrepresuitability of a particular Hilti application. This was neurs within the company,” says Johan Vet. the case with the Care House project in Amsterdam, where Johan sold various tools and accesThe 50-year-old loves the frantic pace and comsories, including Hilti HIT-HY 150 MAX injectable motion of the construction site. He can no longer adhesive mortar and the Hilti MD 2500 manual imagine sitting in an office the entire day, even dispenser. The strength, effectiveness and easy if his profession includes a great deal of organizahandling of the products were the decisive points tional skills, many meetings and long work days. in the argument. “Our products and excellent serListening to the customer, understanding their vice make our customers happy,” summarizes needs and finding the individual solution they Marco Vet. “And when the customer’s happy, require still energizes him on a daily basis. “My we’re happy.” heart is Hilti red,” he says. This is fitting for a career that has already seen quite a few highlights. One of the most important was being named the best Hilti fleet account manager in the Netherlands in 2006, when he concluded 80 fleet management 35 Doing business means taking responsibility. Managing Director of the Hilti Foundation Egbert Appel: “For a company to have sustainable profitable growth, it must also take ecological and social responsibility.” 36 Corporate responsibility 2010 Hilti Company Report 37 Hilti accepts corporate social responsibility and highlights new perspectives. 38 Corporate responsibility 2010 Hilti Company Report Doing business means taking responsibility for vibrations, and contribute to protecting the health all associated activities. Operating a commercial and the productivity of each customer when users enterprise and taking responsibility for the associare specifically trained on how to use them. ated activities defines the term corporate responsibility. More than a definition, it is an integral part Corporate social responsibility: The Hilti Foundaof our business, forming a bridge from the comtion and individual Hilti market organizations suppany to the environment and to the people who port projects around the world that help socially have contact with Hilti both inside and outside our disadvantaged people live a better life. To make a corporate group. The Hilti Group established the noticeable, long-term contribution, activities confollowing target in the form of its mission statecentrate on innovative ideas having clear benefits ment: We create enthusiastic customers and build to society. Whether in the areas of social entreprea better future. Our corporate values embody this neurs, affordable housing, catastrophic aid, educaclaim. Integrity, the courage to embrace change, tion, arts and culture or social development, all teamwork and commitment form the foundation projects have a common aim in promoting sustainof our distinct sense of responsibility toward our ability and responsible, corporate action. team members, customers, partners and suppliers. This responsibility also extends to society Environment: In signing the UN “Caring for Cliand the environment. mate” initiative in 2007, we obligated ourselves to increase energy efficiency while reducing CO2 Team members: Continuous personal developemissions. We place great value on utilizing recyment of our team members drives the developclable materials and environmentally friendly packment of our company. Committed, motivated team aging even during the developmental process of members have certain perspectives that enable our products. them to outwardly communicate their enthusiasm. We expand these perspectives by offering varied Business ethics: Our ethics standards apply to training and possibilities to collect experiences in our team members, suppliers and partners worldnew areas of activity and in various countries. wide. They are listed in our Code of Conduct for team members and suppliers. The Partnering User health and safety: Each construction site against Corruption Initiative, established in 2004, holds hidden dangers. To protect the health of commits us to maintain worldwide anticorruption construction workers, Hilti offers products and principles. We also are taking a stand against corsolutions that include comprehensive preventive ruption as a signee to the UN Global Compact, expertise. Innovative technologies allow us to which also supports adherence to social and ecoreduce the burdens caused by dust, noise and logical standards. (QWKXVLQJ 2눧HULQJVROXWLRQV &RQWULEXWLQJWR $FWLYHO\PDQDJLQJ (QVXULQJUHVSRQ HPSOR\HHVIRU IRUDGGHGVDIHW\ VXVWDLQDEOHVRFLDO WKHH눧HFWVRQWKH VLEOHUHVSHFWIXO +LOWLDQGFRQWULE DQGSURGXFWLYLW\ GHYHORSPHQW HQYLURQPHQW EXVLQHVVGHDOLQJV XWLQJWRWKHLU WRRXUFXVWRPHUV LQDOOFRUSRUDWH GHYHORSPHQW SURFHVVHV 39 Nerves of steel. The larger the project, the more complicated the requirements. Some 30,000 workers completed the most modern steel mill in South America, which sits on an area of nine square kilometers, in only three years of construction work. Hilti contributed comprehensive solutions that enhanced worker health and safety throughout all phases of construction. The steel plant employs 3,500 people and is (AVR) feature, proved to be the ideal tool for capable of producing 5 million tons of steel per completing work on the access bridge to the port year. The ThyssenKrupp CSA Siderúrgica do piers, which was completed while on a boat. The Atlântico steel mill, located near Rio de Janeiro, cordless flexibility and solid performance of the Brazil, represents the largest industrial investment DX direct fastening system quickly made these in Brazil in the last decade. The plant facility contools the favorites among workers. “There’s no sists of an administration building, a port with two electric cord lying around to create a potential hazseparate terminals, a coking plant, a sintering ard. No respiratory passage irritation because of plant, raw material storage facilities for coal and fumes generated by welding, the alternative fasiron ore, a power plant, two blast furnaces, and the tening method. The DX tools make our work safer actual steel mill. Before the first slabs were proand simpler,” says Engineer José Roberto. duced in the summer of 2010, all the participants in this gigantic project faced a series of significant On the topic of fire protection, Hilti’s Brazilian team challenges. Particular care was paid to the health was supported by the Chemicals Business Unit and safety of the construction workers. Lauro Sanand by firestop specialists from Hilti’s German tos, a project coordinator with Hilti Brazil, was market organization. The global cooperation actively engaged in this part of the project. ensured the most suitable solution was developed Together with the project’s engineers, Mr. Santos for each application. The openings in the steel continuously defined important safety aspects that mill’s electric shafts, for example, were sealed with were aimed at minimizing the risk of accidents. Hilti CP 601 S firestop sealant. The firestop brick and firestop paint used help prevent the spread of Lauro Santos found the biggest challenge in the fire in an emergency. project’s extreme complexity. This called for a comprehensive strategy and, at times, nerves of The strategy used by Lauro Santos proved to be steel to maintain a complete overview. The Hilti the correct one. Not a single worker suffered an team conducted user training sessions to ensure accident over the entire construction period. This workers not only were familiar with the tools and was a contributing factor when, on August 6, wore the correct safety gear and clothing but also 2010, ThyssenKrupp CSA was recognized by the were aware of important accident prevention Brazilian Association for Accident Prevention for aspects. Workers were not allowed to use DX tools the high level of worker safety and environmental or combihammers before they had completed the standards throughout the entire construction training sessions. The Hilti team also looked after phase. Diego Bruckner, technical director for tool maintenance, ensuring the highest possible ThyssenKrupp, was correspondingly enthusiastic working efficiency and safety. about the cooperation with Hilti. “Over three years Hilti not only provided products but also solutions The Active Torque Control (ATC) feature in Hilti that precisely met our complex needs and our combihammers protects workers if the tool strict safety requirements and that were aligned becomes stuck during drilling work in reinforced with our rigid timetable. To me, this makes Hilti concrete. The TE 60 combihammer, which also is more than a supplier. Hilti is a partner that’s part equipped with Hilti’s Active Vibration Reduction of our success.” 40 User health and safety 2010 Hilti Company Report 41 Enabling a future of promise. Her sons should be able to live a better life than Sunita has. The Hilti Foundation has supported the “Housing for All” initiative for three years. This program helps people lay the foundation for making a better life for themselves. 42 Corporate social responsibility 2010 Hilti Company Report Each day Sunita rises at 6 a.m. to clean, wash, Deepak and his 18-year-old brother, Suresh, are fetch water and make breakfast. She lives in a working hard to aid their mother in raising the capisingle room with her husband, two sons and a tal required for the apartment, which will cost daughter-in-law. They have no running water or 500,000 rupees. This amount will require a mortsanitary facilities where they live, in the middle of gage payment of 6,000 rupees per month. Without a slum in Ahmedabad, India’s sixth-largest city. the project, supported by the Hilti Foundation and But Sunita does not let her situation discourage its partners, it would be impossible for Sunita to her. She was lucky enough to have had seven see her dream come true. When vetting projects to years of schooling before her father died, an event support, the Hilti Foundation focuses on “help to that financially crippled the family. As she had no self-help” projects. “Housing for All” aims to help dowry, she married Kanahiyalal, a destitute day people leave the slums and achieve better living laborer from the slum. conditions, but with their active cooperation and not simply through the act of receiving. They must Thanks to Sunita’s work in a bank operated by the have the will to make a contribution and save what Self Employed Women’s Association (SEWA), the they can to help finance their new dwelling. family was able to move from its corrugated iron hut into a one-room apartment with electricity. This The “Housing for All” projects are designed so that was the first step on the path toward upward social people like Sunita can create better living condimovement that Sunita has persistently followed. tions for themselves and their families. “Sensible Sunita has a one-hour commute to and from work. living accommodations represent the first step in It’s a long journey, but one that nonetheless pays moving away from poverty and contribute to off for her. Her reliable and industrious work habits improved health, safety and feelings of self-worth are so greatly appreciated that she has risen from and, not least of all, a more advantageous position the status of peon, a person who completes all in society,” explains Hilti Foundation Managing manner of medial chores such as cleaning, fetching Director Egbert Appel. This is also the focus of the tea and distributing mail, to her current position Hilti Foundation: aiding the creation of a sustainwhere she is co-responsible for the company able business model that places poor people in the archive. She also receives a bit more money in this position of being able to independently create betposition. She earns some 6,500 rupees per month, ter living conditions for themselves and their famiapproximately 180 Swiss francs. This money will lies and to maintain this status. help her oldest son, Deepak, his wife and her future grandchildren on their path to a better life. The Sunita also sees the “Housing for All” initiative as money will go toward the construction of their the chance that it is. In approximately three years apartment. The construction of this apartment is from now the “Housing for All” residential park will supported by Ashoka, a nonprofit association, be finished and Sunita will have saved the required SEWA and the Hilti Foundation. capital. The most important thing for Sunita is that her family is thriving. She fights every day to ensure this will happen when her day begins at 6 a.m. 43 Hamburg’s HafenCity Still under construction, the two new buildings are positioned like twin guards at the northeastern goes green. entrance to Hamburg’s HafenCity, known as the Ericusspitze. The glass facades of these two impressive buildings, sitting on a peninsula, reflect the sun’s rays. The buildings offer an impressive While the external design of the new home view of HafenCity and the city center, which meet at this prominent location. This construction will for the Spiegel Group, on Hamburg’s Elbe form the new home of the Spiegel Group publishRiver, is unique, this project is also extraoring house and a commercial complex known as Ericus-Contor. dinary in terms of sustainability. The design focuses on the careful use of energy reTogether there will be more than 50,000 square meters of office space on this exposed position sources and using environmentally friendly located directly adjacent to Hamburg’s historic construction materials. The products that Speicherstadt. The two buildings are being develHilti contributes to the project also meet oped as a joint venture between Robert Vogel GmbH & Co KG and the ABG Group of Compathese strict demands. nies. Planning is being led by Henning Larsen Architects of Copenhagen. In addition to eyecatching design, the construction project also meets the highest ecological demands. The new 44 Environment 2010 Hilti Company Report headquarters of the Spiegel Group have been sealant. These, and all other products, meet the certified with the HafenCity gold environmental strict environmental standards required. Hilti also label. The Ericus-Contor has been certified “gold” supports this construction project by providing by the German Sustainable Building Council. consulting and other services. “We have provided our consulting expertise on this project from the Since construction began in early 2009, the focus outset,” says André Springstübe, salesperson in has been on sustainability. The energy and techHamburg. nology concept takes aspects such as ecology, economic efficiency and social acceptability into As a responsible company, Hilti is committed to consideration. Special targets, such as the careful reducing the impact that its products place on the usage of energy resources as well as the usage of environment while meeting the ambitious requireenvironmentally friendly construction materials, are ments called for in green building. This is in line significant. “Each product is studied in terms of with the requirements of Hilti customers, who also ecological requirements,” says Christian Feck, recognize that ecological standards are gaining head of construction and planning at Robert Vogel increasing worldwide significance. The construcGmbH & Co KG. The project uses, for example, tion industry is also making contributions in this only local timber and eschews timber from tropical regard, including the reduction of CO2 emissions, climates. Numerous Hilti products also are being while endeavoring to meet the challenges of a used in this significant project. All heating, sanitary changing climate. The construction project at and ventilation pipes are fastened with Hilti instalHamburg’s Ericusspitze is a very positive example lation systems. In the area of fire protection, all of this development. pipe openings are shut with Hilti CP 601S firestop 45 Partnership means growing in tandem. Hilti makes ambitious demands of its partners. Each potential supplier must go through a comprehensive audit process. This is the basic requirement for a longterm business relationship. Hans Hüsler knows exactly what to look for. He set the medium-sized company, employing roughly holds in his hand a milled mechanical part that is 200 people, was subject to a comprehensive audit. manufactured for Hilti’s multidirectional laser prod“We took a detailed look at the overall production uct family. The production of this part requires the process. From goods acceptance inspection to highest levels of precision. Exactness is essential testing procedures to employee health and safety for the daily applications that result in a complete issues,” explains Mr. Hüsler. product. A total of nine areas are carefully screened when Mr. Hüsler is the head of Strategic Supply in the potential suppliers are audited. A positive result is Measuring Systems Business Unit and has worked required for the supplier to be considered an official at Hilti for 19 years. He also has been a supplier partner of Hilti. In addition to topics such as techauditor for roughly three years. Today the Swiss nology, quality and efficiency, a very significant role native is visiting Champion Precision, a Hilti supis played by the Code of Conduct for suppliers, plier based in Johor Bahru, Malaysia, which manuwhich is based on the principles of ethical business factures several hundred thousand parts each year behavior. The Code of Conduct contains social, for various Hilti measuring systems. The company legal, safety and environmental aspects. The princihas been a Hilti partner for three years. At the outples it contains must be maintained by each Hilti 46 Business ethics 2010 Hilti Company Report supplier. One such principle is a clear declaration In the end, both sides benefit from the audits. “It’s a against any type of corruption. good way to get to know the supplier and their corporate culture very well. We also profit from the Hilti’s cooperation with Champion Precision is a partner’s know-how. An audit is generally the beginvery good example of a profitable partnership. ning of a longtime partnership,” says Mr. Hüsler. “This company is a true champion in terms of what Champion Precision’s General Manager, Lee Chen they manufacture. The quality is really good,” says Yeong, greatly appreciates the partnership. “The Mr. Hüsler. The supplier also was included in the cooperation with Hilti, and by extension the audits, developmental process of various products from have allowed us to enhance our own competence. the beginning. Any necessary adjustments in work We were able to develop significantly in social, ecoprocesses were always quickly implemented by nomic and ecological terms in particular.” the company. Initial complaints in the area of workplace safety were taken very seriously and the measures that Champion Precision agreed to were immediately implemented. Hilti is convinced of the value of long-term business relationships. 47 Human rights Labor norms Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of the protection of internationally proclaimed human association and the effective recognition of the right to UN Global rights within their sphere of influence; and collective bargaining, as well as Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and human rights abuses. compulsory labor; Compact Principle 5: the abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LA8: Education, training, counseling, prevention and HR6: Operations identified as having significant risk for risk-control programs in place to assist workforce incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribmembers, their families or community members reute to the elimination of child labor. garding serious diseases. HR7: Operations identified as having significant risk for GRI Indicators HR2: Percentage of significant suppliers and contracincidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures tors that have undergone screening on human rights taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or comand actions taken. pulsory labor. • Hilti’s Mission Statement calls for responsible behav• A health panel consisting of employees and health ior toward team members, customers, partners and managers was created at Hilti Corporate Headquarsuppliers as well as society and the environment. ters in Liechtenstein. Initial measures have already This is consistently implemented throughout the been implemented. company (pages 34– 45 and 49). • Fire prevention training was carried out for all head Activities / Measures 2010 •“Our Culture Journey” (OCJ): The company’s distinct office-based employees in 2010. This will be continculture and the Hilti values continue to be strengthued in 2011. ened and further implemented in corporate culture • Fundamental safety regulations and training are reworkshops (pages 37 and 48). inforced for all employees via an e-learning module. • Six dimensions were defined as part of “Hilti, a great This ensures corresponding implementation. place to work” that make Hilti a great employer. These six dimensions were also included in the annual Global Employee Opinion Survey. Additionally, Hilti’s Corporate Headquarters and many other country organizations participated in external best employer competitions. The results of both internal and external assessments provide management with valuable input that aids establishing priorities when creating improvement measures (pages 28 – 33, 37 and 48). 48 Corporate responsibility 2010 Hilti Company Report Environmental protection Combating corruption Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionPrinciple 10: Businesses should work against corrupary approach to environmental challenges; tion in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. EN3: Direct energy consumption by primary energy SO4: Actions taken in response to incidents source. of corruption. EN5: Energy saved through environmentally friendly use and increased efficiency. EN7: Initiatives to reduce indirect energy use; savings made. EN8: Total water withdrawal separated by source. EN16: Entire direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. EN18: Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions; results achieved. EN22: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. EN26: Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. • Product Carbon Footprint (PCF): In the future, Hilti • Over 30 anticorruption training sessions carried out will calculate the PCF value for all products and worldwide (pages 37 and 49). make the results available to customers. Hilti has • Annual confirmation requirement on the local adheralso established the goal of continually improving ence to Hilti’s anticorruption (zero tolerance) policy the PCF value of its products. The implementation of signed by general managers and extended Hilti Group additional guidelines and tools to further reduce CO2 management. emissions associated with the product developmen• 7 reported cases in 2010. tal process is also planned (pages 37 and 50). • 18 internal audits with regard to local implementation • Vehicle fleet: New guidelines for the vehicle fleet of the compliance program (pages 37, 44 and 45). define several environmentallyand safety-relevant • Local helpline reviewed/reinstalled in all Hilti units. standards. These included regional usage limits that • E-learning tool implemented worldwide. should lead to significant fuel savings over the next • Code of Conduct audit: 79% of existing suppliers in ten years (pages 37 and 51). countries deemed to be “critical” and 100% of new • Energy Efficiency Program: Hilti has started to implesuppliers (pages 37, 44, 45 and 49). ment a number of initiatives to improve energy effi­ ciency by 5%. An initiative is also planned for 2011 that should improve energy efficiency in Hilti plants by more than 10%. Leading by example: In 2010 Hilti’s plant in Thüringen, Austria, became one of the first industrial facilities to be certified according to German green building standard DGNB (pages 37 and 50). 49 Corporate culture. The people at Hilti Based on its highly developed corporate culture, Hilti offers employees outstanding career opportunities in a worldwide group. In 2010, employees invested 32,000 working days in corporate culture workshops. 2010 2009 2008 2007 Number of working days employees have used for 32,000 18,000 35,000 38,000 corporate culture workshops Expenditure for corporate culture workshops (in CHF million) 10.3 7.6 11.4 13.2 Fluctuation 13% 15% 14% 14% Integration success rate* 83% 74% 79% 83% Open management positions filled with internal candidates 85% 85% 80% 82% Number of apprentices worldwide 360 341 320 296 +3% –6.1% +5.5% +10.9% Employees (at December 31) 20,305 19,709 20,994 19,903 * The integration success rate measures the number of employees who joined Hilti during the past two years and are still employed at the company. Employees exhibit a high level of identification and commitment A survey of Hilti employees worldwide is carried out once a year. In 2010 the participation rate of this Global Employee Opinion Survey (GEOS) was 92%. Favorable Neutral Unfavorable 2% 2% 7% 6% 9% 14% 92% 89% 79% 92% 89% 79% are willing to do are proud to work would recommend Hilti the utmost for Hilti for Hilti as a great place to work 50 Corporate responsibility 2010 Hilti Company Report Suppliers. Hilti suppliers are subject to a comprehensive audit The Code of Conduct contains the conditions that Hilti pleted this corresponding audit. The extensive audit proplaces on suppliers wishing to work with the company. The cess requires that Hilti have well-trained auditors. In 2010 Code of Conduct is one of nine areas where potential supthe company once again trained auditors with the help of pliers are gauged in a comprehensive audit. Hilti does not an extensive program. cooperate with any suppliers unless they have first comSuppliers of direct production materials and allied suppliers 2010 2009 Suppliers* who have signed the Code of Conduct 100% 100% Share of suppliers* audited through the end of 2010 Existing suppliers 79%* 59%* New potential suppliers 100% 100% Additional share of suppliers* subject to a Code of Conduct compliance audit by an external, accredited partner in addition to undergoing the evaluation audit. 0% 27% Improvement potential was agreed upon with audited suppliers as appropriate. The implementation of this improvement will be monitored. Suppliers of indirect production materials In February 2010 Hilti expanded its Code of Conduct for suppliers to include the procurement of indirect construction materials. Suppliers of all material groups will therefore be obligated to meet the stipulations in the Code of Conduct in the future. Existing Hilti suppliers of critical material groups and trades, where violations of the Code of Conduct occurred in the past, also are now required to sign the Code of Conduct. This includes the material groups of merchandizing, clothing, measuring, cleaning, catering, building safety, temporary work and transport and logistics. This expanded coverage was 90% implemented after six months. As introduced in 2008, Hilti has either received equivalent certificates from all producers of products bearing the Hilti logo (merchandizing) regarding the maintenance of social and environmental standards, or arranged for audits to be carried out (suppliers of clothing) by an internationally acknowledged, independent party. * These suppliers account for over 90% of the procurement volume of direct production materials. 51 Environment-related key data. CO2 emissions of Hilti Group Comments (in t) CO 2 equivalents 2007 2008 2009 2010 Overall result stable. From 2010 expand120,000 ed scope of results to also include Liech100,000 tenstein office buildings as well as the 80,000 development department and office buildings in Germany. 60,000 40,000 20,000 95,958 97,853 87,209 87,304 Market organizations (top 13) Plants CO2 emissions per employee (in t) 2007 2008 2009 2010 Reduction of CO2 emissions 12 per employee. 10 8 6 4 2 5.07 4.78 4.56 4.30 Energy consumption in the Hilti plants (in MWh) 2007 2008 2009 2010 Increase of energy consumption through 120,000 enlargement of plant 6 in Kaufering. 100,000 80,000 60,000 40,000 20,000 83,280 78,468 69,634 81,939 Electricity Gas Oil 52 Corporate responsibility 2010 Hilti Company Report Water consumption (in m 3) Comments 2007 2008 2009 2010 Slight increase in 300,000 water consumption. 250,000 200,000 150,000 100,000 50,000 222,388 200,412 124,825 140,836 Total waste production (in t) 2007 2008 2009 2010 Reorganization of waste collec12,000 tion processes to optimize mate10,000 rial separation and to reduce 8,000 number of transports (pilot at FL locations). 6,000 4,000 2,000 8,012 6,638 5,910 6,672 Recycled Hazardous Residual Fuel consumption in the top 13 market organizations (in million liters) 2007 2008 2009 2010 Stable in comparison to 2009. 30 25 20 15 10 5 17.772 19.070 18.902 18.937 Diesel Gasoline 53 The Executive Board. Bo Risberg, Dr. Christoph Loos Chief Executive Officer Christoph Loos (born 1968, Germany) has been Bo Risberg (born 1956, Sweden) has been CEO a Member of the Executive Board, responsible since the beginning of 2007. He trained as a for Human Resources, Finance and IT, since the mechanical engineer at Queen’s University in beginning of 2007. Subsequent to his studies in Canada and then acquired a master of business business administration, he earned a doctorate administration degree at IMD in Switzerland. He (Dr. oec. HSG) from the University of St. Gallen joined Hilti in 1999 as Head of the Drilling and and worked for several years at an international Demolition Business Unit. From 2001 to 2006, consultancy in Germany and China. Upon joining as a Member of the Executive Board, he was Hilti in 2001, he first led the Corporate Developresponsible for the Business Areas, the Supply ment team, after which he established the StrateChain (comprising production, sourcing and gic Marketing unit at Hilti headquarters in Schaan. logistics) and New Business & Technology. Bo At the end of 2003 he moved to Germany, first as Risberg is a Member of the Board of Directors a Regional Sales Director and then for two years of Trelleborg AB, Sweden. as General Manager of Hilti Germany. 54 Executive Board 2010 Hilti Company Report The Executive Board (from left): Marco Meyrat, Christoph Loos, Bo Risberg and Stefan Nöken. Marco Meyrat Dr. Stefan Nöken Marco Meyrat (born 1963, Switzerland) has been Stefan Nöken (born 1965, Germany) has been a Member of the Executive Board responsible for responsible for the Business Areas, the Supply all Hilti marketing worldwide since the beginning of Chain and Corporate Research & Technology on 2005. With a business degree from the University the Executive Board since the beginning of 2007. of St. Gallen, he began his career in 1989 as ProdFollowing studies in mechanical engineering at uct Manager at Hilti headquarters in Schaan. After Aachen University, where he earned a doctorate, spending several years performing strategic activihe was employed at the Fraunhofer Institute for ties for Hilti France and Hilti Germany, he took over Production Technology in Aachen before becoming as Head of Hilti Switzerland in 1999 and was subSenior Vice President of Corporate Engineering at sequently appointed General Manager of Hilti GerHilti in 2001. In 2004 he was appointed to the posimany, from 2002 until the end of 2004. Marco tion of Executive Vice President of Supply Chain Meyrat is Chairman of the Board of Directors of Management. Stefan Nöken is a Member of the OLMeRO AG, Glattbrugg, Switzerland. Board of Trustees of the Fraunhofer Institute for Production Technology in Aachen and Vice President of the Unitech International Society, the network of Europe’s leading technical universities. 55 The Board of Directors. Prof. Dr. Pius Baschera Chairman of the Board of Directors, Switzerland Kim Fausing, Sonderborg, Denmark Pius Baschera (born 1950; reelected to serve until Kim Fausing (born 1964; elected to serve until the the 2013 Annual General Meeting) is Chairman of 2013 Annual General Meeting) was elected to the the Board of Directors. He studied mechanical enBoard of Directors in 2010. He earned a degree in gineering and economic science at the Swiss Fedmechanical engineering at Aarhus Teknikum, in eral Institute of Technology Zurich, where he Denmark, in 1987 and a master of business adminearned his doctorate. In 1979 he came to Hilti as istration degree at Henley Management School, in Head of Financial Controlling in the production London, in 1996. His professional career led him to area. He is currently a member of the Board of Dithe Hilti Group in 1990, where he served in various rectors of F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Basel, and management functions in Europe and Asia until the Schindler Group, Hergiswil. He is also a mem2007. After moving to the Danish Danfoss Group, ber of the Advisory Boards of Vorwerk & Co., Wuphe was named Chief Operating Officer and member pertal, and Ardex GmbH, Witten, Chairman of the of the company’s executive committee in January Board of Directors of Venture Incubator AG, Zug, 2008. He is also a director of Sauer-Danfoss Inc. and a Professor of Corporate Management at the (USA), of Danfoss Turbocor, in Tallahassee, Florida Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich. (USA), and of the Velux Group, in Copenhagen (Denmark). Michael Hilti, Schaan, Principality of Liechtenstein Heinrich Fischer, Rüschlikon, Switzerland Michael Hilti (born 1946; reelected to serve until Heinrich Fischer (born 1950; reelected until the the 2012 Annual General Meeting), son of company 2013 Annual General Meeting) has been a member founder Professor Martin Hilti, has been a member of the Board of Directors since 2007. He graduated of the Board of Directors since 1990. He served as in 1973 with an engineering diploma from the Chairman of the Board from 1994 to 2006. Michael Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, Hilti is a member of the Board of Trustees of the having studied electrical engineering and technical Martin Hilti Family Trust. Before being appointed physics. He then went on to study business adminChairman he was Chief Executive Officer and Manistration at the University of Zurich while working in aging Director. Michael Hilti was a member of the this field, earning a master’s degree in 1976. BeginBoard of Directors of Hilcona AG, Schaan until ning in 1977, he held senior management positions June 2010. at Oerlikon Bührle Holding, Balzers AG (1980 to 1989), and finally at Oerlikon Holding once again Prof. Dr. Giorgio Behr, Buchberg, Switzerland (1990 to 1995). From 1996 to 2007 he was Chief Giorgio Behr (born 1948; reelected to serve until the Executive Officer at Saurer AG, Arbon. Heinrich 2012 Annual General Meeting), Honorary Professor Fischer is a member of the Board of Directors at at the University of St. Gallen, was previously a Schweiter AG, Tecan AG and Fortu AG. member of the Board of Directors of the Hilti Corporation between 1993 and 2007. Since January 2008 Ewald H. Hoelker, Vaduz, Principality of he has been a member of the Martin Hilti Family Liechtenstein Trust Board of Trustees. He was again elected to Ewald H. Hoelker (born 1945; reelected to serve serve on the Board of Directors of the Hilti Corporauntil the 2011 Annual General Meeting) has been tion in January 2009. Giorgio Behr is a member of a member of the Board of Directors since 2005. A the Supervisory Board of ZF AG, Friedrichshafen. US citizen with a master of business administraHe gained his doctorate at the law school of the tion from the University of North Texas, Ewald H. University of Zurich, was admitted to the bar and Hoelker was, as an Executive Board Member, reobtained a diploma as a Certified Public Accountant sponsible for all Hilti marketing regions worldwide (CPA). Today he is an entrepreneur in the industrial up to the end of 2004. sector (Behr Bircher Cellpack BBC Group). 56 Board of Directors 2010 Hilti Company Report The Board of Directors (from left): Michael Hilti, Ewald H. Hoelker, Kim Fausing, Tis Prager, Heinrich Fischer, Pius Baschera, Giorgio Behr, Michael Jacobi. Dr. Michael Jacobi, Binningen, Switzerland Dr. Tis Prager, Zumikon, Switzerland Michael Jacobi (born 1953; reelected until the Tis Prager (born 1948; reelected until the 2013 2013 Annual General Meeting) was elected to the Annual General Meeting) has been a member of Board of Directors in 2007. He studied business the Board of Directors since June 2006. He economics at the University of St. Gallen and at earned a doctorate in law from the University of the University of Washington, Seattle, and earned Zurich in 1975, was admitted to the bar of the his doctorate from St. Gallen in 1979. From 1978 Canton of Zurich in 1978 and is a founding memuntil 2007, he held various management positions ber of the Prager Dreifuss law firm in Zurich and in the financial area of Ciba Geigy AG and later in Bern. Among other mandates, Tis Prager is the Ciba Specialty Chemicals Inc., Basel. He was Chairman of the Board of the IE Engineering Global Chief Financial Officer from 1996 until 2007. Group AG, Zurich, of Hotel Zürich AG (Marriott), Today Michael Jacobi is an independent corporate and a member of the Board of Directors of consultant. Since 2003, he has been a member of Bourquin SA, Couvet, and of Scherer & Bühler the Board of Directors of Sonova Holding AG, StäAG, Meggen. He is also active in STEP, the Socifa, and since December 2008 a member of the ety of Trust and Estate Practitioners. Board of Trustees of the Martin Hilti Family Trust. He was named to the Board of Directors of Actelion Pharmaceuticals Ltd., Allschwil, in 2009. 57 58 Key figures 2010 Hilti Company Report 59 Back on track to growth. The 2010 business year was characterized by economic recovery for the Hilti Group. As expected, the company returned to positive growth. Despite significantly negative currency influences, the operating result increased by 56 percent while net income was 82 percent higher. The economic environment continued to be a facgrowth (+9%). In Europe (+6%) growth was largely tor in many markets during the first half of the year. driven by the German-speaking countries, where This was reflected by the Hilti Group’s results at the company further reinforced its market position. the start of 2010. After sales declined by 2 percent Overall, organic growth (6% after subtracting the in the first quarter, the situation improved from influence from acquisitions) and the solid performonth to month, leading to solid development mance compared to the market were very positive. over the last six months of the year. This positive shift was seen in most Hilti regions, although indiThe further appreciation of the Swiss franc reprevidual countries such as Spain, Portugal, Ireland, sents a significant negative effect. In 2010, about Japan and the United Arab Emirates reported 48 percent of Hilti’s sales were denominated in declining sales through the end of the year. euros, some 26 percent in US dollars and correlated currencies and about 23 percent in other Broad-based organic growth currencies. Swiss francs only accounted for 4 perViewed over the entire year, the Hilti Group posted cent of Hilti sales. This currency mix led to a signifa 7.4-percent increase in sales in terms of local icantly negative translation effect as sales growth currencies. During the second half of 2010, growth was reduced by 5.2 to 2.2 percent through the reached double-digit figures over several months. conversion into Swiss francs. In addition to greater stability in most mature markets and the dynamic economy present in the Significant increase in profit emerging countries, the boom in the worldwide In addition to the positive development in sales, solar industry made a substantial contribution to the company also achieved substantial producHilti’s sales growth. Hilti successfully took advantivity improvements, leading to an increase in tage of this trend with its mounting solutions for the operating result (EBIT) from CHF 172 million photovoltaic modules. Hilti’s acquisition of the to CHF 268 million (+56%). Fixed costs were American-based Unirac, which was responsible for further lowered by the restructuring measures 1 percent of sales growth in local currencies, falls implemented in 2009 as well as by the ongoing into this new business area. In addition, Hilti sucoptimization at all levels of the value chain. In cessfully launched more than 30 new products in line with the higher operating result, variable 2010, a crucial contributing factor to the compacompensation components also rose due to ny’s growth. the performance-based remuneration system. Overall, the cost level was again lowered by Sales in the Latin America (+20% in local currenroughly 2 percent. The 2010 result also was cies), Asia/Pacific (+8%) and Near/Middle East aided by productivity increases in purchasing and Africa (+12%) regions grew at an overproporand production. However, product mix influences tionate level, reflecting the market dynamic. and negative currency effects compensated for Despite the difficult local environment, the North the positive influence of lower costs, which led America region also posted significant sales to a margin at the level of the previous year. 60 Key figures 2010 Hilti Company Report Overall, currency effects reduced the operating chasing and manufacturing that already has result by CHF 40 million. The financial result also been achieved in the various currency areas has contains non-cash-effective valuation losses on reduced the effects of currency fluctuations accounts receivable denominated in foreign cur­significantly. For example, a new production rencies to the extent of CHF 47 million. Signifi­facility is now operating in Mexico while deve­l­ cantly higher (book) losses were avoided through opment, purchasing and manufacturing capacities successful hedging initiatives. These negative have been further increased in China. Hilti plants effects were partially outweighed by one time – not in Austria and Germany also have been expanded. cash-relevant – positive effects in tax expenses of an amount in the low double-digit millions. NeverHowever, currency is merely one of several factors theless, group net income advanced substantially to be considered when addressing structural by 82 percent to CHF 142 million. issues of Hilti’s business model, driven as it is by differentiation and technology. For this reason, The operating margin (ROS) improved considerably, changes to the global cost structure are pursued rising from 4.5 to 6.8 percent. In light of the stabiliwith a focus on the differentiation and productivity zation measures initiated in 2009 to combat the potential, and not as a reaction to short-term cureconomic crisis, this result is at the upper end of rency volatility. expectations. To avoid negative effects on innovation and sales capacity, a lower margin was anticiBalance sheet remains solid pated as part of the stabilization program. In the The Hilti Group’s balance sheet total is practically coming years, Hilti’s goal is to see step-by-step unchanged compared to 2010. The share of equity improvement of the margin level to a range bein the balance sheet total fell due to currency tween 8 and 10 percent. effects from 55 to 54 percent. Equity also was pressured by capital market developments and Improving the natural hedge low interest rates, which led to a deficit in the covThe dominant strength of the Swiss franc at erage ratio of several Hilti Group pension funds. the end of 2010 should be viewed as an exagAccording to the applied accounting standards, geration. The negative effects from currencies these shortfalls are balanced against equity. can be expected to once again weaken over the mediumto long-term. But ongoing volatilImprovements to credit management processes, ity is probable for the foreseeable future. warehousing and throughout the entire supply chain resulted in a reduced net working-capitalTo permanently balance this type of fluctuation, the to-sales ratio which declined from 26.9 to Hilti Group is constantly attempting to improve the 25.2 percent in 2010. While the decline in sales in natural hedge by better balancing income and ex2009 resulted in a reduction of working capital, the penditures in the corresponding currency areas. growth experienced in 2010 led to a subsequent When viewed historically, the diversification of purincrease. Due to this growth effect, and in spite of 61 3930 million Swiss francs is the Hilti Group sales figure for 2010. increased profitability and net working capital effiAcquisitions in 2010 were financed with own liquid ciency, the cash flow from operating activities for funds. Liquidity levels nevertheless decreased only 2010 was, at CHF 376 million, below the prior year slightly from CHF 1167 million to CHF 1134 million. level (CHF 487 million). This gives the Hilti Group a very comfortable, positive net liquidity level (cash equivalents less interInvestments in tangible assets reached est-bearing liabilities) of CHF 227 million. Together CHF 135 million. The investments are partly with an equity ratio of 54 percent of the balance related to the company’s multiple-year program sheet total, the company continues to have an to renovate and expand the capacity of prooutstanding financial base. duction structures. This program was largely concluded in 2010. The Hilti Group now has Outlook sufficient capacity available to allow for addiIn 2011, the Hilti Group expects the positive tional growth. Free cash flow (before acquisidynamic generated in the second half of 2010 to tions and dividend) amounted to CHF 137 milcontinue. This dynamic will be supported by a lion, once again equaling the good level achieved solid outlook in most countries and by the launchin 2009. Additionally, no dividend was paid out ing of a significant amount of innovative new prodin 2010. The Martin Hilti Family Trust, the comucts. Against this backdrop, Hilti expects to pany’s shareholder, displayed solidarity with achieve organic growth in 2011 in the high singlethe cost-cutting measures initiated in the wake digit percentage range. of the financial crisis by foregoing the distribution of a dividend for the 2009 business year. In the area of financing, the Hilti Group established a new asset-backed securities (ABS) refinancing structure for the fleet management program. The new financing structure was successfully tested when a small portion of receivables, EUR 30 million, were refinanced. Short-term bank liabilities increased slightly from CHF 81 million to CHF 98 million while long-term bank liabilities declined from CHF 70 million to CHF 64 million. The Hilti Group has three bonds placed on the Swiss capital market with maturities in 2012 (300 million), 2013 (150 million) and 2014 (300 million). 62 Key figures 2010 Hilti Company Report Key figures. Net sales (in CHF million) Operating result (in CHF million) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 6,000 600 5,000 500 4,000 400 3,000 300 2,000 200 1,000 100 4,118 4,667 4,700 3,845 3,930 422 533 450 172 268 Cash flow from operating activities (in CHF million) Net income (in CHF million) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 600 600 500 500 400 400 300 300 200 200 100 100 362 453 437 487 376 344 422 243 78 142 Research and development expenditure (in CHF million) Employees (as at December 31) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 300 22,000 250 20,000 200 18,000 150 16,000 100 14,000 50 12,000 164 177 189 182 172 17,951 19,903 20,994 19,709 20,305 Please note The following pages contain extracts from the 2010 Finan2010 Financial Report which will be available on the cial Report of the Hilti Group. Because these pages do not Group’s website (www.hilti.com) from late March 2011. contain the full consolidated financial statements, they do not present complete information about the financial posiThe full 2010 consolidated financial statements, which are tion, financial performance and cash flows of the Hilti included in the 2010 Financial Report, have been prepared Group for 2010. Complete information, including the notes in accordance with international financial reporting stanto the consolidated financial statements, is contained in the dards (IFRS). 63 Consolidated balance sheet of Hilti Group as at December 31 (in CHF million) ASSETS 2010 2009 Intangible assets 396.8 264.8 Property, plant and equipment 765.6 836.4 Investment property 4.6 4.9 Investments in associates and joint ventures 10.9 9.2 Deferred income tax assets 96.1 91.6 Other financial investments 12.5 13.1 Trade and other receivables 250.0 270.7 Derivative financial instruments 59.8 24.2 Total non-current assets 1,596.3 1,514.9 Inventories 559.8 573.6 Trade and other receivables 877.1 946.4 Current income taxes receivable 10.1 6.9 Accrued income and prepayments 47.8 62.9 Derivative financial instruments 27.7 15.9 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 40.2 38.7 Cash and cash equivalents 1,134.4 1,166.8 Assets classified as held for sale – – Total current assets 2,697.1 2,811.2 TOTAL ASSETS 4,293.4 4,326.1 64 Key figures 2010 Hilti Company Report EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 2010 2009 Non-controlling interest 4.3 5.3 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 2,300.1 2,391.1 Total equity 2,304.4 2,396.4 Provisions 89.2 103.7 Pension and termination benefit obligations 226.5 166.5 Deferred income tax liabilities 24.7 27.6 Bonds 746.0 744.4 Long-term bank borrowings 63.8 70.4 Trade and other payables 19.8 19.3 Derivative financial instruments 1.7 2.8 Total non-current liabilities 1,171.7 1,134.7 Provisions 58.7 81.3 Trade and other payables 266.0 257.9 Current income taxes payable 102.7 108.3 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 290.4 265.8 Short-term bank borrowings 97.9 81.3 Derivative financial instruments 1.6 0.4 Total current liabilities 817.3 795.0 Total liabilities 1,989.0 1,929.7 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 4,293.4 4,326.1 Equity comprises share capital (176,000 registered shares All of the registered shares and participation certificates are with par value of CHF 500 each) and participation capital owned by the Martin Hilti Family Trust. (774,400 participation certificates with par value of CHF 50 each) as well as reserves. 65 Consolidated income statement of Hilti Group (in CHF million) 2010 2009 Net sales 3,929.9 3,844.9 Other operating revenues 87.6 63.8 Total operating revenues 4,017.5 3,908.7 Change in inventory 22.6 (144.3) Material costs (1,260.4) (1,088.3) Personnel expenses (1,594.5) (1,558.2) Depreciation and amortization (213.0) (200.3) Other operating expenses (704.6) (746.0) Total operating expenses (3,749.9) (3,737.1) Operating result 267.6 171.6 Share of profit / (loss) of equity-accounted associates and joint ventures 0.6 0.5 Other revenues and expenses (net) (43.9) 23.7 Finance costs (57.2) (59.5) Net income before income tax expense 167.1 136.3 Income tax expense (25.3) (58.1) Net income 141.8 78.2 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 142.8 78.2 Non-controlling interest (1.0) – The notes to the consolidated financial statements, that immediately follow the consolidated cash flow statement, are an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of com­prehensive income and the consolidated cash flow statement. 66 Key figures 2010 Hilti Company Report Consolidated statement of comprehensive income of Hilti Group (in CHF million) 2010 2009 Net income per income statement 141.8 78.2 Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges taken to equity (1.3) 10.5 (Gains) / losses on cash flow hedges transferred from equity to income statement 8.0 (8.4) Actuarial gains / (losses) on defined benefit plans (70.3) (37.0) Foreign currency translation differences (180.0) 7.3 Deferred tax on items taken directly to or transferred from equity 9.2 7.7 Other comprehensive income (234.4) (19.9) Total comprehensive income (92.6) 58.3 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent (91.3) 58.1 Non-controlling interest (1.3) 0.2 67 Consolidated cash flow statement of Hilti Group (in CHF million) 2010 2009 Cash flow from operating activities before interest and tax 476.0 592.2 Interest received 6.1 4.9 Interest paid (57.2) (59.5) Income tax paid (49.3) (50.2) Cash flow from operating activities 375.6 487.4 Capital expenditure on intangible assets (85.1) (90.2) Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment (134.6) (193.7) Acquisition of subsidiaries (149.7) (0.5) (Increase) /decrease in financial investments (3.6) (6.0) Disposal of intangible assets 0.4 1.4 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 3.3 1.5 (Increase) / decrease in finance lease receivables (19.3) (63.9) Cash flow from investing activities (388.6) (351.4) Increase in long-term bank borrowings 29.4 2.1 (Decrease) in long-term bank borrowings (30.3) (38.4) Increase / (decrease) in short-term bank borrowings 23.8 (40.3) Increase in bonds – 297.8 Transactions with shareholder 0.2 (0.7) Dividend paid – (96.3) Cash flow from financing activities 23.1 124.2 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (42.5) 0.5 Total increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (32.4) 260.7 Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 1,166.8 906.1 Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 1,134.4 1,166.8 68 Key figures 2010 Hilti Company Report Key figures of Hilti Group 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Results (CHF million / %) Net sales 3,930 3,845 4,700 4,667 4,118 Depreciation and amortization 213 200 185 181 171 Operating result 268 172 450 533 422 Net income before tax 167 136 308 496 401 Net income 142 78 243 422 344 Return on assets (RoA) in % (Net income + Finance costs) 4,6 3.2 7.1 12.8 11.6 Return on equity (RoE) in % (Net income) 6,0 3.2 9.9 18.2 17.1 Cash flow from operating activities 376 487 437 453 362 Balance sheet (CHF million / %) Total equity 2,304 2,396 2,429 2,483 2,159 Total equity in % Total equity and liabilities 54 55 58 64 57 Non-current liabilities 1,172 1,135 829 436 455 Current liabilities 817 795 946 942 1,165 Capital expenditures on Intangible assets and on Property, plant and equipment 209 283 290 246 242 Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment 1,162 1,101 1,024 952 889 Other non-current assets 434 414 386 339 247 Current assets 2,697 2,811 2,795 2,570 2,643 Total assets 4,293 4,326 4,204 3,861 3,779 Dividend* 71 – 96 117 112 Employees (as at December 31) 20,305 19,709 20,994 19,903 17,951 * As proposed by the Board of Directors 2010 sales growth year on year 2010 2009 Change Change in CHF million in CHF million in CHF (%) in local currencies (%) Europe 2,417 2,455 -2 6 North America 736 695 6 9 Latin America 113 96 18 20 Asia / Pacific 490 441 11 8 Near / Middle East and Africa 174 158 11 12 Hilti Group 3,930 3,845 2 7 69 The Hilti trades. Building construction Civil engineering Steel and metal The range of innovative tools Our high-performance, longWith our expert know-how and and accessories we supply to lasting power tools and timeaids such as anchor design the construction industry is as saving fastening solutions are software, we support planners varied as the applications in this also in demand in the civil engiand contractors in the steel field. Covering the areas of conneering trades. Installation work and metal construction busistruction, renovation and demoor heavy demolition and breakness. Professionals on jobsites lition, we supply a full range of ing jobs – it all has to be carried everywhere can expect peak products for measuring, drilling, out as quickly and reliably as performance from our system chiseling, cutting and grinding or possible. Intensive tests ensure solutions. Whether leveling, fastening as well as special soluthe highest level of reliability and aligning and anchoring steel tions for applications such as many of our products are structures, fastening profile the installation of formwork or approved for use in sensitive metal roofing sheets or facade rebar connections. As matched environments such as in the panels, or installing railings or components of systems, these atomic power industry. Even critcanopy roofs, we are the oneproducts offer outstanding perical fastenings to take up high stop shop for all of their tool formance, reliability and high loads or post-installed rebar and fastening consumables efficiency. With health and safety connections can be installed requirements: direct fastening at the top of our list of priorities, with exceptional reliability thanks and high-speed screw fastening our advanced and well-proven to technological developments systems plus versatile anchor dust removal, vibration reduction that lead the field plus the expesolutions backed by a broad and torque control systems prorienced advice offered by Hilti range of advanced, ergonomivide highly effective protection engineers at the planning stage cally designed tools offering for the user. or on-site. maximum safety. Hilti DX 460 MX powder-actuated Hilti POS 18 total station Hilti SIW 22T-A cordless high-torque imfastening tool with X-FS form stop pact wrench with HUS-HR screw anchor 70 Interior finishing Sanitary, heating Electrical Diamond business Productivity gains for contracand air conditioning Electrical installation work Reliable equipment, backed tors in every field of interior finOur product range offers a becomes particularly efficient by reliable services, is particuishing including drywall and multitude of efficient solutions – and virtually dustless – when larly relevant to diamond serceiling installation, tiling and for fastening pipes and ducts our direct fastening tools are vice contractors. As a floor renovation, and door and of all kinds. Heating, sanitary used. The comprehensive dependable partner in this window installation – that’s our and air conditioning systems range of electrical fasteners trade, Hilti is renowned not goal. Laser tools for measuring installers will find that Hilti from Hilti covers a broad only for quick repairs and and aligning, a comprehensive supplies everything needed for spectrum of applications in short delivery times but also range of drilling tools and quickly and securely fastening this trade. With our highly for innovative equipment and anchors, and direct and screw pipes of all types and sizes to effective dust removal systems accessories. With our unique fastening systems for repetitive ceilings, walls and floors. Hilti for power tools used for slitfleet management system, we fastening applications ensure channel installation systems ting, cutting, drilling and chisguarantee continuous reliabilmaximum productivity and are found to be particularly eling, jobs on mineral ity of replacement tools and cost efficiency. Surface finishconvenient and versatile as materials of all kinds can be comprehensive services at ing and refinishing while keepthey can be assembled and carried out quickly, easily and calculable costs. We also ing dust to a minimum, plus fastened exceptionally quickly safely. Hilti cordless tools for manufacture wall saw blades the use of special foams for and easily. A wide selection of sawing, drilling and screwand coring bits according to insulation, filling, fastening and products designed to seal off driving come into their own customer specifications. Trainsoundproofing, are other areas pipes and openings in the where maximum mobility is ing users in handling and in which our know-how is in event of a fire is also available. required in conjunction with operating new tools and congreat demand. Hilti’s product lasting high performance. sulting on complex projects portfolio for interior finishers is with experienced engineers rounded off by a comprehenare hallmarks of our service sive range of firestop products. offering. Hilti GX 120 gas system Hilti TE 6-A36 cordless rotary Hilti CP 653 speed sleeve Hilti DS TS32 wall saw hammer with the TE DRS-6-A universal dust removal system Trades 2010 Hilti Company Report Mining Solar Energy The combination of outThe ability to install any type We offer our customers in standing technology, onof solar panel while using the energy industries innosite requirement analyses just six system components vative solutions to boost and reliable services make delivers highly cost-effective productivity, increase relius a competent mining and flexible solutions. Our ability and minimize health partner. The TE MD20 elecmounting structure consists and safety risks. Our welltric drilling system ensures of corrosion-resistant mateengineered direct fastening powerful drilling in rock and rial that is simple to install methods and flexible moda significant reduction in thanks to preassembled ular pipe installation syshealth hazards. The selfparts. The combination of tems replace extensive drilling OneStep rock anHilti know-how in structural welding or installation work chor system securely bolts design, foundation work in a large number of applimine walls and roofs while and innovative products, cations. Irrespective of projcutting operating and serensures the required taiect location, our specialists vicing costs. Our comprelored versatility for groundprovide technical support hensive portfolio of prodmounted solar parks and for from design to construction ucts and accessories roof installations. Our exaround the world. provide efficient infrastrucperts with many years of ture construction, both experience offer support in above and below ground. planning, specification and project management. Hilti TE MD20 drilling system Hilti MSP-AL solar park system Hilti DX 351 BT powder-actuated fastening tool with X-BT threaded stud 72 We help our customers to be successful. We identify their needs and provide them with innovative solutions featuring outstanding added value. Hilti. Outperform. Outlast. www.hilti.com
