2 bl 0 e deve 1 lopm 0 ent report ina Susta Unibail-Rodamco is Europe’s leading listed commercial property company with a portfolio valued at €24.5 billion on December 31, 2010. The Group is committed to sustainable development: it complies with all relevant social and environmental legislation and aims to achieve growth that is economically efficient, socially fair and environmentally sustainable in all of its activities and developments. Unibail-Rodamco is a signatory of the UN Global Compact and is listed in a number of major global sustainability HELSINKI indexes, including the FTSE4Good and DJSI (World and Europe). STOCKHOLM NORDIC COUNTRIES 15 shopping centres 78 million visits in 2010 -20% CO2/visit since 2006 NETHERLANDS COPENHAGEN 8 shopping centres 42 million visits in 2010* -79% CO2/visit since 2006 *Visit numbers for 5 shopping AMSTERDAM centres only THE HAGUE LILLE WARSAW CENTRAL EUROPE 11 shopping centres PARIS 135 million visits in 2010 PRAGUE FRANCE -25% CO2/visit since 2006 37 shopping centres 404 million visits in 2010 BRATISLAVA VIENNA -19% CO2/visit since 2006 AUSTRIA BORDEAUX LYON 3 shopping centres 42 million visits in 2010 -28% CO2/visit since 2006 NICE BARCELONA MADRID VALENCIA Contents SEVILLE 01 Message from the CEO and review of performance 02 A comprehensive strategy & ambitious goals 04 Environmental management systems 06 2010 BREEAM certifications SPAIN 08 Cooperation on environmental issues 14 shopping centres 120 million visits in 2010 10 Climate, emissions & energy -34% CO2/visit since 2006 14 An eﬃcient, responsible approach to risks & resources 18 Encouraging dialogue & strengthening relationships 22 Promoting equality & diversity 24 Corporate citizenship 26 Consolidated data and indicators 42 Objectives & achievements *CO2/visit figures verified by Ernst & Young. 46 Statutory Auditor’s Report See assurance report on pages 46-47. Message from the CEO Guillaume Poitrinal, CEO & Chairman of the Management Board improvement, the Group published guidelines for best practice reporting its environmental, social and on sustainability performance financial results simultaneously for the within the sector. The Group first time in 20101 and expanded the is also participating in a major scope of its third-party environmental benchmarking initiative, the Global and social auditing. The maturity and Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark success of the Group’s sustainability (GRESB), that will further increase policy place Unibail-Rodamco transparency and comparability among the most sustainable from 2011 onwards. companies in the real estate sector. Environmental and social As well as introducing integrated sustainability are challenges that reporting to provide its stakeholders must be met over the long-term. with a panoramic vision of its The BREEAM certificates obtained activities, the Group continued by the Group’s new development to play an active role in the drive projects – including the first In 2010, the sustainability of towards greater transparency and “Excellent” rating for a shopping Unibail-Rodamco’s corporate consistency in environmental and centre in Europe – send a clear strategy was again demonstrated social reporting across the whole of message about the solidity, efficiency through the solidity of its results. the real estate sector. The 2010 results and performance of the foundations Consistent with its commitment published by Unibail-Rodamco that the Group is laying for sustained to leadership and continuous are consistent with the EPRA2 draft growth in the future. Performance review Joost Bomhoff, Executive Director in Charge of Sustainability the fourth consecutive year, energy These good practices enable consumption remained stable the Group to deliver consistent despite an exceptionally cold winter, improvements and maintain its and almost 1,200 “green” leases momentum, even in unfavourable were signed with retail and office economic and climatic conditions. tenants. The value of direct and Unibail-Rodamco is well positioned indirect financial contributions to to achieve its ambitious, longgood causes increased by 10% term sustainability performance year-on-year and long-standing objectives. commitments to promote education, entrepreneurship, On the basis of these results, and the arts and architecture were the Group maintained its position in maintained. the FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones Over the last four years, Sustainability (World) indexes in Unibail-Rodamco has implemented 2010 and entered the Dow Jones Unibail-Rodamco continued to a solid framework of tools, Sustainability Index (Europe), the deliver strong environmental and indicators and targets that have ASPI Index (Europe), and the NYSE social results in 2010. CO2 emissions turned environmental and Euronext Low Carbon 100 Europe® and water consumption fell for social performance into a habit. Index. 1 This 2010 Sustainable Development Report is an extract of information contained in the 2010 Annual and Sustainable Development Report. The full report is available on the Group website: www.unibail-rodamco.com 2 European Public Real Estate Association (www.epra.com) 2 UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT A comprehensive strategy and ambitious goals PROGRESS TOWARDS 2010 was a year for maintaining momentum and breaking new ground. 2010 TARGETS The consolidation of best practices introduced in previous years saw the Group draw closer to its long-term environmental goals, while the introduction of creative new solutions provided a vision of the sustainable shopping centre of the future. Sustainability is now closely integrated into Unibail-Rodamco’s day-to-day operating, development and investment activities. Despite unfavourable climatic conditions, the Group was able to maintain its performance in 2010. Unibail-Rodamco develops and validates its strategy and achievements in cooperation with expert third parties. In 2010, it maintained its membership Achieved 78% Partially achieved 14% of leading SRI (Socially Responsible Investment) indexes and achieved high Not achieved 8% rankings in external research studies. Ernst & Young1 audited ten of the The Group's environmental and Group’s performance targets, including the CO2/visit KPI, well in advance social targets are realistic but of any legislative requirements to do so. In setting targets, Unibail-Rodamco ambitious. Unibail-Rodamco also strives to exceed its obligations. For example, the Group’s carbon chooses to set the bar high to challenge its teams to intensity target of -40% between 2006 and 2016 goes significantly beyond the outperform and innovate, reductions required by the French government or the European Union. The even though this comes at the green leases introduced by Unibail-Rodamco in 2009 are now a central pillar expense of a perfect score sheet. The considerable performance of the Group’s sustainability strategy. Their implementation clearly identifies improvements made since 2006 the Group as a leader in environmentally sustainable operations and demonstrate the relevance of this demonstrates its commitment to involving key stakeholders in this process. approach. Finally, as a responsible corporate citizen, Unibail-Rodamco continues to AMBITIOUS play an active role in government and industry working parties. In particular, LONG-TERM TARGETS the Group has been a driving force behind EPRA’s newfound commitment -40% CO2/visit 2006-2016 to environmental sustainability and its development of consistent key -20% kWh/visit 2006-2012 performance indicators on sustainability for the commercial real estate -20% litre/visit 2006-2012 industry. 1 The statutory auditor’s report on the review of selected environmental and human resources information and indicators is available on pages 46-47 and on the Group website: www.unibail-rodamco.com 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE OF MANAGED SHOPPING CENTRES CO2 emissions (CO2/visit)* Energy (kWh/visit)* Water (litres/visit) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 0 -10 -13% -15% -20 -30 -32% -40 *Veriﬁed by Ernst & Young. See assurance report on pages 46-47. 4 Project BREEAM Rating Status Docks 76, Rouen, France Good 1st shopping centre certiﬁed in Europe (April 2009) Tour Oxygène, Lyon, France Very good 1st ofﬁce tower certiﬁed Very Good in France (May 2010) Donau Zentrum, extension, Vienna, Austria Very good 1st shopping centre certiﬁed in Austria (May 2010) Lyon Conﬂuence, Lyon, France Very good 1st shopping centre certiﬁed Very Good in France (October 2010) SO Ouest, Levallois-Perret, France Excellent 1st shopping centre certiﬁed Excellent in Europe (November 2010) 5 UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT management systems Unibail-Rodamco’s environmental achievements are founded on efﬁcient Environmental Management Systems (EMS). Both existing assets and new developments are carefully managed and monitored to balance the needs and comfort of customers and environmental performance. The Sustainable Attitude, the Group’s EMS for assets in operation, is in place across the whole of the managed porfolio in Europe. In November 2010, Bureau Veritas1 assessed the content and structure of the Sustainable Attitude programme at the Group's French assets and confirmed that it is a functional and relevant system that supports Unibail-Rodamco's policy of continuous improvement. The ongoing improvements in the environmental performance of the Group’s managed shopping centres clearly illustrate the benefits of introducing this EMS. In 2010, CO2/visit was reduced by a further 7% year-on-year and has now been cut by a total of 32% since 2006. Efficient design can significantly reduce energy consumption and CO2 emissions during the operational life of a building. In recent years, considerable efforts have been made to incorporate sustainability into the Group’s Design Guidelines for new development, renovation and extension projects. The application of this best practice framework enables the Group to capitalise on in-house experience, save time and money, and promote the sharing of best practices. It has also helped Unibail-Rodamco’s development teams to deliver some of Europe’s most sustainable new buildings (see over). In 2010, the Design Guidelines were updated on the basis of new assumptions and technologies and operational feedback from across the Group. New guidelines were issued on the use of natural lighting, energy efficient heating and cooling, natural ventilation and biodiversity. 1 Bureau Veritas is a world leader in health, safety, security and environmental management and certiﬁcation. Their report is available on the Group website: www.unibail-rodamco.com. 6 UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2010 BREEAM certifications In-house development teams have acquired signiﬁcant experience in environmental design and management following the Group’s decision to apply for third-party certiﬁcation of all new assets of more than 10,000 m2. Thanks to a methodological approach and a clear focus on excellence, Unibail-Rodamco is a market leader in sustainable construction and is driving the industry to propose innovative technologies and a better, more relevant sustainability framework for all buildings. In 2010, four assets received BREEAM1 design stage certification, with several of them setting new standards for sustainable construction. A further nine are registered by the certification bodies and another eight assets are undergoing preliminary assessments. The Group set another benchmark when the new hall at Paris-Nord Villepinte became the first convention and exhibition building in France to be developed according to HQE2 standards. 1 The Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) is the world’s most widely used sustainable construction certiﬁcation. 2 HQE (Haute Qualité Environnementale/High Environmental Quality) is the French standard certiﬁcation scheme for sustainable construction. Management 100% 80% Pollution Health & Wellbeing 60% BREEAM RATINGS FOR DONAU ZENTRUM, 40% SO OUEST AND OXYGÈNE COMPARED TO UNIBAIL-RODAMCO’S AVERAGE SCORE (% of achieved credits per category) 20% Land Use & Ecology Energy OXYGÈNE Lyon, France DONAU ZENTRUM Vienna, Austria SO OUEST Levallois-Perret, France Average score on portfolio The “average” Unibail-Rodamco shopping centre achieves a Very Good score under BREEAM. Connection to public transport networks, waste management, water Waste Transport management and the comfort (health and wellbeing) of visitors are key drivers and achievements. The Group has further room for improvement in research into sustainable materials, energy efﬁciency and the general integration of ecology and biodiversity into Materials Water new projects. 7 OXYGÈNE Lyon, France 1st skyscraper building in France to receive Very Good certiﬁcation Oxygène was constructed on a disused brownfield site alongside La Part-Dieu shopping centre. It benefits from the same outstanding access to Lyon’s public transport network: office workers can choose to travel by train, bus, tram, metro or bicycle. Buildings which are linked to public transport networks have a far lower indirect carbon footprint than those which can only be accessed by car. Area: 29,400 m2 GLA Opened: April 30, 2010 Main environmental features: • Efficient energy consumption (27% lower than French regulatory requirements*) • Double-skin façade with integrated sun screens to reduce energy demand for cooling • Efficient heat pumps using ground water for renewable cooling and heating DONAU ZENTRUM Vienna, Austria 1st shopping centre in Austria to receive Very Good certiﬁcation in the Retail category Donau Zentrum is the largest shopping and entertainment centre in central Vienna. In 2007, it was the first shopping centre in Austria to be awarded the ‘Oeko Business Plan’ by the City of Vienna for its commitment to sustainability. New extension: 26,000 m2 GLA Opened: October 27, 2010 Main environmental features: • Building designed to minimise the loss of heated or cooled air through the building fabric • Excellent access to public transport services and local amenities, including public paths for cyclists and pedestrians, as well as facilities for cyclists (showers, cycle racks, changing rooms, etc.) • Constructed in an area with a low risk of flooding SO OUEST Levallois-Perret, France 1st shopping centre in Europe to receive Excellent certiﬁcation in the Retail category SO Ouest showcases a number of best practices that serve to reduce energy consumption and CO2 emissions, enhance biodiversity, and optimise the use of natural resources. For example, the shopping centre will be fully connected to the local urban cooling and heating network, which uses 100% renewable geothermal energy. Area: 46,700 m2 GLA Opening: 2013 Main environmental features: • Energy consumption 36% below French regulatory requirements* • 10,000 m2 of green spaces designed by a qualified ecologist to enhance biodiversity • 100% of rainwater recovered and used to flush toilets, clean technical areas and water gardens • Global cost study of design features (including structure and heating, ventilation and air-conditioning system) for periods of 30 and 60 years • Compactors used to reduce waste volumes; number of visits by waste lorries cut by four • Green roof for thermal and acoustic insulation, filtering of air pollution, rainwater retention and increased biodiversity *2005 Thermal Regulation, applies to all building permits ﬁled after September 1, 2006. 8 UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT Cooperation on environmental issues Cooperation with key environmental partners gathered pace in 2010. ‘Green lease’ clauses were gradually rolled out in all regions and were included in 79% of leases and renewals signed across Europe. A growing percentage of shopping centre services are purchased from responsible suppliers. Tenant committees and customer communications are helping to spread the message that everyone has a role to play in the environmental performance of an asset. Unibail-Rodamco launched its ‘green lease’ strategy in late 2009. This pioneering initiative, which goes well beyond regulatory requirements, formalises the environmental obligations of tenants and landlords in a standard appendix to the lease contract. The clauses have been applied to all new leases and renewals since January 1, 2010. Sustainability committees at individual assets are used to define shared action plans, encourage dialogue, and inform tenants about the Group’s initiatives, the performance of the asset, and the contribution that is expected from retailers. During 2010, these committees brought together New signage is being introduced over 230 tenants at 30 shopping centres in France, the Czech Republic to inform customers about the and Poland. Key priorities highlighted by tenants during committee environmental performance of meetings include the development of sustainable transport and ‘green’ their shopping centre. The ﬁrst centre to beneﬁt was Vélizy 2 communications for visitors, the improvement of waste management (Paris Region), which receives processes, and the monitoring of energy consumption to help stores over 15 million visits per year. operate as efficiently as possible. More tenant/landlord workshops will be held on these issues in 2011. The Group carried out a benchmark at the Euralille (Lille) and Meriadeck (Bordeaux) shopping centres to understand why some tenants consume significantly more water than other tenants with the same commercial activity. The consumption of food retailers, mobile phone shops, opticians, and fashion apparel stores was analysed and compared. As well as raising awareness of efficient behaviours, the exercise led to immediate improvements. Suppliers are also being encouraged to adopt environmentally-sustainable habits. Across Europe, the Group’s purchasing teams are working to ensure that new contracts and renewals include ‘green’ clauses, covering everything from the use of chemical cleaners to waste disposal. In 2010, the waste management component of these clauses was reinforced and a framework was developed to assess compliance rates. The framework will be rolled out in 2011. It covers the five key contracts in place in a typical asset: maintenance, cleaning, waste management, elevators, and security and safety. Suppliers in Spain are required to respect ISO 14001 criteria. 9 1,180 green leases signed 68 suppliers in French shopping centres (88% of purchases by value) have contracts with green clauses 10 REDUCING CO2/VISIT AT MANAGED SHOPPING CENTRES Year-on-year reduction Accumulated reduction 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 0% CO2/visit provides a transparent, quantitative gauge of the carbon -5% impact of a real estate asset. It -10% measures three key elements that contribute to an asset’s carbon -15% footprint: energy mix (CO2/kWh), -20% energy efﬁciency (kWh/m2) and intensity of use (m2/user). In the -25% future, it will also take account of emissions from customer transport -30% (kgCO2/visit). -35% Revised target from 2006-2016: -40% -40% 11 UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT Climate, emissions and energy Mitigation/Adaptation Unibail-Rodamco is tackling the related challenges of climate change, As well as optimising the CO2 emissions and energy efﬁciency in a number of ways, but measures environmental performance of its progress with one key indicator: CO2/visit. In 2010, Ernst & Young1 its assets through challenging energy and CO2 reduction certiﬁed that the Group had reduced CO2/visit at its managed assets by measures, Unibail-Rodamco 32% since 2006. This remarkable reduction is a clear demonstration of the has developed a long-term Group’s commitment to the environmental sustainability of its portfolio. roadmap to address and adapt to climate change. In particular, the Group aims to understand To reduce its CO2 emissions and mitigate its impact on climate change, the scale of risks to asset value the Group works to reduce its energy consumption and, in addition, to and operations and ensure compliance with existing and cut the carbon content of the energy that it does consume. Reducing future legislation. The roadmap energy consumption is the most effective way to cut CO2 emissions as it provides a methodology to eliminates emissions at source during the power generation process. Energy address issues such as potential increases in temperatures, consumption in the Group’s managed assets has been declining steadily ﬂooding and extreme weather since the Sustainable Attitude was introduced. Since 2006, 23% of managed events on the portfolio and will shopping centres have reduced their consumption by more than 20%. establish a risk proﬁle for each area where the Group has These reductions have been achieved through a combination of simple assets. The roadmap will be reviewed and updated regularly assessments and advanced technology. For example, the ‘energy tree’ is a and adaptation strategies will straightforward inventory of the operating hours and energy consumption be developed when relevant. rates of all technical installations in a given building. The results are analysed to identify inefficiencies and the computerised systems that manage the installations are reprogrammed accordingly. Light and temperature sensors are installed to enable the system to make real-time adjustments to reflect weather conditions. This approach was successfully piloted in Spain in 2009 and applied to great effect in shopping centres in Poland and the Czech Republic in 2010. In Zlote Tarasy (Warsaw), for example, energy consumption fell by 14% in three months. The Spanish team launched a major project to install LED lighting in the mall, car parks, toilets and emergency corridors at 10 shopping centres. It is estimated that every euro invested in this project will generate a saving of 1.07 kg CO2 thanks to an equivalent reduction in energy consumption of 3.15 kWh/€. A programme is underway to upgrade the smoke exhaust systems of the Group’s convention and exhibition assets to enable the use of natural ventilation in all weather conditions. Systems were upgraded at six of the halls at Porte de Versailles in 2010 and the roofs of all other venues will be adapted in the next five years. 1 The statutory auditor's report on the review of selected environmental and human resources information and indicators is available on pages 46-47 and on the Group website: www.unibail-rodamco.com 12 UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT A small but increasing proportion of the Group’s energy is being generated on-site. For example, a highly-efficient tri-generation unit which produces electricity, heat and cooling from gas was installed at Los Arcos (Seville) in May and another will soon be installed at Parquesur (Madrid). A study into geothermal energy at the Aéroville development site north of Paris returned very encouraging conclusions: the geothermal solution has lower operating costs and produces significantly less CO2 than a traditional solution using gas and electricity. The difference in CO2 emissions is over 410 tonnes per year, equivalent to driving 41 times around the earth in a regular car. Furthermore, the financial benefit of investing in geothermal The Group is taking its ﬁrst increases if gas prices rise. steps into CO2 sequestration at Amstelveen (Amsterdam). In the past, Unibail-Rodamco’s CO2/visit results have been weighed down Olivine, a naturally occurring by the carbon-intensive national energy infrastructure of some regions. In mineral that traps CO2 and 2010, a contract to purchase 100% renewable energy from local providers converts it into harmless sand, magnesium, bicarbonate and was concluded for Shopping City Süd (Vienna). As a result, all of the energy iron, is being tested as rooﬁng used at Shopping City Süd, which is one of the largest shopping centres in ballast. Europe, comes from hydro-electric power stations. This contract reduced the Group’s CO2 emissions by 3,435 tonnes in 2010. Every square metre that is built has an environmental impact during construction, during operations and at the end of its life. This is taken into account through the ‘intensity of use’ (visitors/m2) component of the CO2/visit indicator. To improve its performance, Unibail-Rodamco ensures that development projects are appropriately sized and also works to attract increasing numbers of customers to its assets. Buildings which are accessible only by car have a far higher indirect carbon footprint than those which are linked to public transport networks. Most of Unibail-Rodamco’s assets have central locations in major European cities and are easily accessed by sustainable modes of transport. The office In October, the Group signed portfolio, in particular, is extremely well-connected to major transport hubs. an agreement with Renault In 2010, VIPARIS introduced a user-friendly online calculator that enables to promote the use of electric convention and conference organisers to calculate the carbon footprint vehicles by helping to create a network of simple, practical, of their event in order to develop an action plan to reduce their rapid charging points. environmental impact. Although almost 55% of customers walk, cycle or use public transport to visit the Group’s shopping centres, large numbers of customers prefer to use their car. To help reduce the impact of those visits, Unibail-Rodamco is innovating in the interests of the customer and the environment. Free recharge points for electric vehicles will be installed at all of the Group’s Spanish shopping centres and at large French shopping centres by the end of 2011. Twenty-one shopping centres across Europe have already been equipped. 13 MODES OF TRANSPORT USED BY VISITORS TO THE GROUP'S SHOPPING ENERGY MIX BY REGION, INCLUDING CARBON WEIGHT PER KWH (ALL ASSETS) CENTRES IN 2010 Fossil fuel Nuclear Renewable Shopping centres 37% 33% 30% 205 gCO2/kWh Austria 32% 1% 68% 124 gCO2/kWh Central Europe 92% 2 6% 641 gCO2/kWh Netherlands 26% 74% 135 gCO2/kWh Spain 61% 19% 20% 307 gCO2/kWh Nordics 13% 21% 65% 61 gCO2/kWh France 13% 76% 10% 75 gCO2/kWh Public transport 42% Ofﬁces 33% 59% 8% 110 gCO2/kWh Car/taxi 45% Foot/bicycle 11% Convention & Exhibition 14% 77% 9% 98 gCO2/kWh Other 2% 14 WATER CONSUMPTION AT MANAGED SHOPPING CENTRES Unibail-Rodamco share Tenant share 2009 50% 50% 2,603,656 m3 / 3.7 litres/visit 2010 53% 47% 2,310,539 m3 / 3.5 litres/visit 15 UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT An efficient, responsible approach to risks and resources Unibail-Rodamco’s approach to managing natural resources, promoting biodiversity and ensuring health and safety combines targeted action on issues that it controls and close cooperation with external stakeholders on other, wider issues. The Group relies on close cooperation with tenants and customers to reduce water consumption. Efficient devices are installed systematically in new developments and during renovations. In 2010, upgrades of this type ranged from the installation of waterless urinals at Shopping City Süd (Vienna) and Südpark (Klagenfurt), to an overhaul of the water cooling towers at Zlote Tarasy (Warsaw) which reduced water consumption by 20%. The Nordic Countries installed tenant sub-meters at ten shopping centres to monitor consumption and ensure that leaks are detected rapidly. A comprehensive study into the use of materials in development and refurbishment projects was concluded in 2010. To help development and technical teams select the most environmentally-sustainable and economically-efficient option, ‘do’ and ‘don’t’ recommendations have been drawn up for the different types of materials that are most commonly used. On a smaller scale, VIPARIS developed an award-winning, ‘eco-friendly’ exhibition stand which is re-usable, built using untreated PEFC-certified wood, and decorated with solvent-free inks. In 2010, the international year of biodiversity, Unibail-Rodamco defined a clear policy regarding the protection and enhancement of ecological features at its assets. As in previous years, BREEAM biodiversity criteria were applied to all new development projects. SO Ouest (Paris) scored over 75% in its BREEAM biodiversity assessment, helping it become the first retail development in Europe to obtain an Excellent rating. A study delivered in early 2010 which categorised assets into four broad categories according to their ecological status and their potential for improvement has enhanced Unibail-Rodamco’s understanding of biodiversity at its existing assets. At SO Ouest, a qualified ecologist advised on plans for 10,000 m2 of parks and green roofing to ensure they feature relevant local plant species and offer new habitats for wildlife. Hall 7 at the Paris-Nord Villepinte convention and exhibition centre has the largest green roof in France. In addition to the ecological benefits they offer, green roofs also provide excellent insulation. A series of articles in the internal newsletter helped to inform employees about the Group’s approach to managing and enhancing biodiversity. 16 UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT Following extensive monitoring and analysis in 2009, the Group set itself two ambitious long-term goals for waste management: by 2016, at least 50% of waste collected from managed shopping centres should be recycled, and the proportion of waste diverted from landfill should have risen by 50% relative to 2009. Given that tenants and suppliers are the source of almost all of the waste in a typical shopping centre, a successful waste management policy must be based on active cooperation with these two stakeholders. In France, a ‘waste ambassador’ has been appointed at Vélizy 2 to promote waste management best practices to tenants and ensure practical issues are The Palais des Congrès (Paris) resolved rapidly. At Docks Vauban, 1.1 tonnes of glass is being recycled has introduced a barcodeper month following the introduction of a new collection system in based system to measure the partnership with the centre’s restaurant owners. A partnership with a national amount of waste produced by individual convention and environmental association and improvements to collection and segregation exhibition clients. In the future, infrastructures have helped to improve recycling rates in Spain. Across the this information will be used to Group, waste management contracts have been reinforced to improve give clients a ﬁnancial incentive for segregating their waste. data reporting and increase recycling rates. The Group continues to pay close attention to health and safety and environmental risk management issues across its portfolio. A comprehensive programme to map asbestos in all assets built before this material was banned by local regulations will be completed in 2011. This information will be used to schedule and prioritise asbestos removal works. All regions have received clear instructions on managing asbestos-related risks. A standardised Methodological Risk Analysis (MRA) for all cooling towers under the Group's direct management is being rolled out at managed assets across Europe. By identifying risk factors and establishing Group-wide standards for monitoring, maintenance and documentation, this process will increase operational efficiency and reduce the risk of legionella proliferation. The standardised MRA was carried out at all French and Spanish managed assets in 2010. 17 WASTE BY FINAL DISPOSAL METHOD IN 2010 WASTE RECYCLING AT MANAGED SHOPPING CENTRES Non recycled Recycled 2008 30% 48,827 tonnes 2009 33% 49,165 tonnes 2010 35% 55,637 tonnes Landﬁll 24% Incineration (or use as fuel) 30% COMPOSITION OF WASTE RECYCLED IN 2010 Recycling/Reuse/Composting 36% Cardboard 77% Paper 1% Plastics 4% Glass 3% Managed by municipality 9% Wood 2% Other 13% 18 +6% NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS PARTICIPATING IN SATISFACTION SURVEYS 2009 26,538 2010 28,127 19 UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT Encouraging dialogue and strengthening relationships At every stage in the business cycle, Unibail-Rodamco aims to create value for its stakeholders and minimise its impact on the environment. Skilled, dedicated employees and strong relationships with external stakeholders underpin the Group’s ﬁnancial, social and environmental performance and enable it to improve, adapt and thrive over time. Shopping centres provide entertainment, services and social opportunities to people of all ages and serve as a focus for whole communities. To ensure that its investments, developments and operations benefit the local area, the Group works to build and maintain strong relationships with residents and public authorities. Public consultations are held for all development and Unibail-Rodamco’s Welcome extension projects. These allow development teams to explain the proposed Attitude is a welcome and loyalty policy that considers all project in detail, listen to the public’s concerns and respond appropriately, visitors to the centre as guests. It whether by providing clearer information, conducting additional studies or creates ‘quality time’ by offering adjusting aspects of the proposal. enjoyment, well-being and entertainment alongside great Both new investments and existing activities generate economic growth shopping. through employees’ salaries, payments to suppliers and infrastructure investments, and create direct and indirect employment. For example, it has been estimated that the Aéroville shopping centre (Paris Region), which is due to open in 2014, will create around 1,500 new jobs when the project is launched and 2,600 jobs in the longer term. In 2010, new European surveys were used to learn more about the needs and expectations of two of Unibail-Rodamco’s most important stakeholders: customers and tenants. The tenant survey, piloted in France in 2009, was rolled out in 63 centres across all regions and completed by around 20% of tenants. The information gathered will serve as a baseline for measuring performance in the coming years. Customer satisfaction was also assessed. More than 28,000 customers participated in an upgraded survey that used additional questions and an improved methodology to obtain a better understanding of visitors’ needs and expectations. UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT Some of the Group’s largest investors, such as APG and PGGM, are integrating increasingly stringent environmental criteria into their investment decision-making processes. The Group organised dedicated sustainability sessions for around 30 major investors in Paris, Amsterdam and London in 2010. During these discussions, it emerged that investors' growing interest in environmental performance is driven as much by risk management issues as by the potential for higher returns. In short, careful management and monitoring of operational activities for the purposes of sustainability reporting also serves to reduce a company’s exposure to legislative, compliance and reputational risks. Investor feedback on the Group’s sustainable development approach Relaxation areas on every ﬂoor and communications was generally favourable. Feedback from external of the Group’s main ofﬁces give analysts and researchers was also positive. For example, in January 2010, employees a place to hold informal meetings or chat while the University of Maastricht published a report, with support from APG enjoying a coffee or free fruit. and PGGM, which ranked Unibail-Rodamco first in continental Europe for environmental policy management, implementation and measurement. In September, the Group was listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability (World) Index for the third time and entered the DJSI (Europe) for the first time. Employee communications about sustainable development policies and activities were maintained and expanded in 2010. In June, a ‘sustainability day’ was organised at the Group’s headquarters to mark the publication of the 2009 corporate sustainability report. Display panels were used to highlight key sustainability achievements, an international fair-trade company and the French energy and environment agency organised events for employees, and a meeting of the CNCC (French Council of Shopping Centres) sustainability committee was also held on site. The internal newsletter, which is distributed electronically to all employees, continued to highlight a different environmental issue every month. In May, the Management Convention brought together 200 senior managers in Barcelona for two days of networking, team-building and learning. Unibail-Rodamco’s sustainability policies, achievements and objectives were presented. The sometimes conflicting demands of marketing and environmental sustainability were also covered in a presentation on the use of natural and artificial lighting in retail assets, given by an external expert. 21 SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT (SRI) INDEXES Unibail-Rodamco is listed on several prestigious SRI indexes.The Group has been included in the FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (World) since 2008. In 2010, it entered the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (Europe), the ASPI Index (Europe), and the NYSE Euronext Low Carbon 100 Europe® Index. In February 2011, Unibail-Rodamco was selected for inclusion in the Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register and also entered the Corporate Knights Global 100 list of the world's most sustainable companies. 22 Promoting equality & diversity A number of new initiatives were launched in 2010 to promote equality and diversity across all of the Group’s activities. The quality of service provided to customers with disabilities was a major focus in 2010. An audit concluded in 2009 identified features that could interfere with the enjoyment of customers with disabilities. These issues are systematically corrected during renovation works. Many of the modifications that are being made for customers with physical and sensory disabilities are also appreciated by the elderly and parents with small children. This echoes previous experience with the ‘Welcome Attitude’ programme, where it was found that many services introduced for families, such as extra-wide car parking spaces, are useful for customers with reduced mobility. To identify issues that could affect the comfort of visitors to the Group’s convention and exhibition assets, VIPARIS invited representatives of French associations for people with paralysis and with visual handicaps to tour its venues and note both positive aspects and weaknesses. A list of best practices and practices to avoid has been drawn up and corrective action has been taken when necessary. Five sites were analysed in 2010 and the remaining five will be covered in 2011. In France, the Group is building a close partnership with the UNAPEI, a charitable association that works on behalf of people with mental disabilities. During 2011, shopping centre staff who work with the public, whether they are retail employees or security and cleaning contractors, In 2007, Saint Sever shopping will receive training in welcoming customers with mental disabilities and centre in Rouen became the ﬁrst accommodating their needs. These centres will then display the ‘S3A’1 label shopping centre in France as a permanent sign of their commitment to the 700,000 people in France to receive the S3A label1. who are affected by mental disability and their families. Each centre will also hold a public event every year to raise awareness of mental disability. Following the signature of the French Disability in the Workplace Charter in 2009, the Group produced a brochure on disability in the workplace in 2010 and distributed it to all employees in France. The aim was to raise awareness of the spectrum of disabilities that can affect people during their working life and encourage staff to declare any disabilities they might have so that their working conditions can be adapted accordingly. Unibail-Rodamco is also a signatory of the French Diversity Charter. An e-learning programme about the Code of Ethics was launched to raise awareness of the ethical standards which all personnel must respect when working for Unibail-Rodamco. Ethical behaviour was also covered during the week-long European Graduate Programme induction seminar and in training courses across Europe and at the Unibail-Rodamco Academy. 23 UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT The Group’s commitment to ensuring that men and women doing jobs with similar levels of responsibility receive equal pay took a major step forward with the introduction of a job grading system. The grading framework applies to staff in core business functions. As well as facilitating internal mobility, it will make it easier to align remuneration with skills and responsibilities, regardless of department or country. Employees are assigned a grade based on their core skills, seniority and scope, and given clear information on the skills they need to master to progress to the next grade. In total, 30,332 hours of training were provided to employees during 2010, including 7,517 hours of training through the Unibail-Rodamco Academy. 37% of management positions were held by women in 2010. 1 ’S3A’ is a French standard for public spaces that have demonstrated their commitment to being welcoming, supportive and accessible to people with mental disabilities. EMPLOYMENT BY COUNTRY EMPLOYMENT BY ACTIVITY EMPLOYEES BY AGE EMPLOYEES BY GENDER Austria 91 Ofﬁces 17 < 30 years old 21.7% Women 49.1% Czech Republic 44 Shopping Centres 667 30 50 years old 62.1% Men 50.9% Denmark 16 Convention & Exhibition 405 > 50 years old 16.2% France 1,050 Development 63 Netherlands 93 Shared Services 273 Poland 56 Headquarters 191 Spain 148 Sweden 118 24 UNIBAIL-RODAMCO 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT Corporate citizenship The Group maintained its commitment to supporting good causes in 2010. A total of €3.75 million in cash and in kind was donated to educational, cultural, entrepreneurial and social initiatives. More than 320 local charity fundraising and awareness events were held in the Group’s shopping centres. Space is provided for free to small local charities as well as to large international organisations like UNICEF and the Red Cross. The Group signed a partnership agreement with UNICEF in Spain. Unibail-Rodamco devotes considerable energy to attracting top-flight tenants and helping them to expand and develop their commercial activities. This commitment to supporting business extends to entrepreneurs and startups: by nurturing new concepts, the Group is able to provide greater variety for customers and contribute to the development of the premium brands of the future. Through the Grand Prize for Young Retail Entrepreneurs, in the retail sector, and Expocréa, in the convention and exhibition sector, UnibailRodamco provides financial and logistical support that helps creative, imaginative business people to get their venture off to a good start in the best conditions. Children’s workshops based on Expocréa, which is organised by VIPARIS, encourages innovation by helping Alexander Calder’s sculptures promising new convention and exhibition events to prepare their second and mobiles that were show. In 2010, the main prize winners were Paris Games Week, the Healthy developed in partnership with the Centre Pompidou museum in Home, Housing and Habitat exhibition, and Provemploi, an exhibition covering Paris continued their successful employment and business creation in the French regions. tour of French shopping centres in 2010. Artworks and sculptures for the Group’s assets were commissioned from a number of modern artists. For example, in June, Nacka Forum (Sweden) unveiled a striking public sculpture by artists Petter Hellsing and Margon Lindberg on the roundabout outside the centre. The artwork has been donated to the Municipality of Nacka. In Spain, the Group created a new international art contest with a twist. The first edition of ‘Bartcelona’, held at La Maquinista shopping centre, brought together young contemporary artists to exhibit their works and to participate in ‘art battles’, competitions between new and established artists who create art on stage in front of a live audience. Further editions of this highly successful event will be hosted at Bonaire, Parquesur and La Maquinista in 2011. In France, the Group continued to support the School of the Second Chance (E2C)1. Since 2008, 15 shopping centres have formed a partnership with their local E2C. These agreements provide a useful point of contact for students seeking a job or work experience. For example, in 2010, 34 students from the E2C 93, to the north of Paris, gained experience with tenants and suppliers at the Rosny 2, Les Quatre Temps and Forum des Halles shopping centres. 1 The Ecole de la Deuxième Chance (E2C, School of the Second Chance) provides 18to 25-year olds with few or no qualiﬁcations with the training and support they require to access further education or employment. 25 GRAND PRIZE FOR YOUNG RETAIL ENTREPRENEURS The Grand Prize provides tomorrow’s retail stars with the ﬁnaninvolved in launching a commercial venture. In addition, all cial and logistical support they need to start their business six ﬁnalists receive marketing, legal, business and managetoday.It is by far the largest single endowment supporting the ment guidance to help them to ﬁne-tune their business plan. creation of new businesses in France, distributing prizes with The fourth edition of the Grand Prize for Young Retail Entreprea value of €1.35 million to the three winners.Unibail-Rodamco neurs was won by Tailor Corner, an innovative concept which provides them with retail space in one of its shopping cenproposes made-to-measure suits at off-the-rack prices. The tres, waiving both key money and the ﬁrst six months’ rent to runners-up were Chaak, a Mexican fast-food concept, and relieve the new entrepreneurs of some of the stress that is Goutu, which sells fresh, low-cost sandwiches. 26 CONSOLIDATED DATA AND INDICATORS I. STRATEGY AND ORGANISATION 27 II. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT 28 III. ENVIRONMENT 28 IV. STAKEHOLDERS 36 V. CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY 37 VI. HUMAN RESOURCES 38 VII. OBJECTIVES AND ACHIEVEMENTS 42 VIII. AUDITORS’ STATEMENT 46 UNIBAIL-RODAMCO / 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 27 CONSOLIDATED DATA AND INDICATORS Environmental sustainability and social fairness have a central role to play in constructing and consolidating long-term economic success. Unibail-Rodamco takes its social and environmental responsibilities seriously and has, since 2007, published an annual corporate sustainability report which aims to provide a clear, objective picture of the Group’s goals and results. This year, the corporate sustainability report has been integrated into the annual report(1) to reﬂect the fact that sustainable practices are now fully integrated into the Group’s everyday operations. I. STRATEGY AND ORGANISATION management team and asset managers at each site are responsible for building relationships with tenants, suppliers and local communities and ensuring that day-to-day operations Strategy are as efﬁcient and sustainable as possible. The International Unibail-Rodamco’s sustainability strategy is designed to return Environmental Performance Committee (IEPC), which meets reliable, quantiﬁable improvements in performance over the by video or conference call every two months, brings together long term. Matters which are the sole responsibility of the Group corporate and regional managers to share information, identify are managed through a system of in-house targets and key best practices and monitor progress. performance indicators. When responsibility for obtaining In 2010, representatives from all regions participated in a results is shared with other partners, the Group seeks to sustainability seminar and training course in Paris. Training cooperate with those partners in order to identify and work sessions were held to inform leasing teams about ‘green towards common goals. In situations where results depend on leases’. Courses on environmental design guidelines and factors that cannot be controlled, such as weather conditions, BREEAM assessment were held for corporate development the Group works both to leverage opportunities and to identify and works teams in Paris and additional sessions were held and mitigate risks. for local teams in all regions. Organisation and target-setting Participation in external organisations The organisation that has been introduced to manage As Europe’s leading listed commercial real estate company, sustainability issues is designed to: Unibail-Rodamco has an opportunity and a responsibility to ■ drive performance improvements from the top down and the encourage the industry as a whole to adopt more sustainable bottom up, operating practices. In 2009, the Group became a founding ■ ensure that this strategy is informed by the needs and member of the International Sustainability Alliance (ISA). ISA, expectations of stakeholders. in partnership with the BRE Trust, is bringing together a global Targets are set by the Corporate Sustainability Committee network of leading real estate organisations dedicated to (CSC), which develops the Group’s sustainability strategy and achieving a more sustainable built environment by measuring monitors results. The CSC meets four times a year and provides the performance and environmental impact of existing regular feedback on its activities and the Group’s results to the commercial buildings. In France, Unibail-Rodamco played Management Board and the Supervisory Board. All but one of an active role in the government’s “Grenelle 2” consultation its members are direct reports of the CEO. process to develop a set of national environmental regulations. Economic and social targets are identiﬁed and implemented Within the European Public Real Estate Association (EPRA), in close cooperation with the finance, leasing, operating, Unibail-Rodamco has made a signiﬁcant contribution to the marketing and human resources departments. deﬁnition of consistent, shared key performance indicators for A dedicated environmental sustainability structure deals the industry. The indicators reported in the 2010 Annual and speciﬁcally with the setting and monitoring of environmental Sustainable Development Report comply with the draft Best targets and their integration into day-to-day operations. Overall Practice Recommendations that were issued by EPRA in late performance is monitored and managed by a dedicated 2010 and are now being ﬁnalised. The Group is active in the corporate team. Regional managers are responsible for EU Public Affairs Committee (EPAC) of the International Council implementing corporate policies and ensuring that local of Shopping Centers (ICSC) and the sustainability committees and regional objectives are achieved. The shopping centre of the French Council of Shopping Centres (CNCC) and the French Property Real Estate Association (FSIF). (1) This 2010 Sustainable Development Report is an extract of information contained in the 2010 Annual and Sustainable Development Report. The full report is available on the Group website: www.unibail-rodamco.com 28 II. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Unibail-Rodamco continuously improves its environmental AND RISK MANAGEMENT reporting tools and processes in order to ﬁne-tune the quality and accuracy of its consolidated data. This enables the Group Unibail-Rodamco’s corporate governance and risk to manage its data collection processes more efﬁciently, track management policies provide the stability and reliability that and analyse performance at all levels (site, regional, Group) are necessary for sustainable growth and performance. on a regular basis, assess results against objectives, and The Unibail-Rodamco Compliance Book sets out the Group’s implement suitable corrective measures. operating and management rules and includes the Group Code of Ethics. The Code is published on the corporate Description of environmental key performance internet and intranet sites and is distributed to all employees, indicators who are asked to conﬁrm their acceptance of its terms. A total Fifteen environmental Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) of 885 hours of training in compliance and ethical business covering climate change and resource use are tracked for behaviour was provided in 2010. 282 employees participated all of the Group’s managed assets. Deﬁnitions of each KPI are in these sessions. An e-learning course on the contents of the provided alongside the relevant data tables on the following Code of Ethics has been developed and is being rolled out pages. to ensure that all employees in all regions understand how the Code should be applied during day-to-day business Reporting values operations. Data is reported using absolute values (energy and water Employees with concerns about compliance or ethics are consumption, CO2 emissions, quantities of waste) or normalised invited to contact the Group Compliance Ofﬁcer, who reports values (to show efﬁciency). directly to the Chairmen of the Management and Supervisory Boards. The Code of Ethics guarantees the conﬁdentiality of Reporting scope employees reporting possible compliance breaches. The The Group reports on the environmental performance of assets Group respects national and European regulations on the that are under its operational management, where data on reporting of compliance breaches to ﬁnancial authorities. energy efﬁciency and resource use can be measured and Additional information on Unibail-Rodamco’s governance veriﬁed. In 2010, Unibail-Rodamco reported energy data for structure and risk management systems is provided in the Report 100% of its managed assets (all sectors combined), water data of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board (pages 236-247 of the for 99% of its shopping centres and ofﬁces, and waste data for Annual and Sustainable Development Report 2010). 95% of its shopping centres. Environmental KPIs are reported using one of two scopes: ■ ‘All assets’, used to report the value of an indicator for the year III. ENVIRONMENT in question.This scope includes all assets that were managed by the Group for the whole of the year in question.Assets which During 2010, Unibail-Rodamco consolidated the considerable enter the managed portfolio during a given year through performance improvements it has made in recent years. acquisition, construction or the delivery of a management Energy consumption in managed shopping centres in 2010 mandate are included in the scope the following year on a was stable year-on-year due to a particularly long, cold winter full-year basis. which increased heating requirements. Since 2006, energy ■ ‘Like-for-like’, used to show the change in an indicator over consumption has fallen by 12%. CO2 emissions per visit were time at a constant portfolio scope (notably in terms of the reduced by 7%(1) in 2010 (-32% since 2006). Programmes to assets which are monitored). This scope includes assets that measure, control and reduce the environmental impact of were managed by Unibail-Rodamco over the whole of the existing assets and new developments continued to progress two-year comparison period. Assets that underwent major and return positive results. refurbishment and/or extension during that two-year period are excluded. Tenants’ water consumption was excluded from the data 1. Reporting methodology reported in 2009 to provide a clearer picture of the water for environmental data purchased by Unibail-Rodamco for use in common areas. In The Group uses a variety of tools, processes and indicators 2010, tenants’ water consumption has been reintegrated into to monitor the performance of the assets that it owns and the reporting scope to reduce the margin of error and provide manages. They serve to structure the Group’s environmental a data set which can be more easily veriﬁed and audited. management approach, track results, and inform third-parties about performance. (1) Veriﬁed by Ernst & Young. UNIBAIL-RODAMCO / 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 29 Assets included in 2010 reporting scope for environmental KPIs Assets Gross Lettable Visits/year Area (**) Austria Donau Zentrum, Shopping City Süd, Sudpark 334,287 m2 42,400,000 Central Europe Centrum Cerný Most, Centrum Chodov, Galeria Mokotów, Zlote Tarasy 263,281 m2 56,202,000 France BAB 2, Bonneveine, Carré Sénart, Carrousel du Louvre, Cité Europe, Côté Seine, 1,602,411 m2 333,699,000 Docks 76(*), Docks Vauban(*), Etrembières, Euralille, Gaîté Montparnasse, La Part-Dieu, Labège 2, Le Forum des Halles, Les Quatre Temps, L’Usine Côte d’Opale, L’Usine Roubaix, Centre Meriadeck, Passages Meriadeck, Nice Etoile, Parly 2, Place d’Arc, Rennes Alma, Rivétoile, Rosny 2, Saint-Sever, Saint Martial, Toison d’Or, Ulis 2, Vélizy 2, Vélizy Usines Center, Villeneuve 2 De Bossche Boulevard, Vier Meren, Leidsenhage, Piazza Center, Citymall Almere, Netherlands 472,573 m2 47,900,000 Stadshart Amstelveen, Stadshart Zoetermeer Nordic Arninge Centrum, Bålsta Centrum, Eurostop Arlandastad, Eurostop Halmstad, Eurostop 443,900 m 2 66,130,000 Countries Jönköping, Eurostop Örebro, Fisketorvet, Nacka Forum, Haninge Centrum, Nova Lund, Solna Centrum, Täby Centrum, Tyresö Centrum, Väsby Centrum Spain Albacenter, Los Arcos, Bahía Sur, Barnasud, Bonaire, Equinoccio, Garbera, Glòries, 837,756 m2 119,808,000 Habaneras, La Maquinista, Parquesur, Sevilla Factory, La Vaguada, Vallsur Ofﬁces 40 ter Suffren, 7 Adenauer, 11-15 St Georges, 5 Malesherbes, 2-8 Ancelle, Courcellor 1, 320,070 m2 n/a 70-80 Wilson, Capital 8, Espace 21, Issy Guynemer, Tour Ariane, Sextant(*) Convention & Cnit, Espace Champerret, Espace Grande Arche, Carrousel du Louvre, Palais des Congrès de Paris, Palais des Congrès Exhibition de Versailles, Paris Nord Villepinte, Paris Nord Le Bourget, Porte de Versailles (*) Added to the scope in 2010. (**) GLA of the whole complex Reporting system in France (Article 225), the Group has decided to integrate Each region is responsible for collecting, checking and the corporate sustainability report into the annual report. As consolidating the data for its assets. At corporate level, data a result, the Group has adapted its reporting methodology to is reported: report its environmental data for a 12-month rolling period (Q4 ■ quarterly for the consumption of each energy source used. previous year plus Q1, Q2 and Q3 for the reporting year) rather Regular, detailed monitoring of this indicator ensures that than for the ﬁnancial year, as was the case in previous years. performance issues are identiﬁed and corrected swiftly at asset level. This indicator is reported monthly as a minimum Continuous improvement of deﬁnitions and data requirement and is also sometimes measured on a real-time quality basis. Unibail-Rodamco continues to improve the quality and ■ annually for water, waste and transport and for supplementary comparability of its environmental data, develop internal data that is necessary for some calculations (e.g. conversion benchmarks, and introduce sub-metering to collect information factors for CO2 emissions). for data which is currently estimated. This system has been applied across the whole of the reporting scope. Third-party independent veriﬁcation In 2010, Ernst & Young performed a detailed review of 10 relevant Reporting period performance objectives, including the carbon intensity KPI, In preparation for the extra-ﬁnancial reporting obligations which was also veriﬁed in 2009 (see page 46-47). This veriﬁcation which are due to be introduced under the Grenelle II laws included a detailed review of some of the Group’s largest assets. 30 2. Environmental Management Systems Four development projects received BREEAM design stage certiﬁcate (1 ofﬁce and 3 retail) and a further 9 assets are The Group’s environmental strategy is based on two separate currently undergoing certiﬁcation (3 ofﬁces and 6 retail). Four but complementary Environmental Management Systems ofﬁce projects are being developed in line with the French HQE (EMS): the Sustainable Attitude, for existing assets, and the certiﬁcation methodology. Two ofﬁce projects – Majunga and Design Guidelines, for development projects. Courcellor II – received HQE design stage certiﬁcation in 2010. These management systems make use of a number of levers All 14 of the Group’s managed shopping centres in Spain have to achieve mediumand long-term objectives in the most ISO 14001 certiﬁcation. efﬁcient way. They enable the Group to make more accurate, 2009 2010 conﬁdent predictions about future performance and focus its Managed assets monitored 98% 100% time, energy and investments on the areas which provide the for environmental highest returns. In addition, they drive continuous improvement performance by obliging operating teams to review their assumptions and Average BREEAM score 47.26% 63.46% assess results on a regular basis. for certiﬁed development (Rating: (Rating: Very Good) Operational experience acquired through the Sustainable projects* Good) Attitude is fed into the Design Guidelines and vice versa. *The average score of the BREEAM grading system is calculated for all of the assets This helps the Group to capitalise on experience, structure certiﬁed during the year. The scores in each section are totalled to provide a single rating for the “average” asset certiﬁed in that year. processes, save time and money, and ensure that decisions are informed by and in compliance with the latest in-house best practices. 3. Climate change Unibail-Rodamco also relies on external certification to The effects on Unibail-Rodamco’s portfolio of climatic changes validate the performance of new and existing assets. BREEAM that could occur in the coming years will vary by region and by certification is sought for all new developments of more asset. The scale and severity of any changes will determine the than 10,000 m2 and €10 million. In Europe, BREEAM (Building extent of the impact, as will factors such as the age, location, Research Establishment, Environmental Assessment Method) construction method and operational efﬁciency of the asset is widely seen as the best assessment methodology for and the quality and capacity of local infrastructure. Risks to sustainable ofﬁce and retail developments. The assessment the Group’s activities that could result from climate change is broken down into nine sections, covering topics such as include higher insurance premiums, higher operating costs energy, transport, water, waste, management and biodiversity, for energy, water and maintenance, a greater likelihood of which are weighted to take account of the importance of that ﬂooding, and increased potential for disruption to commercial topic in the local region. Credits are given for each section. activity from extreme weather events. The sum of all weighted credits gives a total score of 100 and differentiates 5 levels of performance: pass, good, very good, As well as preparing its assets to face the potential effects excellent and outstanding. Unibail-Rodamco’s target is a score of climate change, Unibail-Rodamco is working to limit the of ‘very good’ or better for all major developments. impact of its activities on the climate. The Group’s CO2reduction strategy is based on energy efﬁcient behaviours Environmental management and equipment and an increasing reliance on low-carbon and certiﬁcation of managed assets and renewable energies. Existing assets New developments & extensions Internal EMS Sustainable Attitude Design Guidelines External ISO 14001 or third >10,000 m2: BREEAM certiﬁcation party audit on “Very Good” Sustainable Attitude at least, plus local certiﬁcation if relevant <10,000 m2: n/a UNIBAIL-RODAMCO / 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 31 CO2 emissions On a like-for-like basis, total CO2 emissions from shopping centres fell by -6% (6,101 tonnes) year on year. Changes in visitor numbers and energy consumption were negligible and did not have a noticeable impact. The reduction is primarily due to changes in the energy mix and the purchase of ‘green’ electricity in Shopping City Süd (Austria). KPI: CO2 emissions (kgCO2) CO2 emissions related to energy consumption considered in absolute Energy Consumption KPI. The CO2 ﬁgures are calculated with local emission factors for each source of energy consumption. These factors depend on source of energy (electricity, gas, etc), country and energy supplier. All assets Scope Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain Scope Ofﬁces Scope Convention centres Europe & Exhibition 2008 67/70 108,869,161 3,824,208 54,954,707 12,156,040 11,051,365 6,070,085 20,812,756 18/18 6,258,726 5/5 7,136,159, 2009 72/75 99,733,057 11,254,212 46,804,306 11,576,072 2,610,260 5,055,125 22,433,082 19/19 6,617,371 9/9 15,867,647 2010 74/74 94,209,900 7,446,938 48,375,883 12,027,597 2,953,000 5,037,696 18,368,786 17/17 5,835,670 9/9 17,230,534 Like-for-like Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain Ofﬁces Convention centres Europe & Exhibition 2010/2006 -31% -34% -17% -16% -76% -17% -36% -2% 2% 2010/2009 67/74 -6% -34% 3% 2% 1% 0% -18% 16/17 -7% 9/9 9% KPI: carbon intensity (gCO2/visit for shopping centres, kgCO2/occupant for ofﬁces) Numerator: deﬁnition of CO2 Emissions KPI. Denominator: for shopping centres, the number of annual visits is obtained by combining data from trafﬁc counting systems and estimates obtained by market research and random counts. For ofﬁces, the ﬁgure is based on an estimate of the number of occupants. All assets Scope Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain Scope Ofﬁces centres Europe 2008 66/70 182 168 1,009 38 256 96 201 17/18 250 2009 72/75 152 244 852 36 55 79 185 18/19 254 2010 73/74 141 176 861 36 62 76 153 15/17 232 Like-for-like Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain Ofﬁces centres Europe 2010/2006 -32% -28% -25% -19% -79% -20% -34% -2% 2010/2009 69/74 -7% -28% 1% 1% -2% -3% -17% 15/17 -7% KPI: Carbon intensity per square metre (kgCO2/m²/year) Numerator: CO2 emissions related to energy consumption considered in absolute Energy Consumption KPI. Denominator: square metres of mall and GLA for which common energy is provided. For ofﬁces, this refers to the total ﬂoor area. All assets Scope Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain Scope Ofﬁces centres Europe 2008 66/70 42 26 196 10 82 13 57 17/18 19.3 2009 72/75 35 41 167 9 19 11 50 18/19 19.7 2010 73/74 33 27 173 10 25 11 41 16/17 18.2 Like-for-like Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain Ofﬁces centres Europe 2010/2006 -31% -34% -17% -17% -76% -17% -36% -2% 2010/2009 69/74 -6% -34% 3% 2% 1% 0% -18% 15/17 -7% 32 Energy consumption The Group’s ability to achieve energy savings in existing Energy efﬁciency measures are applied in every asset that assets is often compromised by technical and architectural the Group manages. Energy efﬁciency is a determining factor decisions that were taken during design and construction. It is in the choice of technical equipment, notably for lighting, also subject to the need to provide comfortable conditions for heating, cooling and ventilation, and during the design of new customers and tenants. developments and extension/renovation projects. Increased For shopping centres, absolute energy consumption and energy efﬁciency limits Unibail-Rodamco’s exposure to rising, energy efﬁciency were stable in 2010 on both an ‘all assets’ increasingly volatile energy prices and cushions it against and a like-for-like basis as tough climatic conditions in Q1 possible supply shocks in the future. This is particularly important 2010 increased energy requirements in most regions. As a in France, where energy prices are currently below European consequence, the Group’s energy efﬁciency improvement since market rates. 2006 remains stable at 13%. KPI: Energy consumption (kWh) For shopping centres, ﬁnal energy purchased for use in common areas including car parks and by common equipment (heating & cooling, distribution power, ventilation, vertical transportation, lighting) and energy provided to tenants for heating and/or cooling. Electricity purchased by tenants is not included. For ofﬁces and convention & exhibition centres, this KPI refers to ﬁnal energy purchased. All assets Scope Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain Scope Ofﬁces Scope Convention centres Europe & Exhibition 2008 67/70 426,441,761 22,772,115 75,766,034 160,764,820 24,145,824 83,830,937 59,162,031 18/18 56,061,173 5/5 81,098,573 2009 72/75 458,453,259 61,278,672 76,965,442 155,667,401 23,216,465 80,616,248 60,709,031 19/19 60,407,137 9/9 165,265,407 2010 74/74 459,677,119 59,863,429 75,491,541 159,455,833 21,824,906 83,260,526 59,780,884 17/17 52,941,093 9/9 175,901,651 Like-for-like Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain Ofﬁces Convention centres Europe & Exhibition 2010/2006 -12% 6% -12% -12% -4% -7% -23% -10% -9% 2010/2009 67/74 0% -2% -2% 0% -2% 3% -2% 16/17 -5% 9/9 6% KPI: Energy efﬁciency per visit (kWh/visit for shopping centres, kWh/occupant for ofﬁces) Numerator: deﬁnition of Energy Consumption KPI. Denominator: for shopping centres, the number of annual visits is obtained by combining data from trafﬁc counting systems and estimates obtained by market research and random counts. For ofﬁces, the ﬁgure is based on an estimate of the number of occupants. All assets Scope Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain Scope Ofﬁces centres Europe 2008 66/70 0.71 1.00 1.39 0.51 0.56 1.33 0.57 17/18 2,243 2009 72/75 0.70 1.33 1.40 0.48 0.49 1.26 0.50 18/19 2,325 2010 73/74 0.69 1.41 1.34 0.48 0.45 1.26 0.50 15/17 2,113 Like-for-like Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain Ofﬁces centres Europe 2010/2006 -13% 16% -20% -14% -16% -3% -21% -10% 2010/2009 69/74 -1% 6% -4% -1% -5% 0% -1% 15/17 -5% KPI: Energy consumption per square metre (kWh/m²) Numerator: deﬁnition of Energy Consumption KPI. Denominator: square metres of mall and GLA for which common energy is provided. For ofﬁces, this refers to the total ﬂoor area. All assets Scope Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain Scope Ofﬁces centres Europe 2008 66/70 164 158 270 132 179 181 162 17/18 172 2009 72/75 161 224 275 124 173 174 137 18/19 179 2010 73/74 162 219 269 127 185 180 135 16/17 164 Like-for-like Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain Ofﬁces centres Europe 2010/2006 -12% 6% -12% -13% -4% -7% -23% -10% 2010/2009 69/74 0% -2% -2% 0% -2% 3% -2% 15/17 -5% UNIBAIL-RODAMCO / 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 33 Energy mix Unibail-Rodamco aims to reduce the carbon weight of its energy mix by using increasing amounts of energy from low-carbon and renewable sources. When possible, the Group purchases low-carbon energy from suppliers. The energy mix is a key focus in regions such as Central Europe, where the Group’s performance is being weighed down by a carbon-intensive national energy infrastructure. Any improvement in the energy mix in these regions will have an immediate and marked effect on UnibailRodamco’s total CO2 emissions. KPI: Carbon weight of energy mix (gCO2/kWh) CO2 Emissions KPI divided by Energy Consumption KPI. All assets Scope Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain Scope Ofﬁces Scope Convention centres Europe & Exhibition 2008 67/70 255 168 725 76 458 72 352 18/18 112 5/5 88 2009 72/75 218 184 608 74 112 63 370 19/19 110 9/9 96 2010 74/74 205 124 641 75 135 61 307 17/17 110 9/9 98 Like-for-like Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain Ofﬁces Convention centres Europe & Exhibition 2010/2006 -21% -38% -6% -4% -75% -11% -17% 8% 12% 2010/2009 67/74 -6% -32% 5% 2% 4% -4% -17% 16/17 -2% 9/9 2% KPI: Direct and indirect ﬁnal energy consumption by primary energy source (kWh) Direct energy refers to primary source energy which is purchased and consumed on site (e.g. gas). Indirect energy refers to energy which was generated by and purchased from a third-party in the form of electricity, heat or steam. 2010 Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain Ofﬁces Convention & centres Europe Exhibition Nuclear 132,767,792 267,290 1,786,361 103,412,837 17,741,179 9,560,126 30,174,144 105,134,066 Natural gas 49,889,481 11,518,477 1,601,934 10,559,644 4,273,198 1,466,433 20,469,794 7,797,483 8,003,134 of which direct 60,044,225 21,664,792 23,754,214 6,262,590 8,362,629 1,822,180 39,029,601 Fuel 10,421,441 140,355 2,351,631 5,011,147 2,918,308 7,370,014 6,703,387 Coal 80,538,814 63,164,793 4,900,016 4,576,968 7,897,037 1,572,683 4,481,964 Other fossil products 5,685,365 625,673 4,615,281 377,879 16,602 49,930 110,259 384,168 Non-renewable energy sub-total 279,302,892 12,411,440 71,308,724 121,602,007 4,273,198 28,812,328 40,895,195 47,024,583 124,706,720 Hydro power 66,347,529 22,071,366 11,437 8,943,132 11,289,118 19,799,454 4,233,022 2,609,457 9,091,984 Wind power 1,914,235 491,923 3,812 1,418,500 Other renewable sources 52,068,239 3,223,908 4,167,568 5,156,480 33,230,244 6,290,038 1,484,873 3,073,347 Renewable energy sub-total 120,330,002 25,787,197 4,182,817 14,099,612 11,289,118 54,448,198 10,523,060 4,094,330 12,165,330 Total ﬁnal energy consumption 459,677,119 59,863,429 75,491,541 159,455,833 21,824,906 83,260,526 59,780,884 52,941,093 175,901,651 of which direct 60,044,225 21,664,792 23,754,214 6,262,590 8,362,629 1,822,180 39,029,601 energy of which indirect 399,632,895 38,198,637 75,491,541 135,701,619 15,562,316 83,260,526 51,418,255 51,118,913 136,872,050 energy Scope: 74 shopping centres out of 74; 17 ofﬁces out of 17; 9 Convention & Exhibition centres out of 9. Figures may not add up due to rounding. In Spain, 20,300 m2 of solar panels which are installed at 9 2008 2009 2010 assets produce renewable energy for re-sale to the national Renewable energy grid. In 2010, a tri-generation system went into operation at Los produced on site (kWh) 318,961 1,202,384 1,355,534 Arcos shopping centre. CO2 emissions saved (kgCO2) 103,942 391,830 441,739 A number of solar panel projects that were in the design Production from photovoltaic technology implemented at 9 assets phase in France have been cancelled or postponed due to ongoing changes in French regulations governing feed-in rates. Other solutions which make more sense from an economic standpoint are being studied. 34 Transport CO2 emissions from visitor transport signiﬁcantly outweigh the CO2 emissions generated by energy consumed by the asset itself. In general, car transport generates much higher levels of CO2 emissions than public transport. The relative impact of visitor transport on overall CO2 emissions will continue to rise as buildings become more energy efﬁcient. In 2010, 53% of visits to the Group’s shopping centres were made by sustainable forms of transport. As a new survey methodology was used to collect customer travel information in 2010, the ﬁgures obtained in 2009 and 2010 are not comparable. KPI: Split of visits by mode of transport Percentage split of visits by mode of transport. The split of transport modes is based on data collected for 2010. All assets Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain centres Europe Public transport 42% 45% 54% 54% 54% 20% 47% Car/taxi 45% 40% 26% 32% 26% 43% 27% Foot/bicycle 11% 12% 18% 11% 18% 35% 21% Other (motorbikes, etc.) 2% 2% 2% 2% 2% 1% 4% Scope: 68 shopping centres out of 74. Figures may not add up due to rounding. In 2010, Unibail-Rodamco collected CO2 emissions data relating to employees’ business trips made by air and by train in all regions. An action plan and performance targets will be deﬁned in 2011 with a view to reducing the environmental impact of employees’ business travel. CO2 emissions from employees’ business travel by train and plane (tonnes CO2) Group Austria Central Europe France Netherlands Nordics Spain 1,374 31 318 520 102 184 219 4. Resource use Unibail-Rodamco’s resource use policy covers materials, water, waste and biodiversity. Materials An in-house materials policy ensures that materials are ﬁt for purpose, that opportunities to reuse existing materials and structures are systematically reviewed, and that materials with a low environmental impact and recycled products and materials are preferred. Wood must come from certiﬁed, managed forests (i.e. with FSC or PEFC labels). Materials must not exceed the European Union’s Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) thresholds. Water In line with environmental best practice, the Group is taking active steps to cut water consumption, reduce wastage and maintain water quality. In particular, efforts are made to install water-efﬁcient equipment, optimise operating practices, and ensure that leaks are detected and repaired rapidly. Run-off water collected from car parks is treated before being disposed of through municipal networks. Closed-circuit systems are being introduced to re-use water during tests of sprinkler equipment. Climate change impact assessments are helping the Group to identify regions and assets that are particularly susceptible to water shortages and ﬁnd appropriate solutions. Water efﬁciency at shopping centres improved by 4% in 2010 on a like-for-like basis, which corresponds to a saving of 96,448 m3. KPI: Water consumption (m3) Water purchased for private and common use (heating & cooling systems, cleaning, sprinkler systems, restrooms, etc.). All assets Scope Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain Scope Ofﬁces centres Europe 2008 65/70 2,338,180 113,212 94,780 1,229,591 45,767 339,832 514,997 16/17 181,859 2009 72/75 2,603,656 251,786 231,551 1,212,110 35,287 321,911 551,011 17/18 179,119 2010 73/74 2,310,539 250,836 232,412 1,188,843 25,234 326,888 286,326 16/16 168,249 Shopping Central Like-for-like Austria France Netherlands Nordics Spain Ofﬁces centres Europe 2010/2006 -13% 8% -26% -13% -22% -8% -27% -8% 2010/2009 66/74 -4% 0% -6% -4% 6% 0% -15% 15/16 -2% UNIBAIL-RODAMCO / 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 35 KPI: Water consumption per visit (litre/visit for shopping centres, m3/occupant for ofﬁces) Denominator: Water Consumption KPI. Numerator: for shopping centres, the number of annual visits is obtained by combining data from trafﬁc counting systems and estimates obtained by market research and random counts. For ofﬁces, the ﬁgure is based on an estimate of the number of occupants. All assets Scope Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain Scope Ofﬁces centres Europe 2008 64/70 3.89 4.97 2.62 3.91 1.23 7.99 2.51 16/17 7.35 2009 70/75 3.74 5.47 3.28 3.84 0.79 7.25 2.30 17/18 6.96 2010 72/74 3.54 5.92 3.02 3.63 0.53 7.01 1.99 16/16 6.74 Like-for-like Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain Ofﬁces centres Europe 2010/2006 -15% 18% -33% -15% -31% -5% -25% -8% 2010/2009 66/74 -4% 8% -8% -4% 1% -3% -13% 15/16 -2% Waste Unibail-Rodamco’s waste management approach is designed to maximise recycling and minimise disposal to landﬁll. Tenants are regularly informed about on-site waste management systems. Both supplier purchasing contracts and tenant green leases establish the minimum requirements for waste sorting and recycling that must be respected. Suitable waste segregation facilities are in place in all assets. Unibail-Rodamco’s waste management responsibilities and reporting scopes vary by region. In some assets, local authorities are responsible for managing waste. The Group does not control the ﬁnal destination of waste produced at these assets. In 2010, 36% of waste was recycled and 24% was sent to landﬁll. KPI: Total waste (tonnes) Total waste collected on site All assets Scope Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain centres Europe 2008 61/70 48,827 1,819 4,294 22,926 1,120 5,655 13,013 2009 66/75 49,165 4,594 4,744 21,877 1,327 5,773 10,849 2010 70/74 55,637 4,575 4,901 25,336 1,622 5,836 13,367 Figures may not add up due to rounding. KPI: Percentage of waste recycled Tonnes of waste recycled divided by tonnes of waste collected All assets Scope Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain centres Europe 2008 61/70 30% 65% 30% 24% 56% 65% 18% 2009 66/75 33% 53% 31% 25% 44% 61% 23% 2010 70/74 35% 53% 38% 30% 41% 50% 32% KPI: Split of total non-hazardous waste by ﬁnal disposal (2010 only) All assets Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain centres Europe Total non-hazardous waste (in tonnes) 55,615 4,575 4,891 25,331 1,654 5,827 13,336 Recycling/Reuse/Composting 36% 53% 38% 30% 40% 52% 35% Incineration (or use as fuel) 30% 47% 0% 40% 60% 47% 6% Landﬁll 24% 0% 61% 30% 0% 1% 21% Managed by municipality 9% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 38% Other 0% 0% 1% 0% 0% 0% 0% Scope: 70 shopping centres out of 74. Figures may not add up due to rounding. 36 KPI: Split of recycled waste by type of waste (in tonnes, 2010 only) All assets Shopping Austria Central France Netherlands Nordics Spain centres Europe Cardboard 14,955 1,589 1,801 5,896 528 2,285 2,856 Paper 248 2 121 119 6 Plastics 737 186 20 49 3 21 457 Glass 539 341 19 46 10 23 100 Wood 413 90 50 272 Metals 55 37 1 14 2 All other recycled waste 2,432 187 0 1,509* 446 289 Scope: 69 shopping centres out of 74. Figures may not add up due to rounding. * Waste sorted for recycling offsite no split available. Biodiversity 1. Customers Unibail-Rodamco has developed a clear strategy and The quality of the customer experience is central to the methodology for integrating biodiversity and ecology into all of economic sustainability of Unibail-Rodamco’s business. It is its activities. The Group worked closely with a biodiversity expert the result of intensive work in subjects as diverse as leasing, to deﬁne and implement its approach to these important issues. maintenance, health and safety, marketing and customer For all development projects involved in a BREEAM certiﬁcation research. The Group continuously improves the Welcome process (i.e. projects over 10,000 m²), an ecologist forms part Attitude, its customer service strategy for retail assets. of the design team. The ecologist advises the architects and Customer satisfaction surveys were conducted in 61 assets in designers on the most appropriate species to choose for the 2010. The number of participants increased to 28,127 (+6% development, taking into account their relevance to local year-on-year) and the average score across the Group was habitats and their potential to create a positive ecological 7.5/10. As a new survey methodology was used by the Group’s impact by enhancing and/or conserving local fauna and marketing teams in 2010, the scores obtained in 2009 and ﬂora. For all other development projects, the site is analysed 2010 are not comparable. Internal quality audits were used to to estimate its potential and ensure that all opportunities to assess 240 service and comfort criteria. The average quality foster biodiversity are exploited. score increased to 72/100 (+16% year-on-year). An equally pragmatic approach is taken to biodiversity and 2009 2010 ecology at existing assets. The Group undertakes a biodiversity Increase in average score in internal study prior to renovations or investments. Gap analysis quality audit 14% 16% methodology is used to measure the site’s ecological potential against its initial status and a standard tool kit is used to respond to challenges ranging from habitat creation to public education. 2.Tenants Strong, mutually beneficial relationships with tenants Health & safety and environmental risks are fundamental to the Group’s long-term success and The Group complies with all applicable health and safety sustainability. Unibail-Rodamco devotes considerable energy legislation as a matter of course. It often exceeds minimum to attracting top-ﬂight retailers and supporting their national requirements to ensure a higher standard of service and safety and international expansion via its extensive network of wellfor its tenants and customers. The main subjects covered by located, prime shopping centres. The Group is also committed the Group’s in-house risk management process are air quality, to leasing space and providing support to entrepreneurs and water quality, asbestos, legionella, electromagnetic radiation, smaller national and local retailers. and technical equipment such as lifts and escalators. The risk Tenants are the Group’s most important partner when it comes management process also provides a framework for responding to reducing the global environmental footprint of its assets. to exceptional risks and crises. The Group does its best to ensure A proactive green lease policy, launched in late 2009 and that the same rigorous processes are in place at all of its assets. founded on dialogue, information and the sharing of best practices, is encouraging tenants to play an active role in on-site environmental management. As well as contributing to lower common and private service charges, these efforts IV. STAKEHOLDERS are helping all parties to prepare for a tougher regulatory Unibail-Rodamco holds a central position at the heart of environment in the future. communities across Europe. The Group takes its social and Since January 1, 2010, the Group has been working to economic responsibilities seriously and is committed to convince its retail and ofﬁce tenants to sign leases containing creating value for all of its stakeholders. environmental clauses. These ‘green’ leases cover the issues UNIBAIL-RODAMCO / 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 37 that are most relevant to improving environmental awareness the world’s most sustainable companies at number 47. Unibailand performance among tenants, such as the sharing of Rodamco is one of 4 real estate companies in the 2011 Global energy consumption data, speciﬁcations for ﬁt-out projects, 100 and one of only 5 French companies selected. and measures for saving energy and water and reducing The Group shares its sustainability strategy and achievements waste. 1,180 of these ’green’ leases were signed in 2010. In with investors at dedicated sessions. In 2010, sessions were addition, tenant-landlord sustainability committees have now held in Paris, Amsterdam and London. These meetings also been set up in 40% of the Group’s managed shopping centres. enable Unibail-Rodamco to learn more about its investors’ 2009 2010 vision of sustainability in the real estate sector. Unibail-Rodamco Number of ‘green’ leases signed 42 1,180 participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project and is a signatory Number of ‘green’ leases as a percenof the UN Global Compact. tage of all new ofﬁce/retail leases 2% 79% 5. Communities and local authorities 3. Suppliers and contractors Unibail-Rodamco’s assets play an important social role in the Unibail-Rodamco works with a large network of third-party community and contribute to economic growth, job creation suppliers and contractors. They provide the Group with and urban renewal.To ensure that its investments, developments everything from legal advice and architectural designs to and operations beneﬁt the communities where it is present cleaning staff for shopping centres and technical installation and reﬂect their needs and expectations, the Group works to teams for the convention and exhibition activity. At present, build and maintain strong relationships with local residents suppliers are mainly selected according to technical and and public authorities. Extensive public consultations are held financial criteria, but the Group is working to incorporate for all development and extension projects. structural sustainability criteria into its selection process. The Group’s social and economic relationships with its suppliers are governed by internal rules and compliance regulations as well as by strict local and national laws and regulations. V. CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY Internal compliance rules state that the suppliers of all goods Unibail-Rodamco donated a total of €3.75 million in cash and and services must be selected equitably on the basis of in kind to educational, cultural, entrepreneurial and social objective, comparable criteria and, when relevant, according initiatives during 2010. The Group offers space in its shopping to procedures applying to invitations to tender. centres for charities to hold fundraising and awareness events To encourage existing suppliers and contractors to adopt and waives the commercial fees which would usually be sustainable operating practices and use environmentally applied. sustainable materials, Unibail-Rodamco is communicating with Since 2007, Unibail-Rodamco has organised the annual Grand key suppliers about its environmental and social objectives Prize for Young Retail Entrepreneurs, which is the largest single and asking them to share their sustainability policies and endowment supporting the creation of new businesses in practices. Service providers in existing assets, primarily cleaning, France. facilities management and security agencies, are also being asked to sign a contract addendum. The addendum covers The Group supports the Ecole de la Deuxième Chance (E2C, a range of issues, including energy efﬁciency, waste, the use School of the Second Chance), a French initiative which of environmentally-sound products and materials, and social provides 18to 25-year olds with few or no qualifications and ethical behaviour (notably an engagement to comply with the training and support they require to access further with International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions and education or employment. In 2010, the Group contributed local labour laws and regulations). A framework has been €80,000 to support the day-to-day operations of the E2C drawn up to monitor and assess suppliers’ compliance with and help participants obtain work or work experience in its these engagements. shopping centres. Unibail-Rodamco is a corporate partner of CEMS, a strategic network of international business schools. As part of the Group’s 4. Investors and shareholders sponsorship of the Real Estate Chair at HEC, in partnership with Morgan Stanley, Unibail-Rodamco executives lecture in Unibail-Rodamco is listed on a number of prestigious SRI subjects such as real estate ﬁnance, sustainability, investment, (socially responsible investment) indexes: the FTSE4Good, the development and asset management. Dow Jones Sustainability (World) and Sustainability (Europe), the ASPI (Europe), and the NYSE Euronext Low Carbon 100 Europe® Index. In February 2011, Unibail-Rodamco was selected for inclusion in the Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register. The Group also entered the Corporate Knights Global 100 list of 38 VI. HUMAN RESOURCES Employment by activity Average Headcount Unibail-Rodamco aims to offer a working environment that Ofﬁces 17 promotes equality and diversity, and provide its employees with Shopping Centres 667 the skills and opportunities they require to build exciting and Convention & Exhibition(1) 405 rewarding careers. Recruitment and human resources policies Development(2) 63 are designed to attract and retain the best talent on the market. Shared Services 273 Headquarters 191 TOTAL 1,616 1. Reporting methodology (1) This ﬁgure includes 100% of VIPARIS employees. (2) Ofﬁce and shopping centre development. Corporate and regional human resources teams are responsible for collecting and compiling employment data Employees by age(1) 2009 2010 and trends. Some indicators (namely headcount and wage < 30 years old 23.1% 21.7% level comparisons) show average ﬁgures over the whole year. 30 50 years old 61.4% 62.1% Others, such as the number of people movements or number > 50 years old 15.5% 16.2% of training hours per employee show the situation as it stood on (1) On 31st December. December 31, 2010. In 2010, the Group ﬁnalised the deployment of a new human resources tool in France which facilitates the collection and comparison of HR data. This system will begin Employees by gender(1) 2009 2010 to be leveraged across the Group in 2011. Women 49.0% 49.1% Men 51.0% 50.9% (1) On 31 December. st 2. Employment and diversity In 2010, average headcount for the Group was 1,616 3. Career management employees. The Group has a positive track record for gender Employees receive regular support and advice on career and age diversity: the workforce is split almost equally between development. All employees meet with their manager at least men and women and the age pyramid is well balanced. Job once a year to discuss performance objectives and career candidates are asked to submit anonymous CVs to ensure progression, review achievements and identify training needs. that academic proﬁle and proven achievements are the sole A 360° review process is held annually to provide employees criteria for selection. with comprehensive feedback on their strengths and points of The Group participates in the voluntary, non-proﬁt BoardWomen development. 100% of employees receive regular performance Partners programme, which aims to improve the corporate reviews. governance of European listed companies by increasing the number of women present on their supervisory boards. In Performance management 2009 2010 France, Unibail-Rodamco is a signatory of the Diversity Charter Employees receiving regular performance reviews 100.0% 100.0% and the Disability in the Workplace Charter. The Group aims to ensure that the standards set out in these charters are Internal mobility between core disciplines is strongly promoted. respected in its other regions. This approach provides employees with an in-depth understanding of technical processes and business priorities at Employment by country (1) Average % headcount different stages in the asset lifecycle and helps to build networks and share best practices between regions. In 2010, 25 people Austria 91 5.6% worked abroad on an international mobility assignment. During Czech Republic 44 2.7% the year, 129 employees made a lateral career shift within the Denmark 16 1.0% Group and 115 employees were promoted. France (2) 1,050 65.0% Netherlands 93 5.8% Poland 56 3.5% Spain 148 9.1% Sweden 118 7.3% Total 1,616 100% (1) Average headcount in 2010. (2) This ﬁgure includes 100% of VIPARIS employees (405) UNIBAIL-RODAMCO / 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 39 4.Training 6. Organisation of working time Unibail-Rodamco’s recruitment, training and mobility policies are Unibail-Rodamco entities have undertaken various initiatives designed to ensure that employees have the skills, experience to organise statutory working time. These measures take and conﬁdence that is required to take sound decisions in into account the speciﬁc operating requirements of each complex situations involving major assets and large sums of site and business line within the Group. The most common money. Corporate training is delivered through the Unibailarrangements adopted are as follows: Rodamco Academy. General business and management ■ a ﬁxed annual number of working days for executives, skills are taught by external experts, but subjects relating to ■ a shorter working week and extra leave days in other cases, the Group’s core functions and expertise are taught by senior ■ an annual number of working hours and yearly adjustment for managers. The content of this extensive professional training certain employee categories (mainly VIPARIS). syllabus is regularly reviewed and updated. Targeted training is In addition, a certain number of employees work part-time or backed by on-the-job experience and mentoring to accelerate fewer ﬁxed days per year, corresponding to a range between skills acquisition for new recruits, enable career progression and 40% and 90% of a full-time activity rate. support transitions to new positions, functions and/or countries. In 2010, sickness absences totalled 12,677 working days Training 2009 2010 (3.2% of total working days) and lost days for injuries and Total number of hours provided 32,982 30,332 occupational diseases represented 731 days (0.2%). Average number of hours per employee (1) 20.1 20.3 (1) Based on effective headcount at the end of the year. Absenteeism N° of incidents Ratio Injuries 25 1.7% Work related fatalities 0 0.0% 5. Employee movements N° of days Ratio The Group recruits ‘best in class’ talent from leading business Lost days for injuries 874 0.2% and engineering schools across Europe. In 2010, 26 young Lost days for sick leave 12,677 3.2% graduates from eight different countries were recruited through the European Graduate Programme (EGP). Other paid absence days 731 0.2% (excluding vacation) Absenteeism and departures are closely tracked in each Other unpaid absence days 3,532 0.9% region and data is regularly reported to management. An Total 17,814 4,5% exit interview is systematically conducted when there is a departure. Employee turnover, as measured by the number of resignations, dismissals, mutual agreements, retirements In 2010, maternity/paternity leave represented 9,940 working and departures during probationary periods over effective days (2.5% of total working days). headcount at the end of 2009, stood at 18.2% in 2010 (versus Employees by contract type 2009 2010 16.0% in 2009 on the same basis)(1). The causes of work-related Permanent contract 94.7% 96.8% injuries are studied, and measures are taken to reduce the Fixed-term contract 5.3% 3.2% likelihood that they will reoccur. (1) This slight increase can be attributed to higher divestment activity in the Netherlands and to the change of head ofﬁce location in Sweden. Employees by contracted hours 2009 2010 Full-time contract 95.2% 94.7% Recruitments 2009 2010 Part-time contract(1) 4.8% 5.3% Permanent contracts 248 163 (1) Corresponding to between 40% and 90% of a full-time activity rate. Fixed-term contracts 95 58 Apprenticeships(1) 9 7 Total 352 228 7. Remuneration (1) Excluding internships (32 in 2010). Unibail-Rodamco works to ensure that there is no difference between the remuneration of men and women who do the Reasons for departures in 2010 Departures % same job and have similar responsibilities. All young graduates Resignations 144 38% in a given country are recruited at the same base salary, Dismissals 40 10% regardless of gender or age. Remuneration policy is designed Mutual Agreements 82 21% to encourage individual achievement and support the longRetirements 21 5% term growth of the Group. On a like-for-like headcount basis, Departures during probationary periods 14 4% total salaries increased by an average of 4.1% in 2010. Expiry of temporary contracts 45 12% Outsourcing 36 9% Death 2 1% Total 384 100% 40 Comparison of remuneration (in euros) for similar positions across Women Men the Group in 2010 (1) % per Average gross % per Average gross category monthly salary(2) category monthly salary(2) Accountants 77% 2,847 23% 3,083 Analysts(3) 44% 3,485 56% 3,566 Assistants 95% 2,743 5% 2,537 Controllers 25% 5,562 75% 5,141 Development/Investment 37% 5,139 63% 5,254 IT managers & project heads 37% 5,528 63% 5,466 Leasing 61% 5,204 39% 5,582 Legal managers 69% 4,634 31% 4,525 Marketing managers (shopping centres) 84% 3,496 16% 3,659 Operating managers 18% 6,460 82% 6,246 Property Maintenance & Purchasing (PMP) 13% 3,400 87% 3,883 Shopping centre managers 44% 5,656 56% 5,924 (1) Positions composed of more than 12 staff in the Group, excluding VIPARIS. (2) Average gross monthly salary equals annual ﬁxed salary plus individual bonus divided by twelve. (3) ”Analyst” category encompasses all employees graded “Analyst” in the new job grading system. Total remuneration(1) 2009 2010 Annual increase in average salary, including bonus 2.5% 4.1% (1) Based on like-for-like headcount Variable remuneration 2009 2010 Received an individual merit-based bonus 65.0% 64.1% Received stock options 18.0% 18.6% In March 2010, 778,800 options were granted to 18.6% of total In 2010, the Group supported the voluntary savings contributions employees and MB members, at no discount to the share price of its staff by making a total employer contribution of €0.4 at the time of allocation, with a price of €148.32 per share, million. On December 31, 2010, more than 82% of eligible for a total economic value (IFRS valuation, adjusted for staff employees (excluding VIPARIS) were shareholders of Unibailturnover and before straightlining over the vesting period) of Rodamco through the Group’s savings plan. €5.0 million. These options were all subject to conditions based on Unibail-Rodamco’s share price performance compared with that of the EPRA Euro zone index, which is a benchmark for the sector’s performance. UNIBAIL-RODAMCO / 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 41 8. Employee relations Unibail-Rodamco works closely with employee representative On December 31, 2010, 90% of employees were covered by bodies in compliance with the local labour laws of the various collective bargaining agreements. European countries where the Group is present. The Group chose to become a European Company in April 2009. As part Labour relations 2009 2010 of this transformation, a European Employees’ Committee Employees covered by collective (EEC) was created. Each European country within the Group bargaining agreements 87.3% 90.0% is entitled to have at least one representative on the EEC. 9. Organisational structure Joost Bomhoff Executive Director Sustainability/Academy Guillaume Poitrinal Chairman of the Management Board Aline Sylla-Walbaum Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Director of External Affairs and Strategy Internal Audit and Risk management Michel Dessolain Catherine Pourre Peter Van Rossum Jaap Tonckens Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Management Board Management Management Board Management Board Chief Operating Ofﬁcer Board (1) Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Chief Investment Ofﬁcer(2) Olivier Bossard Andrew Farnsworth Fabrice Mouchel David Zeitoun Group Managing Group Director of Human Deputy Chief Financial Group Director Director of Resources Ofﬁcer of Legal Development Olivier Coutin Jean-Jacques Lefebvre Arnaud Burlin Managing Director Managing Director Major Managing Director Nordic Construction Projects Central Europe Countries Renaud Hamaide Jean-Marc Jestin Managing Director Managing Director Convention & Ofﬁces France Exhibition France Simon Orchard Markus Pichler Managing Director Managing Director Spain Austria ■ Members of the Management Board ■ Members of the Group Management Team Jean-Marie Tritant Edwin Turksma Managing Director Retail Managing Director France The Netherlands (1) In charge of Human Resources, Information Technology and Organisation Functions. (2) In charge of Legal and Investment Functions. 42 VII. OBJECTIVES AND ACHIEVEMENTS Each year, Unibail-Rodamco reviews its sustainability performance and identiﬁes areas where the Group can make further improvements. The results of this analysis are used to set challenging operational and strategic objectives which reﬂect the Group’s priorities and responsibilities, inform its actions, and drive continued progress. These sustainability objectives are reviewed, validated and endorsed by the Management Board. 2010 achievements Status/ Scope Comment target date (1) Environmental management systems Existing assets Ensure that 75% of managed assets have an externally-certiﬁed Target: 2011 ROC With regard to the Group’s policy and priorities, it was decided to adapt this environmental management system in place(3) target for 2011 by obtaining an external assessment of the implementation of the Group’s environmental management system, the ‘Sustainable Attitude’. In France, Bureau Veritas delivered an independent assessment of the ‘Sustainable Attitude’. All shopping centres in Spain have ISO 14001 certiﬁcation. Obtain ISO 14001 certiﬁcation for at least 10 more managed shopping k R Priority was given to reinforcing the implementation of the ‘Sustainable centres Attitude’ environmental management system. New Achieve a BREEAM rating of ‘Very Good’ or better for all new Ongoing ROC All major projects that were in progress in 2010 underwent BREEAM developments developments of more than 10,000 m² that will be delivered from 2011 target assessment. Details are provided on page 6. onwards(3) ● Roll out the newest edition of the Design Guidelines and carry out at ● ROC The updated Design Guidelines are being applied to major development least ﬁve training sessions for regional development teams on the use projects. Dedicated training sessions were held for regional development of the Design Guidelines teams in France, the Czech Republic, the Nordic Countries, Austria, the Netherlands and Spain. Resource use and health & safety Tenants Conduct a tenant satisfaction survey in at least 60 shopping centres ● R A tenant satisfaction survey was conducted in 60 shopping centres. in 8 different countries Ensure that at least 60% of new retail and ofﬁce tenants sign a green ● RO 1,180 green leases were signed (79% of ofﬁce and retail leases signed in lease(3) 2010). Set up dedicated asset-level sustainability committees in at least ; R Sustainability committees are in place at 40% of managed shopping cen50% of managed shopping centres by end-2010 and achieve 100% tres. coverage by end-2012 Suppliers and Introduce updated environmental and labour clauses to new supplier ● R Environmental and labour clauses were rolled out in all regions (target contractors contracts in all regions(3) relates to opex for existing assets, capex excluded). New waste requirements were introduced in 2010. Develop a Group-wide framework to assess suppliers’ compliance ● R The Group developed a methodology to assess suppliers’ compliance with environmental clauses with environmental clauses covering maintenance, cleaning, security and safety. Customers Develop a communication strategy to highlight asset-speciﬁc Target: 2011 R A pilot was rolled out at Vélizy 2 (France). sustainability initiatives in at least 75% of managed shopping centres Increase average quality audit scores by 25% between 2009 and 2013 Target: 2012 R Quality scores increased from 72 in 2009 to 84 in 2010. This increase of 16% is in line with the long-term target. Increase the average customer satisfaction survey score from 8.1/10 Target: 2011 R Due to a change of methodology, 2009 and 2010 scores are not in 2009 to 8.5/10 in 2012 comparable. A new customer satisfaction target has been set for 2011. Shareholders and Cover at least 75% of the top 50% of investors by value in meetings ● G Meetings were held with 75% of the top 50% investors by value. investors with management Organise a road show focused on Asian investors in at least two Asian ● G A roadshow focused on Asian investors was held in Hong Kong and ﬁnancial centres Singapore. Organise investor sessions on Group governance and sustainable ● G Meetings took place in Paris, London and Amsterdam. development in three European ﬁnancial centres Communities and Ensure that local community commitment plans are introduced or ● R The ‘PAR’ relationship action plan was implemented and reviewed for all local authorities updated for all major shopping centres major shopping centres. Deploy at least 10 initiatives to make the Group’s shopping centres ; R Unibail-Rodamco headquarters hosted training sessions delivered by the more welcoming and more accessible to visitors with disabilities UNAPEI to 6 regional associations as part of the S3A labelling process underway at 10 shopping centres (see page 22). The results of accessibility audits conducted at all French managed assets were studied to identify improvement targets. Environmental responsibility Climate change Conduct a study to improve the Group’s understanding of the ; ROC Initial research was performed. Unibail-Rodamco understands the adaptation and potential impact of climate change on its assets and activities importance of tracking the potential impact of climate change on mitigation its assets and activities and will continue to study the effects of climate change in the coming years. Launch new initiatives to generate renewable or low-carbon energy ● R Several initiatives were launched. In France, photovoltaic studies were on site conducted at Labège 2, BAB2, Porte de Versailles and Rennes Alma, and a study into geothermal energy was conducted for the Aéroville development project. In Spain, a trigeneration unit went into operation at Los Arcos. Reduce CO2 emissions per visit at managed shopping centres by at Target: 2016 R On track to achieve target in 2016. least 40% in 2016 relative to 2006(2) Increase energy efﬁciency at major managed shopping centres by Target: 2012 R On track to achieve target in 2012. 20% in 2012 relative to 2006(2) Develop green travel plans for at least 10 assets k ROC Green travel plans have been implemented for new developments and are being developed for existing assets. Set up a system to monitor the business travel of all Unibail-Rodamco ● G Business travel data was collected. employees Install charging points for electric vehicles at 20 assets(3) ● ROC Dedicated charging points were installed at 21 managed assets. Develop a CO2 calculator to enable convention and exhibition clients ● C The CO2 calculator was developed and rolled out to clients. to assess the carbon footprint of their events UNIBAIL-RODAMCO / 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 43 2010 achievements Status/ Scope Comment target date (1) Environmental responsibility (continued) Resource use and Increase water efﬁciency (litres/visit) in managed shopping centres Target: 2016 R On track to achieve target in 2016. health & safety by 20% in 2016 relative to 2006 Monitor the ﬁnal destination of waste collected in 89% of managed ● R The ﬁnal destination of waste that is collected by Unibail-Rodamco was shopping centres and set targets for reducing the amount of waste monitored at 92% of managed shopping centres. Speciﬁc long-term targets sent directly to landﬁll(3) have been set. Develop a corporate policy on biodiversity for new developments and ● ROC A corporate biodiversity policy was developed for new developments and existing assets existing assets. Conduct a study of a representative sample of existing assets to ● ROC A biodiversity study was conducted at 14 shopping centres. identify opportunities to improve biodiversity Carry out systematic risk assessments at all shopping centres with ; R Methodological Risk Assessment (MRA) have been implemented at all refrigeration equipment French and Spanish shopping centres with refrigeration equipment. MRA requirements and recommendations were distributed to all regions. Carry out systematic mapping of remaining asbestos at all shopping ; R Formal asbestos maps have been established for all French and Spanish centres built before asbestos was banned locally shopping centres. Asbestos map requirements and recommendations were distributed to all regions. Employment and diversity Diversity and ethical Launch a programme to train managers and employees in all ● G 885 hours of training in compliance and ethical business behaviour behaviour regions about diversity, non discrimination, the Code of Ethics and was provided in 2010 to a total of 282 employees. An e-learning training compliance rules programme was also launched. Create a positive working environment for employees with disabilities ● G Training sessions were held. A booklet explaining the Group’s policies by providing training sessions for all HR and communication staff who regarding employees with disabilities was distributed in electronic and will be responsible for implementing and communicating policies paper format to all employees in France. internally Implement the Senior Employees Agreement that was signed in ● G The Senior Employees Agreement has been implemented. Skills France in 2009 and support older employees by providing targeted assessments and training sessions were launched. Follow-up sessions with training and skills assessments senior employees have started. Identify potential psycho-social risks in the workplace and take ● G 5 half-day training sessions were conducted by an external legal specialist corrective action if necessary, in partnership with the French work in France (3 for senior managers and 1 each for the French and Corporate council HR teams). Environmental resContinue to organise meetings with employees in all regions to ● G Meetings were organised in all regions. ponsibility increase awareness of sustainability policies and objectives Training and career Maintain the number of hours of training provided through the Unibail● G The number of hours of training, including induction seminar, increased by management Rodamco Academy and offer new courses in management skills(2) 1.2% compared to 2009. The inclusion of the induction seminar constitutes a change of scope relative to 2009. Introduce a new software application to improve the performance ● G The R’Flex application was fully implemented. review process Introduce a Group-wide job grading system to facilitate mobility and ● G A Group-wide job grading system was implemented. career development(3) Mobility and recruitIncrease the number of employees working for the Group outside their ● G 9 new international mobilities were initiated in 2010 compared to 8 during ment home region 2009. Expand recruitment through the European Graduate Programme by ● G 26 EGP participants were recruited in 2010. hiring at least 25 EGP participants in 2011 Performance manaContinue to apply a remuneration policy that rewards and ● G The format of the Group’s annual performance assessments was amended gement encourages individual achievement to better reﬂect employees’ objectives and results. A new performance assessment system for leasing was developed and will be implemented in 2011. Continue efforts to reduce the risks of injury in the workplace ● G Speciﬁc KPIs are used to monitor this issue. Improve the processes used to collect and analyse data on ● G A new, more structured system for analysing departures was introduced. absenteeism and departures in all regions Data have been collected and analysed in all regions. Internal Launch a Group intranet portal that gives all employees access to the k G The portal project was cancelled in favour of a project to harmonise communication latest local, corporate and professional information and business tools existing local sites, which will be launched in 2011. (1)Targets are established for speciﬁc scopes: R=Retail, O=Ofﬁces, C=Convention & Exhibition, G=Group. (2) Indicators for which a limited assurance has been delivered by Ernst & Young. The statutory auditor’s report on the review of selected environmental and human resources information and indicators is available on pages 46-47 and on the Group website: www.unibail-rodamco.com (3) Informations for which a qualitative review has been performed by Ernst & Young. The statutory auditor’s report on the review of selected environmental and human resources information and indicators is available on pages 46-47 and on the Group website: www.unibail-rodamco.com 78% of targets for 2010 were achieved, 14% were partially achieved, and 8% were not achieved. ● Achieved = target 100% complete ; Partially achieved = 26-99% complete k Not achieved = 0-25% complete 44 Targets for 2011 and beyond Scope(1) Target date Environmental Management Systems Existing assets Obtain an external assessment of the Unibail-Rodamco’s ‘Sustainable ROC 2011 Attitude’ environmental management system in each region New developments Achieve a BREEAM rating of ‘Very Good’ for all new developments of more RO Ongoing target than 10,000 m² Conduct training sessions for the development teams in each region on RO 2011 the use of the updated Design Guidelines Formalise the terms of the Group’s ‘Considerate Construction Charter’ to R 2011 reduce the social and environmental impacts of construction (e.g. noise, dust, trafﬁc) for all new development projects Stakeholder involvement Tenants Increase the response rate of the tenant satisfaction survey to 50% R 2011 Ensure that at least 85% of new retail and ofﬁce tenants sign a green lease RO 2011 Set up sustainability committees in each ‘jumbo’ shopping centre R 2011 Suppliers and Assess suppliers’ compliance with environmental clauses at each ‘jumbo’ R 2011 contractors shopping centre (target relates to security, cleaning and maintenance contracts) Customers Develop a communication strategy to highlight asset-speciﬁc sustainability R 2011 or disability initiatives at 10 ‘jumbo’ shopping centres Increase average score in the internal quality audit by 25% between 2009 R 2012 and 2012 Increase the average customer satisfaction survey score from 7.5/10 in R 2011 2010 to 8/10 in 2011 Shareholders and Combine the Corporate Sustainability Report and the Annual Report to G 2011 investors provide a coherent overview of the Group’s ﬁnancial, social and environmental performance for the investment community and other stakeholders Organise meetings on corporate governance with 5 of the Group’s top 10 G 2011 investors Cover at least 90% of the top 50% of investors by value in meetings with G 2011 management Communities and local Cooperate with local authorities to launch speciﬁc sustainability initiatives R 2011 authorities for at least 10 ‘jumbo’ shopping centres, including at least 1 asset per region Obtain S3A label for at least 10 French shopping centres to show their R 2011 commitment to welcoming and supporting people with mental disabilities Environmental responsibility Climate change Introduce climate change risk criteria into investment activity (acquisition ROC 2011 adaptation and process) mitigation Reduce CO2 emissions per visit at managed shopping centres by at least R 2016 40% in 2016 relative to 2006 Increase energy efﬁciency at major managed shopping centres by 20% in R 2012 2012 relative to 2006 Extend the monitoring of CO2 emissions arising from employees’ business G 2011 travel and deﬁne targets for 2012 Install additional charging points for electric vehicles at 15 managed ROC 2011 assets Monitor and improve the implementation and uptake of the VIPARIS CO2 G 2011 calculator Resource use Increase water efﬁciency (litres/visit) in managed shopping centres by R 2016 20% in 2016 relative to 2006 Reduce the proportion of waste sent to landﬁll by 50% in 2016 relative to R 2016 2009 (target relates to waste managed by Unibail-Rodamco) Obtain a waste recycling rate of at least 50% at managed shopping R 2016 centres by 2016 (target relates to waste managed by Unibail-Rodamco) UNIBAIL-RODAMCO / 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 45 Targets for 2011 and beyond Scope(1) Target date Employment and diversity Diversity and ethical Increase employees’ awareness of diversity, non-discrimination and the G 2011 behaviour Code of Ethics via e-learning courses and regional training programmes Continue to implement the terms of the 3-year Senior Employees G 2011 Agreement in France Roll out training programme on psycho-social risks in the workplace to G 2011 managers in France Environmental Continue to increase awareness of sustainable behaviour by providing G 2011 responsibility a yearly training session for all employees in each region Training Develop management and leadership across the Group by delivering G 2011 speciﬁc training courses for managers with a level of Principal and above in the job grading framework Mobility and Maintain the number of employees working for the Group outside their G 2011 recruitment home region Organise a 10-day induction programme for all new recruits to G 2011 the European Graduate Programme Performance Introduce a Group-wide performance measurement system for leasing G 2011 management managers Develop and launch a Group-wide employee health and safety policy to G 2011 promote a safe working environment Social reporting Launch an electronic suggestion box to collect employees’ ideas and G 2011 proposals on efﬁciency and other topics Launch a pilot employee survey in the Group G 2011 (1) Targets are established for speciﬁc scopes: R=Retail, O=Ofﬁces, C=Convention & Exhibition, G=Group. Disclaimer consolidated for the ﬁrst time in 2008. The data provided for Certain statements contained in this document are statements 2009 and 2010 was collected using internal management tools of future expectations and other forward-looking statements. on a quarterly and/or annual basis. The accuracy of this data These expectations are based on the management’s may be affected by a number of variables, including but not current views and assumptions and involve known risks and limited to the heterogeneity of the assets in Unibail-Rodamco’s uncertainties that could cause actual results and/or data portfolio, the speciﬁc characteristics of certain assets, and to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these the differences in data collection systems and perimeters at statements. Statements are based on the current property different assets. portfolio and disregard the potential effects of external factors Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking including, but not limited to, climate change, local energy statements. Unibail-Rodamco assumes no obligation to update policy or regulatory or legal developments. any forward-looking information contained in this document The 2006-2008 data that is provided in this report, particularly subject to legal requirement. Data is subject to change without that which appears on pages 27-37, was collected and notice. 46 STATUTORY AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE REVIEW OF SELECTED ENVIRONMENTAL AND HUMAN RESOURCES INFORMATION AND INDICATORS YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010 Further to your request and in our capacity as the Statutory procedures and veriﬁed, on a test basis, the calculations (CO2 auditor of Unibail-Rodamco, we have performed a limited emissions between 2006 and 2010 in each country, training review on 3 environmental and human resources indicators(1) hours of the Unibail-Rodamco Academy in 2009 and 2010) as (the “Indicators”) identiﬁed with the footnote “(2)” on pages well as the consolidation of the Indicators. 42-43 of the sustainable development report, as well as ■ We have selected a sample of 4 operational entities(2) that are the procedures agreed with you on selected sustainability representative of the activities and the locations, on the basis information (the “Information”) identiﬁed with the footnote of their size and contribution to the Group’s consolidated data “(3)” on pages 42-43 of this report, all published in the group’s as well as of the results of the risk review performed previously. 2010 annual report. These Indicators were prepared under The selected operational entities represent in average 26%(3) the responsibility of the management of Unibail-Rodamco, of the total value of the Indicators.At this level, we have veriﬁed in accordance with the reporting criteria applicable in 2010 the understanding and application of the Reporting Criteria, (the “Reporting Criteria”), a summary of which is provided on and veriﬁed, on a test basis, calculations and reconciliation pages 28-29 of this sustainable development report. It is also with supporting documents. the responsibility of Unibail-Rodamco to update and internally ■ We have also reviewed the presentation of the Indicators in disseminate this Reporting Criteria. the sustainable development report. It is our responsibility to express a conclusion on these Indicators on the basis of our review and to report our ﬁndings Regarding the selected Information and observations on the selected Information. Our review was conducted in compliance with the French professional On the environmental and human resources Information, we norms and the international standard ISAE 3000 (International have performed the procedures agreed with the sustainability Standard on Assurance Engagement, December 2003) of IFAC. department of Unibail-Rodamco. We have conducted interviews Our independence is deﬁned by legal and regulatory texts with the Sustainability and Human Resources persons in as well as by our professional code of ethics. The conclusions charge of the rolling-out of the sustainability program in order and ﬁndings expressed below relate solely to these Indicators to gather underlying evidence of the progress made in the and Information reviewed and not to the entire sustainability implementation of the sustainability program and review the information published in the 2010 sustainable development presentation of the information in the annual report. report. A higher level of assurance would have required more extensive work. Comments about the Reporting Criteria With respect to the Reporting Criteria defined by UnibailNature and scope of our work Rodamco for the selected data, we wish to make the following Regarding the 3 selected indicators comments: We performed the following review to obtain limited assurance Relevance: that the Indicators presented on pages 2 to 23 and 27 to 43 ■ The Indicators addressing the energy efﬁciency and climate of the sustainable development report are free of material change issues on the “all assets” scope are relevant to reﬂect misstatements. the environmental impacts of the operations as well as the ■ We have assessed the Reporting Criteria with respect to its actions undertaken by the Group. They are also consistent reliability, understandability, neutrality, completeness and with the industry sustainability issues and the European and relevance. French regulatory requirements and objectives. ■ At Group level, we have conducted interviews with the persons responsible for consolidating the Indicators. We have assessed the risk of misstatement, implemented analytical (1) Energy efﬁciency per visit of the shopping centres, Carbon intensity per visit of (2) France: shopping centres Le Forum des Halles and Les Quatre Temps; Poland: the shopping centres, Number of training hours given under the “Unibail-Rodamco shopping centres Galeria Mokotów and Zlote Tarasy. Academy”. (3) 20% of the energy consumptions; 41% of the CO2 emissions; 17% of the number of visits. UNIBAIL-RODAMCO / 2010 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 47 Completeness: Findings and observations regarding the Information ■ The indicators Energy efﬁciency per visit and Carbon intensity ■ The Group has implemented and disseminated tools and per visit cover shopping centres managed by Unibailgood practices regarding the following environmental Rodamco that represent 83% of the shopping centres and human resources subjects: BREEAM certification, portfolio’s gross market value, i.e. 63% of the total gross market green leases, responsible purchasing requirements in the value of the asset portfolio aggregated as at December 31, facilities management contracts, electric vehicles charging 2010. points, waste management and career development for ■ The Reporting Criteria for the energy efﬁciency and carbon the employees. The action plans are designed with the intensity indicators does not take into account the impact involvement of the people in the regions and their progress of certain actions on the assets portfolio performance and are speciﬁcally and adequately reviewed. generate uncertainties when assessing its evolution: ■ At Group level, the reporting of the achievements relating Rules regarding the “like-for-like” scope lead to the exclusion to responsible purchasing requirements for the facilities of the assets that have been refurbished, extended, sold, management contracts and electric vehicles charging or that entered the managed portfolio through acquisition points should be better formalised outside France region.The or construction. monitoring of the progress of the actions towards the Group’s The calculation methodology for the indicators evolution, objectives could be improved by the implementation of a based on the aggregation of the annual percentage, leads dedicated IT reporting tool. to the addition of the annual uncertainties, which might ■ Based on our work related to the Information selected and generate a high level of uncertainty in the long term. on our overall reading of the sustainable development report, particularly the objectives presented on pages 42-43, we have Reliability: not identiﬁed any obvious inconsistency and any misleading ■ The reporting criteria should deﬁne the rules for the selection assertions. of the emissions factors as well as for the calculation of the number of visits (particularly when estimated) for the regions. Conclusion on the 3 indicators reviewed ■ Rules, methodologies, roles and responsibilities for the internal Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that controls should be described in the Reporting Criteria. causes us to believe that the Indicators were not established, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. Neuilly-sur-Seine on March 11, 2011 The statuory auditors Assisted by Ernst & Young Ernst & Young Audit Climate Change and Sustainability Department Bernard Heller Eric Duvaud NOTES Creation and production: This document is printed on FSC-certified coated paper composed of preand post-consumer waste (60%) and FSC wood pulp (40%). The paper was manufactured in factories that have ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certification for their environmental management systems. Printed by HANDIPRINT, a disability-friendly employer. Photo credits Untitled images: SO Ouest project/Levallois-Perret (cover); Lyon Confluence project/Lyon (p. 4); Arkady Pankrac/Prague(p. 9); Eurostop Jönköping/ Jönköping (p. 10); Rivétoile/Strasbourg (p. 14); Docks Vauban/Le Havre (pp. 13, 17); Nova Lund/Lund (p. 18). Images: Andi Bruckner (p. 7); Contextes (p. 3, 20, 21); Epstein-Glaiman Architects / L'Autre Image (p. 7); Frank Barylko (p. 8, 13, 14, 17, 19); Gilles Aymard (p. 7); Golem Image (p. 4); Jana Eriksson (p. 10); Lars Clason (p. 18); Michal Hurych (p. 9); Vincent Baillais (p. 12); Write Company (p. 25); and images from the Unibail-Rodamco image bank. M CO au e r I L R ODA elier Aden 6 A c x1 UNIB Chan Cede c e du Paris 7, Pla 22 75772 1 6 CS 3 7 e 3 74 3 Franc (0) 1 53 4 3 74 38 33 4 Tel: + 3 (0) 1 53 om : + 3 d a mco.c Fax a il ro .unib www
