ACCESS BANK PLC CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 A Catalyst for Sustainable Growth in Africa Access Bank Plc CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Access Bank’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report is prepared in order to provide information on the economic, environmental and social performance that contributed to our sustainability in 2010. It is intended to be of interest to Access Bank’s stakeholders, such as investors, customers, employees, regulators, non-governmental organisations, operating communities and others with an interest in our Bank’s approach to sustainability. Overview Customers Employees 1 About this report 17 Key objectives and goals 27 Our people and culture 2 Chairman’s statement 18 Approach 28 Overview of workforce 3 Group Managing Director/ 18 Overview of our customers 28 Diversity Chief Executive Officer’s statement 18 Improving customer service 30 Employee engagement 4 Our business at a glance 19 Commercial Banking division 30 Learning and development (L&D) 8 Our approach to sustainability 19 Customer Ombudsman 31 Employee survey 12 Sustainability governance 20 Building customer relationships 13 Key banking regulation in 2010 22 Assessing our customer perception 13 Consensus 22 Responsible products and services 14 Stakeholder engagement 24 Marketing communications 25 Compliance 25 Anti money laundering training 50 GRI data table 55 Assurance Environment Supply Chain Communities 35 Key objectives and goals 38 Key objectives and goals 40 Key objectives and goals 35 Approach to environmental 42 Approach to community management 44 Health 36 Energy 46 Environment 36 Water 41 The Arts 36 Business transport 48 Employee engagement in 36 Paper and materials community programme 37 Equator principles report 37 From the workplace to the community Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment About this Report Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities Our last Report covered the period from This Report has therefore further addressed A GRI context index is provided on page 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2009. the issue of providing comprehensive views 50-54 and details of our performance, This Report is our third and covers the from our stakeholder public. in line with the GRI financial sector financial year January to December 2010. In addition, we have expressed our involvement supplement, are available on our website – In some cases, where highlighted, information in the community through the London www.accessbankplc.com/csr/index.aspx for early 2011 is also included to give a holistic Benchmarking Group (LBG) model, which Corporate Citizenship have provided picture and provide an update. Facts and figures enables us to articulate the Bank’s contribution independent third party assurance for the 2010 refer to the Group unless indicated otherwise. to community development, by measuring cash Access Bank Corporate Social Responsibility In 2010, Access Bank received various views in kind and time. Report. The assurance process was carried out on our 2009 CSR Report from stakeholders In developing this Report, we have also utilised in accordance with the AA1000 Assurance that have a particular interest in environmental, relevant international standards and guidelines Standard. For more on AA1000 see page 54. social and governance issues. The feedback such as the AA1000 Assurance Standards Corporate Citizenship’s Assurance suggested that the Report should contain more and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 statement is on page 56. information on stakeholder views across the full Sustainability Reporting Guidelines − see range − critical as well as positive − and shows www.globalreporting.org how we have responded. Access Bank awarded the prestigious Big Tick for their work in the community Awarded the FT/IFC Sustainable Bank of the Year Award, Middle East and Africa from the FT Awards Each employee completed an average of 46.5 hours of training 32 million kwh of diesel generated power saved, through our 8pm bankwide shutdown Over 25,000 lives have been touched and impacted by our employee volunteer initiatives Access Bank Plc 1 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Chairman’s Statement This active commitment to our employees advances the Bank in its aim to become an We believe that being socially, employer of choice, and helps ensure that it is environmentally and economically able to sustain its ability to create value for all its responsible is good for business. stakeholders. We are proud of our achievements Corporate governance and risk management in the three years since our first Access Bank continues to ensure strong CSR Report... adherence to best practices in corporate governance, based on the independence and separation of the Board’s supervisory The approval and implementation of the CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT responsibilities from the management proposed plan would increase the Bank’s capacity framework. Our governance standards are to recruit and retain high performing employees. Continuing our aspirations for Access Bank Plc to become Africa’s Bank of global best not limited to the requirements of local statutes The Board believes that the Resolution contained practice, our approach to corporate social and regulations. In certain areas, your Board in the Notice of Meeting is in the best interests responsibility (CSR) remains versatile. of Directors has taken the initiative to adopt of shareholders and the Bank, and unanimously In 2010, to ensure its continued relevance, governance standards that are higher than recommends that you vote in favour. we undertook a rigorous process to those required by local code and regulatory Corporate social responsibility (CSR) comprehensively review our CSR strategy requirements. We believe that being socially, environmentally and in line with global trends and developments. The road map developed by the CBN requires economically responsible is good for business. We As a result, the Bank’s CSR strategy is currently banks to have implemented International are proud of our achievements in the three years implemented through responsible business Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by the since our first CSR Report and continue to improve practice and community investment. year 2012. In 2010, Access Bank became the and develop, spurred on by our commitment to first bank in Nigeria to fully adopt IFRS, and achieving best practice and continual improvement Domestic environment has become the model for many other banks in every area of our business. In the light of the challenges and uncertainties embarking on the implementation process in that we faced in 2009, I am pleased to be able We have placed stakeholder engagement at the 2011. The Bank has also invested in the people, to advise that 2010 has been a year of economic heart of our CSR programme, and are making structures and processes we need to take us to recovery and optimism for your Bank and our significant progress in our understanding of, a functioning implementation of the Basel local markets. Despite the possibility of yet and response to, the issues facing our employees, II compliant risk framework. another financial crisis, triggered by sovereign customers, local communities, suppliers and key During the financial year, we employed a highly stakeholder groups, and our ability to successfully debt concerns in Greece, Spain, Ireland and respected Chief Risk Officer with a wealth of anticipate and meet their needs. Portugal, emerging markets and developing experience, and also ensured that all the key economies continue to outperform the global Looking further afield, we are aware of the positions in enterprise risk framework were economic growth index. threat of climate change and seek to minimise filled. We have established a system that ensures The Nigerian financial system is on the path the impact your Bank has upon it. This has been that there is an integrated view of risk and to recovery, largely due to the various initiatives reported on in more detail this year. correlation/diversification benefits. introduced by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Conclusion in response to the national banking sector Growth opportunities Our sincere appreciation goes to our crisis. Real GDP grew at 7.78%, outperforming A key strategic objective for your Bank is to be shareholders, customers, employees and other the prior year’s growth rate of 9.69%, and ranked amongst the top three financial services stakeholders for their continued support of the indications are that this growth momentum groups in Nigeria. Achieving this would require Bank, which has enabled us to record another will be maintained in 2011, due to high crude the expansion of the Bank’s footprint, through year of very strong performance. With your oil production levels and rising crude oil prices. the pursuit of either organic or inorganic growth continued support, we look forward with great However, inflation remained well above the strategies. There is currently an opportunity, excitement to successful years ahead, as we work Central Bank’s implied target range of 9.0% in the context of the CBN’s Banking Crisis hard to enhance returns for our shareholders 9.5%. Resolution Programme, to work with another while continuing in our Quest for Excellence in bank in order to achieve our growth aspirations. Board of Directors and human capital our customer services and operations. The Board of Directors is working closely with development management to undertake such actions as During the year, Dr. Adewunmi Desalu resigned may be necessary to successfully implement from the Board of Directors. We are most this initiative. In line with international best appreciative of his contributions to the Bank practice, the proposed business combination during his period of service and wish him will be transparent and subject to the necessary continued success in his endeavours. Gbenga Oyebode MFR shareholder, regulatory and judicial approvals. Our employees are the heart of our business, Chairman, Access Bank Group and we continue to improve on our ability to Special resolution recruit the brightest people in the industry and Among the tools the Bank uses in retaining develop them through exposure to international and motivating its high performing employees best practices. This year, we have made significant are performance incentives. The Resolution, further improvements to our learning and which you will find in the Notice of Meeting, development programme. would enable the Bank to establish an Employee Performance Share Plan under which units of the Bank’s shares will be awarded to eligible employees on terms to be approved by the Board of Directors. 2 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Chief Executive’s Statement Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities Our customers have strongly embraced our ‘go to market’ strategy, which has resulted in Our aim is to embed social robust growth of over 15% in both loans and responsibility into our core deposits. In Nigeria, our increased market share business. and significant reduction in risk expenses resulted in a phenomenal uplift in profit before tax to N17.6 billion. We undertook a cost/benefit analysis of Whilst our subsidiaries in Ghana, Rwanda, United introducing environmental, social and Kingdom and Zambia performed well, Côte governance considerations into our project D’ivoire and Congo performed poorly. In view of finance and lending decisions, and have GROUP MANAGING DIRECTOR/ the Côte D’ivoire’s deteriorating macro economic concluded that the benefits outweigh the CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT conditions, we increased our provisions for risk challenges. Therefore, your Bank will be asset impairments. This led to lower Group embedding responsible business practices and I am pleased to report that our year 2010 profits of N16.1 billion. The Board of Directors sustainable finance policies and systems in financial performance places Access Bank has proposed a 30 kobo dividend per share 2011. We continue to share best practice with Plc amongst the leaders in the Nigerian in addition to the 20 kobo interim dividend, banks across Nigeria and West Africa through Banking Industry and, more importantly, thus ensuring a strong dividend yield to our collaborations and initiatives such as our IFRS our continued emphasis on business shareholders in excess of 5%. and Bond seminars. sustainability will ensure that our renewed growth trajectory is maintained. Beyond 2010 In 2010, we launched the Gift from Africa The recent global economic crisis has brought Campaign with a $1million donation to the We must give due credit to the effectiveness of to the fore a number of critical issues which are Global Fund, a first by an African company. the various macro prudential initiatives instituted shaping and redefining Nigeria’s financial sector We also continue to have a very high employee by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to stimulate landscape, and there are several lessons to be volunteering rate. We are proud of both of these economic growth and ensure the recovery of the learned. Our Board and Management have achievements. Nigerian banking sector. Furthermore, the CBN’s spent a considerable amount of time reflecting extensive reforms, which focus on elevating In my usual tradition, I extend on behalf of deeply on these issues and their implications for all my colleagues, our appreciation to our the practice of Risk Management, Financial your Bank. Most analysts are united in the view Management and Corporate Governance by customers, shareholders, regulators and other that, post crisis, Access Bank is in a significantly stakeholders who continue to support our Quest Nigerian bank’s, have effectively levelled the enhanced position amongst Nigeria’s 24 banks, playing field, thus enabling those financial for Excellence. I would especially like to thank in comparison to its position before the financial all our employees who continue to demonstrate institutions with business models centred crisis. However, analysts are also quick to highlight around sound banking principles, to grow the quest for high performance and the hunger the increasing importance of ‘scale’ as a key to excel. their business profitability. determinant of which banks will rank amongst the industry leaders in the years to come. Most especially, I give thanks to the Almighty for Year 2010 all He has made possible in my life and the life of During the period under review, your Bank In 2007, I shared with you our corporate our institution. provided exemplary leadership to others by aspirations for the five year period to 2012. being the first Nigerian bank to fully convert its Amongst our corporate objectives is the goal God bless. accounting systems and policies to comply with of ranking among Nigeria’s top three financial International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). service institutions. Our analysis convinces We also recruited a highly regarded Chief Risk us that a significant increase in the scale of Officer to oversee the extensive investments the resources available to the Bank is required for Bank has made in the area of Risk Management, the fulfillment of our strategic objectives. We particularly the functional implementation of our will utilise the opportunities arising out of CBN’s Basel II compliant risk framework. Banking Crisis Resolution Programme to pursue Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede We have recorded significant progress in several inorganic growth, whilst remaining focused on Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, other areas of our operations in our quest to our existing organic growth game plan. Access Bank Plc attain world class standards. These developments We are confident that the strong competencies have not gone unnoticed by a wide range of that we have built in house in the areas of stakeholders, and bring with them goodwill and mergers and acquisitions, together with the brand benefits. engagement of world class advisers, with whom We continue to expand our market share of we have in the past shared several successful customer segments with a risk profile that is business combinations, will enable us to consistent with our moderate risk appetite. overcome future challenges. Competition amongst banks for such business Having reviewed our corporate social responsibility is quite keen but the quality of our human strategy, your Bank is now delivering programmes capital, effectiveness of our banking solutions through two key platforms: responsible business and confidence engendered by the Access brand practice and community investment. This will have combined to give us a winning edge over enable us to focus our efforts and maximise the our peers. positive impact they make on business and society. In 2010, we signed up to Equator Principles, a benchmark for the financial industry. Access Bank Plc 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Our Business at a Glance Access Bank Plc (‘the Bank’), reputed The Bank provides a comprehensive portfolio of financial and non-financial services. The key as ‘Africa’s Bank of Best Practice’, was business segments of the Bank are Institutional Banking, Commercial Banking and Financial incorporated in February 1989 as a Markets, while its key customer segments include Telecommunications, Manufacturing, privately owned financial institution. Construction, Oil & Gas, Parastatals, and High Net-worth & Middle Income Professionals. It commenced banking operations in With a staff strength of around 4000 and May 1989 and was listed on the Nigerian headquarters in Lagos, the commercial nerve centre of Nigeria, Access Bank is recognised as Stock Exchange in 1998. Access Bank has one of Africa’s fastest growing banks owing to its phenomenal growth across key performance ordinary shares and three year convertible indices on a year-on-year basis. bonds listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange The Bank’s geographical coverage cuts across Sub-Saharan Africa’s three monetary zones and also has an Over the Counter (OTC), (ECOWAS, SADC and UEMOA) and the OECD – Côte D’ivoire, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Global Depository Receipts (GDR) trade on Rwanda, Sierra Leone, The Gambia, Zambia, Burundi, Ghana and the United Kingdom. the London Stock Exchange. Head Office: Subsidiaries Head Office Addresses: Nigeria Burundi Democratic Republic Ghana Rwanda of the Congo Access Bank Plc FinBank Burundi Access Bank (RD Congo) SARL Access Bank (Ghana) Ltd Access Bank (Rwanda) SA Plot 1665, Oyin Jolayemi 16, Boulevard de La Liberté 158, Avenue de la Démocratie 9, La Tebu Crescent, Off Burma Camp 3rd Floor UTC Building Victoria island, Lagos State, Nigeria Place de l’Indépendance (ex-Huileries), Kinshasa – Gombe Road, East Cantonments, Accra Avenue de la Paix BP 2998 Bujumbura, Burundi PO Box 2059, Kigali Rwanda T: (+234) 1 461 9264 9 T: (+243) 81 22 22 111 – 14 T: (+233) 21 784 143, 781 761, F: (+234) 1 461 8811 T: (+257) 22243206, 257-22246580 F: (+243) 81 22 22 116 783 341 T: (+250) 252500089/90-94 E: info@accessbankplc.com F: (+257) 22243207, 257-22246579 E: info.rdcongo@accessbankplc.com F: (+233) 21 783 082 F: (+250) 252575761/252572501 E: finbank@usan-bu.net E: info.ghana@accessbankplc.com E: info.rwanda@accessbankplc.com www.accessbankplc.com www.accessbankplc.com/cd www.accessbankplc.com/gh www.accessbankplc.com/rw Number of branches Number of branches Number of branches Number of branches Number of branches 110 6 2 3 7 Employees Employees Employees Employees Employees 1,317 114 70 108 135 Sierra Leone The Gambia Zambia Côte D’ivoire United Kingdom Access Bank (Sierra Leone) Ltd Access Bank (Gambia) Ltd Access Bank (Zambia) Ltd Access Bank (Côte D’ivoire) Ltd The Access Bank UK Ltd 30, Siaka Stevens Street 47 Kairaba Avenue PO Box 35273, Plot 682 Cairo Road Immeuble Woodin Centre 1, Cornhill Freetown, Sierra Leone Fajara, KSMD, The Gambia Northend Lusaka, Zambia Avenue Nogues London, EC3V 3ND Abidjan Plateau, 01 BP 6928 Abidjan 01 United Kingdom T: (+232) 22 229772 T: (+220) 4396679, 4399022 T: (+260) 211 227941 T: (+225) 20-31-58-30 F: (+232) 22 220119 F: (+220) 4396640 F: (+260) 211 229967 E: info@theaccessbankukltd.co.uk F: (+225) 20-22-56-41 E: info.sierraleone@ E: info.gambia@accessbankplc.com E: info.zambia@accessbankplc.com E: info@cotedivoire@accessbank plc.com www.theaccessbankukltd.co.uk accessbankplc.com www.accessbankplc.com/gm www.accessbankplc.com/zm www.accessbankplc.com/ci www.accessbankplc.com/sl Number of branches Number of branches Number of branches Number of branches Number of branches 4 5 3 5 3 Employees Employees Employees Employees Employees 28 150 152 121 60 4 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities Products, services and operations Access Bank Wealth Management offers these ••Correspondent banking services to full range of financial products and services, international banks operating in the country Access Bank offers a full range of product not only in what are termed traditional asset and other non bank financial institutions. options for individuals and institutions. classes such as cash management, tenured These services are delivered across our network, This stretches across Personal; Corporate deposits etc. but also a broad spectrum of leveraging off the following competencies: and E banking. investment opportunities and personalised ••Operational efficiency Personal Accounts offerings like portfolio management, concierge We offer a total value package, with and custodian services etc. ••Product Leadership customised services designed to suit individual Our role is to help you create, track, preserve ••Customer Intimacy requirements. Our products and services are and enhance your wealth. To accomplish The Division is aligned into different industry tailored to make everyday banking easier. this, we have built a global network of lines and sectors, with global relationship We offer the following account types: relationships, expertise and competence to management groups covering the following deliver on these. business sectors: Standard Current Account The Standard Current Account is a Checking Our Services Offer: ••Cement & Flour Account designed to offer the customer flexibility ••Portfolio Management ••Food & Beverages in managing day to day financial affairs. ••Custodian and Concierge Services ••Oil & Gas Call Deposit Account ••Card and Hold Mail Services ••Telecommunications The Access Bank Call Account allows savings ••Private Banking. ••Transportation & Household Utilities. of funds, while maintaining liquidity and earning interest. Institutional Banking Financial Market Division Institutional Banking Division is central to Access Bank’s Financial Market Division is Standard Savings Account Access Bank’s business model as a corporate structured along both products and relationship The Standard Savings Account helps towards bank with retail capabilities. We therefore groupings, covering the entire spectrum of future financial security; the account is to help offer a full range of services to multinationals, the financial markets. Products offered include encourage a savings culture. It is easy and large domestic corporates and other treasury management, fixed income, currency convenient to operate. institutional clients. trading, project finance, syndication, structured Access Premier Account At the core of our business are four major trade and advisory services. Access Premier Account is a high yield current objectives: Apart from providing these services to the account for individuals with investment Banks customers; the target client base ••Embed the enhancement of operational benefits. includes pension fund administrators & efficiency into our customers’ business Solo Account strategy, thereby reducing cost and custodians, local & international DFIs, This account provides the opportunity increasing profitability; insurance companies and fund managers. for students and young people between ••Fast track the development of efficiency A key characteristic of our operating model the ages of 16 & 28 years to access world initiatives across the division, either through is the Division’s unique ability to combine the class financial services at subsidised costs. centres of competence, shared platforms Bank’s financing capabilities to offer existing of divisional utilities; and potential clients an increasingly broad Access Advantage Account range of products and services. Consequently, Access Advantage is a savings account ••Integrate indicators of operational efficiency as the Bank’s capacity, reach and market that gives the benefits of a current account. into the performance measurement and share increased, our Financial Market business It offers an opportunity for world class compensation of our business leaders; underwent a significant and progressive financial services. ••Ensure business leaders are accountable restructuring, culminating in the emergence for front to back cost management. of three fully fledged Groups, i.e. Corporate Wealth Management Access Bank Wealth Management Group On a broad level, we offer the following Finance Group and Treasury and Financial specialises in providing clients with integrated financial services to our clients: Institutions. This reinvigorated Division is wealth management products and services. ••Structuring of international trade driven by Ebenezer Olufowose, the erstwhile These include the principal areas of advisory, transactions for importing multinationals and Executive Director, Corporate Finance of the investment, banking and risk. We create and large indigenous corporate companies; Citigroup, who joined Access Bank in 2007, develop structured products tailored to suit with the primary responsibility to reposition ••Bespoke facility structures for specific needs the Group’s strategy of becoming a top three customers needs while helping to meet financial of companies; treasury and project finance Bank by 2012. aspirations, from traditional banking through innovative investments to financial planning. ••Project finance (short, medium and long term); ••Funds management services for companies by way of investment in money market instruments and other suitable outlets; ••Energy (Oil & Gas and Power) transactions in both the downstream and upstream sectors. Access Bank Plc 5 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Our Business at a Glance (Cont.) Treasury Corporate Finance E-Banking Access Campus Access Campus is an electronic enterprise Commercial Banking Access Pay school management solution that handles all The Commercial Banking Division focuses A web based enterprise suite of payments and school/student relationships from the point on serving all non institutional clients within collections solutions that offers organisations of admission to graduation. Access Campus the value chain of the Banks large, corporate a secure, simple and cost-effective solution has 6 core modular components customers. This is achieved through the alternative to cash and cheque payments which are: distribution of both commercial and retail across multiple banks. The rich web-based solution architecture of AccessPay provides ••Online admission offerings as well as other structured local and foreign organisations with turnover in excess organisations direct access to comprehensive ••E-Payment module of N500 million. management information system reports ••Online result checking/profiling module for quick and informed decision making. The current divisional structure has seen the ••Course Registration module AccessPay is built on Open Architecture, retail banking business being brought to the enabling seamless integration to various ••E-Library module limelight, to play a significant part in the accounting and payroll applications. ••Content management module. volume of business captured under the value chain model. The structure recognises the Payments Access Campus also serves as an avenue importance of banking for individuals and AccessPay offers you a single point of to provide information to students, parents small businesses that complete the total value contact for all your local and international and the general public, and is designed to chain of our clients. payment activities. With the push of a button, administer the entire life cycle of a student The commercial banking business is built traditional payment processes have been made from admission to graduation. around transparency and accountability, so much easier, enabling you to initiate and make payments online, real time. AccessPay Other E-banking products are: maintaining sound management practices supports all categories of payments including: Credit Cards: of equal opportunity, fairness and discipline. Access Bank offers internationally accepted These values can be seen in the conduct of the ••Salaries and allowances to employees; credit cards from Access Bank’s range of Visa Division’s relationship teams and the overall ••Claims and advances; products. Access Bank issues Visa Classic, Visa quality of our service delivery. The Division ••Schedules and funds remittances to PFAs/ Gold and Visa Platinum products. conducts its business from over 120 branches nationwide. PFCs, Tax Authorities, HMOs, etc; Debit Cards: ••Suppliers and vendors; The Access Bank debit card is a dual currency ••Foreign Currency Payments. card linked to an individual’s USD domiciliary and naira accounts, which is designed to Key solution features provide account holders access to cash direct ••Real time payments across banks; from their accounts, any time they need it. ••One off and recurrent payments; It is issued on the Visa platform and is linked ••Multi level approval workflow; online real time to the cardholder’s accounts. It is globally accepted as a means of payment ••Role based access; at over 29 million merchant locations and over ••Customisable email/SMS alerts; 1 million ATMs worldwide, in over 220 ••Detailed payment and audit reports; countries. ••Secured with 3-Factor authentication. AccessOnline: AccessOnline is an easy to use application Collections that enables the customer to view the latest With an enterprise multi channel collection information on account, initiate, approve system tailored to handle the various and track transactions, download and print receivables of corporate customers, AccessPay account statements, all from the comfort of provides real time access to account status their home or office. across your entire organisation. AccessMobile: Key solution features This is a card based and menu driven mobile ••Multi channel payment options (PoS, banking solution which gives you direct access branches, ATMs, mobile, web and self to your bank account, just from the screen of service kiosk); your mobile phone. With AccessMobile, you ••Instant alert notification by SMS, email from barely require the services of your account all payments made into receivables account; officer or the physical branch itself. ••Multi-bank payments; ••Receive payments globally using international payment schemes; ••Extensive transaction reports for management and reconciliation. 6 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities Financial Highlights Number of employees (Group) Number of employees (Bank) 1,754 1,317 Profit before tax (Group) Profit before tax (Bank) 16,168,870 17,668,584 Profit after tax (Group) Profit after tax (Bank) 11,068,121 12,931,441 Total assets (Group) Total assets (Bank) 804,823,722 726,960,580 Total capitalisation* (Bank) 169,938,389 * Total issue share capital as at 31 December, 2010 is 17,888,251,478.00 share price of =N=9.50k Statement of Value Added For the year ended 31 December 2010 Group Group Bank Bank Dec-10 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-09 12 months 9 months 12 months 9 months N’000 N’000 N’000 N’000 Gross earnings 91,142,064 84,980,554 79,065,123 75,847,752 Interest expense – Local (17,029,265) (26,054,378) (17,043,282) (26,050,382) – Foreign (4,404,932) (3,581,241) (2,323,017) (2,067,083) Fees and commission expense – – – – 69,707,867 55,344,935 59,698,824 47,730,287 Group’s share of associate’s loss – (775,431) Loan loss expense: (4,524,369) (16,650,665) (2,917,513) (16,171,832) Allowance on other assets (183,788) (4,880,816) (142,816) (4,658,203) Allowance no longer required Bought in materials and services – Local (27,580,212) (21,831,692) (22,989,212) (16,332,621) – Foreign – – – – Value Added 37,419,498 11,206,331 33,649,283 10,567,631 Distribution of Value Added % % % % To employees: Employees costs 15,616,036 42 10,165,567 91 11,542,019 35 6,899,092 65 To government Government as taxes 5,100,749 14 920,601 8 4,737,143 14 922,475 9 To providers of finance Interest on borrowings 186,525 – 605,526 5 172,508 – 605,526 6 Interim dividend to shareholders 3,577,650 10 – – 3,577,650 11 – – Retained in business: – For replacement of fixed assets 4,787,554 13 3,492,324 31 3,605,659 11 2,596,811 25 – For replacement of equipment on lease 660,513 2 424,479 4 660,513 2 424,479 4 – To pay interim dividend 5,366,476 14 – – 5,366,476 16 – – – To augment reserve 2,123,995 6 (4,402,166) (39) 3,987,315 12 (880,752) (8) 37,419,498 100 11,206,331 100 33,649,283 100 10,567,631 100 Access Bank Plc 7 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Our Approach to Sustainability Vision: To transform our Bank into a world class financial services provider. Mission: To go beyond the ordinary, to deliver the perceived impossible, in the ‘Quest for Excellence’. Our core values Strategy Through our community investment approach, Excellence – We strive to attain and exceed we are changing lives and making an impact At Access Bank Plc, we recognise on communities. The Bank focuses on the arts, the highest possible standards through our that we are in business to maximise passionate and painstaking attention to detail. education, the environment and sports. In so shareholders’ value while considering the doing, we engage with relevant stakeholders social and environmental impact of every to address community issues while also Ethics – Our operations are transparent and aspect of our operations. There is therefore empowering. always comply with regulations, while decisions high level management focus on sustainability and the Bank’s strategy is to mainstream With an ongoing commitment to appropriate are based purely on business interest. 1% of annual profits in support of charitable sustainability into our operations for the long term success of our business. investments, the Bank actively seeks to Passion for customers – Customers always encourage our employees to contribute ideas, This resulted in our setting up the CSR/ come first. We develop a deep understanding of skills and resources for societal development, Sustainability Unit in 2008 with responsibility for them, approaching them with a positive ‘can do’ through our employee volunteering scheme. ensuring full integration of sustainability into our attitude and responding creatively to their needs. business processes and operations. It is noteworthy that despite the difficult operating environment in 2010, Access Bank did The Board of Directors, through an established not curtail its commitments to social investments. Teamwork – We hold the interest of the team CSR/Sustainability Committee, provides above those of the individual, while showing the highest level of governance oversight All companies within our Group, as responsible mutual respect for all employees and sharing for sustainability management. The CSR/ corporate citizens, subscribe to the same high information throughout our organisation. Sustainability Committee is responsible for level of standards as the parent company, and overseeing the delivery of the Bank’s sustainable work with others to develop, implement or business strategy, to ensure the Bank’s contribute to health, educational, environmental Trust – We have total confidence in one another. and cultural programmes focused on their local sustainability ambitions in each of its strategic We’ll work tirelessly to earn the faith, loyalty communities’ needs and aspirations. priorities are achieved. and confidence of our customers. To this end, we will always deliver on contracts, agreements, The Bank has also adopted global best practice Embedding sustainability into core business undertakings and assurances. principles, frameworks and standards, to support In 2009, Access Bank commenced the strategic the effective mainstreaming of sustainability integration of Environmental, Social and in the Bank. We are therefore an Equator Governance (ESG) considerations into its business Continuous learning – We are dedicated to Principles Financial Institution, organisational operations. The review takes all significant continuous growth and career development. stakeholders of Global Reporting Initiatives, and ESG issues into consideration while ensuring This principle is applied at all levels and across members of the United Nations Global Compact that business operations do not degrade the all functions. (UNGC), United Nations’ Principles environment or cause social harm. for Responsible Investments (UNPRI) and The first step was signing up to the United the United Nations Environment Programme Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and Equator Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). Principles (EP) in June 2009. These core values are key considerations in the design and implementation of our In 2010, we reviewed our strategy and Through this project, Access Bank has achieved various policies, practices and corporate reconstructed our sustainability approach. the following: behaviour. The approach now views sustainability through two platforms: responsible business practice Gap analysis: and community investment. A gap analysis was conducted. Policy, capacity development and reporting were identified. In Access Bank’s responsible banking philosophy view of this, the Bank is working on an ambitious promotes economic development and sustainable Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) plan social and environmental causes across a range which has lead to the formulation of long term of stakeholders. ESG goals. Our responsible business practice encompasses economic development and advocacy; employee and partner relations; treating customers fairly; the environment; and gender and small and medium enterprise (SME) finance. 8 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities Responsible Business Practice Sustainability risk and opportunities Sustainability opportunities are identified through Area Evidence in Bank Activity growth of the business and the implementation of sustainability solutions at business unit Corporate Influence on and adoption of the International Finance Reporting Standards level, as well as Access Bank’s participation in (IFRS) in Nigeria sustainability and environmental forums. These Push for introduction of sophisticated products in financial management forums provide a platform to actively pursue sustainability opportunities and, where necessary, Role in helping the entire sub-Saharan region establish best practices in incubate new projects until they mature enough compliance in line with Financial Action Task Force (FATF) expectations to be fully integrated into the operations of the Our Economic Intelligence Reports have 150,000 subscribers globally business unit concerned. Access Bank serves on several public and private boards, bodies and think-tanks Access Bank has taken steps to ensure that its risk management systems cover the legal, regulatory and reputational risks associated with direct and Employee Policies and initiatives aimed at engaging and retaining our employees, indirect environmental and social impacts. These relations from health and safety programmes to market competitive risk reporting systems have been informed by salaries and world class training the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) The Access Bank School of Banking Excellence is reputed as the industry framework. standard for employee capacity building ESG risks are addressed by a policy guideline, We pioneered the HIV/AIDS Workplace Policy Programme across which assesses environmental and social risk all our subsidiaries. The policy is implemented through a robust issues in credit and lending. This forms part peer educators scheme network of a Group wide framework for addressing the Equator Principles (EP), and provides for internal monitoring and management of ESG Gender finance In partnership with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), performance. we pioneered the introduction of the specialised Gender Empowerment Programme (GEM) to provide specialised Prioritising risks and opportunities products to empower female entrepreneurs Risks and opportunities are prioritised, taking business performance implications and stakeholder materiality into consideration. Treating Access Bank led the Nigerian financial sector in instituting customers fairly the Customer Ombudsman Access Bank defines materiality according to the GRI (G3) guidelines definition and with reference We have in place various mechanisms for ensuring world class to both internal and external factors. customer service such as the 24 hour contact centre etc. Current sustainability priorities include investing in employee development and retention, maintaining progressive business client relationships, managing our environmental Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA): The policy, a holistic approach to sustainability footprint, and implementing environmental and The CBA findings covered identifiable non risk, also covers the impacts of clients’ activities social (E&S) risk management processes, while financial terms as well as financial terms, which on biodiversity, deforestation, air and water supporting other financial institutions in Nigeria helped in accessing the total expected costs pollution. through E&S risk management capacity building against the expected benefits of implementing Project prospects in Access Bank Plc are screened programmes. ESG considerations in our project financing and for inherent social and environmental risks and other lending activities. Access Bank has begun to integrate environmental classified as follows, based on the outcome of and social (E&S) risk management considerations Development of sector policies: the risk assessment: into its business operations. This takes all significant Cement and Oil & Gas sector policies have been Category A: High risk E&S issues into consideration while ensuring developed. Projects with potentially significant adverse that our business operations do not degrade the Customised tool kit: social or environmental impacts that are diverse, environment or cause social harm. Through this We have customised a sustainable finance tool irreversible or unprecedented. activity, Access Bank achieved the following: kit that assists the Bank to capture transaction Category B: Medium risk ••Developed specific E&S policies for sectors impacts/risks, recommend outcomes for risk Projects with potentially limited adverse social and such as Oil & Gas and Cement which have management approaches, and define monitoring environmental impacts that are few in number, the greatest impacts on E&S risks; and reporting requirements of lending activities. generally site specific, largely reversible and ••Reviewed and aligned E&S policy and Review and update of environmental and readily addressed through mitigation measures. procedures with international best practice social risk management (ESRM) policy and standards; Category C: Low risk procedure: Projects with minimal or no social or ••Developed a risk management toolkit that will Our environmental and social risk policy requires all environmental impacts. assist the Bank in screening projects to identify lending decisions to include consideration of risks potential E&S risks; determine appropriate such as climate change, including the physical Prospective projects are either embarked upon or level of E&S due diligence required for projects risks they bring from extreme weather and other declined, based on the category they fall into. and integrate E&S policy into existing credit changes. processes. Access Bank Plc 9 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Our Approach to Sustainability (Cont.) Community Investment Partnerships Evidence in Bank Activity • W e trained 250 Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) to develop HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria workplace policies and programmes in partnership with Friends of the Global Fund Africa • With Idea Builders Initiative we hosted ‘My Tree and I’ – a nationwide essay competition – and launched Green Clubs in 36 schools across Nigeria under our Going Green; Beyond Words project Employee • Support and scholarships for orphans and vulnerable children, whose lives were affected by HIV/AIDS Volunteering • Mini Health Mission in Ibeju Lekki, Lagos, Nigeria • Cervical Cancer Health Campaign • Teach them Well’ project at Government Senior College, Marako, to support the government’s effort in providing quality education • Three year infrastructural upgrade and career counselling programme at Herbert Macaulay Senior Girls’ Grammar School • Upgrade of multipurpose hall at the Correctional Centre for Boys, Oregun, plus mentoring • Capacity building for indigent entrepreneurs • Institutions such as Mafoluku Grammar School and Ladipo Grammar School have been renovated and provided with facilities through our ‘Adopt a School’ project in Nigeria • Our mentorship and skills sharing initiative has enhanced the National Youth Service Corp Scheme while benefiting secondary school students and teachers • Oni Memorial Hospital and Apapa General Hospital are beneficiaries of our health intervention projects Sponsorships • The Bank has contributed US$1 million to fund Global Fund’s ‘Gift From Africa’ project. This will be used to implement and Donations various strategic projects to combat HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria across Africa • We also address requests for corporate support for the achievement of noble objectives that may not necessarily fall under the Bank’s core focus areas of health, education, sports, the environment and the arts Marketplace – global banking crisis In spite of several challenges, no single bank The strength of our governance starts at the top The banking crisis which manifested itself in Nigeria has collapsed and no depositor has with a non-executive chairman and seven well globally in the form of: liquidity and credit crunch, lost his or her money as a result of the banking informed non-executive directors that give priority breakdown of confidence in the banking system, sector crisis. The banking system has now been to strategic planning; ensure that standards exist de-leveraging and banks’ inability to improve stabilised and the nine most affected banks have to promote ethical behaviour throughout the capital adequacy, weak consumer demand, and continued normal operations while modalities organisation; and drive continuous improvement fall in global output, affected Nigeria through for injecting fresh capital into them, either by in governance practices. financial and real (trade, remittances and aid) shareholders or through acquisition and merger Corporate governance at Access Bank is the channels. The undiversified nature of the Nigerian arrangements, are being finalised. principal responsibility of the directors led by the economy and the high dependence on exports chairman of the Board whilst the Management Governance structure and procedure of crude oil, as well as foreign capital inflows, of the Bank is the responsibility of the four Access Bank’s approach to corporate governance compounded the impact of the crisis. executive directors led by the group managing is responsive to the changing regulatory When the global crisis eventually hit Nigeria, environment. Our governance and ethical director/CEO and assisted by the Group deputy the banking sector was ill equipped to weather behaviour form the baseline of our business managing director. The Board of Directors at all the storm. The financial crisis had an adverse practice. This ensures that we tie CSR directly times complies with the Central Bank of Nigeria effect on both the oil and gas sector and capital to the Bank’s Senior Management and Board Code of Corporate Governance. market where Nigerian banks were exposed by of Directors who bear responsibility for overall N1.6 trillion as at December 2008. business strategy, practices and policies. The result was a sharp deterioration in the Our governance structure determines the quality of banks’ assets, which immediately led fundamental relationships among the members to concerns over liquidity. Indeed, the Nigerian of the Board of Directors, Management and banking sector was thrown into severe crisis other stakeholders. It defines the framework as many of the banks became distressed. through which ethical values are established and the context in which corporate strategies and objectives are set. 10 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities Risk/opportunities assessment Type Risk/Opportunity Details Social Opportunity Retention of staff Risk Safety/security Enviromental Economic Opportunity Cost savings Risk Water scarcity/Natural disasters Opportunity New markets/Growing retail business Risk Corruption/Losing customers through embedding E/S risk management Reforms/Actions Details CBN Audit • Discovery of significant liquidity shortages in certain banks leading to the injection of over N520 billion into the affected banks • The sacking of eight MDs of the affected banks and the institutions placed under CBNs direct supervision. CEO tenure Limit • Maximum duration for CEO tenures pegged at ten years, causing some of the other chief executives to leave earlier than they had anticipated Establishment • Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) was established as part of a broad banking of AMCON sector crisis resolution strategy • AMCON serves as a vehicle to free the banks from the weight of their non-performing assets and accelerate the process of financial revitalisation of the banking sector Customer • All banks were mandated to validate customer records as identity of customer data is a critical Information Update source of banking information Board composition, selection and Mechanism for making recommendations tenure of Directors to highest governance body ••Directors that are currently employed by the Shareholders and other stakeholders Bank are deemed executive and all others are communicate with the Board at the Investors deemed non-executive directors; Forum and Annual General Meetings which are ••Non-executive directors will always constitute held yearly. At these for a, stakeholders are free at least a majority of the Board; to raise any issue of concern. ••An executive director that has substantial stock The Bank also has an Investor Relations Unit of the company upon retirement from active which is an accessible channel for shareholders employment, may elect to serve on the Board to register their views, which are communicated of Directors as non-executive. In all other cases to the Board. an executive director shall submit his or her Through the annual employee survey report, resignation from the Board upon termination the Board is intimated of staff opinions. of active service as an employee; Also, employees express their views through ••A director will retire from the Board at the next various avenues including one-on-one annual meeting of the shareholders following discussions, focus group discussions, the attainment of age 70; feedback via emails, amongst others. ••A director will also vacate office or cease to be a director, if the director directly or indirectly takes a facility from the Bank that remains non performing for the period of more than 12 months. Access Bank Plc 11 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Our Approach to Sustainability (Cont.) Conflicts of interest ••Determining qualifications and expertise To ensure that the agreed sustainability agenda Access Bank Plc’s business requires that special of the highest governance body is put into practice, the CSR Team works with a obligations be imposed on all employees to Members of the Board are appointed taking network of Strategic Business Units Heads and safeguard its integrity, operations and interests. into account the following criteria: CSR Champions in our various countries ••Employees are expressly prohibited from ••Demonstrated outstanding achievement in the of operation. using their association with the organisation prospective Board member’s personal career Across the Bank, we have a number for personal gains beyond authorised ••Breadth of experience of complementary systems and policies compensation and benefits. Whenever there in place to assess and mitigate a range is any question of whether an activity would ••Soundness of judgement of reputational and sustainability risks. violate or appear to violate this principle, ••Ability to make independent, Further detail is provided in this Report. guidance must be sought from appropriate analytical inquiries Regulation/Legislation/Public policy management authority. Clarification must be ••Ability to contribute to a diversity of viewpoints The Bank ensures that its policies, procedures sought on all issues, which border on conflict among Board members and practices are synchronised with public policy. of interest ••Willingness and ability to devote the time In addition, the Bank is actively engaged in ••Employees must not, on their own behalf, required to perform Board activities adequately. influencing public policy formulation via several borrow from or lend to customers of Access reform advocacy initiatives it has embarked upon Bank plc Evaluating Board performance or supported. Annual Board performance evaluations ••Employees must not use the Bank’s name The Bank was part of the committee that are conducted internally and externally by and influence for personal purposes developed the sovereign debt note. The aim of consultants. Internally, the collective performance ••Employees must not do anything to undermine of the Board is evaluated by all Board members this initiative is to provide an instrument that another employee, or environment of the Bank using evaluation criteria approved by the indicates that a petroleum marketer is entitled Board. This is done at least annually. Externally, to a certain amount of money owed ••Employees must adhere to the Bank’s principles Board performance evaluation is conducted by the government. and policies, to be free absolutely from conflicting interests or activities, which interfere by consultants. For the reporting period, the With these sovereign notes, marketers who with proper performance of their duties to the evaluation of the Board was conducted by do not get their payment within 45 days as Bank and to conduct themselves in manners Accenture. stipulated in the Petroleum Support Fund (PSF) that reflect credit to the Bank. guidelines will take the instruments to their Sustainability Governance creditor banks as cash to pay for their loans. The Bank has also instituted polices and standards to eliminate issues relating to conflicts The Access Bank’s Group CSR Committee was This has helped to reduce the debt burden of of interest. Policies include: established in 2009 in order to oversee and petroleum importation and created liquidity. align our approach to the range of social and The Bank is also part of the Committee currently ••Code of Conduct: Access Bank employees are environmental issues and opportunities which reviewing the Nigerian Customs Act and the governed by an Employee Code of Conduct. confront our business on a daily basis. Federal Inland Revenue Act. The Code contains extensive provisions on the following areas – compliance with laws, The Committee meets quarterly and is chaired by rules and regulations, confidential customer the Group Managing Director. All key business information, confidential bank property, conflict areas are represented on the Committee while of interest, gifts from customers, loans to or also drawing from the skills of an independent from customers, use of account by third parties, expert, Dr. Christopher Kolade, the Chairman use of Access Bank’s name, cooperation with of the Convention of Business Integrity (CBI). regulatory bodies, public statement, etc. Dr Kolade provides leadership support, guidance Contained in this code is the conflict of interest and an independent opinion on the Bank’s policy. This policy ensures that all employees sustainability performance, to enable the Bank avoid any situation that poses a conflict, or to benefit from global best practice. the appearance of a conflict, between their The Access Bank’s Group CSR Committee is personal interests and the performance of their responsible for setting guidance, direction official duties. and overseeing policies and progress on the The Code is regularly reviewed and updated company’s Corporate Social Responsibility and as is needed, to ensure it covers all aspects related activities and shall offer advice to the of our activities and is clear and easy for Board on these matters. The Group CSR Team our employees to understand and follow. provides central support to the Committee in Employees are encouraged to familiarise order to facilitate this. themselves with the code of conduct and The Bank also has a series of other committees ensure strict adherence to its provisions. and steering groups that oversee our governance ••Directors’ Regulatory Reporting approach to sustainability. They review emerging Framework: This guides the reporting of and current issues, risks as well as opportunities, directors interest in contracts, directors interest make recommendations to the Board and in facilities, the reporting of share dealings by are actively involved in the integration and directors, amongst others. implementation of the Bank’s sustainability initiatives. 12 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Key Banking Regulation Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities KEY BANKING REGULATION IN 2010 IFRS Conference Bond Seminar Ghana ••Review of banking structure: The Central As part of its continuing commitment to Nigeria’s As part of its commitment to the development of Bank of Nigeria abolished the country’s economic development, Access Bank convened the Ghanaian economy, Access Bank organised `Universal Banking’ regime. Under the new an international conference on the International a Bond Seminar on 5 August 2010 aimed at regime, new licenses are issued to banks Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), with the promoting an active bond market in Ghana. performing Commercial, Merchant and following key objectives: Key objectives were: Specialised Banking. ••Assess the readiness of operators and ••To fortify and entrench global best practice regulators for the adoption of IFRS in Nigeria; in the Ghanaian capital market in order to The three areas of banking allowed under the category of Commercial Banking ••Enlighten regulators and operators on their role develop and harness the available potential are: regional, national and international. in an IFRS environment; within the market; Under Specialised Banking, services include ••Share experience with regulators from other ••To create a healthy discourse among market microfinance, mortgage and non interest countries who have undertaken the IFRS stakeholders on the most effective means of and development institutions. conversion process; developing an efficient bond market in Ghana; National and international banks must have ••Foster understanding of the broader issues ••To complement steps taken by market capital of NGN 25 billion and NGN100 billion of IFRS adoption in Nigeria; regulators to deepen stakeholders’ participation respectively. Both are allowed to take current in the bond market; ••Recommend practical solutions to identified savings and term deposits, provide finance and challenges for regulators and operators ••To share experiences of regulators and credit facilities, deal in foreign exchange and in an IFRS environment. investors who are familiar with active bonds act as settlement banks. The Conference, held on 19 and 20 July 2010 trading in other jurisdictions. Regional banks operate in a minimum of five in Abuja, was attended by senior officials of An array of capital market experts, regulators and and maximum of 10 contiguous states of the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Central market operators attended. Among these were Nigeria with a minimum of NGN15 billion Bank of Nigeria, the Securities and Exchange the governor and treasurer, Bank of Ghana; the of capital. The regional banks offer the services Commission, the Nigerian Stock Exchange, Managing Director, Ghana Stock Exchange and that national banks do, except they cannot act the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation, senior representatives of the Ministry of Finance. as settlement banks. the Nigerian Accounting Standards Board, the At the end of the Conference, the general ••Establishment of AMCON: Federal Inland Revenue Service, the Institute consensus was the need for a more developed The Corporation was conceptualised as of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria and the and active bond market to provide long term a resolution mechanism to stimulate Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria. and stable funds for government and corporates, the recovery of the financial system by Also in attendance were the accountant generals which will ultimately impact the long term acquiring non-performing loans from the of the federation and state governments, nongrowth and development of the Ghanaian banks and assisting them in improving executive directors and chief financial officers economy. their capital and liquidity. of banks, chartered accountants and scholars. Participants also formed agreements on the ••Review of CEOs tenure: On 18 January, There were five principal topics: long term debt market, regulators’ and market 2010, The Central Bank of Nigeria announced ••Roles of Regulators in the Transition to IFRS; operators’ roles in spearheading secondary the fixed tenure of Chief Executive Officers of markets plus the role of tax incentives in them, banks at a maximum of 10 years. The Apex ••Lessons Learnt from Implementing IFRS the need for the bond market to be deep enough Bank had argued that the measure was in a bid A Regulator’s Perspective; to sustain trading activities and the benefits of to insure transparency, curb abuse of office, ••Loan Loss Provisioning and IFRS: Options for creating an exchange based bond trading system enthrone good corporate governance in the Bank Regulators; for dealers and brokers with electronic means of nation’s banking sector, institutionalise the ••Practical Challenges in IFRS Implementation: information dissemination. arrangement of appointment of chief executive officers (CEOs) in banks, ensure that banks put What Bank Regulators Need to Know; It was recommended that a robust system of in place a succession plan and programme, and ••Nigeria’s Approach to IFRS Adoption. credit rating, efficient risk management systems more importantly, to ensure that the institutions and a guaranteed level of security, in case of were not personalised. CONSENSUS default, would give investors assurance to invest in the bond market. In conclusion, emphasis was There were also stricter financial controls by Many recommendations emerged out of this very laid on the fact that an active bond market will regulators such as the Securities and Exchange successful conference which was characterised by only thrive and be successful in a stable macro Commission (SEC) and the Nigeria Deposit public private partnership and collaboration. economic environment. Insurance Commission (NDIC). Agreements were reached in areas such as change management, the amendment of laws that conflict with IFRS, the benefit of strong private sector industry specific IFRS committees, the necessity of early board and shareholder buy-in for deposit money banks and NSE quoted companies, as well as detailed conclusions on training and technical issues. Access Bank Plc 13 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Stakeholder Engagement Access Bank’s approach to tax STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We gather stakeholder views through a number Access Bank Plc recognises that tax compliance Engaging with a wide range of stakeholder of mechanisms, including opinion surveys, focus is fundamental to earning and retaining the groups is important in understanding emerging group discussions on particular issues, regular confidence and trust of its stakeholders. It provides trends and issues, and the Bank’s potential roles’ dialogue with media representatives and NGOs the structure through which corporate tax objectives response. Getting direct feedback from customers and staff, consultations with consumer groups of the Bank are set and the means of attaining and employees, and responding, is key to our and involvement in industry wide discussions. those objectives. business sustainability. This has given us the For example, with customers we conduct To ensure compliance to tax laws and regulations, opportunity to develop a relationship, allowing us customer satisfaction and loyalty surveys, the Bank engages the services of experienced tax to communicate directly with interested parties, produce quarterly reports, collect feedback consultants, who assist the Bank to implement explaining our approach to a range of issues and from our contact centre and liaise with the various initiatives as well as carry out activities aimed the future focus of Access Bank. customer ombudsman for process and service at promoting sound tax practices in the Bank. Access Bank’s major stakeholders include improvement and new product development. Some of the initiatives/activities implemented regulators, government, shareholders and We record problems noted by clients in a central by the Bank, together with the external tax investors, employees, customers, suppliers, database handled by our customer ombudsman consultants include, but are not limited to, Non Governmental Organisations (NGOs), and follow up directly to ensure that systemic the following: communities and the media. We spend a great problems are corrected. ••Carrying out of tax self assessments with deal of time ensuring that we listen to all our Examples of some of the engagement the overall aim of computing the Bank’s tax stakeholders, responding to their feedback and mechanisms we use and issues raised during liabilities; addressing their areas of concern, so that we can 2010 are listed in the table below. align our business interests with their interests. ••Periodic internal tax self audit in readiness for annual regulatory tax audits; Identifying and engaging ••Timely response to tax issues emanating from stakeholders tax authorities; Access Bank’s key stakeholders are categorised ••Liaison with relevant tax authorities for timely into groups based on their interaction with and amicable resolution of any identified our business activities. The categories are not tax challenges; mutually exclusive – some groups potentially ••Partnership with tax authorities in the design have interests across a number of category areas. and implementation of relevant industry new Some areas, such as customers and employees, tax initiatives. are all inclusive; others, such as NGOs, require priority to identify the most relevant groups to In addition to these activities, the Bank actively engage with. participates in the generation of tax revenues to governments (federal and state) through prompt payments of taxes such as corporate tax and education tax. The Bank also plays a major role as a tax collector for the government. Stakeholder Group Primary Engagement Mechanism Main Issues Customers We continually monitor customer opinion, feedback and complaints received through our ••Safety and security call centres and online, surveys and local engagement to identify current and future issues ••Fees and interest rates that could impact upon levels of satisfaction with our service. ••Transaction turn around time (TAT) Employee Our annual Employee Opinion Survey tracks the overall engagement levels of staff. ••Employee development This is supplemented by regular surveys, communication campaigns and focus groups ••Employee engagement discussions. Investors Our leadership team and the Group Investor Relations team meet regularly with current ••Financial sustainability and potential investors. ••Corporate governance We also undertake regular meetings and quarterly conference calls with local and ••Effect of CBN reforms international investment analysts. Suppliers We conduct regular meetings with our key suppliers to discuss our business relationship ••Clear and consistent communication and we undertake a vendor performance assessment to capture their feedback and assess their performance. Government and We continue to contribute to a number of governmental consultations and working ••Financial sustainability Regulator groups that address sector policy considerations. In 2010, the Bank participated in the ••Fair banking drafting of a sovereign debt note which is helping to reduce the debt burden of Petroleum Marketers in Nigeria, thereby ensuring that petroleum products are always available. 14 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities Strategic Partnerships Logo Partner Profile Partnership Update United Nations The UNGC offers a policy framework for the development Access Bank Plc is a signatory to the UN Global Compact and Global Compact and implementation of corporate sustainability strategies continues to support its 10 principles on human rights, labour (UNGC) while offering a platform, based on universal principles, to issues, the environment and anticorruption. The principles are being encourage partnerships and innovative initiatives with civil integrated into the Bank’s operations. society, government and other stakeholders. Access Bank recently signed on to the UNGC CEO Statement on Women’s Empowerment Principles – Equality Means Business. United Nations Global partnership between UNEP and the financial sector. In 2010, we signed the UNEP FI Investor Statement on Climate Environment UNEP FI provides the opportunity for organisations to Change. Programme Finance understand and take proactive responses to environmental Initiative (UNEPFI) considerations on financial performance. This is aimed at advancing the course of sustainability in the finance sector. Global Reporting These are set global standards for reporting on economic, In 2009, we became a GRI Organisational Stakeholder. GRI is an Initiative (GRI) environmental and social dimensions of an organisation’s independent institution whose mission is to develop and disseminate activities, products and services i.e. Corporate Responsibility/ globally applicable sustainability reporting guidelines. Access Bank Sustainability reporting. reports on performance indicators recommended by GRI. London Provide comprehensive and consistent set of measures We became members of the London Benchmarking Group (LBG) in Benchmarking for Corporate Community Investment (CCI) in order 2009. The LBG model on corporate community investment forms the Group (LBG) to determine the actual community contribution by an benchmark measurement model for Access Bank’s report generation organisation while capturing the output and longer term on community investment activities. Access Bank is the pioneering impacts of the CCI projects on business and society. Nigerian indigenous company to register with the LBG. Equator Group of over 70 financial institutions with operations in The EP standards are infused in the Bank’s Environmental and Principles (EP) over 100 countries across the globe. It’s the project finance Social Policy and are used to assess lending activities. industry standard for addressing environmental and social issues in project financing globally. United Nations An investor initiative in partnership with UNEP Finance Adopting the UN Principles reinforces the commitment Access Bank Principle for Initiative and the UN Global Compact. The principles provide has made to sustainable development and contributes to our goal of Responsible a menu of possible actions for incorporating ESG issues into incorporating sustainability further into our core operations, both from Investment (UNPRI) mainstream investment decision making and ownership a risk and business development perspctive. practices. Business in the A network of over 800 businesses committed to inspire, The Bank signed on to Business in the Community (BiTC) in 2008. BiTC Community (BiTC) engage, support and challenge organisations to integrate is aimed at helping organisations continually improve their impact on responsible business practices into their operations. society and the environment through their CSR activities. Access Bank is the only indigenous Nigerian bank that is a member of BiTC. GBCHealth Coalition of over 220 companies to create opportunities for Access Bank Group Managing Director/CEO, Aigboje Aigglobal business community to fight and speak out on HIV/ Imoukhuede was recently appointed the first African Co-Chair of the AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria worldwide. GBCHealth Board. Nigerian Premier charitable environmental organisation in Nigeria Access Bank is a Gold member of the NCF and continually supports Conservation which aims to improve the quality of human life through: its activities for a sustainable environment. In 2011, the Bank will Foundation (NCF) be partnering with the NCF to host an environmental symposium to •• Preserving the full range of Nigeria’s biodiversity; examine the challenges and opportunities of the current financial •• Promoting sustainable use of natural resources for the mechanisms in support of environmental issues both globally and locally. benefit of present and future generations; •• Advocating actions that minimise pollution and wasteful utilisation of renewable resources. Nigeria Business Coalition of 40 companies supporting businesses to NIBUCAA is a strategic partner in the Bank’s fight against HIV/AIDS, Coalition Against implement workplace HIV & AIDS programmes and tuberculosis and malaria. AIDS (NIBUCAA) positioning members individually, as well as collectively, to In 2010, NIBUCAA provided technical support for the Bank’s SME contribute to the national response to HIV/AIDS pandemic. Workplace Policy Programme and School Education Programme held during its World AIDS Day Campaign. Convention on The CBi was established to empower business transactions As members of the Convention on Business Integrity (CBi, Access Bank Business Integrity in and within Nigeria against corruption and corrupt operates a zero tolerance policy with regards to corruption. (CBi) practices. Its vision is to move the society towards a visible The Bank continuosly engages in various actions to ensure full zero tolerance for corruption. compliance to regulations on corrupt practices. Access Bank Plc 15 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Customers 1 2 1 Victor Etuokwu, Unit Head, Retail Banking presenting a car to a winner 3 of the Access Bank ‘Take the Lead’ promo. 2 E xecutive Director, Commercial Banking Division, Obeahon A. Ohiwerei presenting a car to a winner of the Access Bank ‘Take the Lead’ promo. 3R  aheem Owodeyi, Head, Compliance & Internal Controls International, presenting a gift to a customer during 2010 Customer Service Week. 4 Staff attending to customers at the Banking Hall. 4 16 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities Key Issues in Passion for customers is one of our Marketplace core values. Our values drive the behaviour of everyone in Access Bank Approach Page 18 and this particular value ensures that In the creation of our products and services we are driven by ours is a customer centric culture. what our customers want. It makes complete business sense – our brand and our performance is built Our Customers Page 18 on market perceptions, which in turn In 2010 we stopped at nothing to ensure that we improved our have a foundation of responsive customer service, built customer relationships and assessed our customer relations. own performance. Key objectives and goals The ITQM representatives ensure that they consistently solicit the customer perception of Customer Page 19 Our key customer objectives for 2010 service, measure the four critical success factors Ombudsman Access Bank ranked amongst the top three of service quality − customer service, ambience, The ombudsman functions as banks in Nigeria in terms of service delivery and turn around time and error rate in their branches, the Bank’s complaint resolution this was confirmed by our ranking in the 2010 as well as be the main buck stop for resolving expert. KPMG Banking Industry Customer Satisfaction customer issues in the subsidiaries. Survey for Banks in Nigeria, where we came third for Retail and sixth position in Corporate. Service Quality reports are rendered to the Head Office in Nigeria on a monthly basis. This Building Customer Page 20 We have taken this as an objective assessment is to ensure that the Bank continually improves Relationships of our performance and have aimed higher for customer satisfaction in the subsidiaries. Treating customers fairly, the 2011 KPMG ratings, as well as other globally Customer Service Week, and acceptable assessments carried out by relevant Issues highlighted in subsidiaries are also other activities. bodies. consistent with customer views in Nigeria but with less of an emphasis on internet and ATMs Increasingly we have craved the need to i.e. service failure. To monitor progress, the understand our customers better and redesign Group SQA unit consistently measures service Assessing Our Page 22 our services to meet their needs. Our standards performance at all channel points and proffers Customer Perception and processes are constantly being rejigged to solutions with the process owners until higher We conduct customer meet and exceed customer requirements. The customer satisfaction ratings are realised. satisfaction surveys all year commencement of the implementation of a round in our branches. Quality Management System in April 2010 is 2011 objectives for our customers in response to this. ••An innovation programme is being developed, Our Contact Centre, as well as other channels, which will lead to continuous production Responsible Page 22 is constantly being utilised to solicit customer of new ideas into valued new products and Products & Services feedback, while our relevant departments i.e. IT, services, with the aim of attaining a cheaper Product Development and Research, Marketing cost of service, transaction cost per service and The Gender Empowerment etc. utilise such feedback in the review and operational efficiency, which will enable higher Programme and the Telecommunications Infrastructure redesign of our processes, systems and products. customer satisfaction as its end objective; Provider Scheme. ••A loyalty programme is also being developed Improving quality for our subsidiary to promote customer retention in the Bank. customers The aim is to determine the loyal customers Marketing Page 24 The Bank has selected an Innovation Total and reward them accordingly, based on their Communications Quality Management (ITQM) representative in patronage and volume of transactions; Marketplace perceptions, and each subsidiary to be in charge of service quality reaction to business behaviour in their domain. These individuals have ITQM as ••A Quality Management System is being and practices, is critcal to their primary function and drive service in their developed for implementation in the corporate success. Bank according to international standards respective subsidiaries. (ISO 9001:2008). The aim of the quality management system is to ensure our processes and procedures conform to customer requirements. Access Bank Plc 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Customers Approach Improving customer service Branch Service exp 6.5% increase in service We strive to achieve customer satisfaction Project 5* quality over 2009 through first class customer service, treating Project 5* is a performance improvement project, RATING SCORE our customers fairly and dealing swiftly and launched in May 2008, with a view to realising 2.96 Customer effectively with any complaints, through a drastic improvement in service delivery in 3.59 Services customer ombudsman if necessary. Access Bank through four critical success factors: 3.14 Turn around In the creation of our products and services we customer service, error rate, turn around time 3.9 Time are driven by what our customers want, so that and office ambience. All units and branches are if there is a market need, we develop responsible expected to partake in Project 5*. The units’ and 3.99 Ambience 3.9 products and services that represent added branches’ service quality performance have been value to society – for example, those associated assessed on the Project 5* scale since 2008 with 3.93 Telephone with our Gender Empowerment Programme, marketing performance added in 2010. 3.48 Etiquette to help female entrepreneurs. In our marketing Branches 3.25 communications, too, we pride ourselves on our Error Rate Over 500 mystery shopping and branch visits 3.67 responsible approach. were conducted in 2010 with a view to ensuring 3.454 Allied to responsibility is integrity – through all a consistent improvement and delivery of 5* Rating 3.68 of our business dealings we never fail to take service in all the Banks’ 102 branches and measures to ensure compliance and to fight cash centres. Fig 01 represents 2009 vs 2010 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 corruption in all its forms. comparative performance. FY2009 FY2010 Overview of our customers Results Customer service (CS), TAT and error rate Branches Customer service increased by 21.28%, 24.2% and 12.92% 2009 vs 2010 service quality performance In 2010 we stopped at nothing to ensure that respectively since 2009, while ambience and trend for branch services results we improved our customer service, built our telephone etiquette suffered a 2.25% and customer relationships and assessed our own 11.45% decline respectively. performance with regard to our customers, with Distribution of Branches by Rating The overall service quality from 2009 to 2010 a view to doing even better in 2011. We proved improved by 6.54%. our commitment to customer service this year The overall rating was 3* for branch services Percentage distribution of branches by ratings with the Project 5* performance improvement project and our close working with customer Bank wide. ombudsman. We built customer relationships through our ‘Treating Customers Fairly’ initiative Implications 25% The improvement should translate to higher and our activities in Customer Service Week. We customer satisfaction, loyalty and repeat business, 6% also assessed our customer performance with our which should in turn guarantee higher income. customer satisfaction report and KPMG’s customer satisfaction ratings. Resolution The minimum service quality rating for branches for 2011 is 4.5* minimum. 69% 4* The focus for 2011 will be to enhance product 3* knowledge and staff conduct, as well as the 2* ambience of our branches, in order to meet the minimum 4.5* standards. Branches 2010 CBD team performance distribution on Project 5* scale 33% CBD teams achieved 4* 5% 3% 30% 59% 5* 4* 3* 2* Commercial Banking Division (CBD) 2010 CBD team performance distribution on Project 5* scale 18 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities Commercial Banking Division (CBD) The ombudsman identifies trends, issues and Aggregate rating is 3* The CBD is divided into tiers based on concerns regarding customers’ complaints PERCENTAGE SCORE that may directly or indirectly affect the Bank’s profitability, market share and potential. Tier 1 to 3 branches have commercial banking teams policies, products, services and procedures, T1 while Tier 4 branches do not. Performance along including potential future issues and concerns the tiers is shown on the left: and provides suggestions/recommendations T2 where necessary for addressing them responsibly. Results The customers’ ombudsman will, within 24hrs ••The staff appearance and ambience of the of receipt of complaint, write to acknowledge T3 CBD was very good at 4*; receipt and assure the complainant that his/her ••Customer service, which comprises staff complaint is receiving attention. On average, the Overall conduct, product knowledge and reliability, ombudsman will resolve complaints within three Average was below average at 2*; to seven days, depending on the complexity of ••Overall performance Bank-wide was 3*. the complaint and the reconciliation required to reach a settlement. 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 Resolution If parties are dissatisfied with the resolution CBD TEAMS ••Bank wide product training for relationship reached, the ombudsman may further mediate Aggregate CBD Performance Rating for 2010 managers has already been developed and will to arrive at a fair settlement. If either party is still be conducted in 2011; displeased, the displeased party may escalate the ••HR is also providing customer relationship complaint for further resolution. management training for the relationship 33% CBD teams achieved 4* The ombudsman keeps a log of all received managers to develop their customer RATING SCORE complaints and these complaints are tracked management skills. 2.8 Turn around through a weekly report until final resolution. 3.03 Time Head Office units The ombudsman reports to the Board Risk Over 100 reviews were carried out in Head Office Committee on the trend of complaints received 2.67 Customer 3.38 Service units to assess their service quality on Project 5*. by the Bank and the mode of applied resolution. The figure below represents the comparative 2.78 On a quarterly basis the ombudsman circulates Error Rate performance between 2009 and 2010. 3.39 learning points to business service units and Results customer care units from resolved complaints. 2.93 The ombudsman also offers training on root Ambience ••There is an improvement in all Project 5* 3.42 critical success factors (TECO) with an overall causes of complaints/litigation and examines 2.25 Telephone improvement of 23.5%; case studies of complaints as a further learning 3.4 Etiquette point to assist in reducing the level of complaints ••The units have also aimed for a minimum 4.5* Bank wide. rating in 2011. 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 The ombudsman further circulates an Annual FY2010 no. of units (%) Customer Ombudsman Report of learning points of complaints received FY2009 no. of units (%) during the year with a resolution to further The ombudsman functions as the Bank’s Head Office units reduce causes of customer complaints. complaint resolution expert through: listening, 2009 vs 2010 TECO performance providing and receiving information, identifying On a global perspective, the ombudsman is a for Head Office units and reframing issues, and developing a range of board member of the International Ombudsman positive resolutions suitable and acceptable to Association – a body of ombudsmen who both the Bank and our customers. network on the nature of complaints, causes and share solutions to these complaint resolutions at The ombudsman makes recommendations workshops and conferences. compatible with the Bank’s policies and does not make binding decisions, mandate policies, The customers’ ombudsman can be reached or formally adjudicate issues for and on behalf through any branch of Access Bank by either of the Bank. filling in a form addressed to the customers’ ombudsman or by handing over the complaint The ombudsman liaises with the Investigation to the customer care officer at any branch of Unit, Remedial Assets, relationship managers, Access Bank. Complaints can also be filed online marketers and customer care officers in by sending an e-mail to: investigating customers’ complaints with a view to resolving them in a timely manner. complaints.ombudsman@accessbankplc.com Of all the complaints received in 2010, 92% have been resolved and 8% are pending. Complaints received and resolved for 2010 are represented overleaf (page 20). Access Bank Plc 19 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Customers Complaints Received and Resolved for 2010 Group ATM & Access Share Internet Excess Total Resolved Pending Visa Cards Certificates & Banking/IT Charges Complaints Complaints Dividend Related & & Income Warrants Service Failure Refund Issues Ombudsman 39 11 57 29 136 117 19 Contact Centre 1555 92 1274 82 3003 2982 21 Investigation 0 11 18 36 65 42 23 Branches 1003 528 280 245 2056 1708 348 Total 2597 642 1629 392 5260 4849 411 Customers’ Testimonials/Comments SEGMENT POSITIVE NEGATIVE Corporate • Very courteous staff with knowledge of products and services • Insufficient branches • Excellent customer service with strong financial stability • Not consistent in services rendered • Reliable • More can be done to improve on services • Performed well over the years on products and services • Loans not given to customers Retail • Very good internet banking • Poor branch network • Excellent service • Very few ATMs and branches • Good service, speed of service is very satisfactory • Poor customer relations • No long queues, very efficient and friendly • Looks fraudulent and not competent • Very reputable bank • Reduction of customer deposits without enlightening customers • Very good image and reputation • Shady in their dealings • Charges on savings account is too much, making it difficult to save SME • Account officers are superb and fill in for deficiencies • Cost of transactions is too high • Staff respond promptly to complaints • Access Bank should open more branches • Very good customer service and reliable • Simplify the process of accessing facilities • Excellent banking operations and customer care Building customer relationships In adopting this principle, the Bank will offer products and services suitable for our target Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) customer segments, have competent staff In line with best practice, the Bank will adopt the providing customers with quality advice and principles from Treating Customers Fairly, which is appropriate recommendations, ensure that a core Financial Services Authority (FSA) principle, customers receive clear, relevant and timely intended to promote fair treatment of customers information to make informed decisions and by regulated firms throughout the product life handle customer complaints in an independent, cycle from design to post sales support. effective and prompt manner. By adopting the principle, Access Bank aims: This also ensures that complaints are handled ••To treat its clients fairly; fairly, effectively and promptly, and resolved at ••To ensure that clients’ understanding and the earliest possible opportunity, minimising the expectation of performance and service in number of unresolved complaints, which need to respect of a product are satisfied; be referred to the Sub Committee on Ethics and Professionalism. ••To embed TCF principles within the Bank’s culture and procedures so that Access Bank’s This purpose is consistent with the CBN interests are aligned with those of its clients. consumer protection regulatory objective and financial institutions are expected to adhere strictly. 20 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities Customer service week Customers were delighted with the attention ‘Maintenance of a customer enquiry register will Access Bank joined the global Customer Service they received. One told us: enable the branch to follow up (strongly) with Week celebration held between 4-8 October ‘I feel great today. It feels like I’m in Eldorado. walk in customers and potential customers who 2010. The theme for this year was ‘A Tradition The reception I got, right from the car park to visit the branch to transact third party business. of Service’ and the line up of activities for the the point I deposited money, is noteworthy. Every customer MUST leave the bank with a week’s celebration gave us the opportunity to I think I would want to open an account with positive experience either through a brief personal strengthen existing customer relationships and you. This is the place to be.’ interaction, little refreshments in the form of establish new ones, as well as boost morale, candy or a thank you card/handshake/SMS. motivation and teamwork among staff members. In terms of the Senior/Executive Management Frontline officers MUST introduce a new product staff who met our customers in their roles as to every customer that visits or calls the branch.’ Activities guest frontline staff, all agreed that the activity Activities for the week included the following: was extremely valuable and should be formalised ‘In the course of my serving as a teller, a man in the Bank’s processes. It was a good opportunity who had simply walked in to cash a cheque, ••All customers were personally welcomed by for Management to witness levels of service in the obviously impressed by the service he received, branch managers, branch service heads and branches too – when asked, 80% of respondents invited our marketing team to visit him to discuss platform officers. Each was then given a ‘Thank rated the customer handling skills of branch staff the possibility of reactivating his company’s You’ card signed by Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, as ‘very good’, while 20% rated them as ‘good’. dormant accounts. He also commended the Group Managing Director; More specific comments included: ambience of the branch.’ ••Light refreshments were served to customers ‘With excellent customer service, we can rely on Based on the feedback received from customers in the branches; our existing customers for positive references for and staff, the following action plans are ••Members of Senior and Executive Management recommended: increased business and to gain a better portion worked in the branches as customer-facing staff; of market share.’ ••Pick and win contests, with little incentives ‘This arrangement should not be a one off, or a as prizes; Customer Service Week activity only, but more of ••Customer Service Week greetings were sent a quarterly impromptu arrangement, to put the to customers via SMS and bulk mail, while a front office staff regularly on their toes to deliver standard Customer Service Week script was used excellent customer service.’ by contact centre agents throughout the period. Action Plan Responsibility Set up a knowledge sharing session to distil and circulate learning Customer Experience Management (CEM) Unit points Bank wide and draw out action plans on how to drive excellent service delivery in the Bank further Develop a framework/schedule to institutionalise Senior/Executive CEM/Branch services Management staff branch visits Deploy aggressive product training/service skills training to all market CEM/Branch managers and branch service heads facing staff and branch service staff Assess the possibility of aligning retail offerings to branch locations Product research and development unit Open a general customer enquiry register at the branches to capture Branch service heads/CEM/applications development customers’ enquiries on products and services. (Further automation of the register will be carried out. This is ongoing, to be completed by end of October 2010.) Access Bank Plc 21 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Customers Customer Assessing our customer performance Results Responsible products and services ••Access Bank achieved a NPS of 38.30% and a Customer satisfaction report Gender Empowerment Programme (GEM) propensity to switch rate of 18.06%, meaning The Total Quality Management (TQM) group Access Bank’s Gender Empowerment that at the end of every year, we may be losing conducts customer satisfaction surveys all year Programme has recorded more than 300 women 18 customers out of every 100. However, 38 out round in the branches. This is with a view to beneficiaries. GEM was developed in recognition of every 100 customers are very satisfied with us discerning customer needs as well as how our of the need to provide support for women’s and are willing to recommend us to others. services are meeting their requirements. The development as an economic tool necessary surveys also cover other banks’ channels and ••The general customer satisfaction level was at for gender transformation. The Bank therefore products. In 2010, the branches were surveyed 4* on a 5* rating scale. created a platform that allows enterprising along their regional lines to make visible ••The common customer dissatisfaction issues women to grow and develop their economic comparisons. experienced Bank-wide are highlighted below: and entrepreneurial skills. Net Promoter Scores (NPS) − the likelihood • Persistent system downtime/link issues; GEM offers technical and financial support to that our customers will recommend us − were female entrepreneurs through advisory services, • Long turn-around time (TAT) sometimes also introduced to determine the degree of access to skilled consultants, training, seminars, experienced at the branches (probably due loyalty of customers to the Bank. Customer workshops, tailor made financial services to the system downtime); loyalty is different from customer satisfaction and credit facilities. Access Bank has thus far as it is known that satisfied customers may still • Undifferentiated customer service (sometimes disbursed loans to businesses owned by women. defect. The loyalty index is what determines the good, sometimes bad); The GEM (Gender Empowerment) Programme probability that customers will remain with a • High bank and electronic-banking charges is aimed at supporting and empowering women business, irrespective of changing circumstances. (expressed in low-income regions – West, owned businesses and female entrepreneurs to The propensity to switch was also determined South-South, North); become the business leaders of the future. It from our studies. Over 100 surveys were carried • Poor communication strategy ie ability to arose out of the realisation that women in Africa out to determine the basic NPS. disseminate new and recent developments in face problems such as limited or non existent the Bank to customers on a prompt basis. financing, lack of sufficient collateral for loans, Region NPS (%) Switch a lack of experience in planning and strategy, Solutions and a need for help in creating and presenting rate (%) ••The IT group has proposed strategies to business plans. To address these issues, Access Ikeja 41.18 17.35 ameliorate the effects of downtime with Bank partnered with the International Finance provision of adequate back up links to the Corporation (IFC) to establish GEM. South South 32.43 24.05 branches; West 43.30 7.39 Under the GEM programme, Access Bank ••The Innovation and Total Quality Management provides resources such as finance, capacity North 45.23 16.50 (ITQM) group and Human Resources (HR) building through business training, advisory SouthEast 40.80 19.51 are working together to re-start service services, networking opportunities and access quality training Bank wide. A train-the-trainer to new markets. Abuja 40.62 18.27 programme is to commence in March 2011 for VI/Ikoyi 24.60 23.41 new volunteers who will cascade the training Average 38.30 18.06 throughout the organisation. Product training is also in the pipeline for relationship managers; ••The Retail Banking Division is organising a strategy to grow the retail customer base in the Bank. One of the outcomes is to reduce the charges for retail banking services; 1 & 2 Interior Options Limited Factory before and after financing ••Communication has always been disseminated via SMS, email and telephone through 3 Dangote Cement, Obajana. The construction our contact centre. The reason for poor was co-financed by Access Bank. communication may be due to customers’ inconsistent details in the Bank’s database. The clean up/Know Your Customer profile 1 update, recently concluded, should drastically improve information dissemination by the Bank. Our relationship managers are also a good channel of communication with customers. The Bank will solicit customer needs continuously in 2011 as well as monitor the improvement on the customer dissatisfaction issues expressed in 2010. 2 22 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities Telecommunications Infrastructure Provider TIPS has enhanced the roll out rate for utilised mobile phones to extend their banking Scheme (TIPS) the contractors and subsequently the services, thereby bringing the safety and security Since the Global System of Mobile telecommunications companies, thereby of banks to places located far from the halls Communications (GSM) launch in Nigeria in resulting in: and walls of the traditional commercial bank, 2001, mobile telephony has rapidly become the ••Easy access to high quality materials providing previously unbanked populations the most popular method of voice communication necessary for building effective base conveniences of modern day banking; in Nigeria. Growth has been so rapid that Nigeria stations – From a figure of 840 GSM base ••Increased investments in has been rightly described in various forms as stations in Nigeria at the end of 2004, the telecommunications sector – Prior to the “one of the fastest growing GSM markets in nation is estimated to have around 40,000 licensing of the Digital Mobile Operators, the world”. These developments have been GSM base stations in 2010; private investment in the telecommunications truly explosive as when compared with just ••Improved access to telecommunication sector was just about US$50 million. Between about 450,000 working lines from the national services in Nigeria, especially the suburban 2001 and now, the sector has attracted over telecommunications provider in 2001, by August and rural areas – From 10.20 million lines in US$10 billion, a substantial part of which is 2004, the GSM operators had recorded over 2004, Nigeria’s mobile subscribers’ base hit 67 direct foreign investment. Nigeria has thus 7,000,000 subscribers. million in February 2009. In December 2008, become one of the most desired investment The GSM operators embarked on massive the total number of subscribers in Nigeria’s destinations for ICT in Africa; expansion programmes but were limited by the mobile market was 62.99 million, an addition ••Socio economic impact – The great capacity of their contractors to build the required of 22.59 million subscribers only in 2008, improvement in access to telecommunications base stations that will make the expansion representing a 56 percent annual growth rate in Nigeria has had a positive impact on virtually strategy a reality. The telecommunication compared to the 2007 figure; all facets of life in the country politically, contractors faced the huge challenge of ••Increased job and business opportunities – socially as well as economically. Government’s funds and sourcing for high quality materials Mobile pay phones can be found in almost interface with the citizens is now faster. Now for building base stations that will aid the every rural and suburban areas where GSM people contact their folks in most parts of the commencement of telecommunications coverage is available. Many people invested country from anywhere instantly whenever operations in various areas of Nigeria. in handsets and started a business, providing they wish and clients easily reach their various To salvage the situation, Access Bank in 2005 public payphone services. This has changed service providers. Ownership of phones now developed the Telecommunications Infrastructure the lives of micro-business owners and also cuts across the various social classes, opening Provider Scheme (TIPS), a pioneering product to brought affordable phone services to every area good opportunities for e-health, e-education, meet the large infrastructural requirements of of the country; e-security, e-commerce and e-banking in the telecommunication contractors, thereby enabling country; ••In addition, expansion of the market for ring telecommunications and mobile banking services tones is one of the unexpected benefits that ••National GDP growth – The mobile sector to reach the unreached, while also leading to a have resulted from the rapid spread of mobiles. has been tremendously pivotal to the positive impact on Nigeria’s GDP. This has enabled local musicians to profit from, growth of telecommunications in Nigeria. Under the TIPS, Access Bank finances the and promote their work. The ring tone business Developing from a 30,000 line subscriber importation and supply of relevant materials is big worldwide and this is no different in base at the beginning of the millennium to 67 required in building base stations. The Bank also Nigeria; million connections in 2009, there has been provides financial support to contractors in the outstanding success and Nigeria is the largest ••Improved access to banking services – growth market for telecommunications in acquisition of these materials from the suppliers Banking has been brought to the unbanked, and other sub contractors. The financing provided is Africa and the Middle East. as a result of the expansion of the GSM into solely by Access Bank, without any external support the sub-urban and rural areas. In the effort to or funding from other organisations or DFIs. improve their services, Nigerian banks have 3 Access Bank Plc 23 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Customers Marketing Communications Our approach to responsible marketing So far, four draws have been held and 20 cars At Access Bank, we recognise that marketplace communications is to adhere to prevailing have been picked up by 20 lucky winners, while perceptions and reaction to business behaviour national laws, standards and voluntary codes the outstanding five cars will be given out at and practices is critical to corporate success. related to marketing communications, including the end of the Grand Finale Draw, planned for We therefore engage in responsible marketing advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Access Tuesday 12 April, 2011. Winners of the ‘Take and advertising; utilising the media as a Bank therefore adheres strictly to the laws and The Lead’ promotion were drawn from different communication tool to reach all stakeholders and provisions of the Advertising Practitioners Council classes, professions and vocations depicting the position Access Bank as a bank of choice for all of Nigeria – APCON – established by Act in Nigeria target market of the Access Advantage product our stakeholders. and charged with the responsibility to regulate (i.e. upper LIPs, MIPs, sole proprietorship, traders, and control advertising practices in Nigeria. and professionals). We ensure that our marketing practices are such that they enable us to focus on building and Access Advantage ‘Take The Lead’ promotion Product performance report maintaining sustainable, long term relationships In 2010 Access Bank introduced an engagement Access Advantage with our customers and relevant stakeholders, campaign on the Access Advantage product The impact of the ‘Take the Lead’ campaign on while avoiding misleading marketing and tagged ‘Take The Lead’, in keeping with its the Bank’s deposit mobilisation during the period advertising. promise to reward loyal customers. shows a total average growth of N991 million A total of 25 Peugeot 407 cars were available in deposit volumes for the Access Advantage Our marketing communication strategy to be won through draws which were held product: provides an overall framework for managing and coordinating a wide variety of activities on a regional basis (i.e. Lagos & West, Port that directly or indirectly inform and engage Harcourt & East and Abuja & North regions), stakeholders. It addresses communicators, in order to ensure a fair and even distribution stakeholders, messages, channels, feedback of lucky winners. All the draws were witnessed mechanisms, message timing and creates a by representatives of the Consumer Protection mapping between them all. This strategy ensures Council (CPC), Lagos State Lotteries Board (LSLB), that the Bank provides relevant, accurate and media and other members of staff. consistent information on its activities. The “Take the Lead” Promotion Was Based on the Following: Purpose ••Acquisition of new savings accounts ••Generation of liability through build up of balances in Access Advantage accounts Focus product Access Advantage (Savings) Account – Code (023) Target beneficiaries Customers that build up and maintain an average balance of N50,000 in a new or existing Access Advantage account for 60 days Scheme period 1 June, 2010 – 31 March, 2011 Star prizes Five (5) Peugeot 407 saloon cars every month Selection mode Electronic draw – Effective August 2010 to 31 March 2011 Qualification for draw ••New customers that open an Access Advantage account build up the balance to N50,000 and maintain it as an average balance for 60 days ••Existing Access Advantage customers that increase their account balance by N50,000 and maintain it for 60 days Multiple entries Customers that increase their deposits by multiples of N50,000 get multiple entries Average Volume Trend for Access Advantage Promotion 30 May 2010 30 Jun 2010 30 Jul 2010 30 Aug 2010 30 Sep 2010 21 Oct 2010 30 Dec 2010 30 Jan 2011 Av. Volume Av. Volume Av. Volume Av. Volume Av. Volume Av. Volume Av. Volume Av. Volume 2,984 3,159 3,339 3,493 3,583 3,644 3,872 3,975 24 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities Compliance Anti-Corruption – A percentage of employees Objectives/purpose of the AML/CFT training A percentage of our security personnel trained are trained in the organisation’s anti-corruption programme in the organisation’s policies and procedures policies and procedures. Members of staff and • To ensure compliance with the requirements concerning relevant aspects of human rights. Board members are regularly trained in: of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, ••Money laundering and countering of financing 2004 and the Central Bank of Nigeria AML/CFT Security training of terrorism; Regulation 2009; On a quarterly basis, security operatives in the ••To acquaint members of staff with the use of Bank are trained in the following: ••Know Your Customer (KYC) and suspicious transaction identification; KYC as a business tool and AML international ••Customer Service Delivery (Internal and best practice standards; External) ••Measures to identify politically exposed persons; ••To provide an interactive session for capacity ••Alertness ••Anti-corruption policies and procedures; development and beneficial information ••Security and Intelligence Gathering ••Other key compliance topics as related to the sharing among members of staff on business of the Bank. AML/CFT related issues; ••Crime Prevention, etc. In the year 2010, a total of 98% success was ••To educate members of staff on money The objectives of the trainings are to ensure our recorded in training staff on money laundering, laundering ‘red flags’ and suspicious security personnel are knowledgeable about their Know Your Customer and anti corruption policies transactions. work duties, and imbibe the Access Bank culture. and procedures. The trainings were facilitated by representatives Training targets for first quarter, 2011 from TQM, ATM support, IT control, Survelliant, Corruption – Actions taken in response to The Bank commenced its annual AML/CFT The Nigeria Police, Branch Control, the Security incidents of corruption: training for staff in all the regions. Services unit and a representative from the ••Investigation into the allegation; ••AML/CFT training for the first quarter of 2011 Federal Fire Services. A total of 75% of our ••Offenders/fraudsters were arrested and handed for all regions took place on 26 March 2011. security personnel were trained last year. over to the police for further investigation; Facilitators from different regulatory bodies The training sessions dwell extensively on security ••Refund of funds. (EFCC, NFIU, NDLEA) were invited to share their guards as service delivery ambassadors. Specific experiences and knowledge on different money examples were cited and live videos on service Total number of legal actions for anti competitive laundering topics; delivery were played. The guards were advised to behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. ••Intensive monitoring of AML training via our take their job seriously and perform their role in a e-learning platform. Staff will be followed professional manner. In the year 2010, there was no legal action up to complete their AML e-learning training ••Monetary value of significant fines and total in court against the Bank concerning antiwhich will be confirmed by certificates being number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompetitive behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly issued at the completion of the course, after compliance with environmental laws and practices. HR review; regulators. ••AML/CFT training plan for 2011 will be Anti Money Laundering Training ••Monetary fine for non-compliance with developed in conjunction with HR. This is a environmental laws and regulators = Nil. Section 9 of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) requirement by the Central Bank of Nigeria Act, 2004, states that every financial institution under the new AML/CFT compliance regime. Total number of non-monetary sanctions for shall develop training programmes to combat non-compliance with environmental laws and the laundering of the proceeds of crime or regulations = Nil. other illegal acts. Also, section 1.18.6.1.3 of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Anti-Money Laundering/Combating the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) 2009 Compliance Regulation Manual states that financial institutions should develop an employee training programme on basic elements of AML regulations and offences, money laundering and suspicious transactions, customer due diligence, record keeping and retention policy, and money laundering related issues. Regular AML/CFT training programmes for bank employees and directors is of paramount importance because banks are one of the major channels through which the proceeds of money laundering are channelled. Access Bank therefore ensures that every member of staff and Board member is trained on money laundering and Know Your Customer (KYC) issues at least once within a financial year. Access Bank Plc 25 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Employees 1 2 3 1 The Group Deputy Managing Director, Herbert Wigwe presenting a raffle prize draw 4 of a car to a member of staff at the Bank’s end of year party. 2 A cross-section of staff having a group photo. 3 Staff making a presentation at the Bank’s 2010 end of year party. 4 Access Bank staff taking part in a cervical cancer awareness programme. 26 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities Key issues in People are the core of our business. Workplace Our human resource management practices are designed to be flexible Overview of Page 28 to accommodate the needs of each Workforce Number of employees, staff individual employee, encourage a strength, composition and attrition rates. sense of ownership in all aspects of our business, develop requisite professional Diversity Page 28 and ethical behavioural standards, Quality and merit are the primary considerations when deliver superior client service, embrace recruiting and this cannot be compromised. sound financial discipline and recognise and reward performance. Employee Page 30 Our people and culture to assess the efficiency of key processes in Engagement the Bank and also evaluate our strategy and At Access Bank, we offer an all encompassing As key stakeholders, employee experience with opportunities to pursue overall operating model. The objective was employees are actively rewarding and challenging work with talented and to manage cost and improve productivity engaged and managed using associated with the minimum hurdle rate supportive colleagues; foster access to learning several different initiatives. of staff. Part of this was simplifying key and development; provide fair and competitive compensation and ensure benefits that have the performance indicators in order to set clear Learning & Page 30 flexibility to meet employees’ needs for work goals. Another factor was the uncapping of Development effectiveness. our performance bonus in profit, which drives our employees’ productivity; The Bank believes it can As a merit driven organisation, Access Bank is best achieve its objectives by committed to providing equality in employment 2. Revision of our orientation programme retaining and empowering for all managers and above: for all levels of staff. At entry level positions, the best staff. To equip our line supervisors and business we are interested in young, energetic, result oriented and highly intelligent individuals leaders with the necessary tools and an Employee Survey Page 31 with a proven passion for joining a team of understanding of our culture, the Bank driven and high performing professionals. revised its global employee induction The 2010 employee Their career journey begins with four months’ programme for managers and above satisfaction survey results intensive training at the Banking School of to improve their learning and skills and findings. Excellence, where our stars are identified. At the development. Programmes were initiated experienced hire level, we look for ambitious, self during the course of the 2010 financial motivated individuals with leadership qualities year to drive up the deposit volumes of our and capabilities, inspired and ready to harness market-facing business operations; their potential to consistently exceed customer 3. Exchange programme with FMO: expectations. FMO is the entrepreneurial development Recruitment is achieved via a web based bank of the Netherlands. Annually we e-recruitment portal which provides a platform second one staff member to FMO for a year’s for equality and transparency throughout the work experience to enhance staff capacity. process. At the Access Bank School of Banking Currently we have a senior manager on Excellence, the performance of each trainee secondment to FMO in The Hague; is set against clear and objectively defined 4. Training (international training benchmarks. The level of performance against and e-learning): Increasingly our focus is these benchmark(s) determines the trainees’ on developing competencies to build a more absorption into the organisation and subsequent sustainable organisation. Addressing long performance evaluation. term sustainability issues will require different The Human Resources Group at Access skillsets and ways of thinking. As part of Bank in 2010 initiated, implemented and a bid to enhance our employees’ capacity, supported the following programmes many of our staff were sent for international to enhance employee productivity: training such as CIPD. Our employees also achieved 89,791 training hours through our 1. STI (Short Term Incentive): The Bank e-learning platform. engaged Oliver Wyman Consulting Services to carry out a process improvement programme Access Bank Plc 27 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Employees One of our strategic objectives is to project Overview of workforce Access Bank as an ‘Employer of Choice’ Employees Staff Composition Number of employees: This refers to the total in the industry. In line with that, during the number of staff of the Bank i.e. Access Bank and Total 2010 financial year we partnered with leading subsidiaries. Assistant Banking Officer 154 universities and international organisations such Assistant General Manager 19 as AIESEC and the British Council to create Employee remuneration and benefits The Access Bank remuneration policy aims to: Assistant Manager 88 a pipeline for entry level talent. Banking Officer 112 Amongst our partnership initiatives ••To provide salaries capable of attracting, retaining and rewarding well qualified Human Deputy General Manager 17 were the following: Resources at all levels of responsibility by a Deputy Manager 59 1. Conducting campus recruitment system of direct monetary incentives; Executive Director 4 for final year undergraduates; ••To ensure that throughout the working career Executive Trainee 1+2 643 2. Organising career counselling and of every member of staff, they are adequately Group Deputy Managing Director 1 a Career Day for third year undergraduates rewarded and motivated by a salary system that General Manager 14 in all partnered universities; adequately reflects individual efforts and the 3. Presenting Access Bank Awards Group Managing Director 1 contribution made to the success of the Bank. to the best graduating students Manager 50 in the partnered universities; Compensation components Non Banking Staff 3 4 Total compensation provided to employees In support and service of our country Non Banking Staff 4 2 will include guaranteed and variable portions. Nigeria and to help achieve organisational Non Banking Staff Executive Trainee 1 The specific proportion of each will be defined objectives, Access Bank seconded a total at the country level. Senior Banking Officer 107 of four employees to government ministries ••Guaranteed pay will include base pay Senior Manager 37 and establishments: and other guaranteed allowances; Total 1313 ••A manager to the Ministry of Finance as a special assistant to the minister ••Variable pay may be both performance of state finance; based and discretionary. Employees Composition of Staff by Division ••A manager to the Budget Office Diversity as a special assistant At Access Bank, recruitment is made into ••Most recently, two managers (one senior positions where there is a continuous need for manager who is an expert in branch expansion the type of work and where career development and one assistant manager from the Corporate opportunities exist. Where either is not the case, Communications department) to the Securities the Bank contract out the activity, or employ Exchange Commission (SEC). The Commission contract staff on short term contracts, or seek is currently rebranding its corporate identity appropriately qualified persons from the country and architectural structure and needed a operations for the term of the job position. The specialist with deep expertise in the field. contract of any contract staff are renewed only Commercial Banking Division 488 Access staff were seconded to the Commission when the need for the position still exists. Institutional Banking Division 68 with the intention of replicating the formidable Financial Market Division 32 positioning of Access Bank and its structure Preference is given to recruiting local Risk Management Division 172 in the repositioning of the Commission’s staff over expatriate staff. The recruitment Enterprise Resource Division 160 brand. At the same time, the SEC director was of expatriates is limited to situations where Retail Banking Division 32 recognised by Access as able to benefit our qualified and experienced locals are not Operations 361 architectural structure and position our brand available. To maintain a healthy mix within Total 1313 favourably within the industry. the organisation, the Bank recruits a range of employees from a variety of geographical The combination of these people based and ethnic backgrounds across the countries initiatives have positioned Access Bank Employees Staff Composition in which it operates. as an employer of choice, redefined its for Support Staff performance matrix and delivered value to stakeholders in a responsible manner. Staff Attrition Total Total staff: Operations 0 31 Dec 2010 CCBG 4 IBG 2 Investment Banking 0 Retail Banking 3 Trainees 42 National Youth Service Corp (NYSC)/ Enterprise 5 Industrial Trainee (IT) 85 Risk Management 4 Transaction Officer (TO) 1161 Total 18 Secretaries 85 Tea Girls 36 Staff Strength at 31 March 2010 1400 Drivers 433 Attrition Rate 1.3% Security Men 679 28 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities Recruitment criteria ••Safe and healthy working conditions; Access Bank, as a member of the United Quality and merit are the primary considerations ••Non-discrimination in personnel and Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is committed when recruiting and this cannot be compromised. hiring practices; to upholding the ten principles of the UNGC in respect of human rights, labour rights, Human rights ••No forced or child labour; environmental protection and anti corruption. Access Bank is committed to respecting human ••Rights to basic health, education and housing The Global Compact seeks to promote rights in all its business activities through (if operations are located in areas where these responsible corporate citizenship, so that compliance with national laws and in labour are not provided); businesses can form part of the solution to the legislation. Our workplace policies and practices ••Respect for existing international guidelines challenges of globalisation. are aimed at shaping corporate culture and guiding relationships between the Bank and and standards for the use of force; Non-discrimination, child labour, forced and its stakeholder groups. Our policies support ••Protecting the economic livelihood compulsory labour the rights of the individual as expressed in of local communities; Access Bank has measures to eliminate the International Bill for Human Rights, which ••Contributing to the public debate discrimination and encourage cross cultural comprises the 1948 United Nations Universal about matters that affect our operations, interaction, as well as diversity tolerance. Declaration of Human Rights – UNUDHR – and employees, customers and the communities The non-discriminatory practices extend to the the two 1966 International Covenants on where we operate. Bank’s hiring and requirement activities. Human Rights. Access Bank is committed to upholding ethical The Bank has a responsibility to ensure that The UNUDHR contains internationally accepted human rights are upheld in all its lending practices across its operations and will not standards for human rights and applies decisions, all its interactions with staff and engage in forced or compulsory labour, or take to governments and businesses. The general those of suppliers and contractors through part in direct operations that involve principles related to business practices are: procurement and supply chain management. child labour. 1 Mini Health Mission by the Commercial Banking Division. 2 Cervical Cancer Awareness Workshop organised by Treasury Group. 1 2 Access Bank Plc 29 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Employees Employee engagement Retreats ••Exchange programme: Goldman Sachs’ As key stakeholders, employees are actively Retreats are held periodically off-site in order Dealing Room (Ghana, Côte D’ivoire, Congo, engaged and managed using several different to engage employees in strategy and specific Burundi, Zambia, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, initiatives: organisational development. Examples of business and Gambia) on Currency Trading. 18 retreats include IBG, CCBG and HR retreats. employees were in attendance and benefited Events brand internalisation programme from this programme; These include corporate parties organised Meetings Meetings are ways by which we further reinforce ••Macro and micro economics: to foster better integration within the business. organisational culture and values. They are also 64 employees were in attendance ranging from Entertainment, refreshment and security are tools in managing communication. To ensure that AGMs to GMs; provided to promote a relaxing atmosphere for employees to bond and have fun. The treasury meetings are well structured in Access Bank, ••BASEL 11: 291 employees ranging from ETs to function recently hosted selected staff at its a calendar of corporate meetings was developed BOs attended and benefited from this learning corporate party. In order to enhance Access and is hosted on the Bank’s intranet. Examples of programme; culture among employees, an Internal Branding meetings include managers’ meetings and those ••AML training: 1,406 were in attendance Session was held on 4 September 2010. with MDs of subsidiaries, ALCO, CAC, PPR, ranging from ETs to GMs. The programme was focused on revitalising MPR and MSR. the Bank’s culture. Over 750 staff from the Workplace policy on HIV/AIDS six geo political zones (over half of the Bank’s LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT (L&D) The Bank shall not discriminate against a population) participated in the event; and all The Bank believes it can best achieve its qualified individual with HIV/AIDS with regards participants were pre registered so as to ease objectives by retaining and empowering to recruitment, advancement, training, participation in the programme. the best hands through implementing L&D compensation, discharge or other terms, programmes. In achieving this, a variety of conditions or privileges of employment. Recognition and rewards The Bank shall accommodate employees with learning interventions are deployed to enhance The Bank recognises and rewards employees HIV/AIDS as with any other illness as long as they knowledge retention and build staff capacities. that make significant contributions to the meet acceptable standards of performance and Some of our L&D interventions include the organisation at three different levels: contribution do not pose a health and safety threat to other following: to team, division and the organisation’s bottom employees. line. In the same vein, a long service award was ••Leadership development programme: instituted to recognise staff that have spent five Module Managing in a Global Organisation Release on medical grounds shall be managed and ten years in the employment of the Bank. targeted at senior management and delivered in the same way for HIV/AIDS as for any other There was also an employee week in December by a team of professionals from the London medical condition. 2010 when staff were celebrated for outstanding Business School. 32 employees attended achievements. ranging from AGMs to GMs; Beneficiaries received Bank wide recognition and ••In-house training: Quest for Excellence. 3,416 their profile and achievements were used as a employees were in attendance ranging from default screensaver for the duration of that week. ETs to GMs; 1-3 2  010 Brand Internalization Programme. 1 3 2 30 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities Employee survey 1. Objectives Culture & Climate Score 2.5 The objectives of the 2010 employee The questions in this category measured employee values, attitudes, and morale, and how well employees know and understand the workplace culture and climate. There was a drop in most satisfaction survey were: subsidiaries from last year with the exception of AIS and Zambia. Significant drops were recorded •• To measure the level of employee satisfaction by UK, USL, DRC, Rwanda, AHM, CDI and Ghana. Employees’ concern on this competency were between 2009 and 2010; around the following: •• To obtain insight into how well the Group has ••Low employee morale performed over the last year; ••Employees are not happy with the organisation •• To obtain insight into what motivates ••Employees do not feel motivated. employees. 2. Participation HR Function Score 2.5 A total of 1,522 employees, representing 80% Employees are generally dissatisfied with the HR Function. The competency score dropped of employees in the Group, participated in the in all subsidiaries from last year with the exception of AIS and Zambia. Major areas of survey. dissatisfaction with the HR Function include: ••HR’s knowledge of employment issues and laws This is a 3% decrease from 2009, where ••HR staff are not communicative and available an 83% participation rate was recorded. ••Lack of trust in HR personnel There were 85 participants across the Group that did not indicate their grade levels ••HR does not do a good job of facilitating communication between employees and management (these include employees of UK who are not ••Empathy towards staff graded according to the Group nomenclature). ••Work life balance. Significant drops in participation rate from the previous year were recorded by Compensation & Benefits Score 2.5 •• United Kingdom This drop in scoring is in line with the Bank’s no promotion/no salary increase decision. •• USL The fact that it didn’t significantly decrease across the countries is an indication that though employees do not like the decision, they understood it. Major concern for employees under •• Côte D’ivoire this competency includes: •• Sierra Leone ••Lack of a clear development plan •• Burundi. ••Lack of commitment by the organisation to employee development. There were two countries with a participation rate of less than 50%; Sierra Leone and Recognition Score 2.5 Burundi. This may be attributed to network Recognition is rated relatively low across the Group with an average of 62%, a 5% fall from issues experienced by both countries, which 2009. This is probably due to no promotion taking place after the last appraisal exercise. Despite this, increase in the competency was recorded in AIS due to the reward scheme, and hindered them from participating until the last in Sierra Leone. Significant drops were recorded in UK, AHM, USL, Ghana, CDI and Burundi. day of the survey. Employees do not feel: ••Recognised for their efforts ••That recognition within the organisation is fair ••That recognition is adequately distributed to employees who deserve the credit ••That the organisation does a good job of rewarding outstanding performance. Training Score 2.5 The decline in rating for the competency is largely attributable to the freeze in training. In addition, e-learning was not fully launched until May 2010 when the survey opened. Employees complained of: ••Not being able to request training as the need arises ••Not being satisfied with the quality of the job training received ••Not receiving regular training. Work life balance Score 1.5 This competency was introduced in the 2010 satisfaction survey. It is also the lowest rated competency with an average of 52%. UK recorded the highest satisfaction on this competency with a score of 64%, while Zambia recorded the lowest score with 34%. Areas of concern include: ••Employees not being able to complete their work responsibilities during normal business hours ••Employees are not able to maintain a healthy balance between work and personal life ••Employees do not believe the organisation values and respects their personal/family life ••Work obligations usually require employees to cancel or change family or personal commitments ••The organisation does not provide employees with enough flexibility and support to meet the demands of personal and family life. Access Bank Plc 31 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Employees Employee satisfaction Overall satisfaction level for the Group in 2010 was 3.5 (71.56%) compared with 3.5 (74.21%) 1 in 2009. This is due to: ••Impact of the global financial crisis in the parent company; ••Integration activities in Ghana creating uncertainties ••Change in leadership in Ghana and Côte D’ivoire. Major areas of concern for employees include: ••Care for the employees within the organisation; ••They do not believe their opinions matter ••Lack of recognition; ••Employee development; ••Feedback from supervisors/managers; ••Recommending the organisation to friends. Performance on core competencies The Bank’s performance on core competencies such as employee satisfaction declined from last year’s survey. Competencies that scored more highly included the following: Safety Safety was rated relatively high with a Group average of 74% with six subsidiaries, including 2 the parent company, scoring above this average. Significant declines were however recorded in Ghana. The only concern for employees on this competency is the provision of quality equipment and tools. Team dynamics Team members work very well together in the organisation with Access Inv & Sec having the highest rate. Access Homes and Ghana however, recorded a significant drop from the previous year because of a reduction in staff strength. Access vs other organisations Benchmarking against 84 international organisations spanning a wide range of industries (including legal, consumer, entertainment, retail, wholesale, medical, manufacturing, government, computer, education, hospitality etc.), Access 1-2 Access Bank employees. Bank’s performance dropped compared to 2009 levels. This is largely attributed to the impact of 3 Entry level Graduate from the Access the global economic downturn resulting in: 3 Bank School of Banking Excellence receiving Certificate of Excellence during ••Freeze in compensation; Graduation Ceremony. ••The Bank for the first time in over seven years recording a loss, which necessitated a freeze on promotions; ••Uncertainties in the banking industry, creating anxieties. 32 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities 2009 2009 2010 2010 Ranking Percentile Ranking Percentile Employee Satisfaction & Engagement 20th 71% 46th 47% Career Opportunity 7th 90% 18th 79% Compensation & Benefits 15th 77% 30th 63% Co Workers 16th 72% 26th 65% Culture & Climate 23rd 73% 48th 54% Diversity @ Work 7th 75% 18th 55% HR Function 15th 56% 29th 37% Job Security 16th 70% 33rd 54% My Manager / Supervisor 20th 75% 43rd 56% Organisation Structure 5th 91% 8th 89% Recognition 14th 81% 33rd 64% Safety & Working Environment 16th 48% 31st 31% Senior Top Level 6th 90% 15th 81% Team Dynamics 10th 82% 17th 75% Training 29th 49% 49th 35% Work life Balance N/A N/A 60th 5% Workplace Ethics 5th 91% 17th 76% Access Bank’s Response to Our Employees: Recommendations Arising from 2010 Survey Culture & Climate ••Launch Internal Branding Programme to enable employees to fully understand the Access Way HR Function ••HR engagement sessions in key locations Reward & Recognition ••Organise a performance management workshop ••Introduce short term incentive scheme Training ••Improve communication around trainings ••Introduction of personal effectiveness training for all employees Work life balance ••Ensure all employees have leave plans at the beginning of the financial year ••Monitor and ensure adherence to leave plans ••Discourage leave deferral ••Ensure branch and Head Office closing times are adhered to ••Maintain practice of keeping third Saturday of every month work free Access Bank Plc 33 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Environment 1 2 1A  ccess Bank advert highlighting our support in combating climate change. 3 4 2 Herman Mulder, creator of the Equator Principles, addressing Nigeria financial institutions facilitated by Access Bank in partnership with FMO, IFC and Proparco. 3 Our use of video conferencing in the Eastern and Northern regions has hugely impacted on our carbon footprint. This is because our travel costs have been reduced by about 80%. 34 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities Key Issues in The Bank’s objective on the environment Environment is to adopt environmentally friendly policies continually in all our activities Energy Page 36 within the external constraints of Energy consumption, management and savings. our operating field. key objectives and goals Key environmental issues The Bank is affected by key environmental 2010 Objectives limitations resulting from our having to rely This policy is clearly reflected in the Bank’s Water Page 36 heavily on diesel for power and boreholes Sourcing/Purchasing Policies (we only purchase for water. Our sources of water. eco-friendly plant & equipment), our Travel Policy (video conferencing) and our paper consumption 1. Indirect energy consumption by primary (printing front and back for all internal sources refers to power generated from our correspondence). diesel powered generating plants Bank wide All our diesel tanks are now calibrated to allow 2. We consumed about 46,429,255.6 kilowatts efficient tracking of diesel consumption and of diesel generated power in the last Business Transport Page 36 Financial Year. keep them within an acceptable threshold that Car fleet management, staff aligns with our environment protection policy transport and business travel without slowing down operating activities. Approach to environmental costs. management Our use of video conferencing in the Eastern and Northern region have hugely impacted on our Motivated by current global environmental carbon footprint. This is because our travel costs challenges and developments, Access Bank have been reduced by about 50%. supports global sustainability efforts at making Paper and Materials Page 36 business operations more conducive for Paper consumption, recycling 2011 Objectives individuals and the environment. and cost savings. Our key objectives in 2011 is to continue/build As a service based business, Access Bank’s up on our 2010 strategy so that we consolidate environmental impact is relatively limited, on all benefits derived from operating an Eco with energy as our biggest impact area. We friendly Bank. are absolutely committed to reducing our The outsourcing of the Bank’s printing and energy use, emissions, paper consumption and Equator Principles Page 37 photocopying will result in greater savings on water use, as well as reducing the negative Report paper consumption and ensure better awareness environmental impact of our waste and A framework to help of how much paper is being used. procurement activities. It makes complete sense financial institutions address to our business as we believe that improving our potential environmental and operational efficiency, reducing our consumption social risks. of resources and decreasing our emissions will lead to positive results – economically as well as environmentally. In 2010 we were able to replace some of our equipment, such as generators, air conditioners, photocopiers and printers with more environmentally friendly models. This has enabled us to save energy as well as cost. Access Bank Plc 35 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Environment Energy Business transport Paper and materials Our direct energy consumption from primary The Access Bank car fleet is managed by the Access Bank has long been working on sources is from the Power Holding Company General Resources Management Group. We reducing the paperwork involved in our basic of Nigeria (PHCN). are always conscious of the hazards of poor banking processes. In previous years we have In 2010, Access Bank consumed about management of our fleet system and have taken purchased software that negates the need for 8,888,878.05kwh of PHCN power (compared steps to minimise its impact on the environment: paperwork in certain processes. Also, we have to 6,500,000kwh in 2009) and about ••Access Bank provides buses to transport its formulated and communicated to staff a new 46,429,255.6kwh of diesel generated power. employees within different regions to its paper usage policy, which includes printing on service outlets. This has helped reduce the both sides of a sheet and printing memos on Our approach to energy management is to reused paper. minimise our CO2 emission and carbon footprint daily use of personal cars by staff; as much as possible within the confines of our ••Our cars are constantly maintained and Our initiative of printing front and back operating environment. assessed to meet the minimum requirements continues for all internal correspondence. of road worthiness. The cars in our fleet are The Bank has also outsourced its printing and At the official rate of N10 per kwh we have photocopying to reduce wastage and ensure achieved about N320 million of savings on this serviced regularly to ensure they produce minimum pollution; proper monitoring and tracking of printing and initiative. photocopying activities throughout the Bank. We consumed about 1,098,942.92 gallons of ••We dispose of cars that have been in use for over a certain number of years and have Paper makes up about 98% of materials used by diesel in 2010 compared to 1,770,000 gallons in the Bank. the preceding year, resulting in savings of about depreciated to the extent that their use may N67 million. impact negatively on the environment; In 2010, the Bank consumed about 91,130.45 ••Our use of video conferencing in the Eastern reams of paper, which is approximately Water and Northern regions has impacted hugely on 54,679.27kg at 0.6kg per ream. our carbon footprint. This is because our travel We consumed an estimate, 300 reams of reused Our sources of water are: costs have been reduced by about 80%; paper in 2010 resulting in about N240,000 cost 1. Boreholes savings. ••We incurred about N10.6 million on travel 2. Government source (State owned Water for managers meeting in 2009 while this was Check Table 2 below for more information on Corporation). reduced to N2.1million in 2010 through our paper use. adopted initiatives, thus resulting in savings of about N8.5 million. The total expended on fuelling the Bank’s vehicles in 2010 was N94,630,693.98. Monthly fuel card uploads were reviewed from N5.2 million plus to N3.6 million from April 2010. 2010 2009 1 Amount spent on paper =N=56, 500, 876.78 =N=55, 696,713.58 Cost per ream =N=620 =N=480 Number of reams consumed 91,130.45 116,034.82 Weight per Ream 0.60 kg 0.60kg Weight of paper consumed 54,678.27 kg 69, 620.89kg * Percentage reduction in paper usage between 2009 and 2010 is 21% 2 3 36 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities EQUATOR PRINCIPLES REPORT Inclusion of sector specific policies From the workplace to the The Equator Principles (EP) Report is a Beyond the review of the Bank’s ESRM policy, Community framework to help financial institutions to specific policies for higher E&S risk exposure As part of the Bank’s sustainability agenda, a address potential environmental and social risks sectors (Oil & Gas and Cement) have been workshop was organised for credit officers, when providing project finance loans or project developed and deployed Bank wide. analysts, risk officers, product managers and finance advisory services. Deployment of a customised toolkit E&S specialists of the Nigerian financial sector, It consist of 10 principles – the first nine refer This tool kit enhances the screening of on the importance, effective techniques to the process to determine and manage transactions. It is a web based suite of decision and consequential benefits of incorporating environmental and social (E&S) risk, while the support tools developed to: environmental and social considerations into final one requires institutions to report publicly their investment and risk management decision••Provide a framework for the identification on their application of the Principles. making. assessment of E&S impacts/risks according Access Bank adopted the Principles on 4 June to financial product type, sector, client and This was implemented in partnership with 2009. It is the responsibility of the Bank’s country; the FMO, IFC, African Development Bank and Management to ensure that appropriate Proparco. ••Capture transactions impacts/risks and procedures are in place to ensure compliance assessment outcomes for developing Highlights of the discussions include: with the Principles. Management approaches; reporting across the ••Nigeria’s economy creates a specific range ESRM approach review portfolio (internally and externally); of E&S issues to be addressed by its banking The Bank has comprehensively reviewed the ••Offer potential solutions to mitigate E&S risks sector; Environmental and Social Risk Management commensurate with the scale of impacts ••E&S risk management helps to minimise the (ESRM) Policy and Procedures with input from In general, the tool kit will help Access Bank harmful E&S impacts in banking; relevant internal and external stakeholders. to reduce time in managing and monitoring ••E&S impacts represent financial, reputational This provides the framework, policy and procedures risk exposures; recommend mitigation of and legal risks for banks; for assessing and managing E&S risk issues within risk and resources in developing appropriate ••Effectively managing these risks contributes all relevant business activities of Access Bank. To management/action plans amongst others. towards the positioning of a financial this end, we apply the Equator Principles and the institution with respect to competitors, clients Building employees capacity IFC Performance Standards to our Project Finance and capital providers; To ensure seamless mainstreaming, we have and other lending transactions across the various also conducted a series of capacity building ••Understanding what lies behind the E&S strategic business units. workshops for staff. The first in the series was a risks can create a foundation for developing For loans, debt and equity underwriting, sustainability workshop for all staff in the Group products and services to address the E&S financial advisories and derivative transactions office. This was followed by another for CEOs issues of clients; that are project linked, Access Bank applies an and CSR/Sustainability champions at the Bank’s assessment that is broadly consistent with an ••Setting up an E&S Risk Management System banking subsidiary. Equator Principles approach. requires the following: However, Equator Principles training was Access Bank’s ESRM Procedures are made up of ––Development of E&S policies and procedures organised for about 45 employees from relevant six distinct components for the management of which may be general, industry specific, Strategic Business Units across the Bank. It also environmental and social (E&S) risks that emerge issue specific, country specific. This should covered a wide range of topics such as: in our credit/investment cycle. Each component also contain an exclusion list ••Emerging E&S risk with case study examples; ––Development and implementation of represents a critical step in Access Bank’s integrated ESRM approach to the products and ••Putting the Bank’s E&S approach into action; E&S risk assessment tools for clients and services we offer. These components are: ••Engaging the clients; transactions 1. Screening ••Equator Principles fast facts, timelines; ––Integration of E&S policies, procedures and tools into existing processes 2. Risk Assessment ••Details on the 10 Principles and what it entails; ––E&S due diligence for new and existing 3. Due Diligence ••Categorisation and commitment of EP clients and transactions 4. Decision and Documentation adopters; amongst others. ––Training and engagement of staff at all levels 5. Monitoring and of seniority 6. Reporting. ––Measuring, monitoring and reporting E&S performance; 1A  ccess Bank’s Deputy Group Managing ••Through E&S risk management, individual Director Hurbert Wigwe in discussion with financial institutions can: Richard Brower Director of Financial Institutions 4 ––Differentiate from other institutions FMO. ––Engage with stakeholders 2 Group discussions during E&S training. ––Gain access to capital 3 Access Bank E&S Champions at the conclusion ––Improve overall risk management of their training. ––Develop responsible business. 4 Cross section of participants at the E&S Workshop for Financial Institutions operating in Nigeria. Access Bank Plc 37 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Supply Chain The Bank is currently reviewing its standard procurement framework. This new process will have a more robust system for proper assessment of vendors. The policy will be completed by the first quarter of the 2011 financial year, while full implementation will commence by the second quarter of the year. Key Objectives and Goals Procurement framework Engaging suppliers Supplier assessments: The vendors are The Bank is currently reviewing its standard Vendors are engaged through the following assessed biannually in line with the Bank’s policy procurement framework. This new process means: and on account of: will have a more robust system for the proper 1. Quarterly meetings assessment of vendors. The policy will be 1. Track record completed by the first quarter of the 2011 2. Site visitation 2. Ethical values financial year, while full implementation will 3. An invitation to our Annual General 3. Geographical distribution commence by the second quarter of the year. Meeting. 4. Quality of service Spending tracking system Quarterly Meetings – Agenda The Bank purchased software which integrates ••Vendor’s performance and improvement 5. Price project budgeting, purchase orders, invoices, ••Bank’s performance 6. Authorised dealership. labour, and material tracking with the Work Order/Work Request System. Currently, ••Payment terms Redflag requisition for items are routed via this system. ••CSR issues Redflag is an indication that the vendor’s service is not up to standard and needs to be monitored This will enable the Bank to track its I. Child labour over the subsequent appraisal period. procurement spend as well as provide analysis, II. Business ethics which will aid future planning. The aim is However, if there are no changes after a series III. Eco friendly equipment that in the next two years the Bank’s entire of letters and meetings, which will enable us to procurement process will be fully automated. IV. CSR activities. ascertain if they are facing challenges with the service offered, they will then be presented to In addition, the Bank’s Operational Risk Management for delisting from the vendor list. Management Unit also conducts due diligence on the vendors to ensure they meet the Bank’s standards and requirements. The Bank also sets KPIs for vendors and ensures that they comply with these. In 2011, the Bank will also upgrade its vendor management process. This will include constituting a committee and developing a policy such that all the vendors operating within the Bank, irrespective of services offered, are consolidated and managed by the Procurement Unit. The implication of this is that suppliers not registered to offer services to the Bank will not be paid. 38 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities Our Supply Chain – The Biggest Category of spend are Cash Shipment and Diesel Category Vendor Total Spend (N) 2010 Cash Shipment Bankers Warehouse 291,009,732.97 Furniture Godsmart 4,199,000.00 Office Equipment Arribond 11,472,798.41 Printing Karrington 37,753,414.00 Diesel Various Vendors 439,577,169.24 IT Apice 48,385,260.00 Vendors with Satisfactory Group Vendor Appraisal Total Number Performance Red Flag 1 Office Equipment 135 130 5 2 Automobile 27 2 25 3 Stationery 21 17 4 4 Promotional Items 20 20 0 5 It 96 93 3 6 Construction 85 76 9 7 Sanitary 12 10 2 8 Courier Management 5 2 3 9 Energy 23 22 1 10 Electrical 12 11 1 11 Security 22 22 0 12 Telecommunications 17 16 1 13 Brand Management 16 16 0 14 Cash Shipment Services 1 1 0 15 Real Estate 9 9 0 16 Entertainment 13 10 3 17 Consultancy 10 10 0 18 Service Contracts 2 2 0 19 Travel Agency 4 4 0 20 Uniforms 4 3 1 21 Insurance 1 1 0 22 Office Movers 1 1 0 23 Rentals 2 2 0 Access Bank Plc 39 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Communities 1 2 3 1A  ccess Bank’s CEO with Melinda Gates at the UN Melums Development Goal Summit, September 2010, launching the Gift from Africa project. 2 Staff attending to a member of the operating community during a health mission conducted by the CBD. 3 A participant creating a painting during the Mirror the Master workshop. 40 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities Key Issues in Integral to our business is the importance Communities of investing in our community. At Access Bank, we are changing lives and Approach Page 42 impacting communities through our social Our community investment is conducted through investments. In so doing we engage with sponsorships and donations; partnerships and employee relevant stakeholders to address community volunteering. issues while also empowering our employees Health Page 44 to contribute ideas, skills and resources for Helping to reduce the impact of the triple pandemics on societal development through our employee employees, their families, the supply chain, customers and volunteering scheme. society in general. Key Objectives and Goals In 2010, Access Bank held a series of workshops Environment Page 46 The Bank’s community investment objective for under its SME Workplace Policy Programme. Access Bank supports the period 2009–2011 is for higher impact. The workshop is aimed at building and global efforts at making the enhancing the capacities of small and medium environment more conducive Hence, the objectives and progress made for the scale enterprises (SMEs) to increase health for individuals and business focus area are: programmes through a 2-day workplace operations. policy developmental workshop on HIV/AIDS, The Arts – objectives 1. To identify and promote young and promising tuberculosis and malaria entitled “Empowering The Arts Page 47 artists to global recognition. SMEs to Strengthen and Develop Workplace Policy”. The programme was held in three Access Bank identifies 2. To increase the level of Arts appreciation in and promotes young and regions: Lagos, Enugu and Minna. Overall, our communities through awareness creation. promising artists to global over 226, about 250 SMEs participated in the recognition. 3. To project unique African art and culture. programme. This led to the launch of Mirror the Master Environment objectives initiative, which is aimed at art development by Access Bank shall support global efforts at celebrating the works of established Art Masters. making the environment more conducive for The initiative is carried out through a workshop individuals and business operations. and exhibition based approach. Workshops provide a platform to introduce Masters and Through the Going Green; Beyond Words their works to young participants, with a view Tree Planting Initiative, Access Bank has been to increasing their appreciation for the arts and able to raise awareness about climate change stimulating their artistic skills. causes, effects, and solutions. It has also inspired students to effectively reduce CO2 emissions The selected Master for the first phase was personally, within schools, and in their local Benedict Enwonwu. The initiative was held in communities. A total of 2800 trees were Osogbo, Benin, Zaria and Enugu with over 452 planted across the three states for the project students partaking in this programme. At the launch. The Access Bank tree planting initiative end of each workshop, competitions were held was implemented in partnership with Idea at each zone and three winners were selected by Builders, an NGO engaged in the promotion of a seasoned crop of artists. environmentally friendly activities. Johncross Omeke, emerged as the winner of the competition and his work is currently in the 2011: key community objectives Royal Collection at Buckingham Palace. ••For 2011, we intend to achieve the following: ––Expand current flagship projects to locations Health objectives across Africa; 1. To help our operating communities achieve improved access to health services and ––Ensure initiatives reach a greater number of treatment for general well being, in line beneficiaries; with the millennium development goals in ––Collaborate with local and international combating HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, organisations to ensure successful and other major diseases. implementation of initiatives. 2. Support and initiate programmes targeted at improving the health conditions at the community level. Access Bank Plc 41 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Communities Approach to community Employee volunteering Global Fund ‘Gift from Africa’ project With an ongoing commitment to appropriate Empowered to contribute ideas, skills and ‘Gift from Africa’ is a campaign which seeks to 1% of annual profit in support of social resources to address social issues, our 4500 engage the African private sector in the fight investments, Access Bank actively seeks to employees are actively engaged in various high against AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. The improve the affairs of its host communities. impact and sustainable community development campaign is a cooperation between The Global initiatives across Africa in the focus areas of Fund and Friends of the Global Fund Africa The Bank focuses on the arts, education, education, health and the environment. (Friends Africa). It provides an opportunity for environment, health and sports. In doing so, Africans to demonstrate global leadership as it engages with relevant stakeholders to address So far, over 25,000 lives have been touched and impacted through our employees. This part of a broader effort to promote private community issues while also empowering support for the Global Fund around the world. employees to contribute ideas, skills and includes around 15,000 students in educational resources for societal development, through institutions, 100 orphans and vulnerable In line with the belief that Africans should take its Employee Volunteering scheme. children affected by HIV/AIDS, 1500 secondary responsibility for the development of Africa, school students educated about HIV/AIDS, 4000 Access Bank made a donation of $1 million, It is noteworthy that despite the difficult hospital patients, 2000 community members which is the single largest contribution to the operating environment in 2010, Access Bank did gaining access to potable water and around Global Fund from an African private sector firm. not curtail its commitment to social investments. 3500 orphans, old people, prison inmates and By this corporate action, Access Bank becomes Partnerships motherless children. the first African private sector company to Notable projects include: Through employees’ Adopt a School project, collaborate with the Global Fund, Gift from various institutions such as Mafoluku Grammar Africa programme to fight AIDS, tuberculosis ••The training of 250 small and medium School and Ladipo Grammar School have and malaria. enterprises (SMEs) to develop HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria workplace policies been renovated and provided with facilities Access Bank’s Group Managing Director/CEO, and programmes in partnership with Friends to ensure a conducive learning environment. Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, led the African of the Global Fund Africa; Our mentorship and skills sharing initiative private sector delegation to launch the Gift from has enhanced the National Youth Service Africa project at the United Nations Millennium ••The hosting of a nationwide essay competition Corp Scheme while also benefiting secondary Development Summit on 21 September 2010. titled ‘My Tree and I’; school students and teachers. Our employees Beyond demonstrating its commitment to ••The launch of Green Clubs in 36 schools across have developed stage plays to educate corporate social responsibility, the donation by Nigeria under our Going Green; Beyond Words stakeholders on HIV/AIDS and have also the Bank is in response to the Global Fund’s Tree Planting Project in collaboration with Idea provided communities such as Ibeju Lekki call for support from the African private sector Builders Initiative. with borehole facilities for potable water. Oni in the fight against the triple pandemics Memorial Hospital and Apapa General Hospital threatening the socio economic development are beneficiaries of our hospital intervention of the continent. This is partly due to the projects. similarities Access Bank perceived between its The cervical cancer awareness programme has own corporate social responsibility vision and provided free screening for women and we the Global Fund’s worthy agenda. also sponsored cataract eye surgery for the less The Global Fund supported programmes are privileged in Calabar and Yola in Nigeria. making a difference in the lives of millions of people in 145 countries every day. To date, programmes supported by the Global Fund have saved 4.9 million lives providing AIDS treatment for 2.5 million people, anti tuberculosis treatment for six million people and distributing 104 million insecticide treated bed nets for the prevention of malaria. 1 1A ccess Bank’s Chief Executive Officer Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede presenting Condoleeza Rice with the Vison and Impact Award at the 2010 GBC Awards Dinner. 42 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities Access Bank Plc 43 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Communities Health Key activities of the Access Bank Workplace Policy 2. Education and awareness programmes Programmes are as follows: a. Advocacy through ATMs: In 2010, Access HIV/AIDS workplace policy programme The Access Bank’s workplace policy is a responsible 1. Capacity building Bank was able to provide an HIV awareness approach to managing HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and message to about 100,000 people through its a. Peer Education Programme: Access Bank malaria through effective workplace programmes, Automated Teller Machine (ATM) network. has trained 300 employees as peer educators. partnerships and community involvement, seeking These employees assist colleagues on HIV/ b. S trategic Behaviour Communication to reduce the impact of the triple pandemics on AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria-related issues Change/Information, Education and employees, their families, supply chain, customers as well as provide confidential counselling. Communication (BCC/IEC) materials: We and the society in general. This highly comprehensive programme also have developed brochures on HIV/AIDS with This ensures that our stakeholders have access includes focus group discussions to improve the theme: Take Responsibility; Stop AIDS. The to appropriate disease prevention programmes, the current knowledge base and develop brochures highlight HIV prevention, voluntary as well as access to medical care, support and tailor-made interventions. counselling and testing. They also provide treatment. Based on the successful internal the list of free voluntary counselling and test Externally, the peer educators are involved in implementation, the Bank has taken its workplace centres in Nigeria. The information brochure education and awareness programmes in our policy programme to the community through has been uploaded on the Bank’s website for operating environment. So far, 1200 students projects such as the SME Workplace Policy easy access for both our internal and external have been educated on HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis Programmme. stakeholders. and malaria through this platform. Access Bank has endeavoured to engage all c. E-Awareness: The Bank’s website and social In 2011, we have planned to train additional relevant stakeholders such as staff, customers, media pages – Facebook and Twitter – are peer educators and hold refresher courses suppliers and the operating community through also utilised to drive the Bank’s HIV/AIDS, to provide up-to-date information to enable platforms such as capacity building; education tuberculosis and malaria awareness to other them to better provide support to staff. and awareness; treatment, care and support and global audiences, aside from our immediate communications and networking. environment. To achieve this, a web banner on the need to take action and stop The Bank’s Workplace Policy Programme is discrimination was hosted on our website. implemented in Nigeria at the Bank’s headquarters and in other countries of operation, which include During 2010 World AIDS Day, various Burundi, Côte D’ivoire, Democratic Republic of messages were developed and uploaded on Congo, Ghana, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Gambia the Bank’s Facebook page, while links to IEC and Zambia. materials were provided on Twitter. Through these platforms, the Bank has directly reached about 105,000 people globally. The Access Bank HIV/AIDS Workplace Policy Programme Focus areas Objectives Capacity building Build internal capacity and mobilise the community to deal with the impact of HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria better Empower employees and stakeholders to understand HIV infection, prevent transmission and become non discriminatory towards people living with HIV and AIDS Education and awareness We also aim to institute and sustain HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria awareness, prevention of infection and discrimination campaigns by actively providing information and facilities to staff and external stakeholders Encourage staff involvement in the community Treatment, care and support Implement an effective workplace intervention programme that reflects Access Bank’s commitment to manage HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria in a way which values and protects individual rights, limits further spread of the disease and provides care and support for those infected and affected Communications and networking Encourage other business leaders to actively engage around the issue of HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria and to form strategic partnerships by: ••Ustting an example through Access Bank’s activities; ••Using various speaking engagements; ••Influencing a unified business sector response through Access Bank’s partnership with business organisations like GBC and NIBUCAA. Share Access Bank’s expertise and knowledge with key players to ensure a better understanding of the challenges and to encourage a more appropriate response. 44 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities d. Strategic Internal and External b. Internal programme: Access Bank assists Therefore, the policy development project was Awareness: Following on from the Bank’s employees in gaining access to medical designed with the following objectives: 2010 World AIDS Day theme ‘Be aware, Take treatment and obtaining proper medical • Improve workplace health policies in selected Action and Stop Stigmatisation’, information care within the scope of its existing health SMEs; materials were developed and disseminated to policy. Employees that are prevented from • Help SMEs understand the need to have a all employees in the group office and across the performing their duties due to HIV/AIDS, workplace health policy in their organisation Bank’s banking subsidiaries in Burundi, Côte tuberculosis and malaria illnesses are also D’ivoire, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ghana, subject to the Bank’s sick leave policy and • Help SMEs understand the three diseases in Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Gambia and Zambia and procedures. terms of prevention, care and treatment; customers of the Bank over a five day period. 4. Communications and networking • Reduce stigmatisation around the three The information deployed was centered on pandemics within the workplace; ‘Gift from Africa’ Project: The Bank has also statistics on HIV/AIDS and the reason for used this platform to advocate the assistance • Ensure employers and employees understand its rise. It also covered the prevention and of the private sector in the support against their health rights. treatment of HIV/AIDS. the triple pandemic. Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, The programme provided a forum for e. School Education Programme: Acquiring Group MD/CEO, Access Bank Plc, represented participating organisations to acquire the knowledge and skills encourages young the private sector delegation at the Global necessary skills to develop and implement world people to avoid or reduce behaviours that Fund Millennium Development Summit in class workplace policy on HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis carry a risk of HIV infection. It was also noted New York, where the African private sector and malaria which impacts positively on the that AIDS education is important for ensuring donation was announced. health and lives of people that are affected that they are prepared for situations that will The Bank also collaborated with the Global directly and indirectly with those illnesses. In put them at risk as they get older. Fund, Friends Africa and the United Nations the first phase, held in 2010, 226 SMEs were In view of this, Access Bank, in partnership Foundation to mobilise the private sector trained. with the Nigeria Business Coalition Against in Nigeria to join this global campaign by This important programme is implemented in AIDS (NIBUCAA) held a two-day educational hosting a Corporate Executives Event in collaboration with Friends of the Global Fund programme for students and teachers in Lagos, Nigeria, on Thursday, 2 December Africa (Friends Africa). Other partners that secondary schools. The curriculum was 2010 where substantial amounts of money provided technical support are Nigeria Business developed and facilitated by the NIBUCAA were raised to support the fight against Coalition Against AIDS (NIBUCAA), Global team with support from Access Bank peer HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis educators. and malaria (GBC) and National Action for the SME Workplace Policy Programme At these sessions young people are provided Employers in Africa, and Nigeria in particular, are Control of AIDS (NACA). with basic AIDS education that will enable affected tremendously by HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis them to protect themselves from becoming and malaria. According to a study done by infected. The lecture covered topics such as: World Economic Forum on Business Response information on the routes of HIV transmission to HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, which and prevention strategies; issues related to surveyed 153 Nigerian private sector firms, about HIV stigma and discrimination, and the care of 53% highlighted that HIV/AIDS was affecting people living with AIDS. their current business operations while 88% Students were also given the opportunity to mentioned that they expect HIV/AIDS to impact ask various questions which were competently their business operations in the next five years. tackled by the facilitators. The questions Our SME Workplace Policy Programme, a three raised centred on issues such as treatment of year project aimed at enhancing the capacity 1 HIV/AIDS and the dangers of sharing sharp of 250 (1st year), 500 (2nd year) and 1000 (3rd school objects with colleagues, amongst year) small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs) others. A total of 1200 students participated to increase health programmes, was created in the workshop. to address this situation. We reached SMEs 3. Treatment, care and support through workshops entitled ‘Empowering SMEs to Strengthen and Develop Workplace Policy’ in a. Gift from Africa Project’: The funds from three of the six geo political zones of Nigeria, Access Bank’s donation will be utilised to ensuring that participants were drawn from all address HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria parts of the country for higher impact. treatment, care and support programmes, across Nigeria, Burundi, Côte D’ivoire, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ghana, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Gambia and Zambia. 1 Access Bank advert showing support in fighting malaria. Access Bank Plc 45 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Communities Progress The lowest score in pre tests for all the three An award ceremony was held on Tuesday, 23 The process of putting in place an HIV sites was 7%, whereas the lowest in the post November 2010 to recognise the winners and workplace policy, including dissemination and tests for all the three sites was 18%, an increase inaugurate Green Clubs for schools. implementation, is actually a long term process. of 11%. The post-tests scores for all the three At this ceremony, participants were able This is mainly to allow for adequate planning sites also followed the same trend. The highest to provide first hand information on their for resources, including human and financial, score in pre tests was 60%, as against the experiences of the tree planting project. to ensure successful implementation within 90% in the post test – an increase of 30% in Generally, the schools were excited to be part the workplace as well as in the business host knowledge gained. of the project; however, the survival rate of the communities. From the analysis of the pre tests and post tests, trees was a major issue. For instance, EbuteTherefore, the current monitoring and evaluation it is evident that the training has positive impact Elefun High School explained that 20 trees were process was conducted by Friends Africa and on the knowledge of the peer educator trainees. planted and only 5 survived due to a recurrent NIBUCAA, six months after the training. The The programme provided a platform to highlight flood situation at the school. aim is not just to monitor progress but also to the need for the private sector to support the Other cases cited include the high climate provide the organisations with a step by step global fight. Through this workshop, SMEs, which temperature; trees were planted on playgrounds guide to developing the policy and supporting are the highest employer of labour in Africa, have and were trampled upon by students or visitors. those that need to tailor specific interventions been empowered to establish workplace health The schools and the specific problems were noted for their workforce. The monitoring process policy to help ensure a consistent and equitable and the Bank has taken steps such as providing entails routine assessment of ongoing activities approach to the prevention and treatment of HIV/ additional trees to the school for planting. and progress by the companies as they develop AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria among employees and shape workplace policies on HIV/AIDS, This event also attracted the support of the and their families. The initiative will have, Nigerian Conservation Foundation, Lagos tuberculosis and malaria. amongst other things, provided support to ensure State Ministry of Agriculture and Green Lagos In view of this, a tracking tool for monitoring that the workplace policies and programmes Programme. and evaluating progress for these SMEs was developed are in compliance with existing laws developed by NIBUCAA. This tool is a detailed regarding prevention and management of any Green Clubs questionnaire which contains questions such as: of the three diseases. As part of the Bank’s aim to provide a forum for students to learn more about their environment ••Level of senior management commitment; The programme has also aided the various and develop projects for sustainability. Going ••The current status of the policy; organisations’ understanding of the protection Green; Beyond Words green Clubs were of the rights of those affected by HIV/ ••Employee engagement activities; inaugurated and established in 36 schools AIDS; prevention of the diseases through across Nigeria. ••Budget allocation; information, education and training; care and support for workers and their families and the The objectives of the clubs are to help students ••Does the company have a steering committee discouragement of stigma and discrimination. acquire an awareness of and sensitivity to the on HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria; whole environment and its problems, increase ••Has a focal person been appointed who Environment basic understanding of how the environment coordinates the programme within the functions and provide an enabling atmosphere company? In 2009, Access Bank launched its environmental for members to acquire a set of values and initiative, Going Green; Beyond Words Tree ••Has the management effectively feelings of concern for the environment. Planting Project, which is aimed at fighting communicated the HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and climate change by effectively reducing The clubs are administered by the principal or an malaria policy to its workforce? greenhouse gas emissions while engendering agriculture teacher who serve as the club patron or ••Information, education and communication environmental sustainability. Through this facilitator and supervise the club. Members of the clubs (IEC) activities amongst others. project, the Bank has been able to raise are students of the participating schools. The companies fill out the quarterly awareness about climate change and inspired The club officers include president, vice questionnaires designed to monitor their students to reduce CO2 emissions personally. president, social/publicity secretary, financial progress and policy implementation. 2800 trees have been planted. secretary/treasurer of the club. These officers are In each of the training sites, the test instrument Following on from the tree planting process, elected from amongst the students by an open was administered on the participants at the an essay competition, with the theme ‘My Tree ballot system to steer the club as well as take on beginning of the training. The same test and I’, was organised. A total of 181 entries certain organisational responsibilities. instrument was also administered on the were received from 36 schools in Abia, Abuja In the first quarter of 2011, Green Newsletters participants at the end of the training. The and Lagos State. Nine zonal winners emerged will be published by the Green Club. results of the pre tests and post tests are and three national winners were selected. The presented in Table 1 below: zonal winners received cash, while the national winners received scholarships. See the results on Table 2, opposite. Table 1: Pre / Post Tests Scores Total S/N Site Questionnaires Filled Pre Tests Scores Post Tests Scores 1 Lagos 39 34% 77% 38% 84% 2 Minna 94 7% 64% 32% 70% 3 Enugu 50 8% 60% 18% 90% 46 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities THE Arts At the workshops, background information on Outcome Exhibition, Lagos Mirror the Master: This is an art initiative Ben Enwonwu and his works were presented to The Lagos outcome exhibition represents the final which facilitates the introduction of the Masters participants. Thereafter, participants were shown phase of the 2009/2010 Mirror the Master arts and their works to young participants with a how to use various art materials such as a initiative, bringing together best art works created view to increasing their appreciation for the canvas, frames and types of brushes. Participants by participants across the four zones for viewing Arts and stimulating their artistic skills. 450 were also taught how to mix colours ie mixing at a private art gallery in Lagos State.“Mirror the secondary and primary school students from 39 primary colours to get secondary colours, to Master” Outcome Exhibition was held at the schools have so far participated in the first phase achieve different paint styles and the control of Nike Arts Gallery and textile museum, located which was held in four zones across Nigeria. brushes while painting. at Lekki Epe-Expressway Peninsula. Over 120 The appreciation of the Arts expresses values, Students were then instructed to create their own attendees cut across the art community, Lagos attitudes and invokes change that transcends art work by making sketches on the canvas and State Ministry of Arts and Culture, representatives boundaries and preconceptions to achieve the then painting them with colours that appealed of arts centres, Society of Nigerian Artists, NGO’s, human goal of unity and understanding. to them. At the end of each workshop, students Media, Customers, art lovers and collectors. were presented with certificates of participation Prominent artists in attendance included Rasheed Access Bank has actively demonstrated its an artist gift pack containing paint brushes, Gbadamosi, Jimoh Buraimoh, Jerry Buhari, Emeka commitment to the development of the Arts books, drawing pencils and a mathset. Okpara, Ken Okoli, Samuel Olagbagi. by supporting and creating platforms for the For the pilot edition, which commenced in the The final 12 art works selected from the zones identification, exposure and projection of artistic last quarter of 2009 and ended in 2010, the were assessed and judged by a panel of judges talents. Consequently, to take the Bank’s creative selected Master was Benedict Enwonwu. The comprising of Rasheed Gbadamosi, Ken Okoli, aspiration to greater heights, an art initiative initiative was held in Osogbo, Benin, Zaria and Nike Davis, Oliver Enwonwu and Jimoh Buraimoh. titled Mirror the Master was developed. Enugu with the final exhibition in Lagos, Nigeria. The overall winner was 13 year old Omeke The Mirror the Master initiative is carried out Johncross, from Model Primary School, through a workshop and exhibition based Nsukka. He painted the famous Idia Mask, also approach. Workshops will facilitate the representing the icon for the arts initiative. introduction of the Masters and their works to Incidentally, the artwork used as the cover design young participants with a view to increasing for the catalogue is Omeke’s painting. their appreciation for the Arts and stimulating their artistic skills. Table 2: Going Green; Beyond Words The following are the winners of the Tree Planting Essay Writing Competition LAGOS ABUJA Position Name of Student Name of School Position Name of Student Name of School 1st Sobowale Taiwo Agidingbi Junior 1st Hassaini Hauwa Government Girls Science Grammar School Secondary School, Kuje 2nd Popoola Abiola Ebute-Elefun 2nd Joseph O Agada Government Secondary School, High School Kwali 3rd Omotuyi Korede Agidingbi Junior 3rd Bitris Hanatu Government Girls Science Grammar School Secondary School, Kuje ABIA The following are the three national winners: Position Name of Student Name of School Position Name of Student 1st Anthony Ikechukwu Wilcox Memorial 1st Hassaini Hauwa Comprehensive Secondary School, Aba 2nd Anthony Ikechukwu 2 nd Ndubueze Gideon Wilcox Memorial Comprehensive 3rd Ndubueze Gideon Secondary School, Aba 3rd Uduma Goodness Ohafia Girl’s Model Okite Secondary School, Amaekpu Ohafia Access Bank Plc 47 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Communities Employee engagement in community So far, over 25,000 lives have been touched Through employees’ Adopt a School project, programme and impacted through our employees. This various institutions such as Mafoluku Grammar includes around 15,000 students in educational School and Ladipo Grammar School have Volunteering policy institutions, 100 orphans and vulnerable children been renovated and provided with facilities Our Bank believes that its employees have their affected by HIV/AIDS, 1500 secondary school to ensure a conducive learning environment. own responsibility to contribute to societal students educated about HIV/AIDS, 4000 Our mentorship and skills sharing initiative has development and supports participation in hospital patients, 2000 community members enhanced the National Youth Service Corp impactful initiatives to address social concerns. gaining access to potable water and around Scheme while also benefiting secondary school 4500 employees are actively engaged in 3500 orphans, old people, prison inmates and students and teachers. Our employees have various high impact and sustainable community motherless children. developed stage plays to educate stakeholders development initiatives across Africa in education, on HIV/AIDS and have also provided communities health and the environment. such as Ibeju Lekki with borehole facilities for potable water. Oni Memorial Hospital and Apapa General Hospital are beneficiaries of our hospital intervention projects. Volunteering Data S/N Group Initiative Title Beneficiary (S) 2010 Update 1 Group Compliance Adopt a School Ladipo Primary This is a three year school adoption project that commenced in 2008. and Internal School For sustenance of the project in 2010, the Group provided a pumping machine Control and water tank to supply water to the restrooms initially constructed through the project. This was followed by career counselling sessions for over 200 students of the Ladipo School. 2 Branch Services Mind The Gap Mentoring National Youth Access Bank and MTGap conducted a successful career advocacy session during Group Project (MTGap) Service Corps the 2010 Batch B National Youth Service Corps Orientation camp. This session focused on selling and communication values and was facilitated by Martins Elugbaju, a seasoned salesman with a leading multinational software company. 70% of the participants were moved from ‘Awareness’ to ‘Knowledge’ level in the AKSM (Awareness, Knowledge, and Skills & Mastery) matrix. From the feedback, 50% of the mentors confirmed that discussing selling with the protégé was a great reminder of the critical skill that must be strengthened to build a sustainable career and remain employable at all times. 3 Global Trade Support for Orphans and Orphans and The initiative provides support for orphans and vulnerable children (OVC) and Vulnerable Children (OVC) Vulnerable youths at risk because their care givers have died or been infected with HIV/ AIDS. Children affected by Global Trade (Volunteering Group) made a donation of N1.4m to Hope HIV/AIDS Worldwide. This was geared towards providing scholarships and health support for over 25 OVCs. 4 Economic Preparing Leaders & Youth and The broad objectives of the initiative include mentoring and skill acquisition, Intelligence/Group Grooming Talents teacher renovation of school infrastructures and empowering teaching staff. Market Risk empowerment For the second phase, the group selected Mafoluku Grammar School, Oshodi, as the beneficiary of the initiative. The group’s intervention include the renovation of the school staffroom, repair of the school water system, upgrade of the restrooms and refurbishment of home economics and biology laboratories. This programme has impacted over 150 students. 5 Group Treasury Cervical Cancer Health Women with a The programme entails cervical cancer publicity and awareness through emails, Campaign particular focus flyers, one-on-one interaction; a walk for cervical cancer, and a symposia on cervical cancer which over 100 people attended. Free cervical cancer and clinical on women breast cancer examinations were also provided for 70 women. 6 CCBG Lagos Mini Health Mission Ibeju Lekki Local The project focused on most prevalent health challenges plaguing the Island/Victoria Government community. Through this initiative, Access Bank branded delivery packs were given to expectant mothers, water purification solutions for the provision Island and Ikoyi Area of Lagos of potable water were distributed, awareness materials on prevention and Super Region State treatment of malaria were provided and free health checks and medical examinations for indigenes of the community, with on the spot administration of drugs for common ailments, were also provided. The programme was held for three days between 31 Nov and 2 Dec, 2010. Over 2000 people were positively affected through this project. 48 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities 1 2 1 Reality Vision Free Eye Surgery Project. 2 An Access Bank employee with beneficiaries of the Reality Vision Project. S/N Group Initiative Title Beneficiary (S) 2010 Update 7 Central Processing The Future Of Our Youth; Herbert The programme is for a three year period starting from 2009. The project Centre Group Our Passion Macaulay includes establishment of an endowment fund; infrastructural upgrade and career and counselling sessions for the students. CPC Group has committed to Senior Girls expend N7.4 million for the successful implementation of the project, over three Grammar years. School Currently, a block of four classrooms have been rebuilt and this accommodates about 120 students. 8 Legal and Reality Vision – Return the Less Privileged Legal and Operational Risk Management worked with Tulsi Chanrai Foundation Operational Risk Invaluable Gift of Vision to to sponsor 25 eye surgeries for individuals affected by cataracts in Calabar, Cross River State. Management Curably Blind People 9 IT Group ‘Fulfilment’ – Capacity Indigent The initiative intends to reduce poverty among indigent entrepreneurs in Building for Indigent Entrepreneur society and help build the capacity of this class of people to lead growing and Entrepreneur sustainable small scale businesses. The project is implemented in three phases which comprise funding, training and monitoring. The indigent entrepreneurs will be provided with seed capital to build the foundation and grow their business and provide employment for others. Thereafter, adequate capacity for building workshops and follow up will be conducted. In the first phase of the project, ten indigent entrepreneurs will be impacted. However, indirect beneficiaries will include their dependents and employees as they will be better placed to cater for them. 10 Retail Group Correctional Our Retail Division has committed to upgrade the multipurpose hall at the Centre for Boys Correctional Centre for Boys, Oregun, as well as provide mentoring for the boys. The upgrade includes white writing boards with a year’s supply of temporary markers, windows, benches, TVs for educational programmes, and re tiling and repainting the hall. 11 Corporate Finance ‘Teach them Well’ Government This project was selected as a result of the Groups strategic focus on knowledge Senior College, impartation for secondary school students as a way of supporting the government’s effort in providing quality education. Marako The second phase of the project includes the provision of science equipment and renovation of the school science laboratory. 12 Credit Risk Improving the Quality of Ibeju Lekki This second phase project entails the renovation of four classrooms in the Management Life Community community primary school building which involves repairing the damaged roof covering, reflooring classrooms, plastering and painting the building. Primary School Through this project, 240 students will be given a conducive environment for learning. Access Bank Plc 49 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 GRI Data table GRI Indicator Description Report Reference Page Stategy & analysis 1.1 Group Chairman’s statement Group Chairman’s Statement 2 Group Managing Director’s Statement Statement from the Group Managing 3 Director/Chief Executive Officer Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Risks and Opportunities 9 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of reporting organisation About Access Bank Plc 4 2.2 Major brands, products and services Products, Services & Operation 5 2.3 Operational structure Operational Structure of Access Bank Plc 10-11 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Access Bank Across the Globe 4 2.5 Countries of operation About Access Bank Plc, 4 Access Bank Across the Globe 2.6 Nature of ownership Ownership and Legal form 4 2.7 Markets served About Access Bank 4,6,22-23 2.8 Scale of organisation About Access Bank Plc 4 2.9 Significant changes Executive Summary 2-3 2.10 Awards received Awards & Recognition 1 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period About this Report 1 3.2 Date of most recent previous report About this Report 1 3.3 Reporting cycle About this Report 1 3.4 Contact person Contact Information 57 3.5 Defining report content About this report, Assurance statement 1,55-56 and commentary Report scope & boundary 3.6 Boundaries of the report About this report 1 3.7 Limitations on report scope About this report, Assurance statement 1,55-56 and commentary 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures About this report 1 3.10 Re-statements of information Assurance statement and commentary 55-56 3.11 Significant changes About this report, Economic Performance 1-7 GRI content index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the GRI Content Index 50-54 Assurance 50 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities GRI Indicator Description Report Reference Page 3.13 Assurance Assurance statement and commentary Governance, commitments and engagement governance 4.1 Governance structure Governance 10-12 4.2 Whether Chair is also an executive officer Governance 10 4.3 Number of members that are independent Governance 10 and/or non executive Board members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees Governance 11 to feedback to highest governance body 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure Governance 12 conflicts of interest are avoided 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission and their status Executive Summary; Group Chairman’s 2-3 Statement; Statement from the Group Managing Director 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing CSR Committee 12 the organisation’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s Governance 12 own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance Commitments to external Initiatives 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and External Initiatives 15 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) External Initiatives 15 and/or national/international advocacy organisations in which the organisation Stakeholder engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by organisation Stakeholder Engagement 14 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Stakeholder Engagement 14 whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency Stakeholder Engagement 14 of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Stakeholder Engagement 14 stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Economic performance indicators Goals and performance Aspect: economic performance Access Bank Plc 51 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 GRI Data Table (Cont.) GRI Indicator Description Report Reference Page EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including Value-added statement; Distribution 7 revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, of economic benefit; Key facts donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Environmental Sustainability 36 for the organisation’s activities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit Distribution of economic benefit; 28 plan obligations Retirement benefits EC4 Financial assistance from Government Not applicable n/a Aspect: market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared Fair Remuneration to local minimum wage EC6 Policy, practice and proportion of spending Supply Chain; Distribution 38-39 on locally based suppliers of economic benefit EC7 Procedures for local hiring Procedure for Local Hiring; 29 Recruitment Criteria Enviromental performance indicators Goals and performance Aspect: materials C EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Environment 36 Aspect: energy C EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Environment 36 C EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Environment 36 A EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Environment 36 improvements A EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Environment 36 reductions achieved Aspect: products and services EN26 Environmental impact initiatives Environment 36-37 EN27 Percentage of products and packaging reclaimed Not applicable n/a Aspect: compliance C EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number 25 of non monetary sanctions for non compliance with environmental laws and regulations Aspect: transport A EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products Environment 36 and other goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce 52 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities GRI Indicator Description Report Reference Page Social performance indicators: labour practices and decent work Goals and performance Aspect: employment LA1 Total workforce About Access Bank Employees 27 LA2 Employment turnover About Access Bank Employees 28 LA3 Benefits provided to full time employees Fair Remuneration 28 Aspect: labour/ management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by Employees collective bargaining agreements Aspect: occupational health and safety LA8 Serious disease programmes Access Bank Workplace Policy 30 LA9 Trade unions health and safety topics covered Security Office 30 Aspect: training and education LA10 Number of hours expended on employee training Staff Training 27 LA11 Skills management programmes Learning and Development; Ensuring 30 Employability and Skills Development LA12 Performance and career development reviews Career development 30 Aspect: diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Breakdown of employees per category according to gender, Employees – diversity and equality 28 age group, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Female/male ratio by employee Employees – diversity and equality 28 Aspect: Human Rights Investment and Procurement Practices C HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have Supply Chain 38 undergone screening on human rights and actions taken Security Practices A HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation’s Security Training 25 policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Social Performance Indicators Goals and performance Aspect: Community Access Bank Plc 53 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 GRI Data Table (Cont.) GRI Indicator Description Report Reference Page SO1 Scope, effectiveness and impact of programmes Community investment; the 40-49 and practices on the Community environment; environmental sustainability; governance and ethics Aspect: corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed Governance Corruption 25 for corruption risk SO3 Percentage of employees trained in anti corruption Governance Corruption 25 policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Corruption 25 Aspect: public policy SO5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying Public Policy 9 SO6 Political lobbying and contributions Public Policy 9 Aspect: compliance 9 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number No fines received 25 of non monetary sanctions GRI Financial Services Sector Supplement D1 Description of policies with specific environmental Environment 35-37 and social components applied to business lines D2 Description of procedures for assessing and screening Environment 35-37 environmental and social risks in business lines D3 Description of processes for monitoring clients’ Environment 35-37 implementation of and compliance with environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions The AA1000 Assurance Standard The AA1000 Assurance Standard (AA1000AS) assures the credibility and quality of sustainability performance and reporting. AA1000AS requires the assurance provider to evaluate the extent of a company’s adherence to a set of principles rather than simply assessing the reliability of data. It looks at underlying management approaches, systems and processes and how stakeholders have participated. AA1000AS delivers a rigorous process that adds value for the company being assured and for external stakeholders. It provides findings and conclusions on the status of an organisation’s sustainability performance and makes recommendations to encourage continuous improvement. 54 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Overview Environment Assurance Customers Supply Chain Employees Communities Assurance statement and Commentary Access Bank operates across ten different commentary This is Access Bank’s third full CSR Report. The countries. The majority of the examples included company has made significant progress in its in the Report refer to Nigeria, which is Access May 2011 Bank’s largest market. Future Reports would approach to CSR over the last three years, and Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010: be enhanced further through the inclusion of has taken a lead the Nigerian financial services assurance statement and commentary. greater reference to activities and initiatives in sector in this area. There is a clear governance Assurance statement structure in place for managing CSR, evidence the Bank’s other countries of operation. Access Bank has commissioned Corporate that responsible behaviours are being embedded Materiality: What are the issues that really Citizenship to provide external assurance and across the Bank’s operations and a commitment matter to the organisation’s sustainability a commentary solely on its Corporate Social from senior Management to build a sustainable performance (“material issues”)? How does the Responsibility Report 2010. business in the long term. organisation identify these issues? The Report gives an account of Access Bank’s In our view, the Report displays Access The scope of our assurance strengths and successes, such as its adoption Bank’s adherence to the AA1000 principle of The assurance provides the reader with an of the Equator Principles and introduction of materiality. independent, external assessment of the Report environmental and social risk consideration and, in particular, with how it corresponds with The Report covers Access Bank’s core material into project finance and lending decisions. the AA1000 standard. It is intended for the issues. The process for determining materiality It also addresses other challenging issues, general reader and for more specialist audiences is referred to throughout the report, citing the especially those stemming from the global who have a professional interest in Access Bank’s prioritisation of risks and opportunities and use economic situation, such as the new governance responsibility and sustainability performance. of GRI guidelines. Building on points made in requirements within the Nigerian banking sector. Access Bank has chosen to use the new iteration Going forward, as Access Bank increases the our assurance commentary last year, there is also of the AA1000 Assurance Standard AA1000AS focus of its reporting towards performance, we a clearer link between determining materiality (2008). Our assurance is a Type 1 assurance as believe it is important that it provides a balanced and stakeholder engagement. defined by the standard, in that it evaluates picture of highlights and challenges in an open The customer section is more complete than the nature and extent of adherence to the and transparent way. last year, with the greater detail provided on the AA1000AS principles of inclusivity, materiality Bank’s ombudsman service a highlight. In future It is evident that Access Bank wants to keep and responsiveness and assures the behaviour of years, more information should be provided on making progress on CSR. The company’s the organisation as reported here. Our assurance the markets in which Access Bank operates, decision to adhere to external initiatives and best used disclosed information as its starting point giving the reader a fuller account of the Bank’s practice standards, such as the Global Reporting and then investigated the underlying systems, customers and the competitive landscape. Initiative (GRI) and the United Nations Global processes and sustainability performance Compact, will help drive further improvements. Access Bank reports on its main environmental information to arrive at its conclusions. Our Specific comments in relation to the three impact areas, notably energy use, fuel assurance has been informed by the GRI G3 principles of AA1000 are as follows: consumption from generators, water, waste Principles for defining report content and quality. and transport. There is scope for Access Bank to The level of assurance offered is moderate as Inclusivity: Does the organisation accept more clearly articulate its overall environmental defined by AA1000AS (2008). That is to say, our a responsibility to those on whom it has strategy and include year on year trend data work obtained sufficient evidence to support the an impact? Does it involve stakeholders in to allow the reader to make a more informed statement that the risk of our conclusion being developing a strategic approach to corporate judgment on the Bank’s performance. in error is reduced. responsibility and sustainability? Access Bank is entirely and solely responsible In our view, the Report displays Access for the contents of the Report, Corporate Bank’s adherence to the AA1000 principle of Citizenship for its assurance. inclusiveness. A detailed note of our assurance methodology Access Bank identifies and accepts its appears at the end of this statement. responsibilities to its key stakeholders. As in previous years, the Bank has structured the Opinion and conclusions Report around its stakeholders, reporting on In our opinion the Access Bank CSR Report the impact it has on these groups in a clear and reflects the principles of AA1000 (2008): logical way. inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. The Bank reviewed its strategic approach to In our commentary we review the Report against CSR during the reporting period, streamlining each of these principles separately. We also its strategy to focus on responsible business provide feedback that can help the company practice and community investment. The and its stakeholders identify where Access review was informed by opinion from different Bank’s reporting can be strengthened in future. audiences. There is scope for Access Bank to formalise the role of stakeholder engagement in strategy development going forward. Over the next few years, one option to consider is to have a panel of relevant stakeholders that feed into shaping CSR direction and prioritisation on an ongoing basis. Access Bank Plc 55 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Assurance Responsiveness: Does the organisation Corporate Citizenship London April 2011 Our work did not extend to a complete audit respond to stakeholder issues that affect of the Report’s contents. We have not been Methodological notes performance through its actions and responsible for the preparation of Access The assurance work was commissioned in communications? Bank’s CSR Report nor in devising the internal February 2011 and was completed on 26 May In our view, the Report displays Access Bank’s management and reporting systems that yielded 2011. Detailed records were kept of meetings, adherence to the AA1000 principle the data contained therein. assurance visits and correspondence relating to of responsiveness. the inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness The opinions expressed in this external assurance The Report contains evidence that Access of the Report, as well as to technical matters statement and commentary are intended to Bank uses feedback to shape its approach. For relating to the accuracy and presentation extend understanding of Access Bank’s nonexample, the actions taken in response to the of data. A team of three, led by a director, financial performance and should not be used or employee survey findings are detailed. Going undertook the assurance and commentary relied upon to form any judgments, or take any forward, the Bank should highlight how new process. An associate director acted as adviser to decisions, of a financial nature. policies and practices are developed in response the group. The team has a variety of professional Corporate Citizenship is a leading assuror of to stakeholder feedback. and technical competencies and experience. For corporate responsibility reports. The company is further information please refer to our website a member of AccountAbility (Institute for Social The inclusion of customer feedback provides www.corporate-citizenship.com. and Ethical AccountAbility). an outside view on Access Bank’s services and performance. In future reports, there is scope Our external assurance and commentary process We have provided report assurance for Access for there to be greater stakeholder voice. A for Access Bank’s CSR Report has involved, but Bank in 2009, 2010 and 2011. In addition challenging view from an outside source will help not been limited to, the following elements: to our work on assurance, Access Bank is a the reader to get a better grasp of key issues. • U  nderstanding Access Bank and its value member of the LBG (www.lbg-online.net), an Responding to key issues in the Nigerian chain, its own culture and the broader evaluation framework for corporate community banking sector, Access Bank’s role in initiating social contexts in which it operates; its involvement which we manage on behalf of its the IFRS Conference and Bond Seminar in 2010 approach to and understanding of corporate members and adherents. is a highlight of the Report. With Access Bank responsibility; how it identifies issues Corporate Citizenship is part of Chime planning on convening another industry seminar material to its operations; Communications. Production of Access Bank’s on environmental and social risk management in •  enchmarking against peers, competitors, B CSR Report was undertaken by Rare Corporate 2011, the role of the Bank as a collaborator and best practice and internationally recognised Design, an independently managed agency sustainability leader can be continued next year. standards to identify the basis on which to within the group. The Report contains evidence that Access judge Access Bank’s performance; Bank uses feedback to shape its approach. For • A  nalysis of Access Bank’s stakeholder example, the actions taken in response to the engagement activity, including findings from employee survey findings are detailed. Going the employee survey; forward, the Bank should highlight how new •  eview of national and international R policies and practices are developed in response published sources of information about the to stakeholder feedback. views and opinions of external stakeholders; The inclusion of customer feedback provides • E xamination of the Report at set stages in its an outside view on Access Bank’s services and development and testing of the assertions Corporate Citizenship performance. In future reports, there is scope throughout, drawing from evidence and Holborn Gate for there to be a greater stakeholder voice. A supporting documentation, reporting 330 High Holborn challenging view from an outside source will help mechanisms, frameworks and processes; London WC1V 7QG the reader to get a better grasp of key issues. • E xamination of Management and reporting United Kingdom Looking forward systems, notably for community investment; Tel: +44 (0)20 7861 1616 Access Bank has made significant progress • S ite visit to Access Bank’s Head Office in www.corporate-citizenship.com towards becoming a sustainable business over the last few years. The next step is to take Lagos; If you require any further information please an even longer term approach to responsible • Interviews with eight senior managers contact: behaviour and strategy. Increasingly, companies including the Customer Ombudsman, Group Omobolanle Babatunde are setting more ambitious, longer term targets. Head of General Resource Management and Head, Corporate Social Responsibility This forward looking approach helps drive Head of Corporate Social Responsibility; Access Bank Plc forward improvements and performance. Access •  ttendance of internal workshops on A Tel: (+234) 703 411 2651 Bank has some targets for its CSR activities, but introducing environmental and social risk in the main goals only look one year ahead. assessment into project finance and lending There is scope for Access Bank to set more long decisions. term stretch targets linked to what the business aims to achieve in the next 3-5 years, or look even further ahead to 2020. 56 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 This Report has been prepared in line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Guidelines to the GRI Application level B+. As a way of adding value to our CSR Report and the reporting process, while disclosing and being accountable to our internal and external stakeholders on an on-going basis, Access Bank Plc welcomes feedback from all our stakeholders in respect of the content of this report and additional information of interest to the stakeholders assumed to be material. The information received would be functional in mapping out other areas for disclosure hence providing a balanced and reasonable representation of the sustainability performance of Access Bank Plc. We are interested in hearing what our stakeholders think about our sustainability performance and reporting efforts – and how we can improve both. Please email your thoughts and suggestions to: Omobolanle Babatunde Head, Corporate Social Responsibility Access Bank Plc Plot 1665, Oyin Jolayemi Victoria Island Lagos State Nigeria E: omobolanle.babatunde@accessbankplc.com E: corporatesocialresponsibility@accessbankplc.com W: www.accessbankplc.com Designed and produced by Rare Corporate Design, London www.rarecorporate.co.uk This report is printed on 150gsm FSC silk art paper. The Forest Stewardship Council is a non-profit entity that supports environmentally appropriate, socially beneficial and economically viable management of the world’s forests. FSC independently tracks, traces and identifies wood fibers from the forest through every step of the procurement, manufacturing and printing process, confirming that each supplier in the chain follows rigorous controls, management and reporting practices. Access Bank Plc Plot 1665, Oyin Jolayemi Victoria Island, Lagos State, Nigeria T: (+234) 1 461 9264 9 F: (+234) 1 461 8811 www.accessbankplc.com
