COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS “GSM KAZAKHSTAN OJSC “KAZAKHTELECOM” LLP Kcell and Activ trade marks Introduction “GSM Kazakhstan OJSC “Kazakhtelecom” LLP (further GSM Kazakhstan/Kcell) is the cellular operator of Kazakhstan. The main social role of the Company is business development and improvement of the Kazakhstan economy via providing of the highest quality cellular services. Corporate Social Responsibility is the integral part of the Company’s mission and strategy development. By developing and promoting the high technologies services and products the Company favors the development of the Kazakh innovation economy and its diversification within the framework of global competition. From the very beginning of its operation GSM Kazakhstan/Kcell has been playing the role of the trend setter giving tone, trends and tendency to development of the Kazakhstani cellular market and creating the role model of corporate social responsible business through the dynamic actions. The mission of the Company is to make the cellular communication available to all citizens of Kazakhstan, generating value to the utmost extent to its subscribers and rendering services of the highest quality. GSM Kazakhstan/Kcell, being a local Kazakhstan company, makes a huge contribution to the development and improvement of public processes of the country, taking an active position of the socially responsible business. That is why the Company takes the lead in and renders support to many publicly important projects. GSM Kazakhstan/Kcell aims to follow the highest international standards of sustainable development and social responsibility, implementing them on a daily basis and that is why GSM Kazakhstan/ Kcell was the first telecommunications company of Kazakhstan, which joined the Global Compact in 2007. Veysel Aral, Chief Executive Officer of GSM Kazakhstan/Kcell 1 July 2011 Contacts: Aida Dossayeva, Corporate Communications Director Tel. +7 727 2582755 ext. 1945 Fax: +7 727 2582755 ext. 1013 e-mail: aida.dossayeva@kcell.kz The principle Systems Activities Outcomes Human rights The Principle 1: Kcell code of ethics In its day-to-day business GSM Kazakhstan/Kcell is Currently, 1549 employees are with GSM Businesses should and conduct governed by the Kcell code of ethics and conduct and Kazakhstan/Kcell throughout Kazakhstan. support and internal policies as well as principles, formalized in In 2010 there were employed 240 employees. respect the Personnel Policy legislation by the Constitution of the Republic of protection of Kazakhstan and the Labor Code. Every day all information are updated and available to all internationally Salary Policy the Company’s employees at the internal web-portal proclaimed human The employment agreement is executed with each http://intra.kcell.kz , where the employees may freely rights and Regulation on employee where all rights and responsibilities of the express their opinions upon each issue and get necessary termination and parties, conditions of labor, rest, labor payment etc. are information about the Company, procedures, etc. The hiring provided for. most interesting and important issues may be found in the company internal magazine “Kcell Magazine”. Regulation on In addition, the Company offers to its employees a social financial assistance package, which includes insurance programs, soft lending in Regularly updated information about the Company’s to employees the leading banks of the country, meal service, daily projects and campaign are available to external auditoria transfer as well as a wide spectrum of training programs at web-sites http://www.kcell.kz and http://www.activ.kz Social package for and guaranteed payment of income tax and deductions to and in our customer care offices and standardized dealer employees the pension saving funds. In case of any unforeseen points. circumstances an employee may be aid paid and provided with the leave. Awards: 2010: The American Chamber of Commerce in Kazakhstan, Community Relations Award. The Principle 2: Kcell code of ethics The Kcell code of ethics and conduct constitutes a topIn 2009 GSM Kazakhstan/Kcell jointly with the Make sure that and conduct document covering ethical policies and standards. Kazakhstani National Consumer League launched the they are not project “Free legal advice”. 3 special telephone numbers complicit in were assigned for the project. All Kazakhstani citizens can human rights timely get legal advice on different subjects as well as on abuses the most frequently asked questions placed on the website http://www.potrebitel.kz Labour The Principle 3: Kcell code of ethics The employment agreement is executed with each The arrangement of the first charity SMS project aiming Businesses should and conduct employee where all rights and responsibilities of the at children, needed in surgery to be done in the foreign uphold freedom of parties, conditions of labor, rest, labor payment etc. are countries, sponsors: the Charitable fund “Sabi” and the association and Labor contract provided for. Charitable fund “Voluntary Society Miloserdiye”. the effective recognition of the GSM Kazakhstan/Kcell to the utmost cooperate and render Opening and giving help to the center of social adaptation right to collective assistance to various public associations, protecting the and labor rehabilitation for children, youth and people bargaining rights of the socially vulnerable wide sections of the with disabilities “Eldany” and “Rukh”: equipment of the population. special correctional class and programme for social adaptation and working rehabilitation. The Principle 4: Constitution of the The elimination of Republic of all forms of forced Kazakhstan and compulsory labour The Principle 5: Kcell code of ethics The Labor Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan prohibits The effective and conduct using the child labor and GSM Kazakhstan/Kcell operates in abolition of child line with the labor laws. labour Labour contract Insurance programme The Principle 6: Labour Code of the The Company observes the Labor Code of the Republic of All new employees are involved into the orientation The elimination of Republic of Kazakhstan and the Code of ethics and conduct program, which allows to make the fastest discrimination in Kazakhstan acquaintenance of the company and become its integral respect of part. As well there are continuously carried out contests employment and Labour contract for the employees of the company “Best Operator”, “Best occupation Sales Representative”. Kcell code of ethics and conduct The personnel appraisal is performed based on the set goals. Environment The principle 7: Kcell code of ethics GSM Kazakhstan/Kcell in performing its business does not Aiming at water saving there were installed the water Business should and conduct generate a negative impact on the environment, moreover, saving taps, to decrease the level of power consumption support a the Company is striving for making thrifty use and care there were installed the power saving fluorescent precautionary treatment. lighting, to decrease of oil and petrol consumption Kcell approach to creates car pool and reduce the number of business trips environmental To protect the health of the Company’s employees there by using the 3G technologies challenges used the controlled systems of air conditioning depending The Principle 8: on the outdoor temperature as well there performed a Undertake regular replacement of filters and cleaning of air supply and initiatives to air conditioning systems. promote greater environmental responsibility, and The Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption The Principle 10: Kcell code of ethics Within the framework of implementation of this principle For communication and fastest response to the inquiries Businesses should and conduct GSM Kazakhstan/Kcell follows the Code of ethics and of our clients the call center operates 24 hours a day. work against conduct as well as the Gifts favour and hospitality corruption in all its Gifts favour and procedure. forms, including hospitality extortion and procedure A Security Service was established aiming at development bribery of the system of preventive measures to react against the corruption and fraudulent-related practices.
