Oberthur Technologies Sustainability Report 2011 2 OBERTHUR TECHNOLOGIES sustainability report 2011 3 Summary 1 Statement from the CEO ................................................ 4 2 Company Information ....................................................... 6 Report Scope .......................................................................................... 6 Sustainability @ Oberthur Technologies ...................................................... 7 Organisational Profile ............................................................................... 8 Key Facts & Figures .................................................................................. 10 Corporate Governance.............................................................................. 11 Management ........................................................................................... 11 Innovation . ............................................................................................. 12 3 Environment.............................................................................. 14 Approach to Environmental Management ................................................... 14 Performance & Commitments .................................................................... 16 4 People . ........................................................................................... 18 HR Management ..................................................................................... 18 Labour . .................................................................................................. 18 Recruitment............................................................................................. 18 Training & Mobility .................................................................................. 19 Performance & Commitments .................................................................... 19 5 Practices ....................................................................................... 20 Ethical Conduct ....................................................................................... 20 Human Rights . ........................................................................................ 20 Health & Safety ........................................................................................ 20 Security .................................................................................................. 20 Performance & Commitments .................................................................... 21 6 Relationships ............................................................................ 22 Suppliers ................................................................................................ 22 Customers .............................................................................................. 22 Community ............................................................................................. 23 Performance & Commitments .................................................................... 23 7 Products ....................................................................................... 24 Responsible Products ............................................................................... 24 Reliable Services....................................................................................... 24 Smart Eco ............................................................................................... 24 About PaperSIM ...................................................................................... 25 Performance & Commitments .................................................................... 25 8 Performance Indicators ................................................... 26 4 OBERTHUR TECHNOLOGIES Statement from the CEO Sustainable Solutions for Secure Technology Welcome to the third annual sustainability report from Oberthur Technologies in which we chart our progress: the highlights, the challenges and the global targets our business is working towards. With operations spanning sixty five sites in forty countries we are committed to positively impacting the environment and the communities with which we interact. In 2006, we formally pledged our support to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, a critical step in concentrating and driving forward our sustainability agenda. We continue to focus our efforts on embedding the Ten Principles into the culture of our organisation and throughout our sphere of influence. In the twelve months since our last report, Oberthur Technologies has experienced sound results in all market segments and geographic regions. We have expanded our operations, with a manufacturing/service centre in Brazil and new service centres in China and the Czech Republic. Consequently, we are better able to serve our customers in these regions, whilst harnessing environmental and social benefits through local employment opportunities, streamlined logistics and positive community interaction. Renowned for our innovation and excellence in the fast moving secure technology field, we dedicate the same forward thinking, creative approach to our products and raw materials. In 2011, as a new compliment to our Smart Eco range, we launched PaperSIM: an ecofriendly plant-based card body made 100% from paper. We continue to demonstrate that we have the experience and vision to lead the way in the development of high performing, environmentally sound form factors and materials. In 2011 we introduced our global environmental policy, affirming the vision and goals that underpin our continuing efforts to reduce the environmental impact of our activities and to help sustain the long term viability of the planet. 2011 was also the year in which we published our Supplier Code of Conduct, now a key element in all new and existing supplier relationships, and in which we advanced the process of sustainable purchasing. These efforts are indicative of our genuine goal to work only with suppliers and partners that share the same exacting principles and socially responsible practices. We are pleased with our progress in respect of the commitments we made in our 2010 sustainability report, most notably in relation to purchasing and environmental activities. As we move forward we will seek ways to improve our sustainable development performance: expanding our dedicated intranet site for internal communications and training, focussing R&D efforts on alternative technologies and eco-friendly materials, and improving our stakeholder dialogue. We will also advance our monitoring and data collection methods, and strengthen our sustainability reporting. Xavier Drilhon CEO Oberthur Technologies December 2011 sustainability report 2011 5 The 2011 Sustainability Report describes actions taken by Oberthur Technologies in accordance with the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, which the company has supported since 2006. The report marks Oberthur Technologies’ Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact, and was, for the first time, created on the basis of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Reporting Guidelines. We are pleased to self-declare a Level C application. 6 OBERTHUR TECHNOLOGIES Report Scope This report describes actions taken during the twelve month period from December 2010. It is designed to communicate Oberthur Technologies’ efforts towards sustainable business practices. It serves as Oberthur Technologies’ UNGC Annual Communication on Progress, the third such communication published by Oberthur Technologies. The focus of the report is on the activities of Oberthur Technologies: its manufacturing sites, service centres and sales offices. It shows the combined financial data of Oberthur Technologies during the reporting period (including Cash Protection and Fiduciary divisions), discussing sustainability activities under the direct control of Oberthur Technologies but excluding from scope subcontractors and outsourced operations. All references to employee numbers and locations are relevant to Oberthur Technologies as at December 2011, following the acquisition by Advent International. Oberthur Technologies recognises that its stakeholders are impacted by the way it operates and they in turn influence its business. The Company’s key stakeholder groups are employees, customers, shareholders, partners, suppliers, communities and society. The report aims to provide stakeholders with a balanced review of Oberthur Technologies’ 2011 sustainability performance and to demonstrate its planned actions for the coming year. The cases presented are intended to demonstrate Oberthur Technologies’ approach to sustainability across a range of business areas and the impact of Oberthur Technologies’ sustainability agenda within its wider sphere of influence. Activities have been categorised according to five key topics: Environment, People, Practices, Relationships and Products. At the end of the report Oberthur Technologies introduces a series of performance indicators. The indicators have been developed on the basis of the GRI G3.1 Guidelines but are tailored to ensure relevance to Oberthur Technologies’ operations. A full year’s performance indicator data will be captured and published in Oberthur Technologies’ 2012 sustainability report. The report will be published on Oberthur Technologies’ corporate website and intranet. It will also be submitted for publication to the UN Global Compact website. Electronic copies can be made available on request. How are we doing? We welcome comments on this report, its content, style, and the sustainability actions we have taken in 2011. We are committed to continuous improvement as we further our sustainability agenda and we greatly value input from our stakeholders on how to improve our reporting and performance in the year to come. Please contact: Melanie Featherstone Oberthur Technologies Alexandra Way Ashchurch Business Centre Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire GL20 8GA United Kingdom sustainability@oberthur.com sustainability report 2011 7 Sustainability @ Oberthur Technologies  Environment Developing processes, products and services to help sustain the long-term viability of the planet  People Nurturing, encouraging and valuing the talents of our highly skilled, global workforce  Practices Conducting all aspects of our business in an ethically sound manner  Relationships Building honest and enduring relationships with our customers, suppliers and communities  Products Providing innovative, forward thinking products and services for a fast moving world UN Global Compact Supporter 8 OBERTHUR TECHNOLOGIES Organisational Profile Previously listed on the Euronext, Paris, Oberthur Technologies S.A. is now a limited liability company (société anonyme), registered in France. Since July 2000, Oberthur Technologies was a subsidiary of the François-Charles Oberthur Group. On 1 December 2011, the Oberthur Technologies’ Card Systems and Identity divisions were acquired by Advent International. The Secure Printing and Cash Protection divisions were renamed Oberthur Fiduciaire. A leader in the payment smart card industry Supplying over one billion cards annually to more than 5,000 banks and financial institutions around the world, our complete offering for the payment market includes prepaid cards, magnetic stripe cards, EMV cards and contactless cards and innovative payment devices. With a history in the secure printing industry Oberthur Technologies continues to develop the latest innovations in printing techniques and smart plastics. Innovative mobile products, solutions and services Oberthur Technologies is a leading global player trusted by over 250 mobile operators around the globe. Every day, Oberthur Technologies issues over 1.5 million SIM cards and provides fulfilment services with specifically designed packaging for the mobile operators. Multi-applications from contactless to convergence With expertise in developing applications that make everyday life easier and more secure for end-users, Oberthur Technologies is a trusted partner with over 10 years experience in developing advanced transport and payment solutions. Oberthur Technologies provides NFC technologies, as well as contactless transport and payment card solutions.  Leading player in digital security serving the Telecom, Payment, Identity, Transport and Digital TV markets  Offering extending along the full length of the digital security value chain  Development of embedded secure software  Manufacturing, personalisation and issuance of secure devices and identity documents  Development of associated server based solutions operated by clients in-house or in managed services  Unique industry positioning  Supplier to 5,000 banks, 20 years of experience in personalisation services  Trusted by 250 mobile operators, 10 years of experience in Over-The-Air (OTA) platform  Long term partner of a large number of governments  Worldwide presence with a true global reach  Secure devices and documents delivered in 140 countries  50+ sales offices and 30+ service centres  R&D centres in 5 countries with over 560 engineers sustainability report 2011 9 Our main markets:  Finance and Transport  400m cards including 45% with chip  240m personalised cards  18% worldwide market share (finance only)  Telecom  540m SIM cards  1.8bn PIN codes on scratch cards  13% worldwide market share  Identity  35m cards  23& worldwide market share  Digital TV  50m e-documents  #4 global player The company is structured around a central hub in Paris, which manages globally all development, R&D and marketing, with 4 geographical businesses providing regional focus:  Europe  Americas  Asia Pacific  Russia, Middle East & Africa Oberthur Technologies’ sales network allows its products and services to be offered on a global scale. Each geographical area has its own sales, production and personalisation structures. 10 OBERTHUR TECHNOLOGIES Key Facts & Figures Revenues 2010 around 979 Million Euros 560 5,700 50+ people employees sales offices in 5 14 30+ R&D centres manufacturing service sites centres 2010 Sales breakdown By region By market segment Identity Americas 12% 20% Digital TV Europe 3% Telecom Asia 47% 44% 14% Finance and Transport RMEA 41% 19% Financial figures shown are from 2010. Employee and location figures are current at time of publication. sustainability report 2011 11 Corporate Governance Pascal Stefani Cédric Chateau Xavier Drilhon Chairman Director Director Non executive Non executive Management 12 OBERTHUR TECHNOLOGIES Always at the Forefront of Innovation 2011  Sesame Awards for ID-One™ Digital Watermark 2011  Prepaid Awards for Best Prepaid Manufacturer 2010  Sesames Awards for Voox: Contactless payment and transport Card  Sesames Awards for NFC Now offer  ACT Canada International Innovation Awards for Smart Pin  ACT Canada International Innovation Awards for EMV in a Box  ICMA Elan Awards for FlyBuy Sticker  Network Products GuideProduct Innovation Award for ID-OneTM PIV Bio  GSMA Top Awards: Best Mobile Money for the Unbanked Market 2009  Sesames Award for Smart Lumière  Security Products magazine New Product of the Year Award for ID-OneTM PIV Bio  ACT Canada International Innovation Award for FlyBuy Sticker  Certification Open Platform EAL5+ 2008  Sesames Award for WebSTIC USB  Sesames Award for GIGAntIC WuaoW  ICMA Élan Award for the Clear card manufactured for Harland Clarke/ ASE Credit Union  Currency Conference Awards 2008 for FCO® Iriseal Patch 2007  Sesames Award for FlyBuy  Sesames Award for Cardblade  1st Electronic signature card certified Common Criteria EAL 5+ sustainability report 2011 13 14 OBERTHUR TECHNOLOGIES  Environment Oberthur Technologies’ Approach to Environmental Management Interview with Jean-François Arzel, Vice President Alongside the maintenance of ISO14001 certifications Purchasing, Logistics & QSE across our sites, and our ongoing efforts to legislative compliance, both within our own operations and Q: What are the key actions that Oberthur throughout our supply chain, we are engaged in Technologies has taken in 2011 to address its environmental performance improvement activities environmental responsibilities? ranging from energy saving to pollution control and waste management. In 2011, our facilities in Tewkesbury 2011 has been a milestone year in our environmental UK, with operations in manufacturing, personalisation journey. Most notably, we unveiled and deployed our and sales, joined Exton US in becoming a ‘zero waste to Global Environmental Policy, outlining our vision and goals. landfill’ site. We categorise our global sites as follows: Other key initiatives in 2011 included the introduction of  Headquarters a global equipment hub: a central source for the storing,  R&D Centres testing, refurbishment and reuse of machinery, as well as  Manufacturing sites a globally initiated project to integrate 7-colour printing,  Service Centres thereby reducing spot colour printing passes, as well as the  Sales offices amount of press wash-ups and customised inks. The business nature and size of each location determines Q: How does the company manage a coherent its environmental impact. Nevertheless, under the approach to environmental initiatives across its guidelines of the Global Environmental Policy sites must many locations? adopt a thorough and consistent approach to environmental responsibilities within the realms of their activities. The worldwide presence of Oberthur Technologies requires a well defined and structured Environmental Since our last report, we have launched a life cycle analysis Management System which is fully integrated in our project based on ISO14040 and ISO14044, evaluating our business processes. This is based on global policies and products’ lifespan from ‘cradle to gate’. This project will standards and involves cascading roles from global to local become a platform for further investigations across our managers, in charge of the establishment and the control product range, leading to improved communication with of best practices. The result is a closely linked network of our customers regarding the best products to meet their experts, working to shared strategic goals. commercial and environmental needs. The following key areas are addressed within our global environmental system: Operations Monitoring System Management Technology & Design Organisation & Responsibilities Emissions Risk Assessment Carbon Footprint Suppliers & Subcontractors Wastes & EOL Recycling Dashboard Global Environmental Policy Paper Reduction System Compliance Energy & Water Communications & Training sustainability report 2011 15 Effective communication is crucial to the success of our We are actively influencing the future of smart card global environmental objectives. Internal communications integration in today’s market place through membership are managed in a variety of ways, from local environmental of a number of professional bodies, including the messages, to training for new starters, newsletters and a International Card Manufacturers Association (ICMA) dedicated intranet space. These methods are designed and the Global Chip Card Alliance. Through our role to develop employee awareness of environmental in the ICMA Green Task Force: Greening the Factory matters, both inside and outside the company, promote we are helping to create an industry wide ‘green’ card consciousness in resource consumption and waste manufacturing endorsement. management and educate on best practice. We are keen to play our part in taking action to protect All of Oberthur Technologies’ manufacturing sites are the long term viability of the planet and we believe that ISO14001 certified, including, in 2011, our newest facilities through ongoing stakeholder dialogue we are continually in Brazil, and the adoption of this universal standard has learning from and responding to the rapidly changing helped to guarantee a consistent global approach to needs of an increasingly environmentally conscious world. environmental management which can be readily adopted by other business areas, such as our large service centre Q: What are the critical actions for 2012? facilities. In 2012 we will extend the process of ISO14001 certifications to most of our service centre facilities The implementation of our Environmental Management worldwide. Plan in 2012 will provide a formal framework for addressing the environmental risks associated with our Q: How is Oberthur Technologies helping to day-to-day business, with the key objective of achieving shape a more environmentally responsible the environmental performance targets set out in our marketplace? Global Environmental Policy. These efforts will support our strategy to continuously improve our products and Products with strong environmental references are processes and help to lower our environmental footprint. helping to shift traditional perspectives of smart cards. As an industry leader in innovation and new product As part of this programme we will gather, report and development, Oberthur Technologies’ has developed the share data on corporate environmental key performance Smart Eco range of card bodies and packaging solutions, indicators addressing energy, resource use, waste output, which allow customers to make product choices based emissions, biodiversity, transportation, purchasing and on reduced environmental impact without losing the high communication. We will continue to review and improve functionality, quality materials and eye catching visuals our sustainability communications, both internally and that they trust to support their marketing strategies. externally and we will encourage the sharing of knowledge In line with this, we are committed to a programme of and best practice through a dedicated intranet space. Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) accreditations In 2012 through the reporting of our global carbon at designated manufacturing sites. footprint we will meet our obligations under French environmental legislation: ‘11 July 2011-829 Bilan des émissions de gaz à effet de serre et au plan climat-énergie territorial bilan des émissions de gaz à effet de serre et au plan climat-énergie territorial’. 16 OBERTHUR TECHNOLOGIES Last year we committed to… Status Use LCA analysis of products to help identify risk and opportunity areas, and to formulate targets for improvements Formulate an environmental action plan and relevant indicators to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by the end of 2011/beginning of 2012 Commitments for 2012  Rollout the global Environmental Management Plan  Improve our environmental monitoring and reporting  Streamline our environmental communications via web and intranet  Assess and progress the Life Cycle Analysis project findings  Extend the ISO14001 certification process to new sites sustainability report 2011 17 Our Commitment is to: Our Objectives are to:  Create high quality products and services  Achieve our environmental goals through state of the coupled with a considerate and measured approach art innovative eco-friendly products and solutions to its key environmental impacts over the total product by introducing the evaluation of environmental life cycle. We consider environmental constraints as a impact in the product development objectives and source for product and technology innovation. specifications.  Continuously monitor, improve and streamline  Help our customers to achieve their environmental its operations, encouraging the sharing of goals with our products offering and provide suitable experience and rolling out locally adopted advice. environmental best practices on a global scale, while finding the best harmony between environmental  Minimize the environmental impacts of processes impact and economical efficiency. and services by reducing or eliminating dangerous substances, reducing energy consumption, limiting  Communicate positively and receptively emissions, managing waste recycling and disposal. with stakeholders to enhance awareness of environmental practices, achievements, targets and  Encourage environmental responsibility within the partnership opportunities. supply chain.  Collaborate closely with industry partners  Ensure continuous improvement of the Global in responsibly influencing the evolution of the Environmental Management System. market and responding to its changing needs.  Deploy and maintain ISO 14001 certifications in our  Comply with all environmental regulations and production sites. be prepared for future legislative changes in a timely manner.  Communicate to stakeholders and regularly publish actions and results on environmental matters.  Request our suppliers and subcontractors to apply the principles of this environmental policy.  Adhere to the United Nations Global Compact programme and comply with environmental regulations.  Educate and train employees to make them aware of environmental stakes and adherence to the company policy. 18 OBERTHUR TECHNOLOGIES  People HR Management We make it our priority to ensure our compliance with the human rights and health, safety and security standards that At Oberthur Technologies, we recognise that one of every one of our employees is entitled to in their workplace. our greatest assets lies in the wealth of knowledge and We recognise that responsibility for our employees’ health experience held by our highly skilled global workforce and and safety extends beyond our own premises and we are that promoting individual performance plays an essential committed to safeguarding our people wherever their role in the Company’s collective success. Our 5,700 company business takes them. employees worldwide share three core values: innovation, result-orientation and team spirit. These values express our Through our travel risk programme we are able to risk common culture and incite a strong sentiment of belonging. assess the worldwide destinations that our employees travel to. We ensure that travellers have immediate access to country-specific travel information, such as Labour cultural expectations, political situations, personal safety recommendations as well as key points of emergency We support the principles of equal opportunity in contact. employment and we oppose all forms of harassment, bullying and unlawful or unfair discrimination on the The ability of the service to track where our employees grounds of race, creed, colour, nationality, ethnic are in the world at any time allows current information to origin, age, language, religion, politics, gender, gender be automatically provided to them on changing situations reassignment, sexual orientation, marital status, civil and provides the reassurance that, if necessary, we can partnership, disability, membership or non-membership of repatriate our travellers safely and without delay. a trade union. Every step is taken to ensure that individuals are treated fairly and equally, and that decisions taken on recruitment and selection, on training, promotion, Recruitment redundancy, redeployment and career progression are taken solely on job based criteria. We are a multi-cultural company, attracting talented men and women from all nationalities throughout our We proactively review and comply with national and organisation. The Apply2Oberthur function within our local legislation around labour and employment practices website lists current vacancies at our locations across the including working hours, wages and benefits, equal world. Apply2Oberthur assures candidates of a fair, equal opportunity and freedom of association. We do not employ and common form of assessment on the basis of skills, forced or bonded labour, working hours are in line with competencies and talents, for every position, at every level relevant local legislation and fairness and flexibility is sought and in every country. in the management of shift work. Overtime is not compulsory and compensation for additional hours is offered. Professionalism and excellence are shared characteristics of all our employees worldwide and during 2011, with the The company does not employ child labour and endeavours help of our on-line recruitment process we have attracted to ensure that this practice is mirrored throughout the supply highly skilled profiles and recruited new employees to our chain. We maintain strict, consistent pre-employment and worldwide locations. work eligibility checks in accordance with legal requirements at a global and local level. Headcount by Region Headcount by Category Headcount by Type of Employees of Contract 3000 Direct 2500 47% Permanent Temporary 2000 92% 8% 1500 Indirect 1000 44% 500 Indirect 0 for Americas Europe RMEA Asia Production 9% October 2011 October 2011 October 2011 sustainability report 2011 19 Training and Mobility The Working@Oberthur space set up on our intranet site gathers all the Company’s job opportunities worldwide. Oberthur Learning Academy, set up in 2009, is an This dynamic portal allows employees to apply directly e-learning, training content and training management through the site and has significantly helped us to increase platform and serves as the primary tool for developing our international mobility actions. This brings Oberthur our employees’ talent, allowing us to successfully train Technologies’ know-how to our customers, capitalising each one of them in our processes, tools, management on our successes and information systems and hence methods, solutions and products. responding better to their expectations. Installed on work stations of employees, OLA is one Our Performance Management and Development of the main carriers of culture and values of Oberthur Programme (PMD) is our appraisal system which, since Technologies. A recent OLA satisfaction survey showed its launch three years ago, is our management tool to that 86% of employees expected to use what they had align objectives and measure individual and collective learned within 6 months of the training. In 2012, OLA performance. At the same time, PMD provides the will be available to all employees and will include a range opportunity for each employee to be directly involved in of new training dedicated to marketing and technical their own performance and career development. PMD is employees, support for internal experts in becoming one of the foundations of the Key Talent Program – our HR trainers, as well as the publication of new OLA user guides strategy for developing our talent across our organisations for employees and managers. and countries. Keenly aware that it is in our best interests to examine first and foremost the internal resources to fill any job ATTRACT opportunities that may arise, Oberthur Technologies has RETAIN developed a mobility process exclusively focussing on job Key Talent skills and therefore ruling out any type of discrimination. DEVELOP Programme REWARD ENGAGE Last year we committed to…. Status Extend OLA by the end of 2012 to the whole company Commitments for 2012  Extend OLA by the end of 2012 to the whole company  Provide internal training on Oberthur Travel Risk Programme 20 OBERTHUR TECHNOLOGIES  Practices Ethical Conduct Health and Safety Oberthur Technologies’ reputation is built upon the Oberthur Technologies is fully committed to safeguarding principles of fair dealing and ethical conduct of its the health and safety of its employees and the environment employees. We owe a duty of care to our customers in which it is situated and the company has appropriate and other stakeholders to act in a way that merits their health and safety procedures in place. We take all possible continued trust and confidence, in compliance with all precautions and observe all relevant regulations in order relevant legislation, and we take every step to ensure that to preserve safe working conditions and practices. All employees are aware of their obligations in this regard. employees receive adequate training to enable them to perform their duties and carry out emergency procedures. We have policies dedicated to business conduct, anticorruption and cases of conflict of interest, which state Each Oberthur Technologies site has its own health and that business dealings with outside firms should not safety policy in order to comply with the local legislation, result in unusual improper gains for those firms. Improper as well as the working environment and the risk profile gains refers to bribes, product bonuses, special fringe at each site. This ensures the best coverage and enables benefits, unusual price breaks, gratuities and other issues to be dealt with immediately at a local level. windfalls designed to ultimately benefit the outside firm, the employee, or both. Employee contracts and All our facilities across our global network must comply rules of conduct ensure that employees found to be the with common procedures and processes. These are perpetrator of extortion or bribery or any other fraudulent implemented using best practice gained at our sites that activity will be subject to disciplinary action, deemed as are the most advanced in terms of health and safety gross misconduct and consideration for dismissal. procedures. In 2012, we will consolidate these efforts into a companywide Code of Ethics, in conjunction with our ongoing Security review of supply chain ethical practices. Security is essential in Oberthur Technologies’ business environment. The highest level of internal security is Human Rights a must to respect legislation, to meet our customers’ requirements and to protect our own and our customers’ Oberthur Technologies recognises that all human beings assets. We have established global security policies across are entitled to basic rights and freedoms and we uphold our entire operations, ranging from physical security to IT all accepted international laws on human rights, such security and people management. as the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization and the United Our Global Security System defines the whole set of rules Nations Global Compact, as well as all local human rights and procedures to be followed in order to achieve the legislation. following objectives: We are committed to ensuring the protection of our  To protect the company assets, physical as well as global workforce and have set up policies and procedures intellectual against internal and external threats. covering issues such as violence in the workplace, equal  To protect the customers’ assets that Oberthur opportunities, unlawful harassment and standard rules of Technologies has in possession for conducting conduct with which all employees must comply. business.  To guarantee the continuity in production activities Annual benchmarking of employee salaries provides insuring the availability and the continuity of services mandatory social insurance benefits, including pensions, for Oberthur Technologies customers. medical, personal injury and unemployment insurance,  To satisfy the Security regulations issued by the maternity benefits, alongside a range of measures for a Security Schemes and to get from them the Security safe and responsible working environment. certifications required to conduct the business.  To protect individual privacy at all times sustainability report 2011 21 Last year we committed to…. Status Introduce a 3 year plan to reduce frequency of accidents at work Issue a policy on ‘behaviours for safety at work’ Commitments for 2012  Publish a company-wide Code of Ethics 22 OBERTHUR TECHNOLOGIES  Relationships Suppliers At Oberthur Technologies we realise that working with suppliers that share common values and practices is crucial to the successful management of our activities and the enhancement of our reputation. We work to build constructive, mutually beneficial relationships with our network of suppliers. In 2011, we launched our Supplier Code of Conduct and formally integrated it into the contractual process. The Code is shared with our employees, including our purchasing teams worldwide and communicated to all new and existing suppliers. Linked to the launch of the Supplier Code we have commenced a global contract review and adherence programme, and we continue to develop enduring relationships with our trusted network of ‘green’ suppliers of FSC/PEFC certified raw materials and packaging. It is of critical importance that the integrity of our products is upheld and we recognise that the materials we purchase must be sourced and produced in ethically sound ways, to comply with all relevant local and national legislation and in line with our commitment to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Working closely with suppliers to develop a broader understanding of our business ethics we undertake to publish yearly a matrix of our sites against compliance schemes, and to reinforce these efforts in 2012 economies of scale, gained through the large volumes we will initiate an annual review of supplier compliance to that we produce, enable us to offer our customers costcomplement our own. effective solutions. Our global presence means we can provide a superior service and streamlined processes. We appreciate how important business continuity is for Exercising responsibility in the conduct our customers to be able to consistently offer high levels of purchasing means to us: of service to their cardholders, and we have developed  Ensuring the transparency of rules and practices in the Smart Assure service providing guaranteed continuity assigning contracts and payments of service at production and service centres in the case  Ensuring that our suppliers are compliant with our of a non-planned event (accident, natural disaster, strike Supplier Code of Conduct etc.) or an unexpected increase in production. The plan, including specific recovery locations for each project agreed in advance with the customer, covers all the steps Customers required for the provision of smart cards to the final customer and is routinely tested at regular intervals. All of Oberthur Technologies’ card manufacturing and personalization services are provided in accordance with Oberthur has an in-depth understanding of its customers’ ISO9001 quality standards to ensure that the production requirements and operational practices, based on its and integrity of all customer cards is maintained. We have existing relationships across the world. The provision of a comprehensive set of quality procedures that span the a pro-active customer services team, the focus of which is activities involved with the supply of products and services on meeting and exceeding agreed service levels, helps to to our customers. Oberthur Technologies holds full develop and enhance the services provided. manufacturing licenses from licensing authorities. Our partnership approach to customer relationships As a leading global supplier, Oberthur Technologies has extends to our globally deployed customer request both the capacity and capability to provide products management system, for consistent service and response and services that meet the market’s needs. Significant levels across our sites. sustainability report 2011 23 We promote a culture of open and frank dialogue with them, from creating a safe, positive and secure working our stakeholders and each year region-specific customer environment, to protecting local natural resources surveys are conducted, covering a comprehensive range and outreach activities with education establishments, of issues such as client service, sales performance and charities and local business initiatives. We have created delivery. In 2012 we will carry out a customer survey work placement opportunities for local students and across our product ranges. partnered with a series of charitable organisations, many nominated via employee consultation and always with We are delighted to work with customers that share our due consideration of the characteristics of our local desire for a world in which technology, innovation and communities. sustainability exist in harmony and we recognise that transparency, benchmarking and the sharing of experience In 2011, we continued our involvement in the UK Young is vital to this process. In the year to come we will review Enterprise scheme, advising and encouraging young procedures to monitor and report our sustainability people striving to succeed through enterprise. We hold interactions with customers to allow us to assess and annual charity raffles, in line with our gift policy, and improve our performance on an ongoing basis. support our employees in their own charitable activities, providing matching schemes for charitable sponsorships. Community In the year to come we will review our internal communications of community interaction, seeking out “For the communities in which we live and work” space within our global intranet zone for the sharing of outreach stories, sponsorship, community projects As a global corporate citizen we take a respectful approach and awareness raising, all aimed at sharing company to the communities with which our operations interact values and promoting positive interactions with our local and seek to build beneficial, long-term relationships with communities. Last year we committed to…. Status Communicate the Supplier Code of Conduct to all existing suppliers Include the Supplier Code of Conduct in any new tender projects Embark on a qualification process of FSC certified suppliers Commitments for 2012  Carry out customer satisfaction surveys across our regions and product ranges  Develop and roll out a company-wide quality system  Maintain a supplier contract status database  Conduct a review of supplier sustainability compliance  Improve our internal communication of outreach activities 24 OBERTHUR TECHNOLOGIES  Products Responsible Products Reliable Services Innovation lies at the heart of our business and with a 560 We are dedicated to providing our customers with strong R&D team worldwide we are constantly innovating exceptional products and services, coupling the highest to improve our products and secure technologies, and consideration of customer convenience with wideto address new opportunities. With our highly skilled ranging options for differentiation and environmental workforce we develop cutting-edge products and responsibility. technologies, many of which have clear eco-credentials. Bringing to the market an array of reduced size card bodies Smart PIN, from Oberthur Technologies’ Smart Services and innovative form factors with our Smart Eco portfolio portfolio, is an integrated service for secure PIN issuance we are developing the environmentally sound products via SMS, IVR or web. With Smart PIN, cards are activated and services of the future, whilst ensuring that optimum more quickly and securely, and with a reduction in quality and functionality standards are fully respected. handling, printing and postage compared to traditional PIN mailers this service brings significant benefits to the This year, we extended our Smart Eco range with the environment. launch of the PaperSIM, a product which pushes the technological boundaries of what can be achieved with Smart Instant Issuance significantly mitigates the alternative card bodies. This recyclable, biodegradable and environmental impact of traditional methods of card and compostable SIM card body has a vastly reduced carbon fulfilment distribution by enabling issuers to produce footprint, without the harmful toxins, yet its functions personalized cards in-branch using a secure interface to are the same as a standard SIM card. PaperSIM provides the bank’s network, as does Smart Kiosk which allows customers with a strategic tool in supporting their brand cardholders to personalize and/or deliver payment cards reputation through a product that clearly communicates on a kiosk operated directly by the cardholder. environmental integrity and strategy. Smart Inventory from Oberthur Technologies is a With Smart Eco, Oberthur Technologies is perfectly placed streamlined stock management solution which ensures to meet the growing worldwide demand for eco-friendly that sufficient stocks are available to meet customer cards, through additional orders and ongoing customer forecasted demand levels and wastage is minimized. dialogue. Smart Portal is our online service delivery portal which At Oberthur Technologies, we have gained FSC and minimizes the need for paper based processes. PEFC chain of custody certifications to verify that the wood-based products used in the production of our PaperSIM and scratch cards are responsibly sourced from Smart Eco the forest of origin throughout the whole supply chain. The certification of our manufacturing sites demonstrates For mobile our total commitment to the FSC and PEFC value chain EcoSIM – innovative form factor (half-ISO size) to reduce and enables our customers to choose eco-friendly cards plastic usage and carbon footprint by 50% displaying internationally respected environmental logos. GreenSIM – a combination of PET, recyclable, halogen and styrene free materials The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and Program for the PaperSIM – a sustainable, plant-based SIM card made Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) award chain 100% from paper of custody certifications to companies wishing to track the origins of raw materials through to finished product. For payment Smart Eco PETG – chlorine free card body Smart Eco Recycled PVC – made using recycled waste material Smart Eco Bio PVC – 99% PVC with additives to increase breakdown at end of life A series of well-designed, streamlined, recyclable and re-usable packaging solutions accompanies the Smart Eco range for total eco-commitment. sustainability report 2011 25 About PaperSIM This certification guarantees and certifies that wood-based products used in the production of paper-based cards Oberthur Technologies awarded prize for its (PaperSIM by Oberthur Technologies) are verified from the PaperSIM in the eco-product category of the forest of origin and throughout the whole supply chain. French Ministry of Sustainable Development Available in ISO and Eco format (half ISO card size), the and Ademe* “Business Awards for the PaperSIM constitutes the perfect sustainable solution Environment” November 2011 designed to meet the growing market expectations for eco-aware SIM cards. *ADEME: Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maitrise de l’Energie which is a French public organisation supervised by the French Ministry of Sustainable Development The nature-friendly features of the PaperSIM have already been adopted by key Telecom Operators conscious of their role in the promotion and distribution of eco-friendly cards. Oberthur Technologies has been strongly committed to the respect and protection of the environment for many years, and has dedicated its R&D resources to the development Sales of EcoSIM (in million units) and manufacturing of eco-friendly products. 80 With the innovative PaperSIM, Oberthur Technologies has 70 succeeded in developing a card body which is 100% 60 manufactured from recyclable and biodegradable wood fibres. 50 40 Respecting the highest social and environmental standards 30 in the market, the newly created PaperSIM card body uses 20 fibres originating from environmental friendly sources and 10 has been granted the FSC certification for the production 0 of Paper SIMs in its French manufacturing plant. 2009 2010 2011 Commitments for 2012  Provide tailored internal training on FSC certifications  Following completion of the LCA project, share information about our environmental impacts 26 OBERTHUR TECHNOLOGIES Performance indicators We introduce below a set of sustainability performance indicators. These indicators have been developed on the basis of those suggested in the GRI G3.1 Guidelines but are tailored to ensure relevance to Oberthur Technologies’ operations. Where applicable we have referenced the accompanying GRI G3.1 indicator. A full year’s performance indicator data will be captured and published in Oberthur Technologies’ 2012 sustainability report. Indicator Description GRI G3.1 Reference Indicator Environment Materials N/A EN.01 Materials used by weight or volume. Energy N/A EN.02 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials EN.03 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Water N/A EN.08 Total water withdrawal by source Emissions, Effluents, and Waste N/A EN.16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight EN.17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight EN.18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved EN.19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight EN.20 Other significant air emissions by type and weight EN.21 Total water discharge by quality and destination EN.22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method EN.23 Total number and volume of significant spills EN.24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally EN.25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and runoff EN.26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation sustainability report 2011 27 Indicator Description GRI G3.1 Reference Indicator Environment Compliance N/A EN.28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Transport N/A EN.29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce People HRM.01 Diversity by employment type, contract, region, gender LA1 HRM.02 Hires and retention rates by age group, gender and region LA2 HRM.03 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired EC7 from the local community at significant locations of operation Practices ETH.01 Number of suppliers to complete Code of Conduct screening HR2 ETH.02 Number of new starter inductions including Code of Ethics N/A Relationships SCC.01 Quantity of sustainability information requests: directed to QSE Team N/A and answered on time SCC.02 Global community outreach activities SO1 Products PRO.01 Report customer survey findings PR5 50, quai Michelet 92300 Levallois-Perret France Telephone +33 (0)1 55 46 72 00 Document Version History Fax +33 (0)1 55 46 72 01 info@oberthur.com Rev.: 001 sustainability@oberthur.com Date: 16 December 2011 Author: Melanie Featherstone www.oberthur.com Oberthur Technologies respects the environment. The number of printed brochures produced by the company has been signiﬁcantly reduced to save paper. Printed documents are produced on FSC-certiﬁed paper using aqueous inks to reduce environmental impact. Datasheets are available in electronic format only. Electronic documentation can be downloaded in PDF format from www.oberthur.com ©2011 Oberthur Technologies. All rights reserved. Speciﬁcations and information subject to change without notice. The products described in this document are subject to continuous development and improvement. All trademarks and service marks referred to herein, whether registered or not in speciﬁc countries, are the property of their respective owners.
