United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Year: 2010 STATEMENT Exxaro Resources became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact in 2007. This was a logical progression in our ongoing commitment to sustainability, given our shared goals and focus on universal values. In preparing this report, we drew on stakeholder feedback, a review of current standards and conventions (including Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), UN Global Compact principles, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) guidelines on multinational enterprises, International Labour Organization (ILO) conventions 69 and 176, as well as UN declaration of human rights) in developing material themes that will guide this and future reports. These themes include: Implementation and maintenance of ethical business practices and sound systems of corporate governance Integration of sustainable development considerations in corporate decision making processes Implementation of risk management strategies based on credible data sets Adherence to fundamental human rights and respect of cultures, customs and values in dealings with stakeholders Contributing to the social, economic and institutional development of home societies Implementing effective, sustained and transparent engagement strategies with all stakeholders groups, as well as explicit responsiveness to stakeholder concerns Demonstrating understanding of and implementing responses to the business case for sustainability. In the message from the Chief Executive Officer in the integrated annual report, Mr Sipho Nkosi says …”I believe 2009 was a year that truly tested the depth of mining companies’ commitments to sustainable development — and at every level. Faced with myriad challenges in protecting the economic bottom line, we developed innovative solutions to honour our commitments to the social and environmental bottom lines by making available funds work harder and by ensuring that every initiative benefited the maximum number of people. In this respect, Exxaro proved its mettle. The benefit of integrating our safety, health and environment division with our sustainable development initiatives emerged in the form of synergies across commodity businesses, disciplines and divisions. Perhaps the best example of this is our carbon foot printing project which prompted the vegetative study, which in turn informed our water management study and each site’s biodiversity action plan. We have also made solid progress in our ability to report meaningful data off a common information technology Page 1/8 platform. This has been most evident in the areas of energy, air quality monitoring and socioeconomic development” The group’s progress in implementing Global Compact principles is summarised overleaf, and crossreferenced to supporting or additional documentation. This is an incremental process, with the ultimate aim of measurable annual progress in those principles where we are not already fully supportive. 09 May 2011 SAFETY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Contact: Ramesh Chhagan Email: Ramesh.Chhagan@exxaro.com Phone: +27 12 307 3160 Fax: +27 12 307 5923 Page 2/8 Global Compact Principle Summary of Actions taken and Impact Measurement of results Achieved Human Rights 1: Businesses should support Induction programmes educate All employees including security personnel are fully and respect the protection of employees about human rights. Policies trained after appointment on Human rights aspects internationally proclaimed on discrimination, harassment and racism relevant to each operation. Refresher courses also cover human rights; are in place, as area structures to protect human rights issues. employee’s human rights in the workplace Exxaro through Human Resources Development Policies aims to: Develop and sustain core competencies and maximise human resources to meet the group’s strategic objectives and improve operational performance; Create a learning culture by assisting and facilitate the process in which employees and their dependants take responsibility for improving their own educational and competency levels, to the mutual benefit of the individual and the organisation; and Establish life-long learning as the major thrust of learning and development. Full time employees receive a range of benefits, many of which exceed legislative stipulations for South Africa’s basic conditions of employment. The group continues to focus on home ownership to comply with the mining charter and a new life-long housing strategy was developed two years ago. 2: and make sure that they are Exxaro subscribes to the Bill of Rights To date Exxaro has not been complicit in the violation of not complicit in human rights enshrined in the South African any human rights. abuses. Constitution which, among other things, prohibits human rights abuse. Page 3/8 Global Compact Principle Summary of Actions taken and Impact Measurement of results Achieved Labour 3: Businesses should uphold As a responsible corporate citizen, Almost 70% of Exxaro employees are represented by the freedom of association and Exxaro complies with all labour legislation affiliated trade unions, predominantly National Union of the effective recognition of the in South Africa and with International Mine Workers (NUM) with 54.5%; and solidarity with right to collective bargaining; Labour Organization guidelines. 10.7%. Other recognized unions are Mineworkers Union of Namibia (MUN); National Union of Metalworkers in Exxaro has a displinary code, which is South Africa (NUMSA); and United Association of South based on the principle of fairness as Africa (UASA). required by labour law. Negotiations for improved wages and conditions are As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, conducted in various in-house forums and through the Exxaro encourages freedom of Chamber of Mines. association and collective bargaining. In September 2010, members of NUM employed at the Exxaro Sands operation in KwaZulu-Natal went on strike over a wage dispute. Amicable and mutually beneficial resolution was reached within three weeks. This case illustrates Exxaro’s commitment to freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4: the elimination of all forms Exxaro Labour and Human Rights At the heart of the group’s employment equity strategy of forced and compulsory Policy….”Subject to the provisions of the there are detailed plans developed by each business labour; Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, operation in consultation with employees and trade the Company will not cause, demand or unions. These plans are updated and progress reported impose forced labour on any other person” to the board of directors quarterly and to the government authorities annually. Exxaro ensures child labour is not tolerated and forced or compulsory labour By following these plans, each business operation is not practised ensures that all vacancies are advertised and that recruitment and skills development are conducted responsibly. No employee is forced to provide services against his/her will. Page 4/8 Global Compact Principle Summary of Actions taken and Impact Measurement of results Achieved 5: the effective abolition of As a responsible corporate citizen, No children are in the employ of Exxaro. Below is the child labour; Exxaro complies with all labour legislation breakdown of employees by age: in South Africa and with International Labour Organization guidelines which Management & prohibits child labour. Ages (Years) Specialist Non Management Exxaro ensures child labour is not 2010 2010 tolerated and forced or compulsory labour < 18 0 0 is not practised 18 25 74 730 26 35 532 2697 36 45 661 2259 46 – 55 499 2290 56-65 147 620 Total 1561 7988 6: and the elimination of Exxaro’s employment policy is in line with Exxaro already exceeds SA mining charter targets on discrimination in respect of the SA Constitution which specifically Women in Mining. employment and occupation. prohibits any form of discrimination, including gender, race and sexual In 2010 five women aiming to become miners began orientation, amongst others. Attracting their training programme at Tshikondeni coal operation. women to work in the group‘s core By the end of November, they had completed the first business of mining remains a focus area phase of their studies at the colliery training college and for Exxaro. will train for another 12 months on-site before qualifying as miners. Environment 7: Businesses should support The SHE committee of the Board of All Exxaro operations have Environmental Management a precautionary approach to Directors oversees the group-wide Plans (EMP) as required by legislation and are environmental challenges; development of policies and guidelines for constantly updated. The group also has a record number Health, Environmental and Safety of integrated water use licences (IWUL) which were management. approved by the relevant regulatory department in 2010. Both the EMPs and IWULs are key indicators in ensuring that Exxaro becomes a sustainable business. Exxaro believes conservation of the natural resources is Exxaro adopts a precautionary approach becoming increasingly important and the group intends recommended by National Environmental to be a mining company that leads by example in Management Act (NEMA) in evaluating protecting the environment and demonstrating that the Environmental Impacts of business mining activities can co-exist with world class Page 5/8 Global Compact Principle Summary of Actions taken and Impact Measurement of results Achieved opportunities (pg 91) environmental conservation initiatives, thereby ensuring the right of future generations to a healthy, complete and Revised Exxaro Safety and rich environment. Sustainable Development (SSD) Policy… To enhance implementation of precautionary approach commits to Complying with all applicable and sustainable use of natural resources group SSD legislation and international standards for Air Quality Management, Water obligations as a minimum requirement Management, Biodiversity Management, Rehabilitation, and implementing effective company Mine Closure Management and Environmental Incident standards, programmes and processes to Management were implemented in 2010. In 2010, manage risks; additional operations obtained both ISO 14001 environmental accreditation and ISO 18001 safety accreditation. This increased the total to 16 of 17 Consultation with employees, operations accredited to date, as compared to 13 out of representatives and other stakeholders in 17 operations in 2009. appropriate forums to develop, communicate and review responsible In 2011 the group will continue to develop cleaner and innovative policies, programmes energy initiatives encompassing a combination of coand guidelines that provide safeguards generation, carbon credit trading, renewable energy, for the community, employees, coal-bed methane development and coal-based load contractors and the environment, while projects. providing flexibility to meet the needs of our businesses. 8: undertake initiatives to Exxaro’s core focus is on conserving In 2011, Exxaro embarked on a number of initiatives: promote greater environmental natural resources and reducing the Exxaro participates in the CDP project since 2006; responsibility; burden of pollutants on the environment Participated in the inaugural CDP water project in by: 2010; Complying with all applicable A major water management programme aimed at environmental legislation – as a setting clean water utilisation and efficiency targets starting point. The aim is to exceed throughout the group has been introduced; compliance. Conducting annual safety, health and environment And developing innovative policies and audits at all business operations to ensure programmes for addressing compliance with legislation as well as with environmental impacts. international protocols Page 6/8 Global Compact Principle Summary of Actions taken and Impact Measurement of results Achieved 9: and encourage the Exxaro encourages innovative Exxaro has made progress with the implementation of a development and diffusion of technologies to reduce environmental number of green projects: environmentally friendly impacts, reuse and recycling of waste. technologies. Sophisticated fume-extraction system installed at Namakwa Sands, with noticeable reduction of visible The energy-efficient goals set by the fumes; authorities (Department of Mineral Development of renewable energy projects, namely Resources) were analysed and wind farm projects in Tsitsikamma (Eastern Cape) incorporated into the eco-friendly housing and Brand se Baai in Western Cape and solar and project in Lephalale. The houses were gas project in Limpopo; and carefully planned and have, among Feasibility studies on using furnace offgas to coothers, the following features: generate electricity are in the final stages. Grey-water recycling – recycled water used for toilets, garden and washing cars, etc; Overhanging roofs to capture rainwater that can be used for cooking, washing and gardening; and Solar systems to heat water; save electricity and reduce greenhouse emissions. Page 7/8 Global Compact Principle Summary of Actions taken and Impact Measurement of results Achieved Anti Corruption 10: Businesses should work A committee of the Board of Exxaro is In 2010, the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee in against all forms of corruption, intimately involved in ensuring that consultation with the chief audit executive adopted a including extortion and bribery. Exxaro’s policy against corruption is holistic approach to managing uncertainty, representing effectively implemented both risk and opportunity. The top business risks, appropriately categorised and based on impact and In terms of the corporate value: honest likelihood of occurrence, together with mitigating control responsibility – we speak the truth and measures were disclosed, with risk of fraud ranked at accept accountability for our actions. In number 14. The group has sound and entrenched line with this, compliance with our code of internal controls, which include, disciplinary codes of ethics is monitored by an executive practice, strong and experienced forensic investigation general manager, group risk manager, capability and continuous internal audit of controls and company secretary and audit committee. assurance of effective functioning. Ethical behavior is encouraged throughout the group by communicating A reporting hotline (whistle-blowing) is in place through regularly with employees, using a number which all stakeholders can report suspected corruption of different communication channels. or fraud, conflicts of interest, contraventions of group values or other reportable irregularities, with guaranteed In addition to other compliance and anonymity. Details of reporting mechanisms: enforcement activities, formal disciplinary Hotline: 0800 20 3579 measures are in place to deal with any Hotmail: Exxaro@tip-offs.com identified incidents of corruption and fraud. Page 8/8
