VALUE & RESPONSIBILITY Linking returns to social responsibility page 06 Dedicated employees create the best results page 14 High value generation – a big responsibility 04 For the second consecutive year, PFA is publishing a ongoing process and we have improved our data collection and report describing how we link social value to financial calculation methods wherever possible. Consequently, some of Investments linking returns to responsibility 06 value in our business operations. The report is intended our empirical data may have been adjusted in the process. for customers, business associates and employees, and anyWelfare-creating products 08 one else who is interested in PFA’s activities. The reporting areas are determined on the basis of a materiality criterion and illustrate those areas closest to PFA’s business and Support activities are a social investment 10 PFA’s CSR Report covers the PFA Group, with the exception of which are most relevant to our stakeholders. In 2009, we made it FunktionærPension and two associated companies. For the sake our aim to comply with the GRI G3 guidelines at level C. Focusing on the climate generates good results 12 of simplicity, we use the term PFA to refer to the parts of our Group covered by this report. We have used indicators from the GRI G3 Sustainability Guidelines Growth is based on our employees 14 and Financial Service Sector Supplement FSSS (latest version). PFA commenced its reporting on strategic CSR actions in 2009, They cover the relevant areas of the UN Global Compact’s ten Dialogue means learning and higher job satisfaction 16 i.e. the same year PFA submitted its first report to the UN Global principles and address the implementation of the six principles Compact concerning the progress being made in PFA’s efforts to in UN PRI. PFA reports independently to UN PRI by responding to From UN principles to our daily work 18 integrate the UN’s ten CSR principles into our business. Like the a questionnaire survey. An indicator table with page references previous year, the CSR Report 2010 is also PFA’s Communication to the individual indicators is presented at the end of the report. Business and management 20 on Progress Report to the UN Global Compact. The report is not externally audited, but in PFA’s view, the report is at level C in terms of the GRI G3’s application levels. Appendices 22 The CSR Report always follows the current Annual Report for PFA Holding. As in the past, the CSR Report 2010 will be made PFA still has development potential in relation to this reporting available to the public at PFA Holding’s Annual General Meeting in terms of data quality and in terms of our stated objective to in April 2011. The report has been approved by the Group provide uniform reporting for all areas of the group. Management. The information provided in the report covers the period from 1 January to 31 December 2010, but its contents also The purpose of our reporting is to give all PFA stakeholders reflect ambitions and actions from 2011 to 2015, which is PFA’s an idea of the actions we have initiated, the challenges and strategic milestone. dilemmas confronting us and the goals we intend to pursue. CSR management in PFA is a process which brings new knowledge Contact person concerning the CSR Report: to the company that contributes to improving our efforts and Kristin Parello-Plesner, CSR Manager measurements. The quality of the data collection process is an kpp@pfa.dk The areas of CSR focus are determined on the basis of a materiality criterion in relation to PFA’s business and significance Products to stakeholders and the rest of the world. This requires a strategic CSR effort in relation to PFA’s products, investment area, internal matters, and continuing documentation and communicaPension and welfare tion of our work and progress. The process used for integrating the Global Compact’s principles is the same in these four areas, but the challenges, potential and Responsible Sustainable Externally Investments CSR operations Internally measurability vary from one area to another. Each of the four areas has a number of subcategories with specific actions and objectives to be followed up on an annual basis. In addition to being described in the CSR report, PFA files separate responsible Communication investment reports to UN PRI. The measurability of these actions varies, but we strive to set goals that clearly indicate the developments taking place Dialogue within each area year by year. An action plan for implementing this strategy is prepared each year. 02 > < 03 HIGH VALUE GENERATION – A BIG RESPONSIBILITY PFA continues to develop, and 2010 was yet another year in voluntary arrangement for linkage of data with the Danish sickness absence. Similarly, it is satisfying to note that we have which the PFA Group launched a series of innovations. PFA’s value National Board of Health. The last-mentioned initiative means retained a high level of employee satisfaction, as measured in the generation model remains unchanged, however, with the objective that PFA automatically informs anyone with an illness registered annual employee job satisfaction survey. to create the greatest possible value for customers. Payments in the National Board of Health’s national patient register, if this came to DKK 18.5 billion – the highest amount ever in PFA’s illness may entitle them to a disbursement from a critical illness 2010 was a good year for PFA. In addition to our high investment history. This brought PFA’s growth to DKK 3.1 billion, or 20 % insurance plan. This procedure guarantees that the customer returns, we experienced an influx of customers and our strategic higher than payments in 2009. Payments to market rate plans does not lose possible insurance cover in a difficult time where efforts were successful. This makes PFA well-prepared for the more than doubled to DKK 3.9 billion. These large payments the person’s focus is often directed elsewhere. demands and challenges of tomorrow. Our efforts to integrate our made PFA the pension company of choice on the Danish market. social responsibility into our business have intensified our focus Correspondingly, PFA disbursed an unprecedented DKK 12.9 billion Responsible investments on the interaction between our products and services on the one to its customers. This amount includes pension disbursements In 2010, PFA generated sound returns for our customers, thanks hand and the creation of financial and social value, on the other. and disbursements related to various insurance plans. to a responsible foresighted investment strategy and sound risk Therefore, PFA is committed to upholding a socially responsible management. development of our business and to giving continued support to PFA’s unique position as a customer-owned company is also the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. This will be for the the driving force behind our efforts to take responsibility in the Reducing risks is a key word in our efforts to take responsibility in benefit of our customers, our business and our society. business. Our objective is simple: we must create as much value our investment strategy. PFA is a foresighted investor that wants as possible for our customers while taking responsibility for the to create value in consideration of environmental and social society in which both they and we live and work. factors and good governance – criteria which are also rePFA is one of the largest financial companies ferred to as ESG (environment, social and governance). In our in Denmark. PFA is financially important to the National economy and social responsibility are closely experience, any company that neglects these areas causes individual customers with savings in our institution, connected operational, financial and reputational risks for their owners. At PFA we are responsible for and have an interest in a stable for the companies in which we invest, and ultimately national economy. The big picture is that PFA focuses on welfare At PFA, we base our work on a responsible investment strategy for the society in which we live. We are aware of the and each individual’s possibilities of staying employed. Financial where a company’s ability to address ESG criteria is included in social importance of PFA’s activities. security in old age, health at work and the possibility of a later our considerations whenever we allocate new investments. And retirement age are therefore core priorities for us. we exercise active ownership when any company already found in our portfolios violates international standards. The private business community can contribute to improving the national economy by entering into close collaboration with the We maintain an exclusion list of companies in which we do not Henrik Heideby, Group CEO & President public sector and entering into partnerships to take on more invest, but we regard exclusion as the last resort. Experience assignments involving the creation of an economically sustainshows that so-called active ownership is more effective than able society. Accordingly, PFA has concentrated its efforts in two exclusion for improving a company’s situation. Active ownership areas. means that we can enter into dialogue with the management of a company, cast our vote at general meetings or, together First of all, we wish to support companies’ efforts to ensure the with other like-minded investors, make demands and thereby health and well-being of their employees. This has a positive contribute to ensuring that these companies improve their impact on each company’s bottom line in the form of reduced practices for the benefit of society and their owners. sickness absence and higher motivation, but it is also beneficial to society when employees avoid long-term illness or disability Corporate operations caused by being worn out physically and/or mentally. For this PFA’s internal actions address our own employee-related matters, reason, PFA has developed products and services to enable corporate responsibility and sustainable operations of our companies to take responsibility for their employees in the area headquarters. We have achieved results that benefit the cliof senior benefits and health products. mate, the environment and the financial situation within the framework of our climate partnership with DONG Energy and by inSecondly, we wish to contribute to intensifying our collaboration tensifying our focus on environmental considerations among our with the Danish public healthcare system. This is in the interests subcontractors. This led to energy efficiency measures that of society – and is not at conflict with PFA’s interests. On the benefit PFA’s operations, the climate and the environment and contrary. We want a strong public healthcare system, because which surpassed our objectives for 2010. Naturally, PFA also our customers benefit from the fast and qualified treatment. wishes to take in-house responsibility for and promote the health and well-being of our employees. For this reason, PFA worked in 2010 to establish additional partnership opportunities with the public sector, such as a pubAs a result, 2010 saw new health-related activities for our lic-private partnership with the municipalities and by joining a employees and managerial focus on reducing the frequency of 04 > < 05 PFA is an institutional investor with investments in more than Method active ownership Oil/tar sand 3,100 shares and corporate bonds all over the world. PFA’s At PFA, we are using so-called norm-based screening which In the spring, PFA took part in an engagement and investment strategy is to secure the best returns possible for focuses on companies’ violations of international information trip to Canada to gain deeper insight into its customers in consideration of a wider responsibility for conventions and norms for environmental and social the climate and environmental aspects and problems generating growth which is based on proper social conditions. matters (further details on norm-based screening are found relating to the extraction of oil/tar sand. In this in Appendix 2). Our Investment Department works together connection, PFA discussed these issues with three In PFA we use the term “RI” Responsible Investments to with the Swedish screening agency, GES Investment companies in the oil/gas sectors and addressed the social refer to social responsibility in the investment process. There are Services, which review our investments in shares and and environmental consequences related to the extraction of several underlying reasons for this effort. First and foremost, PFA corporate bonds every six months. This agreement means oil/tar sand. PFA continues to focus on these issues. does not wish to support any company that violates international that GES screens our investments for any companies that conventions and standards. Secondly, our focus on social and do not comply with international norms or which are inExternal investment managers and controversial weapons environmental considerations and corporate governance helps to volved in the manufacture of landmines and/or cluster bombs. Insofar as externally managed share and bond portfolios are conincrease the possibility of maximising our long-term investment GES is also engaged in dialogue with problematic compacerned, each portfolio is checked on a monthly basis to identify returns. nies on behalf of PFA and other investors. In 2010, PFA was in whether any companies are on PFA’s exclusion list. If, contrary dialogue – via GES – with 195 companies, not to mention the diato expectation, such companies are identified in mandates where The PFA Group’s total investment returns over the last five logue carried out directly by PFA. PFA is the sole investor, steps are taken to phase out these investments. In 2010, a dialogue with an asset manager led to this 2006 DKK 8.0 billion On the basis of GES’s screenings, PFA maintains an manager phasing out investments in companies which take part exclusion list comprising companies in which investments must in the manufacture of cluster bombs. 2007 DKK 3.0 billion not be made. As our starting point, this list is updated semi-annually and sent to PFA’s external investment managers. At the Casting of votes at general meetings 2008 DKK 2.6 billion same time, PFA maintains an “Engagement List” of companies PFA will increase its use of voting at general meetings in 2011. In that conflict with our guidelines but which have the potential to 2010, PFA worked to establish a proxy voting collaboration with 2009 DKK 16.0 billion improve. The purpose of this process is to ensure the greatest GES in selected engagement cases. In PFA’s assessment, voting possible useful effect, in terms of both social factors and returns. generates the greatest value in those instances where there may 2010 DKK 20.2 billion PFA did not add any new companies to the exclusion list in 2010. be a need for a high profile acknowledgement by investors to A company was re-included in PFA’s portfolio for the purpose of influence a company. years exercising active ownership. This occurs in the light of an assessPFA’s RI policy does not reduce our returns or cause volatility. ment of the company’s potential to change its practice by being Alternative investments On the contrary, the policy contributes to balancing our risks and sufficiently pressured by its investors. Criteria for climate, environment and social factors are now inreturns. Thus, PFA is the only pension company to produce cluded as an integral aspect of a decision to make an alternative positive returns every single year since 2001. It is positive to note that many companies never reach investment. Thus, a study is made of whether the funds or their the exclusion stage, because they become increasingly portfolio companies have previously had problems complying In 2009, PFA signed the UN Principles for Responsibility responsive to dialogue with investors and choose to change with human rights, responsible resource handling or corruption, Investment (UN PRI) and the UN Global Compact (UNGC). The their behaviour. For this reason, PFA will continue to use or if they have had business dealings with terrorist organisations. obligations stipulated in UNGC originate from documents and active ownership. The themes of our dialogue with PFA also requires these funds to have a CSR policy. standards used by PFA as the basis for its RI guidelines, as well companies are broken down as follows: as legally binding conventions from the UN’s member states. PFA Promoting UN PRI and sector collaboration aims to act responsibly by complying with and promoting the Criterion 2009 2010 PFA has been actively involved in disseminating the RI agenda international standards laid down in these conventions. to the Danish investment community since 2008, by means of Environment 34 % 21 % its board membership in Dansif, etc. Dansif is a networking foSocial issues 56 % 74 % Active ownership is an important tool in this process. PFA’s RI rum for professional investors, consulting firms and other parties guidelines are part of our general investment analysis tools and Corporate governance 10 % 5% involved with SRI in Denmark. In 2010, Dansif held a number of processes and are included in the ongoing dialogue conducted seminars about SRI and increased its membership by 26 %. by PFA with the management of companies in which PFA invests Other themes over the year (see Appendix 1: Allocation of customer funds 2010). Over the course of the year, PFA continued its efforts to integrate ESG into our policies. In 2010, PFA’s RI Board addressed themes like oil sand, controversial weapons and casting of votes. 06 > < 07 PFA has been a supplier of pension plans since 1918, with the to follow the strategy of offering products, services and advice Being ill is a complex situation in many ways. Many parties are Claims Handling). Over a five-year period, we doubled the numpurpose of creating financial solutions that make it possible to help our corporate customers take responsibility for their involved. They include the municipality, one’s workplace or GP, ber of employees suffering from a mental disorder who ultimately for each individual to finance his or her own welfare in old age. employees. a specialist physician and/or hospital and a pension company, returned to work by planning and coordinating the efforts etc. When someone falls ill, he or she is usually unable to cope targeting the individual employee on sick leave. Economists and politicians have been saying it for years: there PFA’s approach to health, well-being and measures against with the complexity of the situation. This also applies to mental are fewer workers to take care of more retirees. More people are loss of occupational capacity disorders, for instance. Active Claims Handling works because: retiring while fewer people are working. An increasing number PFA’s starting point is that it is in the natural interests of the • we actively intervene on behalf of the employees for whom we of Danish retirees will need a sound financial platform from company to attend to its employees’ health and well-being. Therefore, at PFA we serve as a coordinator for the employee on believe this will work, which minimises the wasting of time and which to manage a longer period of old age. At the same time, an Therefore, PFA focuses on developing products and services to sick leave. We motivate and advise the individual employee and resources; increasing number of workers will have to work longer on the promote health, healthy workplaces, a safe and healthy working work out a plan where we coordinate the various intervention • we have clear-cut economic incentives: when Active Claims labour market and retire at a later age than we have been environment and on preventing stress. measures. Specifically, we provide targeted treatment offers, and Handling works, PFA reaps a direct financial gain for the benefit accustomed to so far. we mediate contact between the various parties involved in the of our customers. This effort is always made in cooperation with our customer’s employee’s illness situation so everyone is working to achieve the These developments are imposing new demands on both management so that all initiatives are linked to other efforts to same goal: to return the employee on sick leave to his or her daily life. businesses and society. As a pension supplier, it is only natural reduce sickness absence, increase productivity and the company’s for PFA to develop products that make positive contributions to social responsibility. This applies to efforts relating to symptoms In 2010, PFA took a new step in the Active Claims Handling PFA’s Active Claims Handling has assessed 579 cases in 2010 meeting the welfare challenges. of problems, handling sickness absence and preventing longprocess. We took the initiative to work with municipalities alone: term illness. The effort also involves ensuring fast treatment, regarding Active Claims Handling so an employee on sick leave • These cases amount to a provision of DKK 769 million Through our products for seniors, we help to make labour market rehabilitation and return to work. experiences a coherent, coordinated effort across the public and • In 132 of these cases, it is directly assessed that the solutions more flexible for retirement and to provide a financialprivate sectors. The aim of this is to unify all of these positive disability pension can be discontinued by means of Active ly sensible transition from labour market to pension. We advise In natural continuation of these efforts, PFA has developed a efforts to ensure that fewer employees end up in permanent Claims Handling businesses about their senior policy and assist them in specific approach to reduce loss of occupational capacity caused passive income support. • Provisions for these cases amounts to DKK 540 million developing a targeted process for the benefit of the business, by a mental disorder, for instance. We call this Active Claims • 134 of the claims amount to more than DKK 3 million in their employees and society in general. Handling. Active Claims Handling prevents inadequate intervention Good results provisions. in connection with an employee with reduced occupational As a result of our Active Claims Handling policy, PFA has succeedAt the same time, the healthcare system in Denmark is capacity from resulting in his/her permanent withdrawal from the ed in achieving a noticeable increase in the number of employees subjected to a mounting pressure. We adjust our pension labour market and transfer to public support. who return to work (see Appendix 3 for further details on Active and health products accordingly. PFA’s efforts continue 08 > < 09 PFA takes part in a number of activities and cooperates GirlTalk.dk is an organisation based on the efforts of idealists with several organisations to contribute to positive social who help and counsel teenage girls and young women. About developments. We have gathered our support activities under 43 young women work as voluntary counsellors. GirlTalk.dk is a Activities Results one strategy named “PFA Social Partner”, which provides the forum for girls and women aged 12 to 24 who are unhappy and The Live Life Foundation Support for two social organisations: strategic partnership with the GirlTalk.dk web portal – following support: who need someone to talk to and advice. These girls can use (Brug Livet Fonden) youth-to-youth counselling; and support for the Association Servicehunde til Handicappede GirlTalk.dk’s open forum or enter a closed counselling site (see (STH). Selection of new strategic partnerships under the Live Life Foundation in 2011. • Financial contributions and donations Appendix 4 for further details about GirlTalk.dk). Support advertising Support advertising for local organisations for the disabled, sports clubs and patient associa• Support advertising tions. • The PFA Live Life Foundation. In addition PFA primarily supports associations that are Sponsorships No Bullying: Children’s Relay Race with Save the Children Denmark and the Association associated with PFA’s areas of focus. This includes associaof Families with Children with Cancer. Besides the human aspect, it makes good socioeconomic sense tions working with preventive measures, health promotion and Other financial support World Diabetes Foundation, Child Fund Alliance (Børnefonden), the children of Greenland to invest in the improvement of social conditions. At PFA, we initiatives related to prevention of illness. For other support (Grønlands Børn). believe that the best way to contribute to this is by entering into activities, we give priority to the existence of a link between Employee support Clothing drives for Save the Children Denmark. strategic partnerships with individually selected organisations, PFA’s activities and the cause being supported, such as organisaBusiness partnerships Engineers Without Borders, Danish Red Cross via initiatives like the PFA Live Life Foundation where we work tions for the elderly or the disabled or other disadvantaged social closely with the organisation selected. This is rewarding for both groups. Finally, we support initiatives aiming to inform about arEmployee fund Five projects have been awarded support. PFA and the selected organisation because we learn from one eas closely related to life and pension. another, which in turn helps to focus the effort. At PFA, we also give priority to the employees’ social commitment The PFA Live Life Foundation aims to support one or more cases and willingness to act outside the company. For this reason, PFA that help other people to lead rewarding lives. This can be any has a number of offers targeting our employees, such as the initiative that helps to make a difference in the lives of others possibility of donating blood during working hours via the mobile and contributes to helping the disadvantaged. blood bank. In 2010, support was granted to GirlTalk.dk and the Association In 2009, we also established an internal fund that supports our Servicehunde til Handicappede (STH), as the cases run by private employees’ voluntary charity work. Every year, the fund receives individuals deeply committed to their causes. These organisations applications and a number of projects receives funding. In 2010, received cash support and dedicated assistance from PFA for five employees received support for volunteer projects, all of a period of time to create awareness and support for their causwhich aim to meet one or more of the UN’s eight 2015 goals (see es. Both organisations make an outstanding effort based on the Appendix 5 for further details about the Children of Nepal case). work of many volunteers and a personal willingness to make a difference. 10 > < 11 Private companies need to take an independent responsibility Member of the Carbon Disclosure Project compared to the baseline year 2009, equivalent to PFA’s objective optimised our use of resources and improved our customer for tackling climate and environmental challenges. PFA Since 2009, PFA has been a member of the Carbon Disclosure for 2010. The energy efficiency measures were implemented in the services. We aim to review and edit our list of actions every maintains its focus on the climate and the environment Project (CPD), a worldwide climate network. Our membership course of 2010 and are now generating the reductions expected. year and to add new ones. The list considers the aim of PFA to because it makes social and economic sense to respect our means, among other things, that we are working to increase the A year-end calculation showed that PFA had implemented energy intervene where our emissions are highest and thus have a natural resources. number of Danish companies that submit climate reports to the efficiency measures corresponding to 11 % of the company’s corresponding potential for reduction. CDP. emissions, compared to 2009, thereby surpassing our target by 1 %. We wish to contribute to sustainable development both as an The challenge for 2011 will be to identify actions that result investor and through our own operations. Last year, the entire We also wish to reinforce Danish contributions to the generation in even more reductions. This will require initiatives of another PFA organisation reduced its CO2 emissions by 11 % compared of comparable climate data for the benefit of the companies CDP is a global climate reporting system which annually gathers dimension and with a longer implementation timeframe. We wish to 2009, as a result of energy efficiency measures and modified themselves, their stakeholders and investors, to provide a and benchmarks climate data from the 500 biggest companies in to be equally ambitious, however, and have therefore set the behaviour. better basis on which to assess the companies’ risks. In 2010, the world and from many other companies as well. In total, more goal of an additional 10 % reduction in 2011, compared to 2010. PFA engaged in dialogue with a number of Danish companies and than 3,000 companies from all over the world submit reports to In 2009, PFA launched its Environment and Climate Change encouraged them either to begin or to continue submitting the CDP. The data are published in a number of reports that can Further details are available by downloading our Climate Report Strategy, a document for managing the efforts of our organisation. climate reports to the CDP. This dialogue works, as increasing be used by institutional investors to compare and benchmark from www.pfa.dk/csr Climate and environmental considerations relating to our numbers of companies are submitting climate reports every year. companies, identify climate leaders and use data for investment own operations are dealt with in our day-to-day work in the involvement and integration into investment models. Managing subcontractors relevant business units like IT, Real Estate and Purchase. In Environmental and climate management is profitable In 2010, we added new business partners who supply climateaddition, we consider climate change and inadequate respect PFA’s involvement in climate and environmental issues does not friendly and eco-friendly products to PFA’s operations. Since for the environment as genuine financial risks which we must stop with our role as an investor. We also address environmental If reduction in the use of paper is included, PFA achieved even 2009, we have been incorporating our guidelines for responsible consider whenever we invest our customers’ money. and climate challenges within PFA, so that both employees and greater savings, approximately 32 %. The 11 % reduction in purchasing into our supplier contracts. In 2010, this resulted we as a company deliberately and actively respect our common relation to the baseline year is primarily due to efforts that have in contracts with five new main suppliers, chosen for their New initiatives in developing countries environment and climate. Over the past year, it became clear that improved the energy controls in the building, the application of strong environmental profiles. Likewise, six of our regular main Private investors play an important part in helping to reduce environmental and climate management is profitable and also new technology, a focus on IT equipment and an ongoing focus suppliers have optimised their products which are now more CO2 emissions and convert from using fossil fuels to sustainable contributes to reducing our costs and the resources we use. on changing our behaviour on a daily basis. climate-friendly and eco-friendly (see Appendix 6 for further solutions. As only a limited amount of public sector funding is details about CO2 neutral taxi driving and fair trade coffee). available for climate-related interventions, additional funding The primary focus of PFA’s strategy has been to reduce our CO2 Reducing CO2 emission has not only meant that we could make must be provided by private investors. emissions and our environmental impact. A strategic climate a positive impact on the environment. Energy optimisation and PFA’s in-house efforts to respect the climate and environment partnership with DONG Energy defines the framework for intervention to save on the use of paper, electricity, heating have reduced costs and optimised important operating processes PFA wishes to contribute to solutions and therefore cooperates implementing this strategy. In late 2009, an energy consultant and transport have also generated significant economic gains, which today require fewer maintenance resources. with the Confederation of Danish Industries’ Business reviewed the PFA Group’s headquarters and mapped out the Development and IFU on the development of a climate foundaareas where energy efficiency was possible. The areas identified Total CO2 emissions – The PFA Group tion targeting emerging markets. In 2010, PFA assisted by providwere included on a prioritised list of interventions that would be CO2 emissions, 2010 (tonnes) CO2 emission reduction (tonnes) ing consultancy relating to investment and financing of the founthe most beneficial to implement in order to achieve PFA’s goals. Scope 1 (petrol & diesel) 866 64 dation’s upcoming projects. In 2011, PFA will actively participate as an investor in the foundation and, thus, in the financing of the The efforts in 2010 focused on initiating the energy efficiency Scope 2 (electricity & district heating) 1,198 206 foundation’s climate related investments. measures identified to reduce PFA’s CO2 emissions by 10 %, Scope 3 (air travel) 73 -4 Total 2,138 266 PFA relies on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol method and calculates CO2 reductions in scopes. 12 > < 13 We know that it takes dedicated employees to get a company Each PFA employee is covered by PFA’s own insurance products, Equal opportunities to develop one’s potential Governance model for employee conditions to grow. This happens once a company has provided the which provide access to health check-ups, preventive treatment, PFA focuses on ensuring equal opportunities to all employees The workplace committee deals with all employee conditions and conditions which enable employees to prosper and fully use and quick treatment in the event of illness or injury. Naturally, so they can develop their potential at work, and we do not matters and meets four times a year. their potential. every PFA employee has a good pension plan with savings and accept discrimination based on gender, background or religion, etc. insurance cover in the event of disability, severe illness or death. We believe that the best results are achieved by striking a proper The workplace committee’s representatives for employee PFA aims to be a workplace with a healthy profile and excellent balance between masculine and feminine leadership values. organisations and the executive management annually review the development potential. In practice, this means that PFA gives In 2010, PFA intensified its focus on establishing in-house health salary statistics breakdown by gender and job function. In 2010, priority to having good conditions for our employees and initiatives. Physical activity and healthy lifestyles are important Therefore, PFA wishes to attract women employees and the workplace committee concluded that no systematic favouring providing good opportunities for them to develop their skills and factors for preventing illness and promoting well-being. For this managers, but does not have any special programmes targeting of wages takes place in PFA qualifications, regardless of gender, age or ethnic background. reason, PFA offers all its employees the opportunity to exercise women. On the other hand, in 2010, we developed a programme at work and after work via a collective membership of a fitness targeting the management in PFA and a management ideal which Job satisfaction, 2010 PFA makes sure to develop employee skills by offering club. PFA wants these health promotion initiatives to improve helps to pave the way for increasing the number of women managers. development options in their jobs, high mobility within the PFA employee satisfaction and eventually to have a positive impact 73 organisation, as well as courses and supplementary training. on employee health profiles. PFA has an increasing number of women managers and a PFA Pension 2010 Professional and personal development is included in our high percentage of women executives – which also applies to 71 regular appraisal interviews where each employee discusses In 2009 and 2010 we noted a decline in sickness absence, at the representation in the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, Danish Employee Index (‘DMI’), the assignments with his or her immediate supervisor. PFA same time that the dedication of our employees increased and where one-fourth to one-fifth of the members are women. It Labour Market in general 2010 operates with two types of skills development. One involves remained at a very high level. is conceivable that this increase in the number of women the development of each employee to manage the job in focus. executives (level 1 below the Executive Management) could have The other involves making the employee capable of performing PFA’s goal is to keep sickness absence below 4 %: we have the same effect on other levels. other jobs within the organisation. succeeded in doing this the past two years. Moving forward, our goal will be to maintain this low sickness absence level at 3.8 % PFA has many women managers in IT and the Financial PFA employees are offered supplementary training in three or lower. Department in particular. In the area of IT, women occupy 50 % of categories: the level-two management positions and 16 % of the level-three • In-house PFA courses, such as the Personal Tax Act, Pension Further details are available by downloading our HR Report from management positions. Analysis and Personal Efficiency www.pfa.dk/csr • External courses 31 December 2008 31 December 2009 31 December 2010 • Courses at the Danish Insurance Academy (ForsikringsakadeDevelopment in the average number of sick days per employee: Women Men Women Men Women Men miet), such as Personal Insurance Law and Corporate Pensions. 2010 2009 2008 Level 1 16 % 84 % 14 % 86 % 22 % 78 % Number of days 8.02 8.47 9.18 Corporate Health Responsibility Level 2 31 % 69 % 28 % 72 % 30 % 70 % In per cent 3.55 3.80 4.10 As a supplier of health insurance plans, we know the social and Level 3 41 % 59 % 43 % 57 % 38 % 62 % financial costs for each individual, business and society caused by poor working conditions and unhealthy workplaces. It is still PFA’s goal to have a proper balance of women and men in management and the rest of the organisation. 14 > < 15 PFA coordinates pension savings and insurance cover for our internal analyses and intensify the focus of our CSR strategy many people. This means daily contacts with more than 1,000 (see Appendix 7 for further details about stakeholder dialogue). customers who need to know that their pension plans and cases are being taken care of quickly, efficiently and, not In 2010, PFA asked our individual customers to rate the least, reliably. significance they attribute to their pension company’s social responsibility. The responses show that the vast majority of At PFA, we do not think that good corporate governance or individual customers agree that their pension company should act customer contact can be regulated by laws and rules alone. Thus, in a socially responsible manner. PFA has set its own objective in this regard: to have the sector’s highest standards of service, reliability and transparency. In 2010, Customer representative a number of initiatives were initiated to implement our corporate On an average workday, PFA is in direct contact with more than responsibility and dialogue. 1,000 customers. Occasionally this leads to errors or the giving of unsatisfactory service to our customers. To deal with this, PFA set Dialogue with stakeholders up a position in 2009 for an in-house Customer Representative Having an open dialogue with customers and public represenwho acts as a claims attendant. Customers can contact this tatives concerning their expectations of PFA is an important representative if they are dissatisfied with a decision made in aspect of our efforts to take more responsibility. In our experience, connection with a complaint (see Appendix 8 for further details customers are interested in knowing our attitudes and efforts on customer satisfaction in PFA). This allows closed complaint and the results we generate. To accommodate this, we carry cases to be reopened, and PFA offers special advisory services to out a number of customer dialogue activities and continuously customers who question the final decision. The primary purpose measure the level of our customers’ satisfaction. PFA’s objective of the Customer Representative is to ensure that PFA listens to is to be rated over 3.8 in terms of general customer satisfaction. its customers and learns from its mistakes. Levels of customer satisfaction In 2010, enquiries received by the Customer Representative led to learning and changes at PFA in several areas. Typically, the Overall 4.0 reason for the complaint could be removed by optimising IT and administrative processes, thus shortening and streamlining case General 4.1 processing as a result. At the same time, the Customer Representative increased the incidence of random checks to ensure correct case processing. Advisory services 4.0 In 2010, PFA’s Customer Representative received a total of 103 Attitude 4.0 enquiries, of which 83 were complaints. This should be seen in Scale from 1 to 5. Respondents: 2,615. Year: 2010 proportion to the fact that PFA has more than 650,000 customers and received about 235,000 direct customer enquiries in 2010. The Customer Representative issues a report each year with It is important for me to know that my pension company exercises the current trends. It is our goal that the lessons learned in corporate social responsibility in its investments and other work: processing complaints will reduce the number of complaints in Completely agree: 29 % the future and optimise customer contact. At the turn of the Agree: 37 % year, the Customer Representative had made decisions in 76 of Neither agree nor disagree: 21 % the cases. The decisions were in favour of the customer in about Disagree: 4% half (42) of the cases. In 23 cases, the customer’s complaint was Completely disagree: 2% not accepted, whereas the decision was partly in favour of the Do not know: 6% customer in 11 cases. The complaints filed in 2010 primarily concern disbursements Customer dialogue about CSR and claims processing, as well as general case processing. In addition to general customer dialogue and customer Seeing that PFA manages large sums of money for its customers, satisfaction surveys, as well as reputation surveys, PFA was in control, transparency and quality assurance are decisive to our dialogue with selected stakeholders in 2010 to ask them to assess stakeholders. In 2010, PFA carried out two initiatives to provide the significance of our efforts. Their responses helped to qualify even more reliable and transparent control models. 16 > < 17 In early 2009, PFA Pension signed the UN Principles for responsibility and violates conventions dealing with human rights, Policy and strategy Responsible Investment; later that same year, we followed up employee rights, the environment, the climate or anti-corruption. PFA is a commercial enterprise and is run according to commercial The overall CSR responsibility rests with PFA’s CEO. Operative by signing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. principles. Growth and value generation are decisive and vital CSR responsibility is delegated to Corporate Communications and PFA has joined the UN Global Compact and supports the objectives. The PFA Group’s strategy is managed by a scorecard People Management. Responsibility for enforcing and implementing These two sets of principles – UN PRI and UNGC – continue to integration of these 10 principles. The obligations stipulated in and a transformation card whose purpose is to show key busithe RI strategy is delegated to PFA’s Board for Responsible make up the most important frameworks for our CSR efforts. The UNGC originate from documents and standards used by PFA as ness results. Investments. The RI Board is made up of executive employees way in which these two sets of principles interact and form the the basis for its guidelines, as well as legally binding conventions from PFA Asset Management (PFA Kapitalforvaltning), the CSR basis of PFA’s efforts to take responsibility through its business from UN member states. PFA aims to act responsibly by CSR supports the scorecard’s six indicators: growth, lifecycle Manager, the Public Affairs Director and the CFO. PFA’s CFO is became clearer in 2010. complying with and promoting the international standards laid product, supplementary benefits, advisory services, efficiency Chairman of the RI Board. The board ensures compliance with the down in these conventions. and dynamics. Each year, the CSR manager at PFA works out an RI policy and its associated guidelines. The board meets six times PFA is continually working to integrate the UNGC principles into action plan for integrating corporate social responsibility and the a year and makes PFA’s strategic RI decisions. our own operations and adapts them to social problems and principles adopted to by PFA. The action plan is implemented issues in Denmark where PFA has its market. This means that PFA signed the UN PRI (UN Principles of Responsible Investment) in collaboration with CSR and relevant business units. The we analyse our business and operations and continually assess in 2009 and thereby undertakes to incorporate the principles into management of each business unit is also responsible for ways to improve in relation to the ten principles for human rights, its business and carry out measures to support the principles. ensuring compliance and implementation of policies and guideemployee rights, environment and climate considerations and PFA is measured by UN PRI and assessed in terms of PFA’s ability lines. Further details are available by downloading our Policy and anti-corruption. Over the past year, we continued the integrato implement the UN PRI principles. Action Report from www.pfa.dk/csr tion of environmental and social considerations into our day-toCEO day operations. The day-to-day management of this integration Governance is based on PFA’s own guidelines that convert the principles into This means that we have chosen to integrate our ESG consideraPolicy and guidelines form the basis for PFA’s business conduct RI BOARD practice and make them operational in a Danish context. tions into our investment strategy by basing our RI guidelines on and for its employees. PFA expects its employees to perform CFO, CSR, PA INVESTMENT the conventions and international standards on which the princitheir work conscientiously and otherwise act responsibly MANAGERS Our efforts to improve social, environmental and managerial ples of the UN Global Compact are based. Norm-based screening, whenever they are representing PFA. Policies and guidelines conditions to a global level are primarily carried out via our engagement and a defined methodological and governance model are communicated via the intranet and PFA’s own homepage. In PORTOLIO CSR / SRI PORTOLIO investments. In keeping with the UN PRI principles, PFA exerfor active ownership ensure that we comply with these guidelines addition, all new employees are introduced to CSR when they MANAGERS MANAGERS cises its shareholder rights if any company neglects its social and integrate the UN PRI principles into our daily work at PFA. start working for the company. 18 > < 19 The PFA Group is a Danish company with its headquarters in Regular payments to pension plans are more or less unchanged Copenhagen and two small sales offices in Aarhus and Vejle. compared to 2009. The DKK 3.1-billion increase in single payments PFA’s history dates back to 1917. is primarily attributable to the transfer of members from two large pension funds to PFA. Payments for market rate plans amounted The company has retained its original maximum dividend limit to DKK 3.9 billion – more than a doubling compared to 2009. of 5 % of the DKK 1 million share capital, or DKK 50,000. PFA’s We expect an even greater increase in market rate payments, as position as a customer-owned company is partially based on this customers are offered the new pension product PFA Plus. dividend limit which aims to help create the greatest possible value for customers (see Appendices 9 and 10 for group structure GRI Index and organisational model). Our goal is to continually improve and develop our CSR reporting. Accordingly, this year we are complying with several of the Customers and products guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). PFA has not In 2010, total payments to the PFA Group amounted to DKK 18.5 formally joined GRI but uses the guidelines as a starting point billion, which is DKK 3.1 billion more than in 2009 (see key ratios and a source of inspiration for this reporting. The table refers to for the PFA Group in Appendix 11). This significant increase in the GRI indicators that we have chosen to cover in this report. In customer payments to PFA was the highest to date. The growth accordance with our assessment, the report complies with level in payments occurred at a time when the market is under severe C, in relation to the GRI G3 Guidelines. pressure and several market players are experiencing stagnation or negative growth. This shows the strength of PFA’s ability to Further details are available by downloading the GRI table from create value for its customers in the form of high investment www.pfa.dk/csr returns and low costs. Further details about the guidelines and indicators we have chosen to cover in the 2010 report are available on www.globalreporting.org 20 > < 21 • 100 % of PFA’s listed shares and corporate bonds are norm-screened. • At the end of 2010, 15 companies were on PFA’s exclusion list. • Together with other investors, PFA has been engaged in an engagement dialogue with 195 companies that risk violating international standards. • 45 companies are in an evaluation phase where their cases are being checked up on. Allokering af kundemidler 2010 6% 6 % -Real Ejendomme Estate 4% 4 % -Other Øvrige 11% 11 Aktier % Total i alt shares 79% 79 Obligationer % Total bonds i alt 22 > PFA uses the screening agency, GES Investment Services, In 2010, the screening generated an observation list of about which provides thorough analyses through GES Global Ethical 120 companies and a focus list of about 50 companies which are Standard , including engagement activities and risk analysis. ® linked to accidents or activities violating international standards and which, as a result of this, are recommended for exclusion or The method is based on systemically screening international for being subjected to an increased engagement pressure. companies concerning their compliance with international conventions and guidelines relating to the environment, human An independent engagement strategy with a clear process, rights, employee rights and corruption. GES Investment Services audit criteria, objectives and an action plan is developed for each currently screens approximately 5,500 listed companies. company. The engagement strategy elaborates upon the critical dialogue already taking place between owners and company. In The collection of information about incidents and companies is addition to the above-mentioned lists, some 15 manufacturers managed through search engines that collect information from of cluster bombs or landmines are systematically excluded. These media and news reports and from NGO homepages and dataare not subject to engagement. bases worldwide. 23 > PFA had 132 cases with potential in 2010 alone. If half of them Alternative outcome: Peter ends up in a flex job are realised, they represent a financial potential of more than Peter ends up in a flex job due to a lack of active effort. Peter’s DKK 0.5 billion, distributed between PFA and the public sector. mental condition becomes chronic and after two years of sick leave, his occupational capacity is still reduced. This does not include the tax effect, the significance to the labour market and, not least, the human aspects for people who get an He is awarded a flex job and, after six months on unemployment active life back. Read about Peter’s case. allowance, he is employed in a flex job. He likes the job, but his health worsens four years later and he reduces his number of A 35-year-old man on sick leave with a mental disorder could working hours. The municipal reimbursement is increased from cost more than DKK 10 million if he ends up on public disability one-half to two-thirds. Peter stops working in the flex job when benefits, whereas an active effort and a plan could reduce this he turns 65. cost to less than DKK 1 million. Every time someone is moved from passive permanent income support to active employment, the Peter’s case costs PFA DKK 6.1 million and costs the public sector potential savings amount to almost DKK 10 million, plus the tax DKK 621,000. This does not include the loss of tax revenues from effect. ordinary employment for 30 years. Example 1: Peter Alternative outcome: Peter ends up receiving public disability Peter is a 35-year-old technical designer. In late 2008, he is benefits reported sick, suffering from depression. He is given medicine Peter ends up receiving public disability benefits due to a lack of by his own GP, but the effects fail to materialise. He is dismissed. active effort. Peter’s mental condition becomes chronic and after After contacting PFA, he enters into a psychiatric treatment two years of sick leave, his occupational capacity is still reduced. process in mid-2009. After his condition improves, he contacts PFA for additional initiatives because in his opinion, the municipal He is awarded a flex job and, after six months of unemployment offers do not correspond with what he needed. allowance, he is employed in a flex job, two-thirds of which is reimbursed by the public sector. His mental health worsens and PFA then offers him a process targeted more towards the labour after working in a flex job for four years, he is granted a public market, and he accepts this. During this process he takes part in disability pension. several traineeships and at the same time he is given individual interviews with a counsellor. His occupational capacity gradually Peter’s case costs PFA DKK 8.6 million and costs the public sector improves, and in late 2010 he is reported completely fit for work. DKK 2.8 million. This does not include the loss of tax revenues Peter’s case cost PFA DKK 390,000 and cost the public sector from ordinary employment for 30 years. DKK 423,000. 24 > Seven years ago, idealist Anna Lynge started the web portal very hard for me to keep up. It slowly dawned on me that it was GirlTalk.dk, where girls aged 12 to 24 can get help with their important to do something that was more lasting,” she says. problems and issues. Today, about 50 girls a day receive counselling and are in contact with other girls to discuss their worries. For this reason, at the age of 24 in 2004, Anna sat down in her kitchen together with some of her friends and built up a “I can’t look at a teenager without wanting to talk to her. When web portal where she and her friends served as counsellors for I look her in the eyes, I have a thousand things I want to say to these young women. The portal also gave users the option of her – support her in everything she is capable of. I have so much entering a chat forum to talk with other girls their age. And these confidence in these girls and it breaks my heart to watch them are actually the same services available at GirlTalk.dk today. The destroy themselves. They could do so much more than just sitting only difference being that many other features have been added, alone in a room,” says Anna Lynge, the idealist and entrepreneur like a parent advice section. “Organisationally, huge developwho started the GirlTalk.dk web portal where girls aged 12 to 24 ments have taken place, but my heart and the values I want to can chat and seek advice from other girls. pass on to the young women are still the same. Back then, all I knew was that I had to do something to help them.” She has invested much of her energy in this web portal over the past seven years, in addition to having given birth to three “My basic philosophy was that it is better to do something to children and completing a study programme to be a psychologist the best of my ability than not doing anything at all. I was very and coach. idealistic and uninformed and was just taking one step at a time. Today we have a huge professional support group that helps us Anna Lynge started the portal after several years of working with to do the right thing for these young women if necessary,” Anna teenagers in youth clubs and giving lectures to teenagers and Lynge says. teachers about the problems of bullying, eating disorders and just being young. Attentiveness, concern and acceptance Today, about 50 young women a day contact the youth “Whenever I gave my lectures, I would always tell these young counsellors, whereas the homepage has about 400,000 users a women that they were welcome to contact me if they had any year (up from 200,000 visitors in 2009). questions. Then the e-mails would start pouring in, and it was 25 > “The youth counsellors have gradually been trained by professionals “A girl’s past is one thing, but she also has a future, too. I know to handle the problems they’re confronted with. For instance, fully well how difficult it can be to get to a place where you can we’ve been trained in how to deal with eating disorders, abuse see the light. That’s also why it is important that the people who and other violation of personal integrity, and legal guidelines. are in contact with a young person having problems discover that This has gradually increased the skills of the youth counsellors this is happening, deal with it and believe that their efforts can and, concurrent with the growth of our organisation, more and succeed. And that is one area where we, as bridge-builders, can more volunteers have joined us. help by supporting and encouraging these girls to communicate their problems to those around them,” she says. We’re now a team of 60 youth counsellors. But it’s important to emphasise that their job is not to be experts. We’re sort of like Strength of anonymity big sisters or bridge-builders who can listen, give advice about One of advantages of GirlTalk.dk is that the girls can remain where to look for more help, tell these young women how to anonymous when they contact the site. Even if parents, teachers tell their parents and teachers what’s worrying them, and most at the youth club or schoolteachers would like to help, a young importantly: be attentive, show concern and accept them for who person doesn’t always feel they can trust them. At GirlTalk.dk, they are,” Anna Lynge says. the information is kept in strictest confidence, so the girls never feel at risk by contacting the site. Many of the girls, who contact the portal, return. Anna Lynge frequently receives e-mails from girls telling her that they “We’re not emotionally involved if they tell us something, wouldn’t have made it to where they are today if they hadn’t and besides, the girls can just log off if they feel things are contacted GirlTalk.dk. getting too difficult. That way, they’re never worried about the consequences,” she says. “That makes it ALL worthwhile. We want to instil some self-confidence in these girls. We’re living in a country where That said, however, GirlTalk.dk does everything in its power we’re very quick to put each other down. We’re told on the one to keep the girls in a forward-looking process and if they have hand that we have to be skilled at all sorts of things, but on the conversations with girls where the counsellors feel that their own other if we believe too much in ourselves, that’s wrong, too. I expertise fall short, there are psychologists, lawyers and case think it’s great whenever young women are allowed to try just officers affiliated with the portal whose expertise they can draw being themselves. We must believe in who we are and in each on, if the girls have the courage to wait a minute. other and discover the joy of living in the now,” Anna Lynge says. In light of her own past, it was also a huge personal achievement Future value for Anna Lynge to get to where she is today with her own It was also difficult for Anna Lynge to believe in herself when she web portal, which, among other achievements, has won the was younger. And it is her own experiences in life that laid the European Youth Award in the “Active Citizenship” category in groundwork for her ability to initially go out and give lectures 2005 and the Fun Fearless Female award, in Cosmopolitan in about being young and then subsequently start GirlTalk.dk. 2007. Also, in 2009, GirlTalk.dk was selected for Reklame For Alvor (‘Advertising, seriously’), which triggered an advertising “I went to an ordinary primary and lower secondary school where campaign in 2010. In 2011, Anna Lynge and GirlTalk.dk were I experienced from the very first day of school how hard it was selected as “Heroes of the Year”. for me to fit in. I was one of the unfortunate ones who felt left out and was bullied. This developed into an eating disorder which “I had to suppress all my anxieties. This required me to transcend my doctor spotted when I was ten. But it was never dealt with my limits in terms of getting the courage to face the media. Time properly. The doctor wanted my mother to take responsibility for after time, I’ve done things I usually wouldn’t do – like daring it, and I tried eating, but when I was at school I didn’t manage to. to disclose my whole life story and personal thoughts, which I didn’t receive professional counselling until I turned 20, when, have now been passed on to others. In addition, I’ve spent lots of with the help of my friends, I realised how serious my condition sleepless nights writing funding applications, worrying about fireally was. Then I truly wanted to get rid of my eating disorder nancial matters, about how to manage 60 youth counsellors, and because they helped me to realise how much it was destroying I’ve learned how to organise the services of all the professionals my life,” she remembers. This explains why it is uncommonly and people behind GirlTalk.dk in short how to start something important for Anna Lynge to communicate to these young womfrom scratch,” the now 31-year-old Anna Lynge concludes. en that there is hope and that it is possible for them to lead a more rewarding life. Further details are available by visiting www.girltalk.dk 26 > to children at risk, to ensure that they can get a basic education and healthier living conditions. Birgitte is currently working to obtain funding for two projects. One targets widows with children who are especially vulnerable. The widows receive assistance to get a sewing machine so they can support themselves and are capable of ensuring that their children are properly fed every day. Another project targets schoolchildren who, with the help of the organisation, have been given a school lunch programme. The lunch programme enables the children to maintain their level of The first time Birgitte Sørensen travelled to Nepal was in 2009. concentration, stay in school and get the knowledge they need Since then, she has been working to improve the daily lives of to move on in their lives. In so doing, Nepal’s Children helps to Nepal’s children. develop and promote the level of education in Nepal. “PFA’s support was crucial for us. Specifically, we wouldn’t have In 2010, Birgitte applied for support from PFA’s internal funds been able to make a homepage this year without PFA’s assisand received a financial contribution to set up the organisation’s tance, because every penny is prioritised for our projects.” homepage and run specific projects. In 2010, she and a girlfriend founded Nepal’s Children, an inde“The fact that my workplace backs me up is very fulfilling and pendent organisation working to give disadvantaged children a gives me lots of energy.” better life. Birgitte’s day job is working at PFA as a VIP adviser, but she spends her spare time fundraising and granting support Further details: www.nepalsboern.dk 27 > produced under proper social and sustainable conditions. The results have been noticeable because we get a product we can vouch for, and which is also high quality and means something to our employees. PFA’s employees took part in selecting the suppliers by holding coffee-tasting sessions and through polling. After the switch, we have actually seen an increase in our coffee consumption, which we attribute to the fact that the coffee is both organic and fair trade, so it is also better quality. PFA’s employees drink 3,940 kilos of coffee a year. In 2010, PFA employees drove 8,035 kilometres, equivalent to a CO2 neutral taxi driving and fair trade are a part of daily life at carbon footprint of 6,035 tonnes. As the taxi rides are not always PFA. In 2010, PFA changed two important suppliers. equally efficient, 10 % is added to this figure when taxi companies buy quotas, which is why PFA has neutralised 6.63 tonnes of CO2 As a service enterprise and office workplace, both taxi transport in 2010. The number of kilometres is taken from the bottom of and coffee are two important employee expenditures, and at the energy class, so the individual taxicab is calculated on the the same time they are two areas where PFA could make huge basis of the “poorest” performance in its category. financially and socially beneficial savings. Besides, both taxis and coffee are tangible initiatives where employees experience how From now on, PFA’s taxicab service provider will use Golden the CSR strategy is being put into practice. Standard quotas, where the quota funds will be used for CO2 reducing development projects in Africa. PFA switched over to fairtrade coffee and other fairtrade products because we wanted to support the trading of products 28 > Customer dialogue At PFA, we have a Customer Board consisting of 60 executive employees from our largest corporate customers help us to make sure we stay in touch with customer needs and requirements at all times. PFA’s Advisory Services Centre carries out satisfaction surveys on a regular basis. Every other customer who comes in contact with the centre is asked to participate in a satisfaction survey. To ensure maximum customer trust and confidence, PFA has set up a position for an in-house Customer Representative who acts as a claims attendant. As a PFA customer you can contact the Customer Representative if you have any questions or are dissatisfied with a decision made in connection with a complaint. Each year PFA takes part in the Aalund Corporate Pension Barometer: The latest survey showed that decision makers were very satisfied with PFA. PFA wishes to maintain a presence on the communication platforms where its customers are, which means that PFA has increased its use of social media. All of the dialogues and surveys pointed towards the increasing significance of CSR in the years to come, as well as the importance linking these activities to or integrating them into the business. Quantitative opinion poll on CSR among individual customers. Qualitative interviews with corporate customers and organisational customers. Employees We carry out annual employee satisfaction surveys focusing on such factors as employee satisfaction and commitment, overall satisfaction with immediate supervisors and the executive management. Sector associations As a member of the Danish Insurance Association, DIA, PFA participates actively in the work of the board and relevant task groups, including in the investment area. PFA is an active board member of Dansif, which PFA uses as a vehicle for spreading the word in the industry about the UN Principles for Responsible Investments. PFA also engages in direct dialogue with UN PRI through Dansif. Society Capacent carries out opinion polls on a regular basis for PFA relating to pensions and health related issues. PFA responds wherever possible to all incoming questionnaires and analyses from organisations, the academic community and the media. NGOs PFA also meets with NGOs to include their viewpoints and to help PFA form an overall, multifaceted picture of societal problems. In 2010, PFA took part together with other investors in an information trip with Greenpeace. 29 > Ruling in Ruling partly Total Ruling against Pending favour in favour Number of complaints submitted 83 43 11 23 7 to the Customer Representative Sales 6 3 0 1 2 Customer Services 16 11 1 3 1 Claims Centre 25 3 6 13 3 Pension Centre 17 13 1 3 0 Health Centre 8 3 2 2 1 Miscellaneous 11 9 1 1 0 Other incidents 20 30 > The PFA Foundation donates money to activities that benefit both existing and retired PFA employees. Other shareholders primarily consist of organisations that co-founded PFA in 1917. PFA Portefølje Administration A/S (PFA Portfolio Administration) and PFA Professionel Forening (the Professional Association) were established in 2010. PFA IT merged with PFA Pension. The Supervisory Board of PFA Holding and the Supervisory Board at PFA Pension are identical. The PFA Group comprises the following: PFA Holding A/S (parent company) PFA Pension, forsikringsaktieselskab PFA Soraarneq, forsikringsaktieselskab PFA Ejendomme A/S (PFA Real Estate) PFA Invest International A/S PFA Senior A/S PFA Sundhed A/S (PFA Health) PFA Kapitalforvaltning, Fondsmæglerselskab A/S (PFA Asset Management) PFA Portefølje Administration A/S (PFA Portfolio Administration) FunktionærPension, pensionsforsikringsaktieselskab In addition there are two associates: ATPFA K/S Irish Foresty Investments Holding A/S 31 > PFA’s core business is providing pensions and health products to private companies and through trade unions. PFA Pension manages the daily business of pension schemes for more than 650,000 Danes. By virtue of its pension and health services, PFA helps to make some 4,500 workplaces attractive places to work. THE PFA FOUNDATION OTHER SHAREHOLDERS 49 % 49 % HOLDING COMPANY PFA PENSION, PFA SUNDHED A/S FORSIKRINGSAKTIEPFA SENIOR A/S SELSKAB PFA SORAARNEQ, HOLDING COMPANY PFA INVEST PFA EJENDOMME A/S FORSIKRINGSAKTIEFUNKTIONÆR INTERNATIONAL A/S SELSKAB 76 % PENSION 52 % PFA KAPITALFORVALTING, FONDSMÆGLERSELSKAB A/S PFA PORTEFØLJE ADMINISTRATION A/S PFA PROFESSIONEL FORENING Further details about the organisation’s management structure are found on pp. 100–107 of the Annual Report 2010, providing information about the Supervisory Board make-up, the Executive Board and executive staff and control committees. 32 > Payments: the PFA Group (DKK million) 2009 2010 Total payments 15,375 18,479 Key figures (DKK million) 2009 2010 Income statement Premiums 15,375 18,479 Insurance benefits -12,012 -13,114 Total insurance operating expenses -1,003 -595 Net profit for the year 349 448 Balance sheet (DKK million) 2009 2010 Total provisions for insurance and investment contracts 236,475 258,209 Total equity 4,596 5,222 CustomerCapital 12,079 13,726 Capital base 15,082 17,364 Total assets 252,908 299,168 Customers’ cost and profit/loss ratios 2009 2010 Expense ratio on premiums 4.5 % 3.1 % Expense ratio on provisions 0.34 % 0.27 % Expenses per insured DKK 893 DKK 743 Number of insured 2009 2010 Insurance taken out by individuals 53,387 52,567 Insurance taken out through employers 673,136 663,063 Group term life insurance 499,149 489,357 PFA’s 2010 Annual Report contains further details about PFA’s organisation and business. 33 > PFA Holding Sundkrogsgade 4 DK-2100 Copenhagen, Denmark T: (+45) 39 17 50 00 www.pfa.dk CVR-no. 2 24 38 018 Text: PFA Pension Design: Raffinaderiet Published 28 April 2011
