201 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future Address of headquarters: No. 5, Sanlihe Road, Haidian District, Beijing,China Postal code: 100044 Tel: 86-10-68495086, 86-10-68495112 Fax: 86-10-68495010 Email: csr@minmetals.com You may also read the PDF version of this Report in Chinese and English under “Sustainability” on the official website of China Minmetals Corporation as well as other updates related to the social responsibility activities of the Corporation: Website: http://www.minmetals.com.cn/srm.jsp Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future Notes to This Report Table of Content This Report is the fourth Sustainability Report released by China MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 02 I. PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION 26 Minmetals Corporation. For the purpose of writing and reading, (I) Building a New Springboard for Sustainable Development 28 China Minmetals Corporation is also hereinafter referred to as China through Creation of New Performance Minmetals, the Corporation, the Group, and we/us. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 04 (II) Consolidating the Foundation for Sustainable Development 34 through Ownership System Reform This report has been prepared according to the Guiding Opinions CHECKLIST OF SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES 05 (III) Enhancing Stamina for Sustainable Development through 36 on Performance of Social Responsibilities by State-Owned Transforming Development Style Enterprises under the Central Government released by the (IV) Enhancing Sustainable Development Potential through 40 State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission MILESTONE OF SUSTAINABLE 06 Continuous Improving Management (SASAC) of the State Council, the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines DEVELOPMENT IN 2010 2006 of the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI), GRI Mining and Metals (I) Accomplishing Goals of Strategic Transformation during 06 Sector Supplement, ISO26000: Guidance on Social Responsibility of II. STRENGTHENING SUSTAINABLE SAFETY 44 the 11th Five-Year Plan Period the International Organization for Standardization and actual (II) Sixtieth Anniversary of the Founding of the Corporation 08 MANAGEMENT conditions of China Minmetals. (I) Objectives and Performance 46 (III) Corporation’s Successful Ownership System Reform 10 (II) Establishing HSE System to Prevent and Control Safety Risks 47 (IV) President Zhou Zhongshu Attending UN Global 12 This Report mainly covers the year of 2010, and may also retrieve (III) Intensifying Management to Improve Intrinsic Safety 48 Compact Leaders Summit data from other important years in the Group's history. This Report (IV) Emphasizing Occupational Health and Improving 51 covers the headquarters and entities of the Corporation. This Report Working Environments truthfully reflects how the Group actively performed its economic, ABOUT US 14 (V) Building a Safety Culture and Encouraging a Safety Atmosphere 52 social and environment responsibilities for realizing comprehensive, (I) Company Profile 14 coordinated and sustainable development in the year. All data (II) Philosophy, Strategies and Values 15 contained herein are from formal documents, statistics reports and III. BOOSTING SUSTAINABLE ECOLOGICAL 54 (III) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 15 financial reports of the Group in connection with the sustainability CONSTRUCTION practices of departments and entities of the Corporation, and have (I) Policy and Performance 56 been kept, summarized and reviewed by the social responsibility SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 16 (II) Optimizing Systems and Intensifying Green Management 57 management system of the Corporation. (I) Sustainable Development 16 (III) Addressing Climate Change through Low-Carbon Development 58 (II) Model of Sustainable Development 17 (IV) Comprehensive Utilization of Resources through Innovative Modes 60 This Report has been certified by Det Norske Veritas (DNV) as an (III) Stakeholders Communication and Feedback 18 (V) Strengthening Management to Protect the Ecological Environment 62 independent third party according to the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) and the criteria set forth in its VeriSustain. The Description of the Logo (IV) Practice of Responsibility 21 (V) Social Appraisal 25 certification statement is attached hereto as an appendix. IV. ACHIEVING SUSTAINABLE HARMONY AND 64 WIN-WIN RESULTS This report has both Chinese and English version. Please contact China Minmetals Corporation to request a copy of this report: (I) Policies 66 (II) Valuing Employees and Strengthening Development Impetus 66 The logo of China Minmetals Corporation consists of a red (III) Serving Customers and Broadening Development Space 73 Address of headquarters: No. 5, Sanlihe Road, Haidian District, sun above aluminum ingots and steel rods together with MINMETALS, the abbreviated name of the Corporation in (IV) Responsible Procurement Extending Development Responsibility 75 Beijing, China Postal code: 100044 English, while the letter M is taken as a main character (V) Improving the Development Environment through Cooperation 75 Tel: 86-10-68495086, 86-10-68495112 element in the logo. The red sun symbolizes optimism, with stakeholders Fax: 86-10-68495010 selflessness, integrity and magnificent presence, (VI) Compliant Operation Preventing Development Risks 81 Email: csr@minmetals.com embodying the Group’ spirit of “providing quality service, and striving for excellence”. The aluminum ingots and steel You may also read the PDF version of this Report in Chinese and rods imply the industry of the Group --minerals and V. CO-CREATING A SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL 84 metals; and the gray steel rods extend endlessly in a English under “Sustainability” on the official website of China COMMUNITY Minmetals Corporation as well as other updates related to the social perspective view, conveying the sustainability philosophy (I) Policy 86 responsibility activities of the Corporation: of the Group to “cherish limited resources and pursue (II) Promoting Community Development through Mutual-beneficial 86 Website: http://www.minmetals.com.cn/srm.jsp sustainable development”. The entire logo depicts a road Cooperation under sunshine paved by our employees with their (III) Enthusiastically Supporting Social Undertakings 89 professionalism and wisdom extending endlessly in the direction of the rising run. It manifests the magnificent openness and vision of the Group, and signifies the Group’s VI. PERSPECTIVE FOR 2011 93 bright future and creation of sustainable development. APPENDICES 94 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future Message from the President supporting role of science and technology in our operations, actively strived for strategic synergy, shaped the basic layout of industrial chains of core businesses, and accomplished the integrated development of science, industry and trade. We constantly enhanced intrinsic safety and intensified sustainable safety management. We continued intensifying the implementation of the work safety responsibility system, vigorously conducted work safety supervision and inspection, enhanced the rectification of potential dangers and problems of existing enterprises. We firmly emphasized the post-merger integrative supervision over newly merged enterprises and the investigation and control of major hidden dangers in such enterprises. We fully progressed the building of the HSE system, standardized the systematic management of HSE, continuously reinforced the investment in emergency response construction and safety to improve our capability of safety and health guarantee, thus providing strong guarantee for the smooth progress of the Corporation’s strategic transformation. We vigorously developed the low-carbon economy, strived to be a pioneer of green development and promoted sustainable ecological construction. We incorporated the concept of environmental protection into the enterprises’ operation and management and engaged in the construction of the “Three Systems” for energy saving and emission reduction; and with “low consumption, low emission and high efficiency” as the target, we innovated the mode of development, vigorously developed the recycling economy, and improved the scientific development of resources. We carried out comprehensive and efficient utilization of resources, intensified the post-merger integrative supervision over the newly merged enterprises in energy saving and emission reduction, attached importance to the restoration of the environment in mined areas and the management of tailings pond and protected bio-diversity. We incorporate the management of stakeholders into our business operation and pursue sustainable and harmonious win-win results. We always put the values of “integrity, responsibility, innovation and harmony” into our practice, and abide by applicable laws and regulations in our business activities, actively enhancing the construction of an anti-corruption culture. We intensify audit and supervision to reduce economic and social risks and ensure the Corporation’s normal operation, committing ourselves to growth with employees. We constantly improve customer services, forge responsible supply chains, grow together with our partners and achieve harmonious win-win results. We persist in conducting responsible operation around the world and jointly create sustainable global communities. Continuing with the perception of “promoting social progress and world harmony”, we commit ourselves to building harmonious community relations and actively get involved in community welfare and cultural heritage protection in China as well as in Australia, Laos, Peru and Chile,etc.. By various means and in various forms, we serve the local communities, make efforts to accomplish common development with them and strive to be an international corporate citizen model. We actively optimize our social responsibility management system and have made remarkable progress in this task. We actively implemented with efforts the UN Global Compact Blueprint for Corporate Sustainability Leadership，conducted substantial training on social responsibility, incorporated the philosophy of sustainable development into employees’ performance of responsibility, intensified communication and exchange on social responsibility and responded to the feedback of stakeholders. We were invited to join the Global Compact LEAD, which has only 55 members around the world. We attended the 10th anniversary of the launch of the UN Global Compact, and delivered a speech as the only Chinese enterprise at the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit in New York. Our work in social responsibility was highly praised by the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon and Chairman of the SASAC Wang Yong. Zhou Zhongshu The concerted and arduous efforts in the past 60 years have created the glories and realized the dreams of China Minmetals, and the inherent gene of responsibility will again guide Minmetals’s people to open up a new course of development in the future. We will continue The year of 2010 was a year of milestone significance for the sustainable development of China Minmetals Corporation. It was the closing following the sustainability philosophy of “cherishing limited resources and pursuing sustainable development”. With the guidance of year of the successful accomplishment of the strategic goals of the 11th Five-Year Plan, and a happy year marking the victorious completion scientific development, aiming at becoming stronger and superior and focusing on the transformation of the economic development mode, of the 60 years of splendid achievements. It was also a year of deeply intensifying strategic transformation and reaping abundant gains. we will continuously enhance our comprehensive qualities and competitiveness and make efforts to accomplish the harmonious and During the year, we actively implemented the development strategy of integrating domestic and foreign trade, extending toward upper and sustainable development between the business, nature, environment and society. We will stand on a higher level to create new and more lower streams and laying equal stress on science, industry and mining. We exerted ourselves to obtain the resources that are in short supply development achievements, and continuously advance courageously to fully accomplish the Corporation’s development goals during the in China, integrate domestic dominant resources and upgrade the operating ability of mines; and we were resolved to build China Minmetals 12th Five-Year Plan period and strive to build China Minmetals as a mineral and metal group with international competitiveness. as the most advantageous non-ferrous metal resources supplier in China, the largest iron ore resources supplier in China, and the largest iron and steel circulation service provider in China. We actively responded to the complicated and volatile economy and industrial trends, persisted in reform and innovation and actively transformed the style of development to effectively enhance our capability of creating sustainable value. In 2010, the Corporation witnessed a soaring rise of its operating performance, recording RMB254.218 billion of operating revenues, an increase of 49.12% on a yearly basis, RMB6.432 billion of profits, an increase of 104.65% on a yearly basis and RMB5.838 billion of tax payments. We actively promoted the ownership system reform, officially established the China Minmetals Co., Ltd. (“Minmetals Co., Ltd.”), changed the business structure and established six strategic business units of non-ferrous metals, ferrous mining, ferrous circulation, finance, real estate and science & technology. We spared no efforts in promoting the integrated development with newly merged enterprises, endeavored to display the President Zhou Zhongshu June 2011 02 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 03 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future Key Performance Indicators Checklist of Sustainability Objectives Accomplishment Indicators Unit 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Category Sustainability objectives in 2010 Status Revenues RMB 100 million 1,347.50 1,560.56 1,853.36 1,704.74 2542.18 Establish and optimize the internal social responsibility system throughout the Corporation to cover all functional departments, subsidiary entities and key production enterprises, and improve the channels of communication; A Economic Profits RMB 100 million 33.03 70.01 65.10 31.43 64.32 Participate the activities of the United Nations Global Compact, observe the 10 principles, periodically release A Responsibility sustainability reports, and accept supervision by stakeholders; Tax RMB 100 million 30.65 44.05 59.95 49.70 58.38 management Organize training and communication at various levels on social responsibility issues, and improve the awareness of social responsibility among the management and employees; A Comprehensive 10,000 metric tons of — 209.20 181.77 157.89 181.53 Energy consumption standard coal Enhance publicity of law compliance, organize anti-corruption and probity training, further carry out efficacy A audits, and cultivate the operation philosophy of compliance; Comprehensive Energy Use the best practices of international peers as benchmark, improve the global resource assurance system and the Environment consumption per RMB metric tons of standard A — 0.97 0.78 1.121 0.707 global marketing and service system, and carry out strategic transformation of the Corporation; 10,000 output value coal / RMB 10,000 Economic performance Enhance operation and management to retain and increase the value of State-owned assets; A COD emissions — A metric tons 1,667.87 1,154.41 1124.22 1,067.00 Enhance control of advantageous resources, work hard to acquire resources, and strengthen capital operation; SO2 emissions — Establish and optimize a work safety management and control mode suitable for the strategic transformation, A metric tons 7,010.66 3,914.91 4583.83 4,685.36 according to the Work Safety Plan of China Minmetals Corporation (2008-2010); Employees Person 32,594 44,425 66,367 100,656 168,333 Advance safety standardization and development of the HSE management system, effectively manage major Safety sources of danger, improve the emergency response and rescue system, realize zero-causality of safety accidents, A Female employees Person 7,484 10,200 15,238 11,222 18,640 performance and reduce the occurrence of various accidents; Enhance the safety management information system and the safety education and training system to Social Employment agreement rate A % 100 100 100 100 100 continuously improve the safety level of the Corporation; Input in training RMB 10,000 685.88 900.77 1,460.57 1,926.12 2,748.4 Facilitate safety and technical upgrade for process equipment, improve emergency response equipment, enhance A technical research, and realize safety management through technical innovation; Training sessions person-time 14,542 15,670 17,608 54,871 98,184 Strictly follow applicable laws and regulations to protect legal interests of employees; A Donation Provide job training and improve employee development and promotion mechanisms; A RMB 10,000 533 1,167 4,896 3,094 2,413.46 Employee Maintain and improve the occupational health and safety system for employees; A Safety incidents Time 73 52 40 31 46 care Perform responsibilities to employees during the period of crisis without salary reduction or lay-offs; A Help employees overcome difficulties; A ( Note 1: The rise of safety incidents resulted from the significant increase in the scale of highly dangerous enterprises and the number of production personnel of newly merged enterprises in 2010, but the number of safety incidents of the exisiting enterprises of the Corporation decreased by 25.8% on a yearly basis and the situation of work safety of newly merged enterprises Regulate basic management of energy saving and emission reduction, and enhance supervision, inspection and has improved. ) assessment of energy saving and emission reduction work, to ensure fulfillment of the objectives of energy saving A ( Note 2: The rise in energy consumption and SO2 emissions is due to the significant increase in the number of the Corporation’s high energy-consumption enterprises in 2010. ) and emission reduction set by the government; Environment Increase investments in environmental protection, improve the capability of innovation in environmental performance protection technology, apply energy saving technology, promote comprehensive utilization of renewable B+ resources to gain leadership in this field among domestic and foreign peer companies; Explore mineral resources in a scientific manner, improve comprehensive use of resources, and increase recovery of A residual ore and wastes; Perform responsibilities as a global corporate citizen, and contribute to the fulfillment of the United Nations A Millennium Development Goals; Enhance the support for social undertakings, and help poor regions by various means; A Social performance Support community education, enhance monitoring of health, improve infrastructure in communities, and realize A harmonious development of both the Corporation and communities; Increase local procurement, engage local employees and contribute to local economic and social development; A Follow business ethics and combat commercial bribery, to create just and fair market environments. A ( Note: A: Objective accomplished (≥ 95%); B: Making progress as scheduled; B+: Achieved continuous improvement while making progress as scheduled ; C: Lag behind ) 04 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 05 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future Milestone of Sustainable Development in 2010 President Zhou Zhongshu Attending UN Global Corporation’s Successful Ownership Compact Leaders Summit Sixtieth Anniversary of the Founding System Reform of the Corporation Accomplishing Goals of Strategic Transformation during the 11th Five-Year Plan Period (I) Accomplishing Goals of Strategic Transformation during the China Minmetals constantly explores the mode of sustainable development, and determined its vision of “based on trading operations and relying on resources, to become an internationally competitive mineral and metal group”. 11th Five-Year Plan Period During the 11th Five-Year Plan period, the Corporation identified its strategic positioning as “mineral resources developer, advantageous metals producer and comprehensive circulation service provider”, and put forward the The Corporation accomplished the transformation from a single trade-oriented company to China’s largest integrated development goal of “rebuilding a new Minmetals within five years”. It implemented the development strategy of global minerals and metals enterprise. integrating domestic and foreign trade, extending toward upper and lower streams and laying equal emphasis on science and technology, industry and trade to strive for development and reform in an all-round manner. During the 11th Five-Year Plan period, China Minmetals recorded an accumulative increase by 1.3 and 2.6 times in total revenue and non-ferrous business total profits respectively over those of the “10th Five-Year Plan” period. At the end of the 11th Five-Year Plan period, the total and net assets increased by 2.49 times and 4.64 times respectively over those at the end of the “10th Five-Year Plan” period; and the number of employees increased by 2.47 times. The Corporation accomplished the transformation from a single trade-oriented company to China’s largest integrated global minerals and metals enterprise and steadily ranked among the top 10 of all companies in metals and mining industry of Fortune Global 500. The Corporation continuously optimized the structure of primary business, and established complete, distinctively advantageous ferrous and non-ferrous industrial chains. ferrous mining ferrous circulation business business Ranking for Some Major Minerals & Metals of China Minmetals in 2010 Mineral Resource Ranking Reserves of tungsten World’s No.1 science&technology real estate business Production capacity of hard alloy World’s No.1 business Production capacity of antimony products World’s No.1 Production capacity of zinc China’s No.1 Sales volume of steel products China’s No.1 The Corporation constantly promoted the ownership system reform, officially established the China Minmetals Co., Ltd. and thus successfully fulfilled ownership system reform; established six strategic business units of non-ferrous metals, finance business ferrous mining, ferrous circulation, finance, real estate and science & technology, making the organization structure compatible with strategy and clarifying the professional operation of optimal business portfolio, which provide a solid foundation for sustainable and rapid development. The Corporation substantially enhanced the management capability, accelerated the pace of intensive development, constantly optimized the quality of development and continuously enhanced the level and capability of sustainable development. Trade 06 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 07 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future President Zhou Zhongshu Attending UN Global Compact Leaders Summit Corporation’s Successful Ownership Sixtieth Anniversary of the Founding System Reform of the Corporation Accomplishing Goals of Strategic Transformation during the 11th Five-Year Plan Period (II) Sixtieth Anniversary of the Founding of the Corporation On 10 May, 2010, a meeting celebrating the 60th anniversary of the founding of China Minmetals Corporation was held in Beijing. The Party and State leaders including Wu Bangguo, Jia In 2010, China Minmetals Corporation greeted its sixtieth anniversary. During the Qinglin, Li Keqiang, He Guoqiang and Zhang Dejiang, the period of sixty years, China Minmetals has shared happiness and woe with the retired leaders including Li Lanqing and Wu Yi as well as the People’s Republic of China; and with the flourishing development of China’s ministries and commissions including the Ministry of economy and society, it has developed from a single trade-oriented company to Commerce and SASAC sent greetings and congratulatory one of the Fortune Global 500 with comprehensive operations today and letters. The meeting systematically reviewed the course of gradually established its position as an international resources company. Despite arduous efforts since the founding of the Corporation, innumerable challenges, the Corporation has overcome one difficulty after rationally summed up the basic experience in business another with the spirit of development and the courage of reform, made splendid development and inspired all staff and workers to step up to a achievements and won widespread respects. new historical point to continue carrying forward the “Spirit of Minmetals”, strive for the strategy of “two strides”, start a new undertaking of growth, and compile new splendid chapters The Corporation’s Top Leaders Attending the Gala Performance Celebrating the 60th Anniversary President Zhou Zhongshu Delivering a for the centenary development. of China Minmetals Held at the Great Hall of the People speech at the Meeting Celebrating the 60th Anniversary of China Minmetals The Meeting Celebrating the 60th Anniversary of China Minmetals The Corporation’s Fundamental Experience in Sixty Years’ Development First, keep the motherland in mind, bear in mind the missions and serve national economic construction. During the 60 years of development throughout two historical periods of planned economy and reform & opening-up, covering six development stages, China Minmetals has witnessed Second, emancipate the mind, transform ideas and courageously open up the road to advancement. earth-shaking changes and made significant historic strides. The major changes are as follows: the Third, focus on primary business, intensify operations and improve the quality and efficiency of development. first is transformation in system and mechanism. The Corporation has transformed from a Fourth, improve mechanisms, optimize management and continuously upgrade the corporate quality. trade-oriented corporation with governmental administrative characteristics to a modern enterprise Fifth, take people as the foremost, and revitalize business with the dedication of talents to secure long-term prosperity. with independent operation, self-responsibility for its profits and losses, self-development and self-governance; the second is transformation in business pattern. The Corporation has developed Sixth, build culture, create harmony and promote the scientific development of enterprise. from a single foreign trade company to the present international minerals and metals group Former Vice Premier Li Lanqing Visiting China integrating domestic and foreign trade, extending towards upper and lower streams and laying Minmetals at the Corporation’s Exhibition of Pictures Marking 60 Years’ Development equal emphasis on science & technology, industry and mining; the third is transformation in mode Achievements Standing on the foundation of the great achievements in the past 60 years, China Minmetals has again drawn the grand development of operation. The Corporation has transformed from the single commodity operation to the blueprint for the next decades, that is, from the present to the middle of this century, the Corporation will build itself as a centenary twofold operations driven by both production and capital with the common growth of intensive enterprise with an everlasting foundation by advancing the strategy of “two strides”. and extensive development; the fourth is transformation in the perception of development. From the initial stage that serving the needs of national construction to the stage that seeking sustainability in the market and then to the arduous journey of strategic transformation, the Corporation has gradually established the development philosophy of “cherishing limited resources and pursuing sustainable development”. It lays stress on quality and benefits, safeguards the rights Gala Performance Celebrating the 60th and interests of all stakeholders, persists in win-win cooperation, pursues green development, Anniversary of China Minmetals Held at the undertakes social responsibility and commits itself to the harmony between human beings and Great Hall of the People in Beijing nature, environment and society. 2050 The first stride is that, during the second decade of this century (2011-2020), the Corporation will develop into a mineral and metal group with international competitiveness and global impact and strive to rank in the first tier in the international minerals and metals industry; the second stride is that, during the succeeding 30 years (2021-2050) and by the time of the Corporation’s 100th anniversary, it will grow and become a widely respected 2020 innovation-oriented multinational corporation that leads the correct direction of industrial development and promotes the sustainable development of the earth and human beings. 2011 08 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 09 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future President Zhou Zhongshu Attending UN Global Corporation’s Successful Ownership Compact Leaders Summit Sixtieth Anniversary of the Founding System Reform of the Corporation Accomplishing Goals of Strategic Transformation during the 11th Five-Year Plan Period (III) Corporation’s Successful Ownership System Reform Case On 16 December, 2010, China Minmetals together with China Reform Holdings Corporation Ltd. and China National Metal Products Co., Ltd. sponsored and founded China Minmetals Co., Ltd. with its registered capital of RMB24.6 billion. It set up such China Minmetals launched its ownership system reform on 24 April, 2009. With the support of the authoritative ministries and internal organs as the shareholders’ meeting, board of directors and board of supervisors to standardize management and thanks to the synergic efforts made by the Corporation’s units at all levels, the Corporation as the main sponsor, together with two operation, built up the corporate structure that complied with the standard requirements for listed companies and the other shareholders, jointly sponsored the China Minmetals Co., Ltd., which was officially founded on December 16, 2010. After its characteristics of the Corporation, and held “four meetings” including the founding meeting of Minmetals Co., Ltd. establishment, China Minmetals Co., Ltd., became the operating body for China Minmetals’s primary business. The establishment of China Minmetals Co., Ltd. is an important milestone during the sixty years of development of China Minmetals. It marks the successful completion of the ownership system reform of China Minmetals Corporation, as well as the creation of an internationally leading and competitive mineral and metal group with modern business system. It will definitely be recorded in the development history of China Minmetals. In 2010, the Corporation made adjustments to its business structure and management and control model, and established six strategic business units of non-ferrous metals, ferrous mining, ferrous circulation, finance, real estate and science & technology; by adjusting the management and control mode, the headquarters of the Corporation adopted the strategic management and control mode for the strategic business units through such core management functions as strategy, human resources, planning, investment, budget and assessment to realize appropriate decentralization and strong centralization; and optimized and adjusted the functions of the headquarters according to the requirements for business structure adjustments and the Corporation’s management and control, in order that the headquarters’ organizational and functional construction can meet the new requirements. China Minmetals Co.Ltd. held the first meeting of the first session of the Board of directors 10 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 11 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future President Zhou Zhongshu Attending UN Global Corporation’s Successful Ownership Compact Leaders Summit Sixtieth Anniversary of the Founding System Reform Accomplishing Goals of Strategic Transformation of the Corporation during the 11th Five-Year Plan Period (IV) President Zhou Zhongshu Attending UN Global Compact During his meeting with President Zhou Zhongshu, the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon highly praised China Minmetals’s sustainable development philosophy and performance as well as its work in such areas as Caring for Climate and the UNGC Leaders Summit Environment Stewardship Project, which had set a positive example for other developing countries; and he hoped that China Minmetals would constantly help the developing countries to promote their economic and social development in its international operation. The Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon also gladly put his signature on the Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2009 (English On 23-25 June, 2010, upon the invitation of the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon, Zhou Zhongshu, President of China Minmetals version). attended the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit and delivered a speech as the only Chinese entrepreneur. President Zhou introduced the Corporation’s main practices in performing social responsibility such as economic development, environment Upon the invitation of Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon, President Zhou Zhongshu attended the gala dinner celebrating the 10th protection and poverty alleviation, the Corporation’s experience in active practice as an international corporate citizen, the anniversary of the UN Global Compact and sat at the table with Mr. and Mrs. Ban. The video in which President Zhou Zhongshu implementation of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and the results of promoting the accomplishment of the UN supported the convening of UN Global Compact Leaders Summit, the Corporation’s achievements in practicing social responsibility, Millennium Development Goals. the full-page poster showing the Corporation’s development philosophy “Cherish Limited Resources and Pursue Sustainable Development” and the Corporation’s logo were all remarkably shown at the summit scene and the official website of the summit. The Corporation set the special booth on the site and displayed its sustainability report and other publications, which attracted extensive interest from the attending leaders of various backgrounds. On the international platform of the UN Global Compact, the largest and most influential area of social responsibility, China Minmetals has effectively communicated with the stakeholders on social responsibility, fully displayed the elegance of its own and even other Chinese enterprises, expanded its international influence, won the great prestige of a “responsible enterprise” and opened up broad development space for its international business strategy. President Zhou Zhongshu Delivering a Speech at the Leaders Summit President Zhou Zhongshu Meeting the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon President Zhou Zhongshu Having a Cordial Talk with the Secretary-General and his wife, Mr. and Mrs. Ban the Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon Writing Inscription for Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2009 12 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 13 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future About Us (I) Company Profile Company name: China Minmetals Corporation Legal representative and president: Zhou Zhongshu China Minmetals Corporation, founded in 1950, has a history of 60 In the face of the new challenges, China Minmetals implemented Registered office: No. 5, Sanlihe Road, Haidian District, Beijing, China 100044 years to date and is a large scale group engaged worldwide mainly ownership system reform in 2010, in which the China Minmetals Co., Registered capital: RMB 7,847,712,000 in exploration and development, refining and processing, trading Ltd. was officially established, and the six strategic business units of Scope of primary business: Trading, circulation, futures and related services regarding minerals and metals; exploration and and integrated services for minerals and metals. It is also engaged non-ferrous metals, ferrous mining, ferrous circulation, finance, real utilization of metals and mineral products; technical R&D, engineering design and related services in connection with minerals and in finance, real estate, logistics, and mining and metallurgical estate and science & technology were set up. Along with the metals; real estate development and operation. technology. China Minmetals is one of the 53 key enterprises under market development, synergy between primary businesses, and the direct control of the Central Government. During the 11th Five optimization of industrial structure, the Corporation has realized Year Plan Period, it was rated once again as a Class A enterprise in great-leap-forward advancement in terms of control, the annual performance assessments carried out by SASAC, and competitiveness and driving force, and is marching steadily towards was rated as Class A and won the title of “Excellently Performing the strategic vision of becoming “an internationally competitive (II) Philosophy, Strategy and Values Enterprise” in assessments during the two terms of its mineral and metal group”. management, 2004-2006 and 2007-2009. In 2010, it was ranked No. Core Philosophy Cherish limited resources and pursue sustainable development 332 among the Fortune Global 500, and the 9th among all metal China Minmetals is based on trading and relies on resources with industry companies globally. In 2010, China Minmetals witnessed a intensive and diversified operations, works to develop marketing Spirit Provide quality service, and strive for excellence soaring rise in its business performance despite the international networks, continues to innovate, provides value-added services, Meet long term demand of customers for minerals and metals to the greatest extent, and create maximum Mission financial crisis, and achieved revenues of RMB254.218 billion and a and carries out win-win and all-win cooperation in a creditable value for the society and shareholders. total profit of RMB 6.432 billion, and with the global rankings of manner. We have adhered to the Corporation’s sustainability Based on trading operations and relying on resources, to become an internationally competitive mineral and many key commodities of Minmetals remaining stable and philosophy of “cherishing limited resources and pursuing Vision metal group. climbing slightly, China Minmetals successfully fulfiled the annual sustainable development”, in building core competitiveness and targets set by the SASAC. China Minmetals took an active approach exercising social responsibility, and worked to become a group of Integrity, responsibility, innovation and harmony to integrate the merged and acquired enterprises, and has been mineral and metal enterprises providing quality services globally. Integrity is the base of survival, growth and goodwill of Corporation; progressing smoothly in the Group’s integrative growth. Values Responsibility is the essence of the operation of Corporation; China Minmetals Corporation Innovation is an inexhaustible driving force for the development of Corporation; Harmony is important for the smooth operation and sustained development of Corporation. China Minmetals Co., Ltd. The most advantageous non-ferrous resources supplier in China; the largest iron ore supplier in China; and Strategic positioning the largest iron and steel product circulation service provider in China with global impact. Board of Directors Board of Supervisors (III) Corporate Governance The Management China Minmetals is a State-owned enterprise registered according China Minmetals Co., Ltd. convenes the Employees’ Congress every to the Law of the People’s Republic of China of Industrial year, on which leaders of the Group make reports to the workers Enterprises Owned by the Whole People. The SASAC performs the representatives in connection with the operation and management responsibility as the investor on behalf of the State Council. The of the company, important matters and decisions, and their Human Resources General Office Strategy & Planning Investment Capital Operation Information Audit Division Legal Affairs Division HSE Division Risk Management Party Committee Trade Union Discipline Supervision Administrative Affairs Mineral Resource Financial Division Retired Cadre Division State Council designates the Board of Supervisors of Key conditions. Matters involving reforms, remuneration, welfare and Large-scale State-Owned Enterprise, and the Board of Supervisors benefits, and other matters involving immediate and vital interests Division Division Division Office Division oversees the value preservation and increment status of of employees are subject to the approval of the Employees' Division Management Division Management Division Division Management Division State-owned assets according to the Interim Regulations on Board Congress. of Supervisors of State-Owned Enterprises. Domestic and overseas enterprises controlled by the Group have China Minmetals Co., Ltd., in accordance with the stipulations of also established complete corporate governance structures the Company Law and the requirements of modern business according to the applicable laws and regulations. The Corporation Non-ferrous Metals Ferrous Circulation Real estate Science & Ferrous Mining Finance Technology management systems, set up the Shareholders’ Meeting, the excises its rights in and to its subsidiaries such as its rights to Board of Directors and the Board of Supervisors. The Shareholders’ earnings on assets, major decision-making and selection of Meeting is the authoratative body of the company. The Board of management according to the applicable laws and regulations. Directors is the decision-making organ responsible for reviewing and deciding on major operational and management issues of the company. The Chairman of China Minmetals Co., Ltd. is the legal representative of the company. 14 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 15 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future Sustainability Management (I) Sustainable Development (II) Model of Sustainable Development The concept of sustainable development of Minmetals can be vividly summarized in the Diamond Model as follows: At the meeting of central SOEs’ principals, rgy Wang Yong, Chairman of the SASAC, specially Building a responsible Minmetals dM etallu praised China Minmetals, saying that “China ng an and co-creating a bright future Mini ology n Minmetals has done a very good job in social Tech responsibility”. In June, as the only representative of Chinese enterprises, China M Re & g Minmetals delivered a speech at the UN ex so pl urc de sin or e tra es Global Compact Leaders Summit, held talks at al oc et p pr ion Res al Met ting with the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon tra ource e de de l sme and was highly praised by Mr. Ban, which greatly enhanced the international image of Chinese enterprises and set an example for the central SOEs. Achie Stren Boosting Sustainable Ecological Constructio Co Pro g th e ving -C mo rea ning t in Sus t in gS g taina Su us t Sus t ble s ta ain aina ina ab 1．Philosophy of Sustainable Development ble a lu Har m le V ble S Glo afet y o ny & ba eC l rea tio Man WinCherish Limited Resources and Pursue Sustainable Development n a g em win e nt 2．Vision of Sustainable Development Building a responsible Minmetals and co-creating a bright future 3．Connotations of Sustainable Development There is no boundary to the needs of human beings. However, the resources that can Promoting Sustainable Value Strengthening Sustainable Boosting Sustainable Ecological Achieving Sustainable Harmony Co-Creating a Sustainable Creation Safety Management Construction and Win-win Situations Global Community meet the needs of human beings are limited. Cherish Limited Resources and Pursue We have dedicated ourselves to We have dedicated ourselves to We have dedicated ourselves to We have dedicated ourselves to We have been dedicating Sustainable Development is the understanding and pursuit of China Minmetals for its strengthening our capability for the promotion of work safety. environmental protection. We the establishment of ourselves to sustainable sustainable development. Building a Responsible Minmetals and co-creating a Bright resource security and providing Holding the belief that life is to cherish the limited harmonious cooperation with community development. By mineral products and services be valued highly above all other environmental resources and stakeholders. We communicate upholding the values of Future is the vision of sustainable development of Minmetals. to meet the increasing demand values, we incorporate the reduce the impact on the actively with stakeholders, integrity, responsibility, for mineral resources for social sense of safety into every environment to the minimum. perform our responsibilities to innovation and harmony, we economic development. While procedure of production and We carry out protective our employees, clients and take improving the life of To better meet the expectations of its stakeholders, Minmetals has been performing its guaranteeing and increasing operation. We continue development and integrated governments, seeking common community residents and the value of State-owned assets, strengthening our use of natural resources, benefit with all stakeholders. promoting social economic social responsibility in every aspect of its global operation. We attach great importance we are also trying our best to management system and rules enhance the ability of the development of communities to ecological environment protection, cherish and use limited resources in a reasonable create greater comprehensive for work safety and natural environment to provide as an important responsibility value for stakeholders. occupational health and safety. sustainable support and and obligation of the way, dedicating ourselves to the career of becoming a leading mineral resource supplier We have established a supplies for social economic Corporation, and seek to build a in China, a responsible global enterprise with optimized mineral resource allocation. long-term work safety development, and create a widely respected global mineral Striving according to our principle to Promoting Sustainable Value Creation, mechanism for effectively bigger green space for the group. enhancing the level of safety. sustainable development of Strengthening Sustainable Safety Management, Boosting Sustainable Ecological human beings. Construction, Achieving Sustainable Harmony and Win-win Situations, and Co-Creating a Sustainable Global Community, we work shoulder to shoulder with stakeholders for the realization of the sustainable development vision of Building a Responsible Minmetals and Co-creating a Bright Future. 16 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 17 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future (III) Stakeholders Communication and Feedback 1．Participation of Stakeholders Communication Communication Stakeholders Description Expectations for Minmetals Main Indicators Stakeholders Description Expectations for Minmetals Main Indicators Methods Methods Government Chinese government Actively implement State macro Formulate laws, regulations Total tax payed Investors Holders of stocks and Keep increasing the value of the Accurate and instant The Corporation credit and local government regulation, carry out industrial integration and policies, participate in Number of employees and bonds of the Corporation, lower risks, operate on a information disclosure, rating, equity interests of business location according to State plans for boosting steel meetings, make specific Creditors Corporation and its stable basis, make debt service per regular visits, annual reports, of minor shareholders and non-ferrous metal industries; reports, submit statistic subsidiaries schedule, and pay didivends. meetings of shareholders strengthen supervision on work safety, statements and make visits and protect the environment. Exercise rights and Ensure value preservation and Formulae rules and Revenues from primary Community Location of business Promote the capability of sustainable Sign joint construction Investment for SASAC responsibilities of appreciation of State-owned assets, regulations, propose work business operations, total and operation development of community economy, agreement, participate in community building, and investor on behalf of improve corporate governance structure, targets, make performance profit, ROE, value support public welfare programs, construction of community donation for the public the State focus on primary businesses, improve assessment standards, preservation, protect community environment, and projects, regular community welfare international competitiveness of the report work, and submit appreciation ratio of strive for common development. communication, and hold programs enterprises, and actively implement State statistics statements. State-owned assets and get-together activities policies on energy saving and emission economic value added reduction to achieve green operations. (EVA) NGOs International Support social organizations, abide by Actively participate in Number of organizations, the charters of the organizations, relevant meetings, support memberships to Employees All members within Protect the rights and interests of the Establish labor unions at Rate of employees having industrial associations strengthen disclosure of operational continuous improvement, industrial organizations the organizational employees, provide stable job various levels, hold the concluded labor and local information, and support environmental and propose suggestions and and associations, structure of the opportunities and reasonable and fair Employees' Congress contracts, rate of organizations, etc. protection and other public welfare advice investment for public Corporation remunerations, improve the channels for regularly, establish employees having social programs. welfare career development of employees, and sound internal insurance, rate of provide a safe and healthy work communication channels employees turnover, environment. investment for employee training, number of proposals for the Case: On 2 September, 2010, an email from a stakeholder was sent to the Corporation’s dedicated account of Social Responsibility. Employees' Congress Case “Your report was very well done. China Minmentals’ CSR work is in the leadership of the world. Congratulations!” — Sun Xi, National University of Singapore Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy Customers Users that purchase Keep promises, provide high-quality and Communicate closely with Customer credit rating, products or services cost-effective products and services, and customers, strictly perform level of customer from the Corporation realize equal and mutual-benefit contracts, and provide satisfaction cooperation. abundant information for products and services Business Suppliers, contractors, Abide by business ethics, laws and Strategic cooperation Status of performance of partners financial institutes, regulations, establish long-term negotiation, executive agreements and research institutes cooperation, reach mutual benefit meetings, bidding activities, contracts and consultancy daily communications, institutes regular visits 18 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 19 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future 2．Minmetals Memberships with Major Social Organizations 1. Conducting Research on Strategic Planning for Social Responsibility and on the Sustainability Report Name Position Indicator System UN Global Compact Member In 2010, cooperating with the Center Office of Global Compact Network China (authorized by the United Nations), the Corporation conducted research on strategic planning for World Economic Forum Foundation member social responsibility and on the sustainability report indicator system. The strategic planning for social responsibility brought forward the Corporation’s strategic positioning China-Chile Entrepreneur Commission President of Chinese Side and goals of social responsibility and summed up its four responsibility practice fields. The sustainability report indicator system collected 333 indicators covering six parts of the China-Brazil Entrepreneur Commission President of Chinese Side report: introduction, sustainability promotion management, economic responsibility China Iron and Steel Association Permanent Standing Director performance, work safety responsibility performance, environmental protection responsibility performance and social contribution performance. They will guide the China Nonferruous Metals Industry Association Vice President Corporation’s social responsibility practice, ensure the orderly and efficient promotion of various tasks of social responsibility, promote the organic combination of the sustainability Chinese Association of Mineral Resources Appraisers Permanent Standing Director philosophy and the Corporation’s daily operation processes, reinforce communication with the stakeholders, enhance the Corporation’s social image, implement all-round social China International Freight Forwarders Association Vice President responsibility management and upgrade the delicate management of social Joining the “UN Global Compact LEAD” responsibility. Program Upon Invitation Metallurgical Mines Association of China Member In November 2010, at the invitation of the UN China Customs Brokers Association Vice President 2. Improving Mechanisms for Stakeholders’ Global Compact (UNGC), China Minmetals Participation and Strengthening Responsibility joined the “Global Compact LEAD” program China Investment Association Director and became one of the important 55 Communication members of the new leading platform for China Association of Work Safety Permanent Standing Director social responsibility of global enterprises. By The Corporation vigorously promoted social responsibility communication, reinforced establishing this program, the UN aims to China Chamber of Commerce of Metals, Minerals & Chemicals communication and dialog with the stakeholders, further enhanced the employees’ Vice President provide services for the most excellent Importers & Exporters responsibility awareness, made efforts to turn the sustainability philosophy of “cherishing enterprises of the 8000 Global Compact limited resources and pursuing sustainable development” into the employees’ action of China Chamber of Commerce for Import and Export of Machinery member enterprises and support such Director consciously performing responsibility and strengthened the disclosure of responsibility and Electronic Products enterprises to do even better in sustainable information so as to jointly promote sustainable development. development. Based on China Minmetals’ China Chamber of International Commerce Vice President outstanding performance of sustainable Case: The 2 August, 2010 issue of China development and its firm commitment to the China Mining Association Member UN Global Compact, particularly its excellent Case Daily, carried the photo of President Zhou Zhongshu and introduced the performance at the 2010 UNGC Leaders China Council for the Promotion of International Trade Commissioner Summit and its work in such programs as the Corporation’s sustainable development performance and its profile with report UNGC Environment Stewardship and Caring China Council for International Investment Promotion Vice President entitled “Minmetals Setting Sustainable for Climate Initiative, the Global Compact Example”. believed that China Minmetals would make Fudan Premium Fund of Management Director new contributions to this leadership platform. China Center for International Economic Exchanges Director The “Global Compact LEAD” program was China International Council for the Promotion of Multinational officially launched by UN Secretary-General Vice President Corporations Ban Ki-Moon on 28 January, 2011 during the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting in Preparing and Releasing the Corporate Sustainability Report Davos, Switzerland. Joining the said program will benefit the Corporation by allowing it to (IV) Practice of Responsibility The Corporation has released the Sustainability Report of China Minmetals Corporation for three consecutive years. In August continue contributing to the UN platform, further help the Corporation to consolidate its Implementation of social responsibility is the only road for China Minmetals to attain strategic goals and pursue sustainable 2010, the 2009 Sustainability Report of China Minmetals good international image and build up a development. China Minmetals has actively improved the management system for promoting social responsibility and Corporation won the Global Compact-China Corporate Social model of social responsibility in the conducted research on strategic planning for social responsibility and on the sustainability report indicator system, which has laid Responsibility Model Report Award. international arena so as to better create an a foundation for ensuring the orderly and efficient promotion of various tasks concerning social responsibility. Through external environment favorable for communication with the stakeholders in various forms, the Corporation has constantly improved its performance in social development, enhance core competitiveness The Corporation’s Sustainability Report 2009 won the Global responsibility. Compact-China Corporate Social Responsibility Model Report Award. and promote sustainable development. 20 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 21 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future Promoting Exchanges on Social Responsibility 3. Actively Conducting Social Responsibility Training China Minmetals highly values the exchanges of experience on social responsibility. While publicizing and introducing its own experience, it Reinforcing training is of great significance for improving the Corporation’s work of social responsibility. By organizing the social responsibility actively draws on the global best practice cases of social responsibility and fully and deeply promotes the work of corporate social learning communication meetings of senior leaders and holding the training meetings of middle-career leaders and social responsibility responsibility. contact persons, China Minmetals has deepened thinking, enhanced responsibility awareness and achieved good results. Case: On 18 August, 2010, China Minmetals participated in the photography Case: The Corporation’s representatives attended the 2010 Central Case exhibition entitled “Low Carbon Development, Low Carbon Life” sponsored by Case SOEs Social Responsibility Annual Meeting and the concurrent China News Week of China News Service under the direction of National Central SOEs Social Responsibility Training Class held in Beijing on Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), SASAC, the State Council 11-13 August, 2010 and attended by all the social responsibility Information Office and the Beijing Municipal People’s Government. The exhibition principals of central SOEs. was held in the Wangfujing Walking Street at the core area of Beijing and lasted 15 days, and over 100,000 people viewed the exhibition each day. Case Case: On 17-19 November, 2010, the Corporation held the corporate social responsibility training program. More than 110 representatives from the Corporation’s functional departments and its domestic and overseas operating units participated in the training and Li Fuli, Vice President of the Corporation, delivered an important speech. Leaders and experts from the Research Bureau of SASAC, the International Labor and Information Research Institute of the Ministry of Human Case Case: The cases of China Minmetals were selected in Resources and Social Security, the Center Office of Global State-Owned Enterprises magazine (Social Responsibility Compact Network China and peer companies made brilliant Special Issue) and the 16 pages special report introduced in presentations on relevant topics of corporate social detail the sustainable development path of China Minmetals. responsibility. Chu Xuping, Vice Director-General of the Research Bureau of SASAC of the State Council Conducting Training of the Corporation Case Case: The case of China Minmetals Scene of the Training Meeting was selected in “Implementing the United Nations Global Compact in China---Inspirational Case Examples”, the first of its kind released by the UN by nationality and it was officially released to the world at the “UN In 2010, the Corporation sent representatives to other trainings concerning social responsibility: Global Compact 10th Anniversary Case • October 20-21, GRI Professional Certiﬁcation-Special Training on Preparation of Central Enterprise Social Responsibility Report; Case: On 9 January, 2011, the representatives of the Corporation • October 26, the Release Conferrence of 2010 China Report on CDP (Carbon Disclosue Project); Summit” on 24 June, 2010, in New Case participated in the “Sixth China-Corporate Social Responsibility • November 30, China Industrial and Commercial Leaders Forum concerning improvement of management, responsibility and York. International Forum” co-sponsored by China News Week and the China competitiveness of Chinese enterprises; Red Cross Foundation and introduced China Minmetals’ s social • December 9, SynTao GRI certiﬁcation training on how to prepare a sustainability report; and responsibility way of “going global”. • December 20, Tsinghua-Ruder CSR Forum. 22 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 23 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future 4. Deeply Involved in UN Global Compact Activities (V) Social Appraisal China Minmetals persists in incorporating the Global Compact’s principles into corporate operation and management, always follows Global China Minmetals has been fully affirmed and recognized by all walks of life for its outstanding performance in social responsibility and won Compact’s Ten Principles and actively participates in the UN Global Compact activities. many honorable titles. • UN Global Compact Leaders Summit • The 2010 Symposium of the Center Office of UN Case On 23-25 June, 2010, Zhou Zhongshu, the president of the Corporation, Global Compact Network China had a cordial meeting with the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon and On 28 January, 2011, the Corporation’s representatives delivered an important speech as the only representative of Chinese attended the 2010 Symposium of Center Office of UN entrepreneurs at the summit. (For details, see “President Zhou Global Compact Network China and delivered a Zhongshu Attending UN Global Compact Leaders Summit” in speech. “Milestone of Sustainable Development in 2010”) • UN Global Compact • China Leaders Forum On 2 August, 2010, the Corporation’s representatives attended the “UN Global Compact • China Leaders Forum” held at the UN Pavilion of Shanghai World Expo Garden and delivered a speech. UN Global Compact Environment Stewardship China Minmetals joined the Global Compact Environment Stewardship Project consisting of only 20 members around the world, brought forward many constructive viewpoints and opinions and was praised by the UN Global Compact. In 2010, the Corporation participated in the global telephone conferences several times and discussed environmental UN “Caring for Climate Initiative” issues with global experts; and the On 12 May, 2010, China Minmetals endorsed the research results were released at （1） The Corporation won the 2010 “China CSR Outstanding Enterprise Award” jointly hosted by UN “Caring for Climate Initiative” and joined this the UN Global Compact Leaders Xinhua News Agency, China Securities Journal and others. largest global business campaign to address Summit in June 2010. climate change. To date, more than 400 （2） The Corporation won the title of one of the “Top Ten News Pieces of Chinese Enterprises” and “the Most companies from 65 countries throughout the world have endorsed this initiative. The Influential Enterprise” for 2010 hosted by the Appraisal Committee of Top Ten News Pieces of Chinese following day, Mr. Georg Kell, Executive Director Enterprises. of UN Global Compact sent a message （3） President Zhou Zhongshu won the “China CSR Outstanding Person Award” jointly hosted by expressing thanks and appreciation to President Xinhua News Agency, China Securities Journal and others. Zhou Zhongshu for his vision and leadership in endorsing the “Caring for Climate Initiative”. （4） President Zhou Zhongshu was appraised as the “Entrepreneur Drawing the Most Attention” for the year 2010 （5） The Corporation won the fifth “People and Social Responsibility Award” sponsored by People Daily Online in 2010. UN Global Compact Questionnaire Survey In 2010, China Minmetals participated in the special （6） The Corporation won the “2010 China Ecological Contribution Award” appraised by the China questionnaire surveys about the Environmental Green Foundation and others Stewardship Project and Caring for Climate Initiative. （7） MINMETALS DEVELOPMENT CO., LTD. ranked No. 6 on the ranking list of China CSR Top 100 Enterprises released by Fortune (Chinese edition). 24 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 25 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 The world's second largest zinc mine—Century zinc mine of MMG Company, which is located in Queensland, Australia PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION Building a New Springboard for Sustainable Development through Creation of New Performance Consolidating the Foundation for Sustainable Development through Ownership System Reform Enhancing Stamina for Sustainable Development through Transforming Development Style Enhancing Sustainable Development Potential through Continuous Improving Management Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future Enhancing the ability to create sustainable value constitutes the basis for the Corporation to more effectively perform its core social functions. In 2010, facing the complicated and volatile economic situation and industrial trends, the Corporation persisted in reform and Minmetals’s Operation Performance Widely Recognized by the innovation, actively transformed development mode, and enhanced its core competence. It changed systems and mechanisms, carried out Public, with Its Performance in Various Rankings Being Remarkable the development strategy of integrating domestic and foreign trade, stretching to upper and lower streams and laying equal stress on science, industry and mining, and exerted itself to obtain the domestic resources in short supply, integrate domestic superior resources and enhance the operating ability of mines. As a result, its business performance increased by a great margin and its ability to create long-term “Fortune 500” companies for 2010 On the list of “Fortune 500” companies published by Fortune value was effectively enhanced. magazine in 2010, the Corporation ranked No. 332, and ranked No. 8 among all the global metal companies. List of Fortune 2010 Most Admired The Corporation was among the Fortune 50 most admired Companies companies in Asia-Pacific region, ranking No. 26. China’s Top 500 companies for 2010 The Corporation ranked No. 30 among China’s Top 500 PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION companies in 2010 and for the first time, ranked No.1 in the (I) Building a New Springboard for Sustainable Development through comprehensive manufacturing industry Creation of New Performance China’s Top 500 Manufacturing The Corporation ranked No. 9. Enterprises for 2010 In 2010, the Corporation addressed itself vigorously to the complicated economic situation and actively sought and attained the development opportunities to promote the steady development of its operation. Its business performance increased by a great margin, its operation quality continued to improve and its commodity operation recorded the best results in its history. 1. Operation Performance Recorded its Best Results to Date In 2010, the Corporation overcame the adverse influence of the global financial crisis and its operation performance recorded the best results ever achieved in history. Its operating revenue rose to RMB254.218 billion, an increase of 49.12% on a yearly basis; its profits totaled RMB6.432 billion, an increase of 104.65% on a yearly basis; and the taxes it paid hit RMB5.838 billion. It fully accomplished the yearly performance assessment tasks assigned by the SASAC and the rate of preservation and increment in the 2. Striding into Unprecedented Territory in Commodity Operation value of the State-owned assets was up to 116.59%. In 2010, grasping the opportunity for growth in a proactive manner, the Corporation focused its efforts heavily on market operation, In the performance assessment of the central SOEs carried out by the SASAC, the Corporation won Class A both for the annual cost reduction and efficiency improvement, leveraging policies, and achieved sustained and steady growth in its production and performance in 2009 and for its second term of management (2007-2009) and was also granted the honorable title of “Excellently operation. Performing Enterprise”. The Corporation recorded a historical high in its operating revenue of bulk commodities such as steel, iron ore, coal, iron alloy, lead, zinc, alumina and aluminum ingot. Its trade volume of steel products for the whole year ranked No.1 among China’s key production an increase of operating an increase of profits on a materials circulation enterprises. Its traditional advantage in import and export operations continued being consolidated and revenue on a yearly basis yearly basis enhanced; its imports of coal and tungsten ore and its exports of silicon carbide, tungsten products and antimony oxide ranked 49.12% 104.65% No.1 according to customs statistics. 60 58.38 60 150 On the ranking list published by China Federation of Logistics & Purchasing (CFLD) according to the operation indicators 3000 50 Case 50 in 2010, the Corporation ranked No. 1 in trade sales of both ferrous and nonferrous metal materials and this marked the 2542.18 44 120 leading position of the Corporation’s ferrous and nonferrous operations in China’s circulation field. 2500 40 90 30.7 70 71 1846 64.32 30 2000 1697 60 1555 20 33.5 31 1347 1500 30 10 0 0 1000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Revenues from primary business in 2006-2010 Total Profits in 2006-2010 (Unit: RMB100 million) Tax Payments in 2006-2010 (Unit: RMB100 million) (Unit: RMB100 million) 28 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 29 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future The Corporation persists in taking the optimized allocation of global mineral resources as its starting 3. Development of Primary Business Continuously Improving point and constantly initiating and improving the modes of obtaining resources. By exploiting and obtaining domestic and foreign resources in various forms such as M&A, independent exploration and The Corporation makes it the primary strategic task to guarantee the security of supplying important mineral and metal resources joint exploration, it has enhanced its strength in resources. The Corporation is now the global leading for the nation. It has built the complete industrial chain ranging from the front-end geological exploration, excavation and smelting supplier of tungsten and antimony resources; and its reserves of copper resources have increased in folds. to the back-end deep processing of ferrous and nonferrous metals as well as the chain of supporting services including scientific The Corporation takes a leading position in ferrous metal resource reserves in China, including iron ore, research, project design, construction and installation, professional equipment, comprehensive logistics and finance. By promoting manganese and coal. ownership system reform, the Corporation continuously deepens strategic transformation and constantly consolidates the sustainable development foundation for becoming a large international mineral and metal group. Table for the Corporation’s Control of Nonferrous Metal Resources In the nonferrous operation, the Corporation puts forward its strategic blueprint of fully advancing, expanding and strengthening Metal Reserves/Production Capacity 2010 Ranking the three industrial clusters of overseas resources development, domestic basic metals and rare metals, establishing itself as the most advantageous supplier of nonferrous metal resources in China. Tungsten reserves World’s No.1 Production capacity of hard alloy World’s No.1 PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION Domestic Case: By actively implementing strategic transformation in the operation of nonferrous metals during the 11th Five-Year Dominant Antimony reserves 9.3% of China’s total Case Plan period, the nonferrous company greatly increased its strength. During the five years, the operating revenue Metals increased from RMB35.8 billion to RMB83.3 billion and the total profits increased from RMB1.669 billion to RMB4.327 Production capacity of antimony smelting World’s No.1 billion, meaning that it continues maintaining its position as one of the most competitive enterprises in the nonferrous Production capacity of middle and heavy rare earth industry of China. World’s No.1 Bismuth reserves World’s No.1 The Corporation actively pushes forward ferrous mining operation to materialize its ferrous mining development strategy, commits Lead reserves 11% of China’s total itself to becoming China’s largest supplier of iron ore resources and takes into full consideration the appropriate balance of the Metals in Production capacity of lead smelting No. 2 in China product portfolio of iron, chromium, manganese and coal resources, the investment intensity and the project period. Short Supply in China Zinc reserves 19% of China’s total Case: The Corporation actively expanded the production capacity of ferrous mining resources and invested RMB2,466.68 Production capacity of zinc smelting No. 1 in China Case million in the construction of Lilou Iron Mine (with 276.25 million tons of reserves and an average geological grade of 34.29%) and Wuji Iron Mine (with 105 million tons of reserves and an average geological grade of 29.13%). After the Knowledge completion of the projects, an annual production capacity of 7.50 million tons of iron ore and 2.7 million tons of fine iron ore will be formed. Case Case: In the Nihe Iron Mine Project implemented in Lujiang-Zongyang area of Anhui “Nihe Model” means a Province, China Minmetals adopted the new geological exploration mechanism of “giving new mechanism of priority to public welfare, cooperating with foundations, following up with business, geological exploration In its ferrous circulation operation, the Corporation follows the principle of focusing on professional operation, streamlining the equipped exploration and making rapid breakthrough” and obtained 180 million tons of adopted by the Nihe Iron management tiers, enhancing management capability and realizing coordinated and integrated operation, and commits itself to magnetic iron ore, 140 million tons of sulfurous iron ore and a medium-sized gypsum mine, Ore Exploration Team, becoming the world’s largest comprehensive iron and steel circulation service provider. As the principal SBU that made the greatest of which the economic value totals RMB35 billion, and this is called the “Nihe Model”. The which features an contribution to the scale of the Corporation, Minmetals Development recorded a sales revenue of RMB131.4 billion, an increase of success of the project has not only improved China Minmetals’s resource strategy and added interaction among the 39.4% and the profits thereof totaled RMB339 million, an increase of 43.54%,on a yearly basis. to its resource reserves but is also of great importance to China Minmetals for practicing the central government, local new geological exploration mechanism, promoting the reform of geological exploration governments, and units and making breakthroughs in geological exploration. enterprises, an organic Case: In July 2010, China Minmetals and Shandong Iron and Steel Group (“Shangang Group”) signed the strategic connectivity between Case cooperation agreement. According to the agreement, the Corporation will utilize the capability of the Strategic Business public welfare and Unit of Ferrous Circulation for integrated supply of raw commercial explorations, materials for the metallurgy industry, and supply a close combination Shangang Group with iron ore, ferro alloys, coal and between geological other raw materials for metallurgy; and Shangang exploration and mineral Group will rely on the SBU as its main channel for the development and a import of spot ores from the world’s leading mines. coordinated promotion of The Corporation will also leverage its advantages in the geological exploration field of iron and steel circulation and explore the mode and mining right of cooperation with Shangang Group in the trading management. Core of and circulation of iron and steel products. Nihe Mine 30 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 31 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future In the face of the fluctuating market conditions, China Minmetals’s financial SBU adhered to the principle of giving priority to efficiency and pursuing steady operations, and enhanced its profitability to improve its performance. In terms of the SBU, it constructed a development 4. Substantial Progress Made in Capital Operation blueprint featuring “integration of domestic and foreign financial operations” and Through capital operation, China Minmetals has actively obtained funds it needs for its business operations and for acquiring overseas “integration of internal financial operations” to effectively integrate its financial resources in short supply in China, and integrated domestic dominant resources to promote the sustained and sound development of its business resources, fully utilize its superiority in specialized operation, provide other core ferrous and nonferrous operations. operations with comprehensive financial services including internal settlement, bills, entrusted loans, leasing, trusts, futures, securities and insurance and provide In 2010, the Corporation was rated as AAA for its long-term credit and A-1 for its short-term credit and its rating outlook was stable. It customers with financial value-added services to create the maximum value from successfully issued RMB3 billion of short-term financing bonds and RMB4.3 billion of mid-term bills and actively moved ahead with M&A the synergy between industry and finance. Through strategic investment, M&A and loans and entrusted loans to provide stable capital structure guarantee for its long-term coordinated development. It cashed the mature investment in the new fields, the financial SBU promoted the development in the short-term financing bonds of RMB3 billion without incident. emerging industries of the Corporation and obtained good return on investment, successfully becomes the financial service platform of the Corporation. China Minmetals Trust Co., Ltd. Established The OPAL project (MMG’s injection of assets into Minmetals Resources Co., Ltd.) was a major capital operation project following the Corporation’s successful purchase of Australian OZ’s main assets in 2009 and also the largest foreign assets injection transaction in the Hong In the operation of real estate construction, the Corporation devoted itself to “exploring the high-quality dwelling experience, ensuring the Kong market in 2010. The successful injection of assets has newly positioned Minmetals Resources as the Corporation’s flagship platform for quality of construction projects, providing high-grade property services and constantly upgrading customer value”; and through the PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION overseas upper-stream basic metals and also enhanced Minmetals Resources’ influence on the foreign capital market, thus providing a integration of operations and the highly efficient scale operation, it gradually shaped the operation pattern geared to the whole country. powerful capital platform for accomplishing the Corporation’s sustainable growth in the international basic metal field. Under the precondition of effective prevention from risks, the Corporation adhered to the prudent low-cost expansion strategy. By rapidly accelerating the pace of turnover and initiating new operation modes, the Corporation actively expanded the financing channels, reserved high-grade resources, opened up new fields and developed new projects. The coordinated development among the operations of real estate, construction and installation, and industrial real estate shaped the synergy development pattern featuring the “integration of three Case: On 19 October, 2010, Minmetals Resources Co., Ltd., a company listed in HK Stock Exchange and a subsidiary of China operations”. Case Minmetals, published an announcement that it planned to purchase MMG, a wholly-funded subsidiary of Minmetals Nonferrous Metal Co., Ltd., at the price of US$1.846 billion. The capital for the transaction will be raised by four means. Minmetals Resources pays US$100 million in cash, Minmetals Nonferrous provides Minmetals Resources with 5-year loan bills totaling US$694 million Case: At Xiangluo Bay business district of Tianjin and Minmetals Resources issues to Minmetals Nonferrous the consideration shares with a total price of US$362 million and the Case Binhai New Area, Minmetals Real Estate Co., Ltd. permanent secondary convertible securities (PSCS) with a total price of US$690 million. Furthermore, Minmetals Resources will designed and constructed the five-star also issue not more than 2.7 billion new shares to raise the proceeds of not more than US$1.6 billion for repaying the loans complex “Kuangshi International” according to provided by Minmetals international standards, admirably dubbed the Nonferrous and for MMG’s future “Gate to Xiangluo Bay” exploration and development projects. The assets injection and the attached allotment plan Kuangshi International Building were approved by the special shareholders’ meeting of Minmetals Resources on 9 The science and technology SBU has been the Corporation’s supporting platform for science and technology and the platform for high-tech December, 2010 and promptly industries. Currently, the unit owns two large scientific research institutes: Changsha Research Institute of Mining and Metallurgy Co., Ltd. and promoted to the international Changsha Institute of Mining Research of Hunan Nonferrous Metals Corporation Limited. In 2010, the Corporation reinforced applied basic investors, laying the foundation research, forward-looking technical innovation research and major technologically innovative product research, and witnessed a rapid for transforming Minmetals increase in the outlay for scientific and technological activities and the outlay for R&D. The Corporation assisted its subordinate enterprises in Resources’ ownership structure applying the major technical innovation and industrialization funds of RMB84.10 million from the central budget for State-owned assets to be “internationalized” and operation, applied for an accumulative number of 146 patents, and was granted 103 patents and many of its invention patents were “institutionalized”. commended in the industry. Case: Changsha Research Institute of Mining and The project of the “Platform for Serving Small and Medium On 20 December, 2010, Minmetals Land Limited, the Corporation’s red chip company, published an announcement on the completion of the Case Metallurgy Co., Ltd. Making Remarkable Achievements Enterprises (SMEs) in Mining and Metallurgy Technologies of Mineral assets injection transaction and raised net proceeds of $2 billion, which marked the successful completion of the capital operation for Phase in Scientific and Technological Innovations and Metal Resources” IV (injecting the assets of three project companies of the real estate segment into Minmetals Land Limited) of Corporation’s Dadi Project. The In 2010, Changsha Research Institute of Mining and was granted the operation was not only characterized by widespread distribution of assets, many injection links, a complicated operational plan and a Metallurgy Co., Ltd. won 1 first prize, 2 second prizes “Project Approval multi-stage flow of policy review and approval but was also confronted with the Hong Kong investors’ strong expectations regarding the and 4 third prizes of provincial and ministerial Certificate for Science major shareholders’ assets injection as well as the adverse factors including sharp fluctuations in the domestic real estate market this year, so ( equivalent ) levels; applied for 16 patents ( including 9 and the difficulty in the operation was unprecedented. The completion of the project has consolidated the Corporation’s good image on Hong invention patents ); was granted 21 patents ( including Technology-Oriented Kong capital market, vigorously promoted the pace of integrating its real estate and construction operations and realized the effective 5 invention patents ); participated in the formulation SME Technical combination of assets injection with financing on the capital market. and revision of 1 national standard and 7 industrial Innovation Fund” by the standards, published 6 monographs and 72 science State Science and and technology papers. Technology Ministry. 32 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 33 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future (II) Consolidating the Foundation for Sustainable Development 1. Ownership System Reform Coming to a Successful Close through Ownership System Reform The year 2010 was a crucial year for the Corporation’s implementation of ownership system reform. Through careful organization and implementation of such tasks as straightening out assets, assessing value and disposing property rights, upon the approval of the By adhering to the principle of “strategic matching, observance of laws, feasible operation and gradual progress” and aiming at “clear State Council, the SASAC officially made the Written Approval to the Matters Concerning the Ownership System Reform and Listing business portfolio, improvement of management and control efficiency, highly efficient headquarters of the Corporation and of China Minmetals Corporation (Guo Zi Gai Ge [2010] No. 966) and approved the Corporation’s plan in principle for ownership standardized structure of governance”, the Corporation has actively accelerated innovation of systems and mechanisms, optimized system reform. On 16 December, 2010, China Minmetals Co., Ltd. was officially founded, which marked the Corporation’s crucial step the structure of corporate governance, enhanced the competitiveness of the system, moved forward with adjustment and forward in ownership system reform and laid the foundation for its holistic listing in future. transformation, upgraded the industrial value chain and fully displayed its strengths as a whole so as to lay a solid foundation for accomplishing scientific development and building a mineral and metal group with international competitiveness. The establishment of China Minmetals Co., Ltd. marks the creation of an internationally leading and competitive mineral and metal group with modern business system. It will help China Minmetals to further integrate internal and external resources on the new development platform, improve the corporate governance structure and operation mechanism, continuously strive for strategic development and management reform and build a multinational company with proper governance, efficient operation and significant influence in the industry. The ownership system reform has streamlined all the assets of the Corporation, improved the PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION property ownership relationship between allocated national land and the Corporation’s mining rights so that all the Corporation’s personnel, finance and materials will be operated under the proper modern framework of corporate governance, laying a solid foundation for its integration with the capital market. 2. Changes to the Business Structure In 2010, while actively promoting the ownership system reform, the Corporation completed the changes to its business structure and established six strategic business units of non-ferrous metals, ferrous mining, ferrous circulation, finance, real estate and science & technology. The establishment of the strategic business units further highlighted the primary business, and provided organizational guarantee to the rapid development during the 12th Five-Year Plan period. The change in business structure has enabled the core business to form a complete industrial chain, and the integration of the industrial chain will help fully exploit the efficiency and potential of each link along the industrial chain, take advantage of the synergy in the industrial chain as a whole and achieve comprehensive benefits. Ceremony for the Establishment of China Minmetals Co., Ltd. Business Structure and Layout of the Corporation Strategic Business Unit of Non-ferrous Strategic Business Unit of Ferrous Mining Strategic Business Unit of Ferrous Circulation Geological Strategic Strategic Strategic exploration Business Business Unit Business Unit Unit of of Finance of Real Estate …… …… Science and Processing service Technology Rare earth Tungsten mines Lead and zinc Iron ore Coal / coke Manganese & Circulation of Iron and steel International Domestic Logistics (including chromium and metallurgical production trade distribution service mining) other alloy raw material material ores Steel deep Processing processing Service Center Prospecting Sci-Tech Mining development and integrated operation Mining development Integrated operation of ferrous circulation Synergy and diversity Mining business Circulation business 34 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 35 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future 3. Management and Control Model Becoming Increasingly Clear 2. Innovative Development To adapt to the adjustment of the business structure, the Corporation further intensified the management and control system and clearly To seek development through innovation is a must for modern enterprises. By bringing into full play the supporting role of science positioned the management and control system of the Corporation’s headquarters as Strategic Control Mode and that of each strategic and technology in operations and centering on independent innovations, the Corporation brings forth industrial and technological business unit as Operational Control Mode. For the different strategic business units, the Corporation’s headquarters adopted the strategy innovations and strives to break through the core technologies, key technologies and generic technologies that restrict China’s control and strategy direction models of management and control and carried out hierarchical management and categorized authorization. supply of mineral and metal resources. Great efforts are also made to upgrade the processing industry so as to promote the upgrade Meanwhile, it specified six core means of management and control: strategy planning, plan and budget, performance assessment, key post of industrial structure and energy saving and emission reduction and make contributions to the building of innovation-oriented management, investment and capital operation, and risk management and audit. enterprises. The Corporation further improved the management and control system and management regulations for science and technology, (III) Enhancing Stamina for Sustainable Development through and adopted the technical innovation model combining internal technical innovation with joint innovation among production Transforming Development Style units, educational institutions and research institutes. It also formed a competent and efficient scientific research and development team consisting of the Corporation’s expert committee, the external experts, advisors and academic pacesetters engaged by the While seizing the opportunities to accomplish scale growth, the Corporation continues reinforcing structural readjustment and optimization Corporation, as well as key internal technical staff to enhance the overall technical innovation ability and core competitiveness of the PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION and enhances the stamina for sustainable development through transforming the pattern of development, thus upgrading its Corporation. competitiveness remarkably. The Corporation now has the “Technical Innovation Strategy Alliance for the Nonferrous Metal Tungsten and Hard Alloy Industry”, “Technical Innovation Strategy Alliance for Metal Mining Engineering and Equipment” and “Technical Innovation Strategy Alliance for Efficient Energy Saving and Clean and Environment-Friendly Utilization of Mineral and Metal Resources”. Among these, the “Technical Case: After the acquisition of OZ Mining and the incorporation of MMG, China Minmetals retained the original management team Innovation Strategy Alliance for Nonferrous Metal Tungsten and Hard Alloy Industry”, which Hunan Nonferrous Metals Holding Group and personnel contingent, arranged the financial and other key management personnel to effectively control the key links of Case Co., Ltd. took the lead in establishing, became one of the first pilots of the State Science and Technology Ministry, and was granted operation and formulated the development plan for MMG to specify the midand long-term development goals. Meanwhile, it by the State Science and Technology Ministry the Unit of Excellent Organization Award for Organization and Management of a reinforced operational synergy and incorporated MMG into the Corporation’s global marketing system. The Corporation also National Science and Technology Program during the “11th Five-Year Plan” period. The Corporation won an accumulative number of actively carried out post-merger integration in management and relevant functional departments held multi-level 60 provincial and ministerial awards for technological innovations. communications with MMG, enabling it to gain a rather profound understanding of the Corporation’s strategic visions, management system and corporate culture. By the end of 2010, MMG had realized cumulative profits of US$747 million and a sales revenue of US$2.8 billion, and had provided 100, 000 tons of fine zinc ore, thus the integrated development was accomplished. Table for the Corporation’s National-Level Scientific Research Institutions Type Quantity National key laboratories 3 1. Integrated Development National Engineering Technology Research Center 1 Favorable integration and combination constitute the important foundation for an enterprise to realize all-win outcomes among many National-Level Technology Research Center 1 parties. In 2010, the Corporation focused on the integration of the newly emerged enterprises in the past two years, including Luzhong Mining Co., Ltd., Changsha Research Institute of Mining and Metallurgy Co., Ltd., Hunan Nonferrous Metals Holding Group Co., Ltd. (HNG) and National-Recognized Enterprise Technology Center 3 Australian OZ Mining Company, so as to upgrade the internal synergy and overall competitiveness of the Corporation and accomplish the National-Level Analysis and Testing Center 7 rapid growth of the Corporation’s value. Enterprise Post-doctoral Scientific Research Workstation 5 During the early stage after the M&A and reorganization, the Corporation, starting from its own strategy and based on the characteristics of Academician Workstation 1 the reorganized enterprises, conducted quick management integration of their various systems including strategy, performance, capital, budget, human resources and investment to rapidly complete alignment, enable the target enterprises to operate under the Corporation’s management and control from the very beginning and thus achieve good results of integration. The successful integration upgraded the Corporation’s operation efficiency and core competitiveness and its overall strengths were enhanced remarkably. Case: Minmetals Exploration and Development Case Co., Ltd. undertook the research project entitled Demo Research on Deep Prospecting Case: In 2010, Minmetals Nonferrous Metal Co., Ltd. (MNM) launched the M-CUBE Program. Centering on the development Technology and Exploration of “Porphyrite Iron Case strategy of MNM, it selected the six management functions of employee training, strategic planning, financial management, risk (Sulfur) Ore” under the State Key Technology management, work safety management and new project supervision as the exchange topics. Through various forms of exchange Support Program during the “11th Five-Year Plan” with MMG, it identified 11 improvement orientations including strategy statement, report system, risk assessment, project audit, period. With “Nihe iron ore” as the main research security system, cost management, authorization management and training. The implementation of the Program upgraded the object and through systematic research on ore participants’ own qualities, enhanced mutual understanding and integration between MNM and MMG and helped to promote deposit geology, it calculated the minerogenetic the further management and integration of MMG. conditions, ore-forming regularity and ( Note: M-CUBE stands for Minmetals, MMG and Management; and through the integration of the three “M”s, the Corporation’s exploration models of “porphyrite iron (sulfur) ore management was upgraded as with the effect of being cubed. ) in the Lujiang-Zongyang Basin. 3D resistivity model of Nihe iron ore 36 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 37 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future Case: Zhuzhou Smelter Group Co., Ltd. commits itself to Case: Based on Mid-Stream of Industrial Chain to Vigorously Promote Operation Synergy Case Case the development of the recycling economy and the Minmetals Materials (Changshu) Management Co., Ltd. is an enterprise mainly engaged in the production of rolled, galvanized direct-leaching zinc refining technique system it and color-coated steel coils. As the production and processing link on the iron and steel industrial chain, the company follows constructed has gone into production. During the year, the concept of “maximizing the Corporation’s benefits”, takes the attitude of “basing on the long term and cooperating for the project directly leached a total of 180, 000 tons of win-win results” and conducts business synergy with other enterprises of the Corporation. In 2010, Minmetals Materials zinc concentrates, the leaching rate was over 98% and purchased as much as 289,700 tons (contractual volume) of steel through Minmetals Steel Co., Ltd. and China National the direct recovery rate over 93%, and all the indicators Minerals Co., Ltd. and as much as 14,200 tons of zinc ingots through Minmetals Nonferrous Metal Co., Ltd.; sold and processed were up to the advanced level at home and abroad; the 192,100 tons of products through Minmetals Steel Co., Ltd., China National Minerals Co., Ltd. and Minmetals South-East Asia volume of purification by arsenate increased from Corporation Pte Ltd., and the amount in purchase and marketing operations totaled about RMB2.310 billion. The sales volume 150m3/h at the beginning of the year to 330m3/h; and of products through business synergy has accounted for one third of Minmetals Materials’ total sales volume. Electrolytic VIII Series separated out 48, 600 tons of zinc and the power consumption decreased from Zinc Electrolytic VIII Series of Direct Leaching System 4,000kwh/t at the beginning of the year to 3,450kwh/t. 4. Development of Industrial Chain PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION The Corporation actively links up the industrial chain and continuously optimizes the structure of primary business. In the field of 3. Synergistic Development some nonferrous metal products, it has formed the pattern of full industrial chain with “prospecting, mining and dressing, processing and trading”; and in the ferrous metal field, it has formed the dumbbell-shaped industrial layout integrating upper and lower Based on the concept of the “One Minmetals and One Company” and on the principle of maximizing its overall benefits, the streams. The advantages in the coordinated labor division between the upper and lower streams on the industrial chain are Corporation has vigorously promoted its strategic synergy, established the special functions and departments of synergistic gradually emerging, and the industrial chain development mode integrating science and technology, industry and trade is management and worked out the management regulations to promote the synergistic development of internal operations and increasingly being improved. bring into play the Corporation’s comprehensive competitive strengths. The corporation has fully displayed the large-scale, industrialized and integrated collaboration potential inside and among primary business, effectively carried out the coordination In 2010, the Corporation made significant breakthroughs in the prospecting of iron, coal and chromium mines in the upper stream of among operations and continuously strived for the synergy at multiple business levels including marketing, operation and the ferrous industrial chain and developed the capacity of scale supply of iron ore, coke, iron alloy and other metallurgical raw resources. It has also striven to bring into play the strengths in specialized operation of the three emerging industries of finance, real materials (with a supply of 33 million tons of iron concentrate and a business volume of over 16 million tons of raw materials such as estate and science and technology and actively served the core principal operation to provide customers with integrated services coal, coke and iron alloy); it selectively entered the production field in the middle stream, held the iron and steel production capacity and more effectively create value for customers. of 2.5 million tons and the production line of wide heavy plates reached world-class level. It constantly perfected the lower-stream marketing network, quickly enhanced the capability of processing and distribution, built up China’s largest steel distribution network (with a capacity of over 20 million tons) and possessed the in-depth processing capacity of 2.2 million tons of cold rolled, coated and The Corporation’s Mechanism for Operation Synergy galvanized steel. Overall Industrial Chain of Iron and Steel Business Improve Recovery Rate Utilize Resources Reduce Consumption of Dressing & Smelting Comprehensively of Resources Sci-Tech Synergy Improve Recovery Improve Depth of Tons of iron ore Output of iron In-depth processing of cold rolled, Save Resources Rate of Mining Resource Processing reserves ore coated and galvanized steel 970 million 4.5 million tons 1.15 million tons Prospecting of Mining and Dressing Processing of Mineral Utilization of Mineral Mineral Resources of Mineral Resources Resources Resources Tons of coking 23 distribution companies with Output ofcoke coal reserves trade volume 360 million 0.5 milliontons External iron & 16 million tons Industrial Chain steel production Synergy A capacity of iron enterprises Chromium ore alloy (under exploration) 0.4 million tons Processing center 4 processing centers with cutting Minmetals capacity of 0.4 million tons Other minerals Trade Yingkou Synergy Medium-Heavy Plate Co., Ltd. Discovery of new Minerals import Minerals trade Mineral and Engineering & resources metals trade equipment Construction & Installation Mining consultancy Project Design Mining Engineering Smelting Engineering Synergy In 2010, on the nonferrous industrial chain, the Corporation robustly integrated domestic dominant metal resources, actively Other Synergy developed the resources in short supply overseas, possessed the capability of mining, smelting and processing such metal resources as tungsten, antimony, lead, zinc, aluminum, bronze and rare earth and ranked steadily in the first camp of domestic nonferrous Finance and Logistics enterprises. In the fields of tungsten, antimony, lead and zinc, the Corporation formed the whole industrial chain featuring “mining— dressing—smelting—processing—trading” and tentatively completed the global layout with diversified metal resources. 38 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 39 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future Case: Tungsten Industrial Chain Case The Corporation’s “1-3-5” Development Strategy in Its “12th Five-Year Plan” Case By starting with geological prospecting (Guangxi Bobai Project) in the prospecting operation and connecting the links redoubling from upper-stream dressing (Xianglushan Tungsten, Jiangxi Tungsten Group and HNG) and mid-stream smelting and “1” means redoubling the scale and benefit, laying more stress on the growth of benefit and by 2015, realizing revenues of RMB400 billion and total the scale and processing (HNG, Xiamen Tungsten (shareholding), Nanchang Hard Alloy and HpTec) through to lower-stream trading, the benefit profits of RMB15 billion; Corporation practiced its commodity strategy of “trying to extend the tungsten industrial chain to the development of high-tech and high value-added products” and consolidated its leading position in the industry. “3” means specifying the strategic positioning of the Tungsten Industrial Chain “three new suppliers”, i.e. building China’s most advantageous nonferrous metal resources supplier, China’s nonferrous iron ore resources steel products largest iron ore resources supplier and China’s largest iron and metal resources supplier circulation Geological Upper-stream Mid-stream smelting Lower-stream steel products circulation service supplier; prospecting dressing and processing trading supplier service supplier Xianglushan Tungsten HNG “5” means realizing “five rebuildings” competitiveness Guangxi Bobai Project operation development PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION Jiangxi Tungsten Group Nanchang Hard Alloy Tungsten Division management structure and performance pattern system mechanisms HNG HpTec Xiamen Tungsten (shareholding) 2. Strengthening Human Resources performance management. The Corporation has launched the remuneration system planning, worked out the auxiliary Management in an All-Round Manner remuneration implementation plan after the Corporation’s ownership system reform, built up the competitive remuneration The Corporation adheres to the human resources management (IV) Enhancing Sustainable Development Potential through concept of a “greater Minmetals”. With the all-round promotion of incentive system, and established a scientific and effective remuneration management and control system for subordinate Continuous Improving Management hierarchical management as the opportunity and with deepening enterprises. The Corporation has convened the meeting on reform of the cadre personnel system as the emphasis, the launching hierarchical management of human resources, and this Continuous optimization of management constitutes the foundation for the Corporation to forge a Corporation properly handles the talent collocation on key posts represents a strategic move for carrying out two-tier human mineral and metal group with international competitiveness. In 2010, the Corporation actively adjusted during its system transformation and the planning and design of resources management to fit in with the Corporation’s itself to the needs for strategic transformation, continuously improved its own management system and the remuneration system after the said transformation, constructs development needs during the new period and also the only road enhanced sustainable development potential to promote the steady development of its operation. an all-personnel performance management system and enhances to upgrading the Corporation’s capability of strategic human the capability of strategic human resources management, thus resources management. consolidating the foundation for accomplishing the leap-forward development of human resources management and pushing Case: The Corporation actively promotes the building of IT application capability. The forward the in-depth implementation of the strategy of 3. Improving the Investment Decision-Making Management System Case construction of the management and decision-making system realized the integration and strengthening the enterprise through talented personnel. sharing of the Corporation’s management data; the information collected by IT means on finance, operation and investment of the enterprises at different levels provided a reliable and The Corporation has built up the five-dimensional talent In 2010, the Corporation actively carried out the investment all-round analysis basis for the Corporation’s formulation of strategy and also provided strong evaluation standard featuring “virtue, knowledge, capacity, guideline of “controlling total amount, adjusting structure, stressing support for monitoring the subordinate enterprises’ implementation of the Corporation’s motivation and performance” and “giving priority to virtue and on connotation and building up internal control” and revised the strategic planning. valuing knowledgeand capacity-based performance”. It investment management system. Meanwhile, to fit in with the tentatively completed the institutional framework under which needs for operation development and internationalized personnel are selected and placed according to standards, public management, the Corporation proactively readjusted and opinions are heard in selecting and recommending personnel, optimized the investment decision-making management system, 1. Continuously Improving Strategic Management System Knowledge cadres are investigated before holding a post and are assessed put forward the investment management optimization orientation annually during their term of office, and there is a time limit for of “combining centralized decision making of major investment The Corporation has built up the strategic management system featuring “development strategy — Economic Value Added post management, and supervision and management are put in with classified authorization” and announced the Corporation’s first development planning — annual operation plan — overall budget — performance assessment” and (EVA) is a method of place. management system in English edition, and constantly improve established the guiding role of strategy. In 2010, the Corporation worked out its development planning evaluating an enterprise’s investment management. The Corporation reinforced the building during the “12th Five-Year Plan” period, adjusted and optimized the Strategy Committee, formed the performance and finance The Corporation has fully constructed the institutional system for of the accountability system, strengthened the prevention of member structure with the Corporation’s competent leaders and chief economist, core functional based on the after-tax net performance assessment of the personnel on key posts and responsibility risks in investment operation and management, and departments and six strategic business units as the main body, and enhanced the professionalism and operating profit and the below, set up the comprehensive assessment and evaluation definitely specified the management principles that “both business discussion efficiency of the Strategy Committee. The Corporation improved the Measures of the total cost of investment indicator system featuring “four dimensions, three-level indicators organization and individuals shall make concerted efforts in Corporation on Evaluation and Management of Strategic Alignment of Investment Projects, introduced required to produce the and double weighting” for the leading bodies and leading preventing responsibility risks” and that “everyone shall be equal, the EVA evaluation and management method and enhanced the guiding role of strategy in investment. said profit. personnel of the secondary units directly subordinate to the criteria for persons of upper and lower levels shall be unified, and Corporation. It has electronized the means of assessment and rules for reward and punishment shall be strictly adhered to in deeply promoted the implementation of the all-personnel implementing the accountability system”. 40 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 41 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future 4. Solidly Enhancing All-Round Risk Management 5. Intensifying the All-Round Budget Management System The Corporation persists in taking the all-round budget as the For the arrangement of investment capital, the Corporation Risk Management Objective: Carry out the “active and steady” risk management guideline, lay emphasis on the management of major core, dynamically allocates resources, intensifies the control over continues to hold strict control over the aggregate amount, balance risks, further strengthen the building of an all-round risk management system, enhance risk management capability and increase the the aggregate amount and scale of investment and strictly its investment demand and resource guarantee ability and strictly possibility of accomplishing all operation goals. controls major financial indicators. For the high-risk operations, it control the assets-liabilities ratio. It adheres to the principle of strictly implements the budget review and approval mechanism of seizing investment opportunities to accomplish rapid growth while “annual double authorizations”, that is, business authorization and also carefully avoiding capital overstrain due to investment, takes All-round risk management has a bearing on the accomplishment of the enterprise’s strategic goals and on its sustainable, sound and steady scale authorization, to ensure the smooth accomplishment of all into overall consideration the factors such as capital safety, development. In 2010, the Corporation actively embedded the risk management flow into the enterprises’ daily operation and management the annual targets of the Corporation. sustained and coordinated development and bearing capacity of activities to create value for the profits and losses, and strictly exercises control over aggregate During the process of working out the budget, the Corporation amount so as to tightly control the rapid increase in investment enterprises. According to the model of The Corporation’s Risk Management Flow persisted with the precondition of ensuring capital safety and the demand. In 2010, the Corporation firmly focused on such key “layered, classified and centralized” management, the Corporation further orientation of improving the benefits and efficiency of capital use, performance indicators as EVA, assets-liabilities ratio and operating PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION improved the risk management flow, gave priority to ensuring the demand for operating capital and cash flow and reduced the assets-liabilities ratio to below 75% for tentatively built up the risk classification Set up environment arranged a total budget of RMB69.9 billion as operating capital. the first time over the past 9 years. framework featuring “six categories, During the process of implementing the budget, the Corporation three tiers and multiple matters”, carried out dynamic management of the budget of operating constructed “three lines of defense” for capital and realized the unanimous rules and unified flow and Risk Identification the all-round risk management system, method in budget management of domestic and foreign and formed an initial risk management enterprises. Communication Supervision and organizational and functional system and Consultancy Improvement Risk Analysis interlaced with the headquarters and the 6. IT Application Capability Promoting Management Reform risk management committees of operating units at all levels, the risk The IT application capability represents one of the key factors for Risk Evaluation management departments and the risk the success of the Corporation’s management reform and plays an Case: Information Development management posts. The Corporation important role in the steady implementation of the said reform. In Case Planning During the “12th Five-Year thus upgraded its management of major 2010, the Corporation further optimized the IT organizations, set up Plan” Period risks remarkably and the key indicators of Risk Response the information departments or posts in six strategic business units In 2010, the Corporation formulated its major risk management tended to and established an IT performance assessment system. It actively information development plan for the improve as a whole. promoted the building of the application system with SAP at the “12th Five-Year Plan” Period and put core, raised the level of application of IT and provided the system forward five objectives for IT guarantee for the Corporation to consolidate its management application construction to provide The Corporation has constantly intensified its credit risk foundation and improve its management. In 2010, in the website information support for the With goods safety as its starting point, laying emphasis on high-risk management work, improved its credit risk reporting mechanism performance assessment of 122 central SOEs, the Corporation once Corporation’s smooth transition into links, taking into consideration both costs and benefits and carrying and formed a credit risk reporting system consisting of regular again won the honorable title of Class A Enterprise and ranked the new business structure. The five out definite division of labor and hierarchical management, the reporting and expert pre-warnings. It has continued to employ a No.11, a rise of 11 places on the ranking list on a yearly basis. objectives are as follows: Corporation guards against storage and logistic risks. It released and pre-warning mechanism consisting of three colors or red, yellow • to improve full-time IT application implemented three regulations including the Guide of China and blue and has adopted the “Gray List” for purpose of prohibiting IT Application Evaluation System organizations and perfect the Minmetals Corporation to Internal Control of Storage and Logistics non-compliant credit transactions. The Corporation’s credit risk hierarchical management system for and set up the storage and logistics risk management system index has improved remarkedably, and no major credit risk incident IT application; tailored to the Corporation’s characteristics. The Corporation has Basic Human Function IT Service has occurred in the whole year. IT Facilities Resources and Effect Management • to tentatively complete the established a risk identification, audit and supervision mechanism Application Leadership for IT for IT of IT and IT application framework of “three whole through use of various means such as reporting, evaluation, Application Application Application Regulation According to the principle of “unified standard and hierarchical systems and three standardizations”; inspection and rectification, which promoted the improvement of management”, the Corporation standardizes market risk • to formalize data standard and the Corporation’s storage and logistics management. No major management at all levels. In 2010, it compiled the Market Risk In 2010, the Corporation reinforced its work in perfect the data management and incidents involving loss of goods has occurred in the whole year. Management Blueprint of China Minmetals Corporation and information security management, perfected control system to ensure a smooth released the Measures of China Minmetals Corporation on Market the building of the information security information flow; The Corporation constantly improves the mechanism for an annual Risk Management and the supporting Guide of China Minmetals system, built up an initial information security • to construct the integrated and report on all-round risk management and formed the trinity system Corporation to Market Risk Management of Trading Operation to institutional system including 11 control areas unified application assembly platform of the annual report on all-round risk management consisting of the quantify its market risks and organically integrate business and adopted several measures including the and build the unified guarantee sub-report on major categories of risk management, sub-report on operation with market risk management, thus providing reference implementation of a safety event system of basic facilities and resources; all-round risk management and the Corporation’s general report on for decision making in effective identification and prevention of management and accountability mechanism and all-round risks. In 2010, the Corporation for the first time released the risks. The overall market risk of the Corporation has been controlled to provide protection for the sustainable • to set up the unified information Guiding Opinions of the Corporation on Risk Management in 2010. The Corporation’s Booklet on to an acceptable level. development of the Corporation. Information Security Awareness security defense system. 42 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 43 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Securit y Overhaul on equipment in new work shop of Minmetals Materials (Changshu) Management Co., Ltd. STRENGTHENING SUSTAINABLE SAFETY MANAGEMENT Establishing HSE System to Prevent and Control Safety Risks Intensifying Management to Improve Intrinsic Safety Emphasizing Occupational Health and Improving Working Environments Building a Safety Culture and Encouraging a Safety Atmosphere Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future (II) Establishing HSE System to Prevent and Control Safety Risks Work safety constitutes an important condition for the stable development of the national economy and society and also an important guarantee for an enterprise to accomplish sustainable and coordinated development together with the society. China Minmetals highly In 2010, China Minmetals further progressed the building of the HSE system, formed the unified safety and environmental values work safety management and actively advocates the guideline of putting safety first with an emphasis on prevention and overall protection management standards, made efforts to construct the long-term mechanism featuring “self-restriction, self-supervision, control. Taking the protection of employees’ safety in production as the fundamental starting point, focusing on the prevention of major self-improvement and self-development” and continuously enhanced safety management to prevent and control safety risks. and exceptionally serious accidents, and targeting at the reduction of personal injury and death, we constantly improve the structure of the work safety management and control system and HSE system, pay close attention to investigation and control of safety hazards, steadily improve emergency response capacity and continue building a safe and peaceful Minmetals. Case: At the end of 2010, the Corporation held the sum-up and Case commendation meeting on HSE system construction of production enterprises, at which eight units including Minmetals Luzhong Mining Co., Ltd., Beiminghe Iron Mine of Minmetals Hanxing Mining Co., Ltd. won the title of “Advanced Unit of HSE System Construction”. (I) Objectives and Performance STRENGTHENING SUSTAINABLE SAFETY MANAGEMENT 1. Safety Objectives To continuously promote safety standardization and building of HSE system to form a systematic management mechanism with the Corporation’s characteristics and level up the safety management of production enterprises; 1. Constructing a Framework of HSE System To reinforce the safety management of newly merged enterprises and the rectification and control of major hidden risks in Based on the actual conditions of its enterprises, the Corporation promotes the construction of HSE system, enables all its such enterprises; subordinate enterprises to follow one system, one management language and standard in safety management and ensures that production enterprises achieve the maximum depth and breadth in their safety management, thus realizing the “round-the-clock” To strengthen the monitoring of major potential hazards to prevent accidents; management all the year. The Corporation makes full use of the resources of external experts and intermediary institutions of work safety to undergo examination and verification by the second and the third parties, which has promoted the post-merger To intensify emergency response management and strengthen the enterprises’ capacity of responding to emergency; integration between the Corporation and the merged and acquired enterprises in safety and environmental protection To strengthen the regulation of occupational health and create a healthy and safe working environment; management and have safety measures implemented in specific operations. To strengthen the building of a safety culture and create a sound corporate safety culture and atmosphere. Mode of HSE Management System 2. Safety Performance accidents in existing Implementation Management Continuous In 2010, under the circumstance that the scale of highly dangerous enterprises and the total number of HSE guidelines Planning Examination enterprises decrease by and Operation Review Improvement production personnel increased by a great margin, the Corporation strengthened safety management and adopted powerful measures which saw accidents in existing enterprises decrease by 25.8% on a yearly basis, and the overall situation of work safety continued being improved. The situation of work safety in the newly merged 25.8% on a yearly basis enterprises improved somewhat, but various work safety accidents still occurred and the safety situation was rather severe. Table of Safe Production Performance of the Corporation in 2010 Number of Margin of Seriously Lightly Case: In 2010, Minmetals Hanxing Mining Co., Ltd. accelerated the building of the HSE management system, held the HSE Fatalities Case Year Safety Increase/Decrease from Injured Injured launch and training meeting, selected Beiminghe, Xishimen and Gaoyang Iron Mines as pilot units, compiled the HSE (Individuals) Accidents Last Year (%) (Individuals) (Individuals) control program document, HSE management system and HSE management system handbook and passed the examination and verification by the experts of a certification company. 2008 40 -23.1 4 0 38 2009 31 -16.2 3 1 27 案例 2010 46 48.4 9 2 38 ( Note: The rise of safety accidents resulted from the significant increase in the industrial scale of the Corporation, the scale of highly dangerous enterprises and the number of production personnel in 2010. ) 46 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 47 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future 2. Advancing Implementation of the HSE System 1. Strengthening Safety Supervision Intensifying implementation of the HSE system. In 2010, the different industries, organized Changsha Research Institute of The Corporation vigorously performs safety supervision, implements the “Nine Items of Supervision”, and the amount of hidden dangers identified Corporation’s subordinate enterprises were engaged in mining and Mining and Metallurgy Co., Ltd. to go to Minmetals Yingkou standardizes the safety management of enterprises. In 2010, the Corporation organized 4 large-scale safety beneficiation, smelting and processing and architectural construction carried out the all-round building of the HSE system. Medium Plate Co., Ltd. and Zhuzhou Hard Alloy Group Co., Ltd. to go to Nanchang Hard Alloy Co., Ltd. for exchange and study supervision activities, during which it dispatched 18 supervision groups, covered 18 key mining enterprises, 10 smelting and processing enterprises and 5 architectural construction projects, discovered 458 hidden safety 15,887 After passing the safety standardization rating acceptance activities, and shared the experience of the advanced units in HSE dangers of various kinds and urged the enterprises to complete rectification of these hidden safety dangers. the amount of hidden organized by safety supervision departments, the mining system construction; the Corporation also invited the experts to dangers rectified and enterprises, according to the Corporation’s requirements for the conduct training on the Guide to the HSE System in the enterprises. All its subordinate enterprises actively carry out safety inspections, strictly implement the system for controlled building of the HSE system, intensified the work of occupational investigation and control of their hidden dangers and have developed a normalized working mechanism. In health and environmental protection and completed the Continuously deepening HSE risk management. According to the the whole year of 2010, they identified a total of 15,887 hidden dangers and rectified and controlled 15,591 of them and the rectification rate was up to 98.1%. 15,591 post-merger integration with the Corporation’s HSE system. By the national requirements for the “Year of Work Safety”, the Corporation end of 2010, 31 production units with independent legal entity had carefully organized the investigation and control of hidden dangers the rectification rate was up to passed the examination and verification by the third party and safety supervision, optimized the mechanism for investigation 98.1% STRENGTHENING SUSTAINABLE SAFETY MANAGEMENT institution and obtained the ISO14001 certification for and control of hidden dangers of accidents, and standardized and Case: In April 2010, during the major investigation, Ershisanye Construction Group Co., Ltd. environmental management systems and the OHSAS18001 intensified HSE risk management. Case conducted safety inspection of its 16 key projects, had talks with 3 units suffering many certification for occupational health and safety management problems, commended the excellent project management department and arranged study and systems. simulations for the surrounding project departments. Reinforcing the examination and guidance for the building of the HSE management system. In 2010, the Corporation organized and carried out the examination and special supervision of the HSE system, compiled the Table for Examination of HSE Systems, 2. Work Safety Management implemented the HSE system examination in its subordinate enterprises including North China Aluminum Industrial Co., Ltd. In 2010, the Corporation actively followed the requirements of Document No. 23 of the State Council and formulated the “System for Leaders and Minmetals (Guizhou) Ferroalloy Co., Ltd., and put forward over Taking Teams to Work Under-Well and Conducting Supervision & Inspection” to intensify the leaders’ responsibilities in the process of 180 items which need to be rectified and completed all the production. The Corporation definitely deployed the tasks of building six underground systems and an online monitoring and testing rectifications. The Corporation carried out the exchange of HSE system for tailings pond of its subordinate mining enterprises as well as the carbon monoxide alarm and related positioning and location system construction and management experience among Training on Guide to the HSE System in Luzhong Mining Co., Ltd. control systems of its subordinate smelting enterprises. By stages, the Corporation mainly strengthened the implementation of the tasks such as underground ventilation of mines and the safety access checkup of construction projects. The Corporation reinforced the safety management of newly merged enterprises and the control of major hidden dangers in such enterprises and expounded the concept of safety and environmental protection management, management and control mode and work process flow to four newly merged enterprises, so as to promote their integration with the Corporation’s management system. Luzhong (III) Intensifying Management to Improve Intrinsic Safety Mining Co., Ltd. carried out the work of revising and improving the HSE system; and Changsha Research Institute of Mining and Metallurgy Co., Ltd. established a primary functional department and initially set up the normative work safety management system and the plan for In 2010, the Corporation constantly intensified work safety management. President Zhou Zhongshu and the principals of 11 secondary response to emergency and rescue. units signed the target responsibility contracts on work safety, implemented “one post with two duties”, intensified the assessment of safe production performance and put work safety responsibilities in the forefront in every arena. The Corporation carried out hierarchical management in such sectors as mining, architectural construction, dangerous chemicals and smelting and processing so as to ensure a Case: On 3 September, 2010, at its subordinate Xishimen Iron Mine, stable situation of work safety. Case subordinate to Minmetals Zhuzhou Smelter Group Co., Ltd., Hunan Nonferrous Hanxing Mining Co., Ltd., Metals Group Co., Ltd. held the launch meeting on conscientiously carries out the system for leaders taking promoting the HSE system construction in teams underground. nonferrous production enterprises of Hunan Province, declared the Implementation Plan for HSE System Construction in Hunan Nonferrous Metals Group, and conducted training on the Guide to Minmetals’s HSE Management System. Yushiwa Iron Mine under Minmetals The Corporation’s Major Investigation of Work Safety in 2010 Hanxing Mining Co., Ltd. is honored as the first mine meeting the safety standards in Handan. 48 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 49 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future 3. Promoting Technology Transformation for Work Safety 5. Carrying Out Drills for Response to Emergency In 2010, the Corporation increased investment in work safety. Its subordinate enterprises invested a total of RMB273.48 million, an increase of In 2010, the Corporation revised the Comprehensive Emergency Rescue Plan for Work Safety, further improved the emergency rescue system, 16.5% on a yearly basis, in the safety technology transformation of techniques and equipment, control of hidden dangers, monitoring of strengthened the building of emergency rescue teams, improved the equipment for emergency response, standardized the management of major danger sources and improvement of emergency-response equipment, and good results were obtained thereby. emergency materials storage, and organized pertinent emergency response drills to enhance the capacity of responding to emergency. During the “emergency drill week” of the “Month of Work Safety”, the subordinate enterprises carried out 39 emergency drills centering on nine aspects including a poisoning accident caused by underground smoke, a cave-in of top plates and a landslide, with nearly 3,000 persons participating in the drills. Case: IIn 2010, Jiangxi Xiushui Xianglushan Tungsten Co., Ltd. invested RMB60 million in the rectification of tailing sand and Case gob area and installed the internationally most advanced minor earthquake monitoring system, which has the greatest Case: In 2010, in the southern region of Case: In 2010, Shanghai Jinqiao Decoration number of channels in China and is used for monitoring Case China, many rainstorms occurred early in Engineering Co., Ltd. under Minmetals the year, which brought great safety Construction Co., Ltd. organized the drills of underground pressure dynamics in the mining area. pressure to the mining enterprises in the on-site fire emergency rescue, emergency STRENGTHENING SUSTAINABLE SAFETY MANAGEMENT south of Hunan and Jiangxi. The rescue for seasonal emergent accidents, Corporation promptly deployed and emergency rescue of victims of falls from actively strengthened emergency response heights and emergency rescue of electric and prevention, set up the temporary shock victims. emergency rescue office and entered into Chart of Multi-Channel Minor Earthquake Monitoring System the state of round-the-clock preparation for flood prevention. During the period, one mining enterprise in the south of Jiangxi and another in the south of Hunan suffered Case: Yangouchong Tailings Mine of Shizhuyuan Co., Ltd. under the dangers of cave-in and inundated wells Yangouchong respectively, but as these enterprises took Hunan Nonferrous Metals Group set up the online testing and The chemical leakage emergency Monitoring System for Tailings Pond of proper action for prevention and adopted drill by Dingnan Dahua New monitoring system to intensify the safety supervision of tailings Shizhuyuan Co., Ltd. prompt and effective measures, no personal Materials Co., Ltd. under Minmetals pond. injury or fatal accidents occurred. Rare Earth (Ganzhou) Co., Ltd. Emergency rescue drill for electric shock accidents 4. Safety Supervision over Contractors In 2010, the Corporation strengthened the safety supervision over outsourcing teams, incorporated them in the work safety responsibility (IV) Emphasizing Occupational Health and Improving Working contracts and demanded supervision over all outsourcing teams. The subordinate enterprises strictly implemented the Corporation’s outsourcing management system, checked on them in seven respects including qualification, training and labor insurance and conducted Environment key checkups, thus effectively reducing the occurrence rate of accidents in outsourcing teams. In 2010, the Corporation earnestly implemented the operational procedures for work safety and strengthened occupational health management and prevention and control of harm caused by occupational diseases. All the production enterprises further improved the occupational health management rules and regulations, dispatched occupational health management personnel, intensified special Case: In 2010, Nuopu Mining Company, subordinate to Minmetals Hanxing rectification and the occupational health examination before, during and after a post is held, and reinforced occupational health publicity, Case Mining Co., Ltd., implemented the work safety rating management system education and training. The Corporation firmly implemented the System of China Minmetals Corporation for the Prevention of Occupational (ABC) and Party A’s representative system to provide full-process assistance Hazard, the Management Measures for Prevention of the Harm of Occupational Diseases and other related systems and measures to prevent and supervision for the safety management of the project department and and control the harm caused by occupational diseases. promote the safety management of construction teams to simultaneously improve with the company. Case: In September 2010, Mr. Sun Case Xiaomin, Vice President of the ABC management of Nuopu Mining’s outsourcing teams Corporation, attended the undertaking and signing ceremony of “Seoul Declaration” on safety and health at work jointly organized by the State Administration of Work Safety, the International Labor In May 2010, Minmetals (Guizhou) Ferroalloy Co., Ltd. conducted on-site Organization and the International Employees of Minmetals Hanxing Mining Co., safety inspections of the outsourcing units. Social Security Association, and Ltd. conducting an on-spot dust inspection signed the undertaking document on behalf of the Corporation. 50 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 51 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future In 2010, the Corporation set up the basic database on occupational health, including relevant information such as occupational hazard sources, number of persons exposed to such hazards, and measures for prevention and control; it mainly strengthened the prevention of In June 2010, Yingkou Industrial Park such occupational hazards as dust, heavy metals and carbon monoxide and actively conducted publicity, education and training on Case conducted safety education and occupational health. demonstrated how to wear safety protection articles. Case Case: In 2010, Nanchang Hard Alloy Co., Ltd. under Minmetals Nonferrous Metals Co., Ltd. reconstructed all the environmental ventilation and dust reduction projects concerning high-temperature posts. STRENGTHENING SUSTAINABLE SAFETY MANAGEMENT 2. Safety Culture Promotion In 2010, the Corporation organized a variety of safety publicity activities. Through China Minmetals News, the Safety Supervision Newsletter of China Minmetals and a safety supervision information platform, it vigorously publicized the national policies and guidelines on work safety, the Corporation’s safety developments and safety activities and experience of its subordinate enterprises; ran the event of the second “Month of Safety Culture”; and organized the appraisal of excellent safety management workers to inspire the sense of responsibility and enthusiasm of the frontline safety management personnel. Case: In 2010, Luzhong Mining Co., Ltd. actively carried out an evaluation of the control effect of occupational disease harm in the Phase II project and successfully underwent inspection and acceptance by the provincial expert group. Case (V) Building a Safety Culture and Encouraging a Safety Atmosphere The Corporation actively carries out the building of a safety culture, makes full use of the guiding function of safety culture, mobilizes the employees’ enthusiasm through cultural influence and penetration, and organically combines “tangible management” with “intangible management” to create a good cultural atmosphere of “safety for everyone”. Publicity board with notices on work safety in Changsha Research Institute of Mining and Metallurgy Co., Ltd. 1. Training on Work safety On-site Safety Construction Meeting of Jiangxi Tungsten Industrial Group Co., Ltd. In 2010, the subordinate enterprises of the Corporation ensured that essentially 100% of front line employees received training, and that 100% of the personnel engaged in special operations carried on their duties with certificates, which played an important role in promoting the improvement of the safety situation; and the Corporation arranged the personnel of subordinate production enterprises to participate in the initial and recurring trainings on safety qualifications organized by the State Administration of Work Safety for work safety managerial personnel of central SOEs, and arranged experts to conduct on-site training on specific problems and immediate demands. The Corporation and its subordinate enterprises conducted 5,615 trainings of various kinds and trained more than 168,000 persons, which has promoted the popularization of safety knowledge among employees and the upgrade of their skills. Case: In June 2010, the Corporation launched the event of “Month of Safety Culture” and won the National Unit of Advanced Organization Award ( a total of 6 enterprises nationwide won such award ) and one of its subordinate enterprises won the National Unit of Excellence Award. the subordinate enterprises of the Corporation ensured that essentially The Corporation conducted trained over 100% 100% 5,615 168,000 of the personnel engaged in special of their employees received training operations went on duty with certificates trainings of various kinds in 2010 persons in 2010 52 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 53 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Sewage treatment plant in Qianzhou, Wuxi city BOOSTING SUSTAINABLE ECOLOGICAL CONSTRUCTION Optimizing Systems and Intensifying Green Management Addressing Climate Change through Low-Carbon Development Comprehensive Utilization of Resources through Innovative Modes Strengthening Management to Protect the Ecological Environment Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future (II) Optimizing Systems and Intensifying Green Management The harmony between social-economic development and ecological environment constitutes the foundation for accomplishing The Corporation highly values the work of environmental protection, actively pushes forward the building of “Three Systems” for energy the sustainable development of human society. The Corporation takes the initiative in addressing the challenges in climate change, saving and emission reduction, strengthens the self-regulation of the enterprises and key inspection of environmental protection activities, adheres to the development concept of low carbon and environmental protection, vigorously promotes the low-carbon economy, carries out investigation and supervision in the enterprises and sets up the long-term mechanism for environmental protection. and explores a green development model characterized by low consumption, low pollution and low emissions. The Corporation improves its efficiency in using resources, endeavors to build a resource-saving and environment-friendly enterprise and promotes the sustainability of the ecological environment. Flow of Environmental Management Review Determine purpose and scope of review Collection,analysis and evaluation of data and information (I) Policy and Performance Organize preliminary review group Compilation of the preliminary review report BOOSTING SUSTAINABLE ECOLOGICAL CONSTRUCTION 1. Environmental Protection Policy Identification of environmental factors and pollution sources and Formulate on-site review plan implementation of risk evaluation To further develop the “Three Systems” for energy saving and emission reduction, and raise the level of management and control; Idenfication of environmental factors and pollution sources,planning of Collectinformation and data risk evaluation and risk contral,and determination of scope of coverage To strengthen comprehensive treatment, and promote energy saving and emission reduction through technological progress; To actively develop a recycling economy and improve the efficiency of resource utilization; On-site investigation Compilation of the preliminary review report To reinforce the publicity, education and training in energy saving and emission reduction to enhance awareness of environmental protection. The Corporation materially carries out the responsibilities for energy saving and environmental protection and sets up the work mechanism for the “top leader” of each subordinate enterprise to emphasize energy saving and emission reduction. It breaks down the indicators for assessing energy saving and emission reduction of its secondary enterprises, thus promoting the increase of economic benefits through 2. Performance in Environmental Protection energy saving and emission reduction and manifesting the results of energy saving and emission reduction through economic benefits. In 2010, the Corporation signed the Contract of Responsibility for Energy Saving & Emission Reduction with 14 secondary enterprises and In 2010, the Corporation persisted in green operations, conscientiously practiced energy saving and emission reduction, closely followed up the completion status of these enterprises by means of onsite inspection and symposiums. vigorously strengthened ecological protection and thus achieved good performance. The Corporation intensifies environmental risk management, attaches importance to the control of major hidden environmental dangers and risks in M&A projects, and establishes the environmental protection checkup and approval systems ( including EIA ). In 2010, the Table of Performance in Environmental Protection in 2010 ( Major Industrial Enterprises ) Corporation focused on strengthening the post-merger integrative management on the newly merged enterprises: on one hand, it carried out rapid integration with the newly merged enterprises, materialized its related systems and requirements for energy saving and emission Indicators Unit 2009 2010 reduction management, put forward the requirements for rectification, followed up and urged the progress of their rectification; on the other hand, the Corporation establishes the environmental protection checkup mechanism for the M&A projects to strictly control the Comprehensive Energy Consumption 10,000-ton Standard Coal 157.89 181.53 major hidden dangers and risks in environmental protection. Comprehensive Energy Consumption for RMB10,000 of Output Value Ton Standard Coal/RMB10,000 1.121 0.707 Case: In March 2010, the Corporation held the Analysis Meeting on the Situation Emission of Sulfur Dioxide Ton 4,583.83 4,685.36 Case of Energy Saving and Emission Reduction in Changsha, at which it analyzed the Emission of COD Ton 1,124.22 1,067.00 current regulation situation, put forward the next-step work requirements and conducted training on the statistical system for energy saving and emission ( Note: The rise of comprehensive energy consumption and emission of sulfur dioxide results from the great increase in the number of high-consumption reduction. Over 60 representatives from 12 key enterprises including Hunan enterprises under the Corporation. ) Nonferrous Metals Holding Group Co., Ltd. attended the meeting. Comprehensive Energy Consumption for RMB10,000 of Output Value Emission of COD -37% -6% 56 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 57 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future (III) Addressing Climate Change through Low-Carbon 2. Boosting Green Innovations Development The Corporation lays stress on displaying the important role of science and technology in environmental protection, improves the environmental protection level and capability of the enterprises through technological innovations and relies on technological progress to expand the green development space of the enterprises. The Corporation actively addresses the challenges of global climate change, vigorously boosts low-carbon development and strives to be a green pioneer. With the target of “low consumption, low emission and high efficiency”, it develops the recycling economy, increases the momentum of the scientific development of resources, conducts the comprehensive and highly-efficient utilization of resources, and Case: Artificial Intelligence Controlled Atmosphere cherishes limited resources to create unlimited value. Case Bell-type Series of Resistance Furnaces With the new RBD14-8MC bell-type furnace developed by Changsha Research Institute of China Minmetals’s Northern Peru Project won the Best Environmental Protection Award for Chinese Mining International Cooperation Mining and Metallurgy Co., Ltd., a single furnace can reduce its consumption of power by 2,300 BOOSTING SUSTAINABLE ECOLOGICAL CONSTRUCTION kilowatt-hours, which can save nearly 2000 kilowatt-hours compared with the single slab kiln with similar production capacity. If the new 1. Intensifying Energy Saving and Emission Reduction energy-saving bell-type furnaces are used to replace 60% of 200,000-ton capacity of the current In 2010, the Corporation further intensified the work of energy saving and emission reduction and increased Its subordinate enterprises and nationwide soft magnetic ferrite, 100-150 million the local governments signed the investment in technological transformation for energy saving and emission reduction. It organized its responsibility kilowatt-hours can be saved annually and the subordinate enterprises to carry out the activities of energy saving and emission reduction, made efforts to eliminate such phenomena as gas escape and rise, and dripping and leakage of pollutants to prevent the 25 contracts and task statements emission of 100,000 to 150,000-ton of carbon dioxide can be prevented. New RBD14-8MC Series of Bell-type Furnaces occurrence of pollution accidents. Its subordinate enterprises and the local governments signed 25 eliminated responsibility contracts and task statements and eliminated 41 items of backward production capacity. 41 items of backward production capacity The Corporation actively conducts training on the policies and regulations on energy saving and emission reduction and invites experts to explain the main points concerning energy saving and emission reduction the Corporation added 3. Striving to Be a Green Pioneer so as to promote the popularization and application of the technologies of energy saving and emission reduction. In 2010, the Corporation added 12 new special technologies to its database of energy saving and 12 In 2010, as one of the members of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) Stewardship Project consisting of only 20 global enterprises, the emission reduction technologies. new special technologies to its Corporation sent representative to attend the Team Exchange Meeting held in Geneva at the UN headquarters. As one of two database of energy saving and emission reduction representatives elected to present at the meeting, the Corporation set forth its constructive opinions and recommendations technologies concerning the improvement of its working deliverables, and future popularization of green technologies, as well as close cooperation with its subordinate enterprises in the application of such technologies. Minmetals’s presentation received unanimous praise from UNGC Director-General Georg Kell, Deputy Director-General Gavin Power and other attendees. This will play a positive role in assisting the Corporation to seize the initial opportunity for the work in major environmental protection fields such as addressing climate change and in helping the Corporation consolidate its good international image and so on. Case China Minmetals’s Environmental Management System was cited in the Case Environmental Stewardship Strategy jointly issued by UNGC and Duke University. Case: In October 2010, based on the Case: Several energy saving and emission reduction technologies were national emphasis on the rectification of applied in the Qinghai Haixi Prefecture National Sports & Cultural Center environmental protection, the undertaken by Ershisanye Construction Co., Ltd. Based on the local Corporation organized the lectures and characteristic of sufficient solar energy, the solar energy equipment was workshops on the topic of “Policies on installed on the roof of the exhibition hall to provide sufficient power for Prevention and Control of Heavy Metal indoor illumination; environment-friendly and energy-saving materials are Pollution”, in which 29 representatives used in the walls. Such materials featured a unique technology for sound from 12 main enterprises participated. insulation and noise reduction and can greatly reduce the interference of outdoor noise without increasing costs. 58 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 59 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future (IV) Comprehensive Utilization of Resources through Innovative Modes Case: Through the project of water treatment with deep purification membrane, Case Zhuzhou Smelter Group Co., Ltd. has recently built such systems and supporting The Corporation highly values the comprehensive utilization of resources, innovates new modes of corporate development, facilities as ultrafiltration and the one-stage reverse osmosis membrane vigorously develops the recycling economy, and improves the efficiency of resource utilization, thus providing a sustainable treatment system with a capacity of 200 m3/hour, and the fresh water thereby resource guarantee for social development. produced flows into the pipeline facilities of the production water system and the concentrated water is transmitted for flushing slag at the lead-drum fuming furnace and volatility kiln. Case: Jinrui New Materials Sci-Tech Co., Ltd. of the Case Changsha Research Institute of Mining and After being treated with deep purification membrane, the wastewater can be used for raising goldfish. Metallurgy Co., Ltd. made waste residue into bricks and other building materials through the technological transformation project of electrolytic manganese. By recycling the reclaimed solution, it 3. Reclamation of Mining Land BOOSTING SUSTAINABLE ECOLOGICAL CONSTRUCTION reclaimed about 2,340 tons of manganese sulfate and 2,256 tons of ammonium sulfate annually and The mining enterprises subordinate to the Corporation highly value ecological protection and strive to accomplish the goal of “exploiting increased the reclamation and utilization rate of gold and silver mountains while maintaining clear rivers and green mountains”. Each year, they invest a large amount of funds in mining manganese ore by 4%, thus realizing the change of afforestation and land reclamation to try to reduce water and soil loss and protect the ecological environment of the mining areas. wastes into treasures. Residue-washing equipment for electrolytic manganese Case Case: Hunan Shizhuyuan Nonferrous Metals Co., Ltd. has built Chenzhou Shizhuyuan National Mining Park into an ecology-friendly mining park. In 2010, the company made a master plan for the mining park, invested RMB9.1 million in ecological protection and vegetation restoration, completed the design for the closure of the 1,000-ton tailings pond covering 1. Developing the Recycling Economy a land area of 850 mu (or about 56.67 hectares), and began the coverage of land to restore greenery in the pond area. The Corporation attaches great importance to the development of the recycling economy, persists in the saving and comprehensive utilization of resources and shapes a closed cycle of “resources-products-renewable resources” in order to promote the sustainable utilization of resources. Its subordinate metallurgy and mining enterprises also actively develop the technologies of recycling economy according to the characteristics of their own operations. Case: Project of Reclamation and Comprehensive Utilization of Manganese-Silicon Electric Furnace Gas of Minmetals Case (Hunan) Ferroalloy Company Limited In 2010, the civil engineering and equipment installation for the reconstruction project of supporting facilities for a manganese-silicon electric furnace as well as the project of exhaust control and power generation with residue heat from the said furnace were completed, and the exhaust control system has been put into trial operation. About 6,000 tons of valuable silicon-manganese dust can be reclaimed from the exhaust annually; through power generation with residue heat, 7,000 kilowatt-hours can be generated, over 30,000 tons of standard coal can be saved and more than 100,000 tons of carbon dioxide emissions reduced annually. Case: In the mining area of Huangshaping Mining Branch of Hunan Nonferrous Metals Co., Ltd., the greening area is up 2. Protecting Water Resources to 765,000 m2, the greening saturation rate is 97.17% and the greening coverage rate is 48.40%. The fresh air and graceful The Corporation highly values the saving and comprehensive utilization of water resources and endeavors to increase the environment of the mining area create a graceful and recycling rate of water resources. Its subordinate enterprises make comprehensive use of the industrial wastewater and domestic comfortable working and living environment for the sewage from their primary business and use such treated wastewater for mining, land reclamation and afforestation. employees of the enterprise. 60 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 61 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future (V) Strengthening Management to Protect the Ecological Environment 2. Protecting Bio-Diversity The Corporation follows the natural laws of the locations where it operates, makes efforts to maintain ecological balance and The Corporation actively protects the local ecological environment, highly values the environmental restoration of mines and the protect bio-diversity to provide a favorable living environment for the local people. management of tailings pond, and protects the bio-diversity of the mining areas. Case Case Case: Assisting the Construction of the Yangtze Case River Ecological Civilization In 2010, the Corporation donated RMB30 million to the “Greening the Yangtze River, Chongqing Action”, which aimed to afforest 3.8 million mu (or about 253,333 hectares) along the banks of the Yangtze River in Chongqing in the next 3-5 BOOSTING SUSTAINABLE ECOLOGICAL CONSTRUCTION years and increase the forest coverage rate there from the current 22% to 65%. This will be Tailings dam with restored vegetation Siam Crocodile — a local wild species on the verge of extinction of great significance for building the ecological barrier in the Yangtze River valley, promoting Case: Minmetals Hanxing Mining Co., Ltd. covered the Case: The Corporation vigorously carried out the the greening of the ten-thousand-li Yangtze surface of the tailings dam with earth to plant vegetation bio-diversity plan in Laos and protected the living River, ensuring the functionality and safe and grasses. Over two years, it added 92,000 m3 of earth environment for the last Siam Crocodile; and in operation of the Three Gorges Project, building and planted 93, 600 sallow thorns suitable for growing in the process of our protection work, we also found the ecological civilization demonstration area in the tailing sand and this has securely fixed the sand and a new bird — the bald nightingale. Through the the upper reach of the Yangtze River and effectively prevented the dam surface from being protection of bio-diversity, we have left a precious promoting sustainable economic and social washed away by rainwater. In the shaped vegetation of heritage to future generations. development in the Yangtze River valley. the sallow thorn, wild animals regularly appear and the natural ecological condition has been restored. 1. Strengthening Management of Tailings Pond The Corporation values the control and regulation of tailings pond and endeavors to construct environmental protection projects to reduce the impact on the environment. 3. Conducting Education on Environmental Protection The Corporation and its subordinate enterprises strengthen the publicity and education of environmental protection in various forms such as setting up publicity columns on the website, making publicity exhibition boards, showing environmental protection In 2010, Jiangxi Xiushui Xianglushan Tungsten Co., Ltd. films and conducting trainings, which has raised the environmental protection awareness of all employees, embedded the Case invested more than RMB 9 million in the comprehensive environmental protection concept into their daily behavior and created the atmosphere of everyone being engaged in control and regulation of tailings pond to realize the environmental protection. up-to-standard discharge of sewage. Case: To check the impact of the air-borne dust of the tailings pond on the environment, Hunan Nonferrous Metals Co., Ltd. invested more than RMB800,000 in controlling the dust and achieved fairly Case The publicity film played by China Minmetals during China’s Publicity board for energy saving and emission reduction by Jinrui New Materials Sci-Tech Co., Energy Saving Publicity Week in 2010 Ltd. under Changsha Research Institute of Mining and Metallurgy Co., Ltd. good environmental benefits. Facilities for controlling the air-borne dust of the tailings dam 62 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 63 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Gala Performance Celebrating the 60th Anniversary of China Minmetals ACHIEVING SUSTAINABLE HARMONY AND WIN-WIN RESULTS Valuing Employees and Strengthening Development Impetus Serving Customers and Broadening Development Space Responsible Procurement Extending Development Responsibility Improving the Development Environment through Cooperation with stakeholders Compliant Operation Preventing Development Risks Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future 1. Safeguarding Rights and Interests of Employees China Minmetals considers the development of mutually-beneficial cooperation with stakeholders as the basic The Corporation has strictly abided by the Labor Law of the People’s Republic of China, the Labor Contract Law, the full-time employee contract conclusion requirement for performing social responsibilities, positively strengthens relationship management with stakeholders in the Collective Contract Provisions and other relevant laws and regulations, and the full-time employee contract rate reached operation, sticks to common growth with employees, continuously improves service for customer, positively builds a conclusion rate reached 100% in 2010. responsible supply chain, operates strictly in accordance with laws and regulations and endeavors to realize a harmonious win-win situation with partners. The Corporation has insisted on equality among employees, guaranteed that it will not allow any discrimination 100% on the grounds of race, gender, age or other factors, strictly prohibits child labor, and opposed any form of forced labor. In 2010, the Corporation had a total of 168,333 employees (both active and retired employees included), of which the number of in-service employees was 114,584 and female employees accounted for 23.68% of the total. The Corporation’s workforce also included 1,112 ethnic minority employees and 6,271 foreign employees. (I) Policies Trade unions have been established by affiliated units at all levels, which have continuously promoted democratic management work in enterprises with the Employees’ Congress as the core, adhered to open ACHIEVING SUSTAINABLE HARMONY AND WIN-WIN RESULTS management information, promoted democratic management and democratic supervision, strengthened Employee policy: To adhere to the talent philosophy of “people-oriented and exerting talents for suitable posts”, positively consultation and communication between enterprise and employees, and guaranteed the right of employees to respond to demands of employees, comprehensively safeguard their rights and interests, provide them with a favorable participate in important decision making of the enterprise. growth platform and a complete training system, motivate their enthusiasm and creativity, strengthen the company strategy of building a competitive enterprise based on talents, and facilitate the common progress of the enterprise and 180,000 The total number of employees 168,333 in Minmetals (people) employees. 160,000 Case: In 2010, the Corporation convened a Case 140,000 special Employees’ Congress in which Customer policy: To persist in the operational principle of “customers first and services foremost”, improve the ability to 120,000 important motions were reviewed and deliver services, provide globally superior quality services to customers, continuously innovate and explore service models, 100,656 100,000 approved by the majority, including the establish a long-term, stable relationship with customers through mutually beneficial cooperation and achieve the common 80,000 Enterprise Annuity Plan of the Corporation, growth of both the enterprise and customers while continuously exploring development space. 66,367 Enterprise Annuity Plan of the Headquarters, 60,000 44,425 Supplier policy: To improve supplier management, gradually promote responsible procurement and extend social and 32,594 and Establishment Plan of China Minmetals Co., 40,000 environmental responsibilities into more enterprises via the supply chain. Ltd., which were fully endorsed by employee’s 20,000 representatives. Partner cooperation policy: To stick to the principle of “sincere cooperation, mutual benefit and win-win outcomes”, 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 strengthen cooperation with partners including regional partners, financial institutions, enterprises in the same industry and science and research institutions, complement advantages and share benefits, improve the environment for sustainable development and strive for sustainable development together. The Corporation has established a competitive remuneration system, punctually and sufficiently paid “Five social insurance payment rate of Insurances and One Fund” for employees with a social insurance payment rate of 100% for full-time employees. It has also established the enterprise annuity system, completed a multi-pillar pension system and enhanced the treatment level for retired staff; strictly abided by the State regulations regarding vacations and guaranteed the 100% (II) Valuing Employees and Strengthening Development Impetus vacation rights of its employees. for full-time employees. It has attached importance to increasing employee satisfaction and published and implemented the Guidance Talent is the driving force of promoting enterprise innovation and realizing sustainable development. The Corporation adheres to the Opinions on Improving Satisfaction of Employee Selection and Placement in 2010. Meanwhile, the Corporation philosophy that talent is the primary corporate resource, promotes scientific and people-oriented management, positively safeguards the has positively established a smooth employee complaint channel, seriously investigated and verified employee rights and interests of employees, commits to enhancing their quality, provides equal development opportunities and comprehensive complaints and properly solved them. development space for employees, endeavors to construct harmonious labor relations and realizes common growth between enterprise and employees. It has focused on employees’ health, enriched the entertainment available to them, safeguarded rights and interests of female employees, positively encouraged staff to develop cultural and sporting activities which benefit their body and mind as well as advocating the development of balance between themselves, their families and careers. 66 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 67 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future Case: Hunan Nonferrous Yaogangxian Mining Co., Ltd. cares about the rights and interests of female employees China Minmetals is granted the 51job Best Human Case Case In 2010, the trade union of Hunan Nonferrous Yaogangxian Mining Co., Ltd. tailored to female employees and national laws and Resources Model Enterprise of China in 2010 regulations, signed a special collective contract regarding protection of rights and interests of female employees, by which the Four Periods scheme for female employees has been basically put into practice and rights and interests in terms of relaxation, vacation and maternity of female employees have been basically guaranteed. By the end of March, 2011, the company had also paid for the gynecological examination of more than 1,200 female employees and their family, and established files for 15 single-parent female employees, which had effectively prevented the occurrence of serious gynecological diseases and improved the fitness of female employees. China Minmetals is granted the Eighth ChinaHR Best Employer for Chinese Graduates in 2010 2. Promoting Employee Development The Corporation has positively promoted the strategy of building a competitive enterprise through talents, adhered to the principle of Employee Training ACHIEVING SUSTAINABLE HARMONY AND WIN-WIN RESULTS “Valuing Both Ability and Integrity and Putting Integrity First” and the concept of “Matching People with Posts, Exerting Talents for Suitable In order to enhance the quality of employee training, in 2010, the Corporation continued to improve the hierarchical management training Posts and Making the Best Use of Talents”, and established the talent evaluation criteria of “Considering Integrity First and Giving Concurrent model, set up the multiple training management system with highly-efficient operation, positively carried out professional training, and Consideration to Knowledge, Ability, Vision and Performance”, continuously optimized the recruitment, cultivation, evaluation and gradually established the lifelong career training system for all staff. promotion mechanism of talents, provided space for diversified development of employees, created a high-quality talent team, facilitating the sustainable development of enterprise. In 2010, the Corporation invested RMB27.484 million on training with 98,184 people trained in total, among which 12,163 are managerial staff. The headquarters of the Corporation has organized and implemented all kinds of training on 30 sessions, including middle and senior “I deeply believe the management training, general knowledge and skills training for employees, training for junior management from functional departments Case: “Man of Mine Prospecting” and National Model Worker — Wang Jionghui principle that fortune and the like, selected students to participate in 14 themed training courses organized by superior units and directed on 34 sessions of expert Case Mr. Wang Jionghui is now the Assistant President of China Minmetals Corporation, the General always appreciates a knowledge and skills training for all functional departments of the Corporation. There were 3,842 attendances person-times of training in Manager of the Mineral Resources Department, and the General Manager of Minmetals Exploration hardworking person, total, and 94,342 person-times of training for personnel from affiliated enterprises of the Corporation in total. and Development Co., Ltd. therefore I am working hard. With the strong Since 2005, Wang Jionghui has innovated the resource achievement model and led his team to start 98,184 sentiments of two 3000 Training costs of Minmetals 2,748.40 100,000 Training persontimes of from scratch by which more than ten projects have been successively prospected on sites in Qinghai, generations of (RMB 10,000) Minmetals (persontimes) 90,000 Gansu, Anhui, Henan, Guangdong and alike, and breakthroughs have been achieved in fields of geologists, I consider 2500 80,000 non-ferrous metals, ferrous metals, rare and precious metals with the potential economic value of geological prospecting a passion rooted deeply 1,926.12 70,000 prospected resources reaching over RMB100 billion, greatly promoting the strategic transformation 2000 in my heart. Due to 60,000 54,871 from trade to industry for China Minmetals and making it become the vanguard of central SOEs in rapid changes, I have to 1,460.57 1500 50,000 the prospecting industry. The Nihe Model and Songxian Model created by him have been listed as ask myself to the new approach to geological prospecting in the new era, being promoted as exemplary in the continuously innovate 900.77 40,000 1000 30,000 whole nation and advancing the transformation of the development style of the domestic ideas and to think about 685.88 how to develop 20,000 14,542 15,670 17,608 geological prospecting industry. 500 geological work in the 10,000 Geological prospecting is an arduous and lonely industry, but Wang Jionghui has carried forward the new era. I will strive to three honors spirit, that is, he is honored by make achievements 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 dedication to the geological cause, honored by and not to let the elder generation down, and arduous efforts, and honored by prospecting to repay the company and by achieving meritorious work. He has had a that allowed me to strong sense of responsibility and mission Case: “Six Thinking Hats” Thinking Exercises develop. If I can exert Case regarding this undertaking. Wang Jionghui, myself in the In 2010, the Corporation introduced the administrative concept and based on his solid professional knowledge, strict development of the application method of the “Six Thinking Hats” for key employees, by which it working attitude and Iron Man spirit of being mining industry through enabled trainees to rapidly understand and accept this methodology in the my own efforts, it will be course of solving problems, thus strengthening interactivity and improving first, has inspired the rapid growth of the the greatest honor in prospecting team of the company. In 2010, he my life!” working efficiency. has been conferred the honorable title of — Wang Jionghui National Model Worker by the State Council. Case: The Employee Independent Training Has Been Carried forward by the Minmetals Hanxing Mining Co., Ltd. Minmetals Hanxing Mining Co., Ltd. has actively promoted the idea that employees can self-teach in the form of correspondence Employee Recruitment course and participating in self-taught examinations, taking the path of self-teaching for personal development. In the whole year, there were 166 employees who achieved a record of formal schooling and academic degrees approved by the State through the In 2010, the Corporation positively responded to the society by providing employment opportunities, based on the recruitment concept of method of independent training, by which the Corporation has increased the study initiative of employees, further strengthened professionalism, high-efficiency and humanity, explored recruitment channels and vigorously introduced talents, with 1,009 newly recruited the knowledge upgrade of professional technicians and comprehensively enhanced the quality of professional technicians. employees in the year. By these means it has optimized the talent team structure of the Corporation, laid a solid foundation regarding competitiveness of the company and made the contribution to easing the employment pressure of the society. 68 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 69 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future Employee Professional Development Case: Employees’ Loyalty in MMG The Corporation has positively built up the internal platform for talent mobility and promoted reasonable mobility of the management and Case The Corporation has successfully purchased the Australian OZ Minerals and set up MMG Company. employees. In 2010, it drafted the Administrative Measures on Open Recruitment of Internal Talents of the Corporation (Draft for Discussion), After the establishment of the new company, it has seriously realized its promises made upon the initiated internal open recruitment, and put great efforts into creating an internal talent market, providing rich professional development acquisition, used the original OZ management team, retained 5,500 original employees and also comprehensively performed the social responsibility of the enterprise for those overseas employees. opportunities for employees and promoting the development of employees’ careers. Within one mining area of MMG Company in Tasmania, the average age of workers has reached 45 years old, and some mineworkers have been continuously working for over 40 years in the mining In 2010, the Corporation continued to carry out the evaluation work on professional technicians, and there were a total of 385 people who area, while three generations of the family of some mineworkers are working in the mining area passed the professional technological title evaluation. concurrently, making it a pretty harmonious mining area. The mineworker has extremely high loyalty for the mining operation, because the management of the mining operation considers and solves problems in the interests of mineworkers, making them value the mining area as part of their own family from the bottom of their hearts. Case: Zhuzhou Smelter Group Co., Ltd. Allocated Personnel for Circular Economic Project Scientifically Case The company has presented people-oriented care in the details of its operation. For instance, in order In 2010, human resources for the circular economic project have been allocated in accordance with the thought of New Project, to guarantee safety of employees, the company, according to suggestions from them, has promptly New Concept and New Mechanism by Zhuzhou Smelter Group Co., Ltd.. The company has adhered to the general principle of replaced the single removable hook of the lanyard on the chest plate with a two-hook system. ACHIEVING SUSTAINABLE HARMONY AND WIN-WIN RESULTS increasing efficiency without increasing employees, and efficiently used existing stock; set up a scientific qualification system for To bring sufficient sense of safety through care in the details for employees so as to produce the sense selecting technical personnel required by the cyclic economy; selected excellent talents for special training; and established the of belonging to a family has become the key content of performing the social responsibility of the post dynamic exchange mechanism and salary stimulation plan. Aforementioned measures have promoted the internal mobility enterprise in the interim period of MMG and also achieved the loyalty of employees to the enterprise. and optimized allocation of talents, providing a better development platform for employees. Case: Employee’s Localization of the Indian Project of Ershisanye The Corporation has adhered to the principle of “specifying salary according to post, awarding remuneration based on performance” and Construction Group Co., Ltd. put efforts in optimizing the incentive and restraint mechanism. In 2010, the Corporation initiated the Corporation Salary System Planning to In 2010, during the construction process of the Indian establish work, re-planned the direction and goal of salary management by considering the new development environment of the Comprehensive Steel Plant Project Department of Ershisanye Corporation and according to the strategy of the Corporation, and increased salary management capability. It comprehensively planned the Construction Group Co., Ltd., it has positively trained local performance management work for the whole staff focusing on enhancing and optimizing the comprehensive appraisal and evaluation of workers. In this project, it has provided around 1,000 leading groups and leaders of the secondary unit directly under the Corporation, and completed the initial establishment of a performance employment posts for the local people in the whole year, and trained around 2,000 local workers, greatly increasing their management system for the staff. technical skills and also their salary. Case Huangshaping Branch Office of Hunan Nonferrous Metals Holding Group Co., Ltd. conducts performance appraisal according to employees professional development direction Huangshaping Branch Office of Hunan Nonferrous Metals Holding Group Co., Ltd. has comprehensively understood employees’ basic skills, and helped them to determine their professional development direction. On the basis of reaching agreement by both 4. Helping Needy Employees parties, employees have developed according to the professional direction and path provided by the enterprise, and the company has made performance appraisal of employees based on their professional development. The Corporation has attached great importance to helping needy employees, put great efforts into initiating heart-warming activities, This measure has helped employees design a scientific and reasonable professional development path, encouraged them to adhered to going into the grassroots, strengthened communication, and rapidly grasped the thinking and dynamics of the lives of needy participate in enterprise management, and made the better use of their potentials. employees so as to help them out. In 2010, the headquarters of the Corporation offered RMB86,370 of heart-warming subsidies and relief payment. The leaders of the Corporation have kept visiting and caring the needy staff. They have also set up needy-employee files and implemented dynamic management, in order to better perform supporting work accordingly. 3. Adhering to Employee Localization Case: Establishing the Help Center for Needy Employees The Corporation has attached great importance to the localization of overseas employees, positively helped the total number of Case Hunan Shizhuyuan Nonferrous Metals Co., Ltd. has established the help center for needy overseas employees of them to enhance their overall quality and competencies, and strengthened their sense of pride and sense of the Corporation employees, through which it has built up an important platform for helping needy employees belonging and identification. By the end of 2010, the total number of overseas employees of the Corporation was and created an important means for safeguarding the interests of staff and achieving actual 6,271, among which there were 101 dispatched from China and 6,170 employees from Hong Kong, Macao, Taiwan as well as other foreign countries and regions. 6,271 benefits for needy staff. In 2010, the help center collected RMB167,000 of funds and provided RMB87,000 for 24 seriously ill patients who suffered cancer, uremia and the like. In addition, the company has appropriated RMB200,000 from the welfare funds to use as employees from Hong general subsidies for needy employees. In 2010, there were 114 people subsidized with a Kong, Macao, Taiwan as well as other foreign subsidy of RMB169,000; during autumn, the company granted RMB27,000 of schooling subsidy countries and regions to 24 students. 6,170 70 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 71 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future 5. Building Up Enterprise Culture Units at all levels of the Corporation have carried out rich and varied activities so as to enrich the spiritual life of employees, promote employees’ identification with enterprise culture and strengthen the cohesiveness of the enterprise. The enterprise culture of China Minmetals is an inclusive and harmonious culture and also a responsible culture. The Corporation has considered the enterprise spirit of Unity, Practicality, High-efficiency and Dedication as its core, promoted enterprise culture construction and integration, stimulated creativity and cohesiveness of employees, and driven the sustainable development of enterprise through advanced culture. The Corporation has put emphasis on culture integration with newly merged enterprises and used a melting culture integration model by which both parties can mutually permeate in terms of culture to effect adjustment at different levels so as to increase the cohesiveness and competitiveness of the enterprise. Case: The Course of Integration between China Minmetals and MMG Company Case After purchasing OZ Minerals (establishing MMG Company), China Minmetals has started ACHIEVING SUSTAINABLE HARMONY AND WIN-WIN RESULTS positive discussions and integration with MMG regarding enterprise culture, increased identification, and used the integrating method of highly efficient integration and complete coordination. In the process of integration, the Corporation has used the method of Empowerment And Authorization for MMG, and continued supporting the work done by Andrew Michelmore, CEO of MMG Company, and his management team so as to bring their capabilities into full play. MMG has also adhered to the attitude of willingness to understand and endeavor to recognize and implement shareholders’ requirements, making the integration of both parties smoother. Moreover, MMG has specially invited teachers from the Confucius Institute at the University of Melbourne to teach Chinese culture in the company. Although 1. Zhou Zhongshu, President, Cordially Meeting Representatives of Performers at 2 1 the New-year Concert 2010 it is far from possible for employees to gain an understanding of China and Chinese culture within half a day, MMG has used this to deliver the concept of trying to understand and accepting new shareholders. 3 2. New-year Concert of the Corporation 2010 In the process of integration with MMG, China Minmetals has inculcated the concept of responsible communication, such as timely information 3. Badminton Match at the Staff Sports Meeting of Zhuzhou Smelter Group Co., Ltd. 4 disclosure of important affairs of the company on the company website of MMG.; established the dialogue mechanism with employees at basic 4. The Trade Union of the Corporation Conducting Celebration Activities to Mark levels and alleviated doubts for employees through company transformation. the Corporation’s 60th Anniversary The Corporation has carried out several exchange activities with MMG and strengthened mutual understanding and learning. MMG Company has invited Chinese employees of the Corporation to participate in all kinds of training and discussion activities annually organized in Australia, whereas the Corporation has on a non-regular basis dispatched domestic young people with management potential to serve half-year management internships in Australia. Since 2010, China Minmetals has newly set up a talent exchange project with the Australian arm. These series of joint efforts have strengthened mutual trust between China Minmetals and MMG, increased information symmetry and communication efficiency, promoted cultural (III) Serving Customers and Broadening Development Space integration, and laid a solid foundation for realization of personnel integration, business integration and strategy integration. During operation, the Corporation has accepted the mission of Providing Quality Service and Striving for Excellence, made integrity the bond between company and customer and the foundation stone for the development of the company, and continuously strengthened global marketing services by innovating service models, driving transformation of business models, enhancing Case: Enterprise Culture Integration between the Corporation and former Hanxing Metallurgical Mine Administration(Hanxing Bureau for Short) comprehensive service capability and endeavoring to provide high-quality services for customers. Case After restructuring of the Corporation and the former Hanxing Metallurgical Mine Administration, the Corporation has used the permeated model to promote integration of enterprise culture. The first aspect was to set up the common vision and goals, based on which Hanxing Bureau has established its own long-term development goal under the strategic vision of the Corporation. The second was to be people oriented, based on Case: Being Close to End-users and Developing Processing and Distribution Business which the Corporation has focused on solving the problems of greatest concern to cadres and staff; increased investment and support to help Case The strategic business unit of ferrous circulation, based on the strategic guide of Considering Customers as the Center and Hanxing Bureau to break the confines of Hebei and move towards the international arena. The third was to mutually respect each other’s original Emphasizing Supply Chain Management, has made comprehensive arrangements in key ports and key cities in inland cultures, respect each other, seek common ground while reserving differences, and realize cultural concord. The fourth was to communicate feelings areas, set up storage processing centers, been convenient for customers and promoted development of business. To date, between people, based on which the Corporation has provided opportunities to participate in all kinds of meetings, training courses and activities for Hanxing Bureau, publicized important news of Hanxing Bureau inside the Corporation, and reported and recommended the experience of the steel company has 5 steel processing and distribution centers, and this model has become one of the most important Hanxing Bureau and excellent talents to the top management. orientations for the development of ferrous circulation business in the future. With the joint efforts made by the Corporation and Hanxing Bureau, the cultural integration has been driven by people’s integration, by which it has promoted coordination in work and strengthened employees’ identification, sense of belonging and cohesiveness with the Corporation. 72 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 73 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future 1. Improving the Global Service Network (IV) Responsible Procurement Extending Development Responsibility The Corporation has positively carried out acquisition of overseas marketing network, set up and completed the global marketing In 2010, the Corporation has positively carried out responsibility procurement and advanced the implementation of the (Trial) system and promoted the integrated operation of circulation business globally. Administrative Measures of the Corporation for Customers and Suppliers. China Minmetals Responsible Procurement Policies Case: Accelerating the Global Service Network Arrangement Case The Corporation, through acquisition of overseas marketing network, has advanced the global operation of ferrous Supplier evaluation: To evaluate suppliers once a year and divide them into the four levels of excellent, good, average and bad, and circulation business and established the global marketing system. Europe, North America and South East Asian regions to penalize the suppliers who used unfair means to disturb the market and interfere with the normal operation of the bidding have composed the main areas for M&A of overseas marketing networks and processing centers. work. Supplier evaluation content: legal qualification of supplier; capability, experience and reputation in providing products on schedule and quality guarantee; operation conditions for products in the enterprise; price, delivery time, after-sales service and technical support capability; records in terms of safety, health and environment in the process of product production by suppliers. 2. Innovating the Customer Service Mode ACHIEVING SUSTAINABLE HARMONY AND WIN-WIN RESULTS Supplier’s rights and interests: The supplier has the right to report to the Corporation in signed written form regarding bid The Corporation has adhered to the win-win operating concept, continued innovating service modes in the process of operation evaluation results and opposition in the process of contract implementation. The Corporation carries out classified registration for and established, on the basis of mutual benefit, a long-term, solid and cooperative partnership with customers. each visit made by suppliers and ensures that no records and data will be lost. Supplier communication: To regularly convene supplier meetings and promptly communicate suppliers’ existing problems. Case: Zhuzhou Smelter Group Co., Ltd., according to problems submitted by new customers regarding time-consuming Case unloading when entering the plant, has set up the One-stop Service Station to compress time for each link so as to enable raw materials to be unloaded after entering the plant with an evident rapid inspection speed, by which customers could Case: Huangshaping Mining Co., Ltd. of Hunan Nonferrous Metals Corporation Limited requests that suppliers be equipped appreciate the integrity and efficiency of Zhuzhou Smelter. With the high-quality service and accelerated settlement and Case with related safety, environmental protection and professional qualifications and pass certification by the related industrial payment speed, it has retained new customers through their satisfaction and gained customers by reputation and results. inspection institution at the State level. The company, as the first brand for zinc in China, has achieved a customer loyalty rate of 90%. 3. Increasing Customer Satisfaction (V) Improving the Development Environment through Cooperation with Stakeholders The Corporation and all affiliated companies have comprehensively launched customer satisfaction surveys to find out existing problems by surveying and understanding customers’ requirements so as to promptly correct these problems and better serve China Minmetals has been dedicated to International customers. strengthening exchange with the host Cooperation government and related institutions regarding operation and created a Case: Minmetals Nonferrous Metals Co., Ltd. friendly external environment for the Case Launching Customer Satisfaction Survey internationalization process of the Group. In 2010, China Minmetals Nonferrous Metals Co., Ltd. It has positively participated in regional Cooperation has distributed the satisfaction survey questionnaires between Regional cooperation and driven regional Cooperation Bank and to 185 customers, with 176 customers returning economic development; innovated Enterprise Common feedback and a feedback rate of 95.41%. Analysis of cooperation between bank and Development the survey indicated that proportions of satisfaction enterprise so as to provide fund with and relative satisfaction on service (responsiveness to guarantee for the operation of the Stakeholders customers’ requirements), product quality and Corporation; played the role of industrial delivery (timeliness and accuracy of delivery) were leadership to drive industrial 98.86%, 98.29% and 98.86% respectively with an development; and realized common overall satisfaction of 98.67%. development between enterprise and stakeholders. Alliance of Cooperation the Industry, Pictured is the customer satisfaction survey table of Minmetals Nonferrous in the Same Academia Metals Co., Ltd. Industry and Research Institutes 74 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 75 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future 1. Exploring International Cooperation Case: Zhou Zhongshu, the president, leading the delegation to visit Chile China Minmetals is one of earliest enterprises launching the international business and implementing the “Going Case the Corporation had set In December 2010, Zhou Zhongshu, the president of the Corporation, led the delegation to visit Chile and presented at 22 up Global” strategy. The Corporation, from the viewpoint of strategy, has comprehensively launched international related activities regarding the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations between China and Chile. During the Chile visit, cooperation and exchange, put great efforts into exploring international markets, increasing the degree and level companies overseas Zhou Zhongshu attended and addressed the opening ceremony of the seminar on Chile And China, 40 Years, which 45 of foreign cooperation, and providing strong support for the strategic transformation of enterprise and in was held by Sino-Latin American Research Center, and hosted the 4th anniversary of the Sino-Chilean Entrepreneur international business. By the end of 2010, the Corporation had set up 45 companies overseas in 22 countries and Committee together with Mr. Silva, the president of the Chilean section of the Committee. In addition, Mr. Zhou met Mr. countries and regions regions, launching international trade, production and operation activities. Hernández, the new president of Corporacion Nacional del Cobre de Chile. Case: China Minmetals Signing the Annual Electrolytic Coppers Procurement Contract with Poland Copper Corporation Case In November 2010, Zhou Zhongshu, the president, led the delegation of China Minmetals Corporation accompanied by Jia Qinglin, the Chairman of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, in a visit to Poland. ACHIEVING SUSTAINABLE HARMONY AND WIN-WIN RESULTS During Poland visit, Mr. Zhou, the president, signed the 2011 electrolytic coppers annual procurement contract with Mr. Vader, the chairman of Poland Copper Corporation, with Jia Qinglin, the President, and Pawlak, the Vice Premier and Minister of Economic Affairs presenting at the signing ceremony. 1. Zhou Zhongshu, the president, kindly visiting Pinera, the President of Chile 1 2. Zhou Zhongshu, the president, addressing the opening ceremony of the seminar on Chile And China, 40 Years 2 3 3. Zhou Zhongshu, the president, meeting Mr. Hernández, the president of Corporacion Nacional del Cobre de Chile 4 5 4. Certificate of Donation issued by Teleton Foundation of Chile Zhou Zhongshu, the president, signing with Vader, the chairman of Poland Copper Corporation, with the attendance of 5. Special letter of thanks addressed to President Zhou Zhongshu from Teleton Foundation of Chile leaders of both countries The Corporation has donated 25 million Chilean pesos to the Teleton Foundation in Chile to support the Foundation in its efforts of rehabilitating the disabled children. Ximena Casarejos, President of the Teleton Foundation, expressed appreciation for China Zhou Zhongshu, the president addressed the Minmetals’ kind donations breakfast meeting at which Sino-Polish in his special letter of entrepreneurs were in attendance. thanks. The Corporation’s participation in this public welfare activity helped China Minmetals signing annual procurement contract for USD400 build up a good image of million electrolytic coppers with Poland Copper Corporation China’s enterprise in Chile. 76 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 77 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future 3. Innovating Cooperation between Bank and Enterprise Case: Participating in China Mining Congress & Expo The Corporation has positively carried out multi-level dialogue and cooperation with all large banks, explored channels for overseas Case On 16 November, 2010, Zhou Zhongshu, the president of the Corporation presented at China Mining Congress & Expo 2010, operation of the Corporation, guaranteed capital security, and prevented and controlled financial risks. It has strengthened communication spoke on the theme of Grasping the Trend, Focusing on the Future and coordination with local banks, successfully completed credit and appraisal work, promptly grasped national financial policies and and Advancing the Sustained and Stable Development of Mining related information, achieved an improved exterior financing environment and preferential financing policy, and decreased the financing Industry, analyzed the current global situation and economics and cost and risks of the company, realizing the integrity, harmony and win-win situation between bank and enterprise. In 2010, the Corporation the influence on the mining industry as well as opportunities and achieved positive progress in national unified credit work with an overall financing scale of RMB172.8 billion, of which there was RMB95 challenges facing the mining industry, clearly stated three opinions billion for the unified credit scale within Beijing, effectively supporting smooth and rapid development in the Corporation’s business. on promoting the sustained and stable development of the mining industry, and appealed to all parties to accurately grasp the industrial trend, focus on long-term interests and cooperation to promote the sustained and stable development of the mining Case: Signing the Developmental Finance Overall Planning and Cooperation Agreement with China Development Bank Case industry. On 31 August, 2010, the Corporation signed the Special Planning on Overseas Resources Development of China Minmetals Corporation Supported by Overseas Development Finance with China Development Bank Corporation. Both parties would launch ACHIEVING SUSTAINABLE HARMONY AND WIN-WIN RESULTS the overall cooperation from the source of planning to set up a long-term, stable and deep strategic partnership on the basis of mutual benefit and common development. This agreement has strongly supported the resource development business of the Corporation, provided strong capital support 2. Strengthening Regional Cooperation and solid credit guarantee in advancing the outward facing strategy for enterprises and implementing international business and development, maximally guaranteed capital security from the source, and prevented and controlled financial risks. The Corporation has positively participated in domestic regional economic cooperation, optimized industrial layout, driven local economic development and promoted transformation of economic development paths. Case: The Corporation Strengthening Strategic Cooperation with Qinghai Province “Currently, China Case Minmetals is facing In June 2010, Zhou Zhongshu, the president of China Minmetals, and his accompany two strategic participated in “2010 China Qinghai Province Green Economic Investment Trade Fair”, and development presented at the talkfest on cooperation between Qinghai provincial people’s government opportunities of and central enterprises and project cooperation signing ceremony. which one is the The Corporation has invested RMB1.4 billion in Qinghai Province until now, and provided great development in western regions and support in terms of introducing advanced foreign technologies, building a new socialist the other is that the countryside and performing Yushu earthquake rescue and reconstruction work. At this Qinghai central government fair, China Minmetals signed three has appointed projects with the Qinghai People’s Minmetals especially to help Qinghai” Government with the investment of RMB23 billion, assisted in — Zhou Zhongshu, implementation of an ecology-oriented the president of Case: Enhancing Credit Work by Cooperation between strategy for Qinghai Province, and China Minmetals Case Bank and Enterprise expanded its contribution to promoting The Corporation has successively convened the talkfest local economic development through on cooperation between bank and enterprise with China tangible action. Merchants Bank and the Agricultural Bank of China and detailed the cooperation between headquarters. The affiliated units and operation-handling branches have jointly discussed the future cooperative issues of both parties and completed wider integration in points and spheres regarding business cooperation between the Corporation and banks. Case: Driving the Development of the Nonferrous Industry in Hunan Province Case In 2010, the Corporation signed a series of strategic cooperation agreements with four municipal governments including Loudi City, Zhuzhou City, Hengyang City and Chenzhou City, aimed at promoting the intensive, large-scale, highly efficient and sustained development of the nonferrous industry in Hunan Province. Meanwhile, the Corporation has, according to relevant policies of the State, carried out comprehensive treatment of Xiangjiang River through cooperation with Hunan so as to improve the local ecological environment. 78 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 79 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future 4. Promoting Cooperation within the Industry 5. Building up the Alliance of Industry, Academia and Research Institutes The Corporation, as one of the Fortune Global 500 enterprises in the world, has continued deepening the strategic cooperation with China Minmetals has positively explored the cooperative model of industry, academia and research institutes, fully utilized the enterprises at home and abroad in the same industry, expanded enterprise development space, and promoted industrial development. It comprehensive advantages in terms of mining resources development, driven to establish the resources development and technological has positively launched exchanges with international and domestic counterparts, vigorously advocated and created a healthy industrial innovation alliance mainly based on cooperation among the enterprise, the industry, academia and research institutes, and continuously development environment, endeavored to win discourse power for China Minmetals and even for the State, and grasped the initiative in enhanced the self-innovation and overall competitiveness of the enterprise. international competition. The Corporation has also had important influence in promoting exchange and cooperation between China’s enterprises and related enterprises from other countries. Case: Changsha Research Institute of Mining and Metallurgy Co., Ltd. Establishing Case the Alliance of Industry, Academia and Research Institutes In 2010, Changsha Research Institute of Mining And Metallurgy Co., Ltd. signed the Case Case strategic cooperation framework agreement with Jiuquan Iron & Steel (Group) Co., Ltd. and Chongqing Iron & Steel (Group) Co., Ltd., jointly promoting the multi-level and all-round cooperation in multiple fields including the development of mining resources, mining and explosives for civil use and the like. ACHIEVING SUSTAINABLE HARMONY AND WIN-WIN RESULTS Case: Cooperation with Industry, Academia and Research Institutes by Minmetals Luzhong Mining Co., Ltd. Increasing Economic Benefits In 2010, cooperative activities of industry, academia and research institutes in multiple aspects have been carried out between Minmetals Luzhong Mining Co., Ltd., and universities and scientific research institutes, including Northeastern University, University of Science & Technology Beijing, Beijing General Research Institute of Mining & Metallurgy, China Jingye Engineering Corporation Limited and the like. These have included the research on fill mining technology in the northern part of the Xiaoguanzhuang iron ore deposit, the research on rapid spraying and brushing Case: Setting Up Tianjin Mining Exchange Case: In September 2010, the Corporation successfully held support technology of thin polymer on soft surrounding rock, the research on ore selection technology of comprehensive recycling for copper and With Minmetals Exploration and Devepolment Co., the seventh Spring of Minmetals information seminar with cobalt using magnetic concentrate, the research on the 370-meter dam building methods and technologies for Yujiaquan tailings pool and so on. Ltd. as the largest shareholder, Tianjin Mining the theme of IT Value, in which Shi Zhiping, the Director of These technologies have been comprehensively applied and effectively decreased minnd increased metal recovery rate, adding an expected direct Exchange has been set up by uniting related the Information Center of the State-owned Assets economic benefit of over RMB30 million. enterprises with joint funds, and is the mining Supervision and Administration Commission of the State exchange institution appointed by the Bureau of Council, and related leaders of the National Informatization Land Resources and Housing Management of Tianjin Evaluation Center attended and addressed the seminar, and Municipal Government. The establishment of this executive leaders from infomationization departments of (VI) Compliant Operation Preventing Development Risks exchange will help realize the unity of mining rights nearly 30 central enterprises also attended the seminar. In sale and transfer markets, the synchronization of the this seminar, the Corporation vigorously promoted the The Corporation has strictly requested affiliated enterprises to operate legally and compliantly, positively advanced anti-corruption system internal market and network market, and the overall enhancement of the infomationization level of construction, intensified auditing and monitoring work, decreased development risks and guaranteed the normal operation of the company. integration of mining rights and capital market, and central enterprises, practiced the social responsibility of to promote the establishment of a unified, China Minmetals and built up a good enterprise image. developing, competing and orderly mining right In addition, the Corporation has positively launched 1. Adhering to Legal and Compliant Operation transaction system at the State level. infomationization construction assistance for central China Minmetals has participated in the initiation enterprises, dispatched excellent talents specializing in The Corporation has set up the legal operating mechanism reviewed all kinds of major contracts for affiliated enterprises, greatly and establishment of this exchange, promoted infomationization to take a temporary post in NAM KWONG described as being “Based on the Principle of Central and Unified enhancing the standardization level of contract application and development of China’s mining right market, Group, focused on launching three systems construction Management, Supported by Authorized Management, Focused on review. It has provided highly efficient and professional legal increased effective utilization of resources and also and three platforms construction, and guided Prevention in Advance, Supported by Relief after the Event, and consultation and services in major investment activities, participated strengthened communication with all mining infomationization construction for business segments, Attaching Equal Importance to Management and Services”, in review of over 130 investment projects, involving fields including enterprises. making important contributions to the increased improved basic legal systems, and provided strong legal security equity acquisition, asset acquisition, investment in establishment, infomationization of NAM KWONG Group. for all business development activities. In 2010, it has emphasized merger and acquisition with capital of over RMB15 billion, by which the improvement of the legal classification management system it has effectively decreased legal risks for major investment projects. construction, advanced the pilot work for the independent legal institution of affiliated enterprises; focused on the self-handling and It has positively launched publicity concerning the law. In 2010, it inspected-handling of cases and stressed the application and implemented 19 publicity activities in total at the Corporation level Case: The Corporation Contracting the Building of Rail Beam Project of the Steel Plant in Chelyabinskaya of Russia recording management of major legal cases. It has promulgated and organized 4 larger-scale business trainings, providing business Case On 18 May, 2010, the send-off ceremony was held in the Minmetals mansion for the rail beam project of the steel plant in the emergency response plan management system for legal exchange and promotion opportunities for legal staff of the Chelyabinskaya of Minmetals Engineering Co., Ltd., and Zhou Zhongshu, the president of the Corporation, presented at the disputes and took a leading role in successfully settling several Corporation system and building up the sharing platform for legal ceremony and conferred the company flag to the project team. litigation cases, strengthened internal supervision and guidance, affairs management and legal business experience. A total of This project is the first hundred-meter heavy rail production line project under construction in Russia and the largest ferrous and maximally safeguarded interests of the company. The 120,000 employees, from the Corporation and all sub-companies, metallurgical engineering contract currently held by a Chinese enterprise in Russia and the region of the Commonwealth of Corporation has vigorously increased the contract management attended the law popularization events. Moreover, the Corporation Independent States, which has pivotal significance for the development of Russian railway. level, enhanced contract information management system has solidly implemented the acceptance work of the Fifth Five-year upgrading and reform; strengthened contract check and training, Plan Period law popularization effort by SASAC and put law controlled contract risk, and revised 178 standard contracts and popularization into effect. 80 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 81 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future Statistics on Compliant Operating Work of the Corporation in 2010 3. Driving the Anti-Corruption Effort Index Unit In 2010 The Corporation adheres to a policy of “seeking both temporary and permanent solutions, aiming at comprehensive control, taking both punitive and preventive measures, and focusing on prevention”, and has Fine paid for violating laws RMB10,000 0 energetically strengthened anti-corruption and anti-business-bribery work, providing a sound guarantee for the transformation and sustainable development of the Corporation. Number of occasions launching law popularization and publicity events Times 19 In 2010, the Corporation positively improved the system construction of corruption punishment and prevention Number of occasions providing legal support on projects Person-time 2,268 and integrated it into the operating management system of the company, revised regulations and systems such as the Detailed Implementation Rules on Business Ethics for Executives of the Corporation, drafted the Implementing Measures of China Minmetals Corporation on Further Advancing the “Three Major Decisions and Use of One Major Case: In 2010, the Legal Department of China Minmetals Was Selected as the Best Legal Institution in Asia by ALB Fund” Decision Making System, used A Window on Anti-corruption and the information platform of its prevention Case (Asian Legal Business magazine), the Famous Law Magazine. and punishment system on the Corporation’s intranet, and strengthened education on anti-corruption and upholding integrity, including workshops on typical cases. ACHIEVING SUSTAINABLE HARMONY AND WIN-WIN RESULTS The Corporation has widely launched efficiency inspection, and conducted efficiency supervisions over nearly 80 put forth 2. Strengthening Internal Audit and Control enterprises, put forth 25 supervisory suggestions and revised 3 rules, leading to the saving of over RMB50.08 million 25 of funds; worked out inspection plans in respect of the “Special Treatment for Prominent Problems in Engineering supervisory The Corporation has prevented enterprise risks through strengthening internal control, audit and supervision; raised the enterprise and Construction Fields” and the “Three Major Decisions and Use of One Major Fund”, randomly checked 15 suggestions management level through propelling audit implementation and rectification; promoted the deep coordination and management subordinate enterprises, focused on the inspection and evaluation on the decision-making mechanism integration of audit work through exchange and training of the audit system; made use of the coordination and linkage effect and establishment and operating procedures of the “Three Major Decisions and Use of One Major Fund”. save RMB increased the utility of audit results. In 2010, with the target of addressing various risks, it utilized audit functions in prevention of, disclosure of There were It has strengthened the inspection work. In 2010, it made 8 inspection reports and situation reflection reports, put forward 4 suggestions for inspection, organized and convened the South China region inspected enterprises 50.08 million of funds and resistance to risks based on internal control and audit, encouraged enterprises to strengthen management and added value, strengthened economic responsibility audit work, and implemented audit 300 audit projects for the meeting, and analyzed related cases occurring in recent years in consideration of actual conditions of inspected enterprises, further strengthening the sense of responsibility of inspectors and promoting the legal operation of especially on newly merged and acquired enterprises and construction projects. There were 300 audit inspected enterprises. Corporation in the projects for the Corporation (including affiliated enterprises) in the whole year, and 1,480 audit suggestions whole year proposed, with RMB150 billion being the total value of assets audited. It has strengthened audit reform, emphasized the dynamic tracking and inspection of reform conditions of audited enterprises, urged Statistics on Anti-Corruption in the Corporation in 2010 enterprises to seriously reform, and positively encouraged the audit achievements to transfer into 1,480 Index Unit In 2010 management achievements. Meanwhile, the audited enterprises have improved operation and audit suggestions proposed management by taking the opportunity of implementing the audit results. Training events on anti-corruption Times 30 In consideration of the current situation of the Corporation’s construction projects increasing year by year, it has stipulated and Personnel attending training on anti-corruption Person-time 3,762 published related systems and measures on the settlement audit for construction cost and the final accounts audit for completion of project, by which it has achieved the function of controlling project costs and strengthening project management. Number of enterprises covered by efficiency supervision Case 80 Number of cases of petitions, visits and complaints received Case 35 Number for cases of petitions, visits and complaints handled Case 35 Conclusion rate % 100% ( Note: The Corporation has seriously organized and launched the reception, mediation and disposition work for petitions and visits, received 46 batches of petitions and visits in the whole year, and effectively handled and resolved all types of conflicts and disputes. ) The Internal Auditing Work Training and Experience Exchange Meeting of the Corporation in 2010 The Corporation has also positively advanced the audit system and team building, strengthened the communication and exchange concerning the work done by the auditing department and staff at all levels, especially the newly-added auditing department and staff of the enterprise, propelled internal control and auditing system publicity, organized and convened the internal auditing work training and experience exchange meeting, and further enhanced the level of auditing work and the quality of auditors. 82 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 83 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 President of China Minmetals Zhou Zhongshu together with representatives of the Australian Aboriginal CO-CREATING A SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL COMMUNITY Promoting Community Development through Mutual-beneficial Cooperation Enthusiastically Supporting Social Undertakings Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future Case Case: “Gulf Community Agreement” In its global operations, China Minmetals is committed to “promoting social progress and advancing The “Gulf Community Agreement” is a community development agreement signed jointly by MMG, Queensland Government and world harmony”, actively supports the social economic development of local communities, participates local aboriginals. The aim of the agreement is to provide education, training and employment opportunities for residents in the enthusiastically in philanthropy, strives to repay the society, earnestly fulfills the achievement of UN gulf area with a commitment to protect local cultural heritage and environment. MDGs, and promotes the sustainable development of community. Many of the employees in Century Company of the MMG are aborigines and the Company carries out pre-employment trainings to young aborigines to make them capable for various jobs in the local mines. By November 2010, 17 of the 60 trainees had completed the training courses and were recruited as full-time staff by the Company. The Company supported the cooperation between Golden Grove and local enterprises, providing skills CO-CREATING A SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL COMMUNITY (I) Policy training to the enterprises and helping young people seek employment opportunities in mining and other industries. Celebrating the success of young aborigines’ apprentices To promote localized operation, implement local procurement and drive local economic development. To actively promote community development plans, and contribute to the continuous improvement of residents’ lives. The implementation of projects by the Corporation in Laos increases incomes of community residents, and improves their living standards through purchasing foods and work clothes locally and signing such contracts as transportation, air service and energy contracts with local To protect the ecological environment and cultural heritage in the community. enterprises. The Corporation has established a USD3 million community trust fund jointly managed by the Corporation, Government and To be passionate about philanthropy, commit to poverty reduction, and promote and regulate social welfare activities community leaders, and provides infrastructure construction, health, education, agriculture and micro-credit for communities together with in the long-term. UN-Habitat and related NGOs. In the operation, the Corporation emphasizes environmental protection and has passed the ISO14001 environmental certification, and formulates biodiversity protection plans to protect the endangered animals. To respect local culture, strengthen community involvement and build harmonious community relationships. The Corporation has established a USD million Case Case: Sepon community trust fund The community development project is managed by Sepon 3 community trust fund (II) Promoting Community Development through Mutual-beneficial community trust fund in the Sepon mine in Laos. Since 2003, MMG provided USD500,000 to assist the government annually with Cooperation accumulative funds up to USD2.90 million so far, mainly applied to community construction, including highway construction, laying 1. Development Plan of International Community of cables, hospital construction, education, tourism and manual manufacture in 73 villages currently. Sepon community trust fund assisted Meanwhile, the Corporation has set up a rural construction fund to “In the course of investment in foreign countries, the host countries pay more attention to environmental protection, work assist rural construction, guiding local residents to develop and improve their current environment. At present, two villages have 73 safety and contributions to local communities on the part of the investors, thus an enterprise must make its endeavors to villages in the combined to use the funds and built a road to the school to ensure Sepon mine in Laos. promote community harmony. We have made great contributions in such host countries as Peru, Australia and Laos, allowing the members of the community to benefit from economic growth. These are the mutual benefits and win-win safe travel to and from school. outcomes we have been sticking to!” The fund provided apprenticeships lasting for six years for — Zhou Zhongshu, President of the Corporation high-school students since 2006. Up to now, there are 43 students taking part in the apprenticeship program. The MMG has sponsored pediatric training courses in the local area together with the Royal Children’s Hospital of Melbourne and other NPOs. With the continuous development of global operation, the scope of social responsibility performed by China Minmetals extends to Sepon community fund provided not only all corners of the world. In multinational operation, the Corporation strictly follows the laws and regulations of the host countries, more education opportunities and better operates business lawfully, pays tax honestly, and always pursues equal and non-discriminative employment policy. It continuously infrastructures for community residents, but increases the proportion of local employees, develops local procurement and community investment, actively participates in local also reduced their dependence on resources, community philanthropy and cultural heritage protection, insists on serving the local communities through various ways and helped them acquire more skills to increase modes, and contributes positively to the local economic development and social prosperity. incomes and improve living standards. MMG builds village primary MMG provides clean water The Corporation maintained and expanded the community development projects of the former OZ Minerals with an investment of schools in Sepon for local villages in Sepon approximately AUD4.4 million in the construction of local communities, community enterprise development and educational training. 86 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 87 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future (III) Enthusiastically Supporting Social Undertakings Case: Providing internships for students Case Minmetals Germany GmbH is a training base authorized by AHK The China Minmetals has been enthusiastically supporting social welfare undertakings for a long time to The Corporation denoted a total of RMB for students from professional management schools. The first repay the society. The Corporation actually denoted a total of RMB24,134,600 in 2010. trainee, Noah Turkie, was accepted by Minmetals Germany for business practice in October 2008, and graduated in February 24,134,600 2011 with excellent academic performance. 1．Natural Disaster Relief in 2010 The Company also accepted one high school student and one Showing its advocacy of the concept that “when disaster strikes, help comes from all sides”, the college student for short-term internship for two weeks and Corporation provided assistance for such disaster areas as Yushu, Zhouqu and southwest areas affected three months respectively. by earthquake, mudslide and drought respectively, helping local residents fight against disasters and rebuild their homes. The first trainee, Noah Turkie, in Minmetals Germany from a vocational training school CO-CREATING A SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL COMMUNITY Case: A 7.1 magnitude earthquake hit Yushu, Qinghai Province in 2010. Employees Case from the subsidiaries of the Corporation in Beijing and some non-Beijing resident companies and overseas enterprises donated a total of RMB673,336. Donations 2. Domestic Community Development were also made locally by other non-Beijing resident companies and overseas enterprises. Based on incomplete statistics, the total amount of donation The Corporation and its subsidiaries actively advance community development activities domestically, supporting the local reached nearly RMB 1 million. The Corporation received a Humanitarian government to solve the residents’ practical problems encountered in their lives and promoting the improvement of living Service Medal from the Red Cross Society of China and certifications environments in the community and around the project area. awarded by the Red Cross Society of China in recognition of its humanitarian spirit. Case Case: Minmetals Luzhong Mining Co., Ltd. providing community development Minmetals Luzhong Mining Co., Ltd. persisted in the community development goal of “clean and tidy, safe and stable, civilized and harmonious, appreciated by residents”, building approximately 10,000m2 of parking space, formulating and improving a property management system, providing standardized work cards for community doormen, and adding and Case: All units of the Corporation denoted enthusiastically repairing exercise machines in public places. Case Immediately when the Yushu earthquake in Qinghai and the Zhouqu landslide in Gansu took The Company actively boosted employment among community residents, by the end of 2010,it has provided more than place, staff in the Changsha Research Institute of Mining and Metallurgy Co., Ltd. responded 1,400 employment opportunities for Laiwu City and achieved mutual development of enterprises and communities. actively with the number of people participating in the donation reaching 1,580, and RMB171,665.5 raised. All donations were sent to Hunan Charity Federation. As soon as knowing the disaster in Yushu, Qinghai Province, China Minmetals H.K. (Holdings) Limited donated HKD300,000 in the name of the company, Case Case: Jiangxi Xiushui and individual donations by staff amounted to Xianglushan Tungsten Co., Ltd. HKD28,278. The Hong Kong Chinese Enterprises carried out fund-support Association expressed sincere gratitude to the annually for paddy fields Corporation in its Bulletin on 19 May 2010. affected by water shortage, with the supporting funds reaching RMB1 million in 2010. 2．Committed to Poverty Alleviation The Corporation pursues poverty alleviation as a long-term effort. The Corporation continues making solid progress in targeted poverty alleviation in 2010 on the basis of completing the aid to the three A bumper harvest is anticipated in Dongxia Village. poverty-stricken partner counties of Yiliang, Zhenxiong and Weixin in Yunnan, conducts poverty alleviation in Tujia-Miao Autonomous Prefecture of Huayuan in Hunan and Yecheng county in Xinjiang, and assigns officers on a temporary basis to Tibet and Qinghai to support local construction. 88 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 89 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future Statistics of Targeted Poverty Alleviation Efforts of the Corporation in 2008-2010 3．Supporting Important Social Events In 2010, the Corporation actively supported such important social events as the Shanghai World Expo and the Asian Games held No. Indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 in Guangzhou, helping ensure that these activities were conducted smoothly. 1 Directly invested capital for targeted poverty alleviation RMB10,000 130 210 214 2 Number of resident officers dispatched Individuals 3 3 7 Case: Support the World Expo Case 3 Inspection trips to partner counties Incidents 4 4 3 China Minmetals sponsored the first United Nations Global Compact — China Forum, held in 4 Disadvantaged students subsidized in partner counties Individuals 105 110 114 the UN Pavilion of the Shanghai World Expo by the United Nations Global Compact and the Centre 5 Labor export from partner counties Person-time 30,000 10,000 8,000 Office of Global Compact Network China. The Corporation representatives introduced at the forum the successes of Minmetals in promoting CO-CREATING A SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL COMMUNITY economic development and realizing the MDGs of Summary of Poverty Alleviation Activities of the Corporation in 2010 the United Nation. The total investment for Yiliang, Weixin and Zhenxiong counties was RMB1.50 million. Case: Supporting the Chang’e lunar exploration program The individual donations from the Corporation staff totaling RMB647,000 helped three counties in Yunnan to resist drought To celebrate the successful launch of Chang’e-2 lunar and disaster, solving the problem of water shortages for both production and personal consumption. satellite, China Minmetals donated RMB500,000 in 2010 to support the “Lunar Exploration Program” and promote the An agreement was signed with Huayuan county to continuously develop poverty alleviation through education with funds development of national aeronautics undertakings. of RMB91,200 provided for educational assistance. Capital in the amount of RMB551,860 was allocated for Yecheng county to help vocational training centers establish multi-media classrooms. Case: China Minmetals H.K. (Holdings) Limited participated in the roofing work of 2010 Shanghai World Expo Performance Center and Guangzhou Asian Games Complex Gymnasium and the engineering construction of 2010 Tianjin Davos Forum. China Minmetals exhibition board at the 2010 Shanghai World Expo A delegation headed by party disciplinary leader Hai Yan of the Corporation visited impoverished counties in Yunnan 4．Education Aid The Corporation takes an active part in making donations and establishing special funds to help dropout children return to school. Case: Jiangxi Xiushui Xianglushan Tungsten Co., Ltd. positively led Case: Minmetals Luzhong Mining Co., Ltd. Case local community development, and established a mechanism to carrying out corresponding assistance repay the society. It made clear that RMB4 million would be drawn In 2010, Minmetals Luzhong Mining Co., each year from 2010 to 2013 to help nearby towns and villages Ltd. signed a mutual support agreement establish such infrastructures as roads, bridges, irrigation and water with Dong’an Village, Sanxing Town, conservancy, cultural education and medical and health care, Chongming City, Shanghai to last for implement such activities as assistance to stricken families, aid to three years. The supporting capital of those suffering serious illness, aid to students in poverty and support RMB100,000 will be provided annually. for the aged (over 80 years old). In addition, more than RMB30 million The Company provided aids to villagers would be invested to move 300 villagers from downstream of the with poverty, constructed the White Yang’ao tailing pond to Liangtang New District in the county, assisting Goat base, rebuilt activity spaces, them to improve their living situation, create conditions for shedding developed Party construction and deficiencies and become prosperous and thus to enjoy the improved the living conditions of the achievements of corporate development. villagers. The Corporation donates to needy students in Hebei Province in an activity organized by the trade union Students from Gangkou No.3 Primary School built by Jiangxi Xiushui Xianglushan Tungsten Co., Ltd. 90 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 91 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future Case Case: Minmetals Finance Education Fund Perspectives for 2011 After the establishment of Minmetals Finance A word of thanks: “The education aid from Education Fund, staff took an active part in donating. China Minmetals Corporation provides much The fund subsidized 44 needy freshmen from Dazhou, needed help for those of us who come from poor families. This great compassion gives 2011 is an important year in which the Corporation begins the 12th Five-Year Plan period, and completes its ownership Sichuan Province by the end of 2010. us not only economic assistance, but also system reform and promotes corporate governance. It will continue the transformation of development mode, improve its endows us with courage for our lives and value creation capabilities, avoid market risk, strengthen the capability of sustainable development and seek to build a motivation to study, which allows us to feel mineral and metal group with international competitiveness. the warmth of the greater social family at the most important moment in our lives and makes us believe there is love on the earth.” The Corporation will fully analyze the market change and various opportunities, to improve development benefits, optimize industrial layout, speed up structure adjustment, innovate business modes, improve development quality, strengthen — Aid-receiving student Liao Renya integrated service and bring into full play management performance to constantly improve its value creation capabilities and realize five fundamental transformations. These are the transformation from focus on growth speed to development quality, the transformation from building a complete industry chain to optimizing the value chain, the transformation from commodity marketing to industrial comprehensive service, the transformation from traditional business governance to modern corporate governance, and the transformation from expanding development space to constructing harmonious environments. The Corporation will work hard to realize RMB400 billion in revenue and a total profit of RMB15 billion in 2015. 5．Staff Volunteering in Action The Corporation will adopt the 12th Five-Year Plan Work Safety Plan of the Corporation as a guide and responsibility for work safety as core to standardize and optimize the staff safety responsibility system, highlight major hazard rectification and The Corporation encourages its staff to participate in volunteer action in various ways, and the cohesion of the staff team is security system construction, continuously boost HSE system construction and standardize business operations, strengthened when serving the public and repaying the society. systematically improve emergency rescue capability, and promote the safe production of the Corporation to a new level. Under the guidance of 12th Five-Year Plan Special Planning of Energy-Saving and Environment Protection, the Corporation will further strengthen the implementation of energy-saving and environment protection, advance the arrangement and Case: Minmetals Luzhong Mining Co., Ltd. held the activity monitoring of hidden problems of environment pollution, promote the remediation of key hidden problems of environment Case with the theme of “Carrying forward the spirit of Lei Feng pollution and eliminate outdated capacity and comprehensively propel a clean production strategy. and showing the vigor of youth”, developed such activities as voluntary work, services for underground workers and the The Corporation will consolidate strategic human resource management, constantly improve the human resource public, voluntary medical services with the number residents management and control system, enhance talents team construction, optimize revenue allocation mechanisms, regulate receiving these services in attendance being over 1000. It recruitment and labor management, build talent incubation bases, create a harmonious atmosphere in human resources was generally welcomed by our staff and workers and culture, forge a Minmetals talent brand and promote the mutual development of staff and Corporation. community residents. The Corporation will reinforce the exchange and cooperation with stakeholders, constantly increase customer services skills and quality, propel the mutually beneficial cooperation with stakeholders, provide excellent internal and external environments for corporate development and realize harmonious win-win results for each party. Centering on the MDGs of the United Nation, we will plan actively and participate enthusiastically in community construction and social welfare undertakings, benefiting community members through the achievements of the Case: Minmetals (Guizhou Province) Ferro-Alloys Co., Ltd. Corporation and realizing the common development of the Corporation and communities. Case responded to the call to build Guiyang City into a “National Clean City”, “National Environmental Protection City” and The Corporation will further deepen social responsibility management, improve sustainable development reporting, fulfill “National Cultured City”. Over 40 employees were the commitment of the LEAD program membership of United Nations Global Compact, comprehensively implement the 10 organized to voluntarily clear away plastic bags in the river Principles of the Global Compact, boost the blueprint plan of sustainable development leadership, and promote the brand way on 4 May, 2010. image of a responsible Corporation globally according to the standard of first-class international enterprises. 92 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 93 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future Appendices Comparison Sheet of the 10 Principles of UN Global Compact DNV Assurance Statement Comparison Sheet The Corporation has observed the international treaties and international practices signed or Human Rights recognized by the Chinese Government; respected conventions and proclamations such as the 1. Businesses should support and respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Convention of Civil Rights and Political protection of internationally proclaimed Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights; and abided by the human rights laws and regulations of the host countries; 2.Make sure that they are not complicit in It has never been complicit in any disrespect of human rights, safeguard the dignity, rights and human rights abuses interests of employees. The Corporation has established the system of Employees’ Congress and disclosure of factory affairs, and strengthened dialogues and exchanges with employees. The Corporation has set up trade union organizations at all levels, persisted in consultations Labor based on equal footing, and strengthened the democratic management and supervision of 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of employees; association and the effective recognition of It has eliminated forced labor and use of child labor; the right to collective bargaining It has established a selection and appointment mechanism that is open, equal, competitive and 4. Elimination of all forms of forced and selective, and opposed any form of discrimination; compulsory labor The Corporation has established a remuneration system that pegs payment to performance and 5. Effective abolition of child labor can effectively stimulate the long-term development of employees; and established a 6. Elimination of discrimination in respect of remuneration management system that features unified concepts and suits the characteristics of employment and occupation the Corporation through the two routes of payroll management and income level management; Strengthen the occupational safety and health management of employees and improve working environments. The Corporation continued intensifying the construction of the “Three Systems” for energy saving and emission reduction, enhanced comprehensive rectification efforts and leveraged technological advances to continuously level up energy saving and emission reduction. In 2010, focus was concentrated on the efforts to play an important role of science and technology in Environment environmental protection, and raise the level and capabilities of the enterprise through 7. Businesses should support a precautionary technological innovations; approach to environmental challenges The Corporation actively participated in the activities of the UN Global Compact Environment 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater Stewardship and brought forward many constructive viewpoints and opinions. In 2010, the environmental responsibility Corporation worked together with the global expert panel to address environmental issues, with 9. Encourage the development and diffusion the findings now already published; of environmentally friendly technologies. The Corporation has firmly established the idea of green management, pays close attention to the development of environmental protection projects, improves ecological efficiency, has reduced risks to mankind and environment, strengthens the comprehensive utilization of resources and clean production, vigorously develops recycling economy, energy saving and environmental protection industries, and technologies for recycling of wastes. The Corporation made revisions to the Detailed Implementation Rules on Business Ethics for Executives of the Corporation, drafted the Implementing Measures of China Minmetals Corporation on Further Advancing the “Three Major Decisions and Use of One Major Fund” Decision Making System, held 30 training sessions for anti-corruption supervisors that involved Anti-corruption 3,762 persontimes; 10. Businesses should work against corruption The Corporation conducted efficiency supervisions over nearly 80 enterprises, put forth 25 in all its forms, including extortion and supervisory suggestions and revised 3 rules, leading to the saving of over RMB50.08 million of bribery. funds; The Corporation held a supervisory symposium involving 30 enterprises in South China and completed 85 supervisory reports and information sharing; The Corporation and its subsidiaries at all levels accepted 35 complaint cases, all of which have been settled, and carried out 19 publicity activities promoting knowledge of law. 94 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 95 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future 挪威船级社（DNV）审验声明 96 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 97 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future Comparison Sheet of GRI Indictors Irrelevant Partially adopted Fully adopted Not Applicable Sequence of Content of Indicator Disclosure Location Adoption Indicator 1. Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of 1.1 the organization about the relevance of P2 sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. P2-3 2.1 Name of the organization. inside front cover/P14-15 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. P14-15/P29-32 2.3 Operational structure of the organization P14 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. P15 2. Organizational Profile Number of countries where the organization 2.5 operates, and names of countries with either major P3／P76-77/P86-88 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form P15 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, 2.7 sectors served, and types of P29-35/P38-39 customers/beneficiaries) Scale of reporting organization (including number 2.8 of employees, net sales, ratio of liabilities and net P4 assets to total assets, quantity of products and services provided) Significant changes during the reporting period 2.9 P10-11/P14-15/ P34-35 regarding size, structure, or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period P21/P25/P58/P69/P89 98 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 99 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future Sequence Sequence of Content of Indicator Disclosure Location Adoption of Content of Indicator Disclosure Location Adoption Indicator Indicator Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 3.1 provided inside front cover 4.4 recommendations or direction to the highest governance P15 body 3.2 Date of most recent previous report inside front cover/P21 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest 3.3 Reporting cycle inside front cover/P21 governance body, senior managers, and executives 4.5 (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s P15 performance (including social and environmental Contact person for questions regarding the report or its performance) 3.4 inside front cover/P107 contents Processes in place for the highest governance body to 3.5 4.6 P15 Process for defining report content inside front cover ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of 3.6 inside front cover 4.7 P14-15 leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers) the members of the highest governance body 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 3. Report Parameters State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes 3.7 the report. inside front cover of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 4.8 P15 environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can 3.8 inside front cover Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 4.9 the organization’s identification and management of P14-15 economic, environmental, and social performance 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations inside front cover Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own 4.10 performance, particularly with respect to economic, P15 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information environmental, and social performance 3.10 provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such inside front cover re-statement Explanation of whether and how the precautionary 4.11 P42/P81-83 approach or principle is addressed by the organization Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the 3.11 scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the inside front cover report Externally developed economic, environmental, and social inside front cover/ 4.12 charters, principles, or other initiatives which the organization subscribes to or endorses. P21/P24/P59 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in 3.12 inside front cover/P99-106 the report 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international P20 advocacy organizations which the organization holds. Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 3.13 inside front cover assurance for the report. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. P18-19 4.1 Governance structure of the organization P15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with 4.15 P18-19 whom to engage. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including 4.2 P15 the organization’s management and the reasons for this 4.16 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder P18-19 arrangement) group. For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 4.3 the number of members of the highest governance body 4.17 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has P18-19/P74 that are independent and/or non-executive members. responded to those key topics and concerns 100 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 101 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future Sequence Sequence of Content of Indicator Disclosure Location Adoption of Content of Indicator Disclosure Location Adoption Indicator Indicator Direct economic value generated and distributed (including Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and EN7 P60-61 revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, reductions achieved. EC1 donations and other community investments, retained P3-4/P28-29/P86-91 earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments) EN8 Total water drawn by source. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for EN9 Water sources significantly affected by draw of water. EC2 the organization’s activities due to changes in the P2-3 macroeconomic environment. EN10 P61 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan P67 Location and size of land owned, leased, or managed in, or 5. Economic Performance Indicators obligations. EN11 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to EN12 and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of P63 EC5 P67 6. Environmental Performance Indicators local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on EN13 Habitats protected or restored. P63 EC6 P75 locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing EN14 P63 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior impacts on biodiversity. EC7 management hired from the local community at locations of P70-71 significant operation. Number of International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List species and national conservation list EN15 species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by Development and impact of infrastructure investments and EC8 services provided primarily for public benefit through P86-92 level of extinction risk. commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by EN16 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic weight. EC9 impacts, including the extent of impacts (e.g. driving local P86-92 economic development) Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by EN17 P56 weight. EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. P56 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and 6. Environmental Performance Indicators EN18 P58-59 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input reductions achieved. EN2 materials. P60-61 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. P56 Nitric oxide (NO), sulfur oxide (SO), and other significant air EN20 P56 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. P56 emissions by type and weight. Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. P61 EN5 P58 improvements. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy EN6 based products and services, and reductions in energy P58-59 requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. P61 102 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 103 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future Sequence Sequence of Content of Indicator Disclosure Location Adoption of Content of Indicator Disclosure Location Adoption Indicator Indicator Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste Average hours of training per year per employee by employee LA10 P69 EN24 deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention category. Annexes I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support 6. Environmental Performance Indicators LA11 the continued employability of employees and assist them in P68-70 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water managing career outcomes. EN25 bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting P61 organization’s discharges of water and runoff. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and P69-70 career development reviews. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and EN26 P62/P63 services, and extent of impact mitigation. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees LA13 by category according to gender, age group and other indicators P67 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are of diversity. EN27 reclaimed by category. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by job category. P67 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of EN28 non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental Percentage and total number of significant investment laws and regulations. P75 HR1 agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and EN29 other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, P62 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have and transporting members of the workforce. HR2 P75 undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by EN30 P61/P62 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures type. P69 HR3 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. 8. Human Rights Performance Indicators Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and LA1 P67/P70-71 region. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. P71 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, LA2 P67/P70-71 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of gender, and region. 7. Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators HR5 association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to LA3 P67-68 temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of HR6 child labor, and (core) measures taken to contribute to the P67 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining elimination of child labor. LA4 agreements. Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, HR7 forced or compulsory labor, and (core) measures to contribute to P67 LA5 P67 the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s LA6 management-worker health and safety committees that help P51 HR8 policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. are relevant to operations. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of LA7 P46 HR9 P71 and number of work related fatalities by region. indigenous people and actions taken. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices LA8 programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or P51/P53 SO1 that assess and manage the impacts of operations on P86-92 community members regarding serious diseases. communities, including their entry, operation and exit. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks LA9 P46-51 SO2 P81-83 unions. related to corruption. 104 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 105 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 Build Responsible Minmetals Co-create Bright Future Sequence of Content of Indicator Disclosure Location Adoption Form of Feedback on Report Indicator Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption SO3 P81-83 policies and procedures. Respected readers, SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Thank you for reading this report. To improve our efforts relating to corporate social responsibility and enhance our 9. Society Performance Indicators P81-83 fulfillment thereof, we hope very much that you could spare some time from your busy schedule to comment on this report and make suggestions to help us improve it. Public policy positions and participation in public policy SO5 P86 development and lobbying. You can submit your feedback in any of the following ways: Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political SO6 Tel: 86-10-68495086, 86-10-68495112 parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Fax: 86-10-68495010 Mail: 5 Sanlihe Road, Haidian District, Beijing ( 100044 ) Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, SO7 P81-82 Department of Social Responsibility, General Office, China Minmetals Corporation anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Email: csr@minmetals.com Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Form of Feedback on China Minmetals Corporation Sustainability Report 2010 SO8 non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and P81-82 regulations. Respected readers, Thank you for reading this report. We hope very much that you could comment on this report and make suggestions to help Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products us continuously improve our efforts relating to social responsibility. and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of PR1 significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. You can submit your feedback in any of the following ways: Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 1. Have you learnt what you need to from this report? PR2 voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products Yes□ Neutral□ No□ and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. 10. Product /Service Responsibility Performance Indicators 2. Do you think this report is a complete reflection of the economic responsibilities undertaken by China Minmetals? Type of product and service information required by procedures, Yes□ Neutral□ No□ PR3 and percentage of significant products and services subject to 3. Do you think this report is a complete reflection of the environmental responsibilities undertaken by China Minmetals? such information requirements. Yes□ Neutral□ No□ Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 4. Do you think this report is a complete reflection of the social responsibilities undertaken by China Minmetals? PR4 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and Yes□ Neutral□ No□ labeling, by type of outcomes. 5. Do you think this report has disclosed sufficient quantifiable data? Yes□ Neutral□ No□ Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of PR5 P74 6. Do you think it is necessary for China Minmetals to expand the scope of the report to its secondary enterprises? surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Yes□ Neutral□ No□ Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes 7. Do you think the content and form design of this report facilitate reading and understanding? PR6 related to marketing communications, including advertising, P74 Yes□ Neutral□ No□ promotion, and sponsorship. 8. The following space is for your comments and suggestions on China Minmetals Corporation Sustainability Report 2011: Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and PR7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of PR8 customer privacy and losses of customer data. Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws PR9 and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 106 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 107 Sustainability Report of Minmetals 2010 2010 报告出版环境 设计制作 Design and made by 纸张：本报告采用环保纸张印刷。 鹏图设计 油墨：印刷油墨采用环保大豆油墨以减少空气污染。 联系人：赵耘 电话：13581906205 Environmental considerations in publication of this report 网址：www.pt-roc.com Paper: The report is printed on recycling paper. Ink: 100% soy ink was used aiming to decrease air pollution.
