Corporate Social Responsibility CSR at Rynkeby Foods Annual Report 2010 CONTENTS Rynkeby FOODS A/S PROFIT Rynkeby Foods A/S is owned by Arla Foods. Rynkeby Foods aims to be a Nordic company setting a Management CEO good example of good business ethics. We believe that Jørgen Dirksen good and responsible behavior pays off. Pages 7-8 Supply Chain Lars Petersen Sales Mark Hemmingsen Marketing PEOPLE Thomas Silbersky Rynkeby Foods focuses both on people in our organiFinances zation and on people connected to our business Poul Erik Nielsen employees, consumers, customers and neighbours. Procurement Pages 9-10 (vacant) Board Board members selected by the shareholders: Hans-Åke Hammarström, Director, Arla Foods (chaiman) HEALTH Lars Aagaard, Director, Arla Foods (vice-chairman) Kent Skovsager, Director, Rynkeby Foods wants to offer health in several dimenArla Foods sions. In 2010, for instance, we decided that our products Christer Åberg, Director, should have an even higher content of fruit. But Rynkeby Arla Foods must also be a healty and safe place to work. Board members elected by Pages 11-17 the staff: Jørn Hjære Pedersen, technical procurement Rikke Dons, procurement manager PLANET Responsible for this report In January, Rynkeby Foods mounted a flue-gas cooler Carina Jensen, Quality Manager and a smokestack. This investment enables Rynkeby to preheat the feed water for the production and transfer Preparation excess energy to the local district heating power plant. Agerholm PR & Kommunikation Pages 18-19 CSR – a good umbrella for Rynkeby Foods Rynkeby Foods gives health a high priority, both in our products and among our employees. To the best of our ability we control our suppliers of raw material in the Third World. As the first juice company in the world we achieved the ISO 22000 certificate, which combines quality and food safety. For several years we have had our own fitness centre. We give serious information on our products. We refrain from commercials directed towards children etc., etc. As the above examples show, Rynkeby Foods has always had a very serious and responsible attitude to running our business and to our surroundings, including the environment. Therefore, this first CSR report of our company is not packed with news. We rather see CSR as an umbrella over the activities that Rynkeby already has or plans to focus on. Alone the general view of these activities, which the CSR report provides, is a good basis in our current assessment and evaluation of our environmental engagement and responsibility. Of course, CSR is also about finances. To save energy consumption and reduce absence in consequence of healthier employees is of course also good for the bottom line of Rynkeby Foods. April 2011 Jørgen Dirksen CEO 3 Ambition: Nordic Market Leader Rynkeby Foods strives for Nordic market leadership within fruitbased foodstuffs – primarily juice and fruit drinks. Therefore we launch an offensive in 2011 to secure Rynkeby platforms for new growth in Norway and Finland. Rynkeby is already the supreme market leader in Denmark and a strong player in Sweden. The success criterion of our company is to be among the best as to results and employees. Therefore we give our employees responsibility, education and challenge so that we develop a workplace with engagement and motivation. Rynkeby Foods has 75 years of experience of manufacturing juice and fruit drinks so we know our customers and the market. We use this experience to continuously develop new products on the basis of the consumers’ needs and wishes. OUR VISION: Rynkeby shall make everybody healthier with a glass of fruit every day Rynkeby Foods’ financial development mill. DKK 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Net turnover 833.9 928.8 982.2 681.7 643.6 617.5 Production costs -540.4 -631.2 -732.5 -466.6 -418.8 -398.2 Gross profit 293.5 297.6 249.7 215.1 224.8 219.3 Sales, distribution, admin. costs -216.0 -215.0 -223.9 -178.8 -195.1 -188.5 EBIT 77.5 82.6 25.8 36.3 29.7 30.8 Financial items -2.2 -4.6 -5.8 -3.2 -4.1 -5.1 Net result before tax 75.3 78.0 19.9 33.1 25.6 25.7 Tax -19.5 -18.6 -5.9 -9.9 -7.4 -0.2 Net result 55.8 59.4 14.0 23.2 18.2 25.5 Number of employees 243 256 245 205 191 212 In 2008, Rynkeby Foods took over production of a number of products for the Swedish market, including a large contract manufacturing agreement. The decline in turnover in 2009 and 2010 is due to the phasing. 4 Our Values To Rynkeby Foods it was not just a WE UPHOLD QUALITY question of choosing and writing Rynkeby is a trustworthy and professional company with ambitious quality norms in down some values when we put all parts and functions. the topic on the agenda in 2005. We uphold Quality It was also – and not the least – WE RESPECT EACH OTHER a question of securing that our Rynkeby is an attractive and inviting values were relevant and could be company, where personal and professional differences are respected and appreciafirmly anchored among our emted and where all employees are equally ployees. valued. In our company common goals and decisions are respected and obeyed in Therefore we decided to initiate the all parts. value discussion from the bottom of our organization. Thus we took a day off and WE INVOLVE OURSELVES gathered all employees for a value discusRynkeby has an open company culture We respect each other sion, resulting in five values. It is gratifying providing an incentive to seek and take that since then our values have become a responsibility, to share knowledge, and to natural part of our working day and essenco-operate. tial carriers of Rynkeby’s company culture. WE DEVELOP It started in 2005 Rynkeby attracts, maintains and develops Our value kick-off day was on 28 October qualified employees. Our company is ready 2005 and was followed up on 17 Novemfor change and innovative in its production ber 2010 when all our employees got and product development and currently together again, with focus on our values. chases improvement opportunities. We involve ourselves Besides, part of this event was funded by the award as the healthiest place to work WE ARE WINNERS in Funen, a competition which Rynkeby Rynkeby is a competitive market leader had won among 20 nominated comwith products worth paying extra for. Our panies. company has ambitious and realistic targets and has competent employees In the following we state our descriptions taking a common responsibility for the of the individual values in 2005 (see the targets. icons in the column to the right). We develop We are winners The Rynkeby values have become firmly anchored. This »wall painting« daily reminds the employees of the values on their way between the administration building and the factory. Elsewhere you see value signs in the hallways 5 Global Compact 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occuIn 2011, Rynkeby Foods has embraced the UN initiative pation. Global Compact that lays down ten general principles within companies’ work with CSR. These principles are a good basis Rynkeby supports and respects the for our work with CSR and sustainability. They are based on UN principles on labour. We have shop stewards elected by the staff. internationally recognized conventions in the areas of human These stewards conduct negotiations rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. concerning working conditions, wages and other conditions related to the relationship between the employee and THE TEN PRINCIPLES the company. Our employees are free to organize in trade unions or other organizations/associations. HUMAN RIGHTS will anytime give notice to terminate our co-operation/contract in cases Labour forms part of our Code of Con1. Businesses should support and where human rights are abused or duct and therefore all our suppliers respect the protection of internot observed. must guarantee that these conditions nationally proclaimed are under control. human rights; and ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should support 2. … make sure that a precautionary approach to they are not complicit in environmental challenges; human rights abuses. 8. undertake initiatives to proRynkeby supports and mote greater environmental respects internationresponsibility; and ally proclaimed human rights and strives to 9. encourage the development make sure that we and diffusion of environare not complicit in mentally friendly technologies. human rights abuses. In practice this means that our company Environment and climate are observes current rules on the Rynkeby agenda in and conventions on relation with development of human rights. We make new products and projects. We an effort to ensure that permanently strive to reduce the products we procure energy resources and waste. have been produced in accordance with the UN conANTI-CORRUPTION ventions and international resoLABOUR 10. Businesses should work against lutions. All suppliers must sign the 3. Businesses should uphold the freecorruption in all its forms, including Rynkeby/Arla Code of Conduct being dom of association and the effective extortion and bribery. the first guarantee that the suppliers recognition of the right to collective observe the regulations. Add to this bargaining; Usually, the juice business is not the fact that we have risk assessed subject to corruption, blackmail and the map of the world and pointed 4. the elimination of all forms of bribery. However, Rynkeby underout the high-risk countries, in which forced and compulsory labour; takes to observe current UN convenwe make an extra effort to make tions on anti-corruption, human rights sure that rules and regulations are 5. the effective abolition of child and labour and will counteract any observed. We act in good faith and labour; and offence at any time. 6 Topic: Profit Fair Speak Rynkeby Foods wants to be a Nordic company setting a good example of good business ethics. We believe that good and Rynkeby Foods gives the consumers responsible behavior pays off and are convinced that environcorrect and valuable information on our products and makes an effort to mental and social improvements do support our earnings. Our give the consumers as much inforambition is to maintain healthy finances and sound business mation as possible – on packagings principles on the basis of our five core values, our Code of Conor our websites. We check and control duct, and the UN Global Compact principles. We focus on food that all our packagings are valuable safety, responsible supplier control, LEAN and Fair Speak. and legal before a product is sold, and we make corrections if required. We willingly give valuable information on sugar or acidity etc. in our products, which is a focus area for 2011. As a FOCUS AREAS basic rule we always present fruits in the same proportions as in our products. In 2010 we had no directions/ judgments for misleading marketing. MANAGEMENT (LEAN LEADERSHIP) Through social media we have the Uniform leadership based on our values. opportunity of dialogue with the consumers in an open forum. E.g. we have created two Facebook profiles of 2010 ACTIONS 2014 TARGET Rynkeby and God Morgon (Sweden). The users have freedom of speech, All employees at Rynkeby Foods with line Continued focus and Rynkeby employees answer management responsibility is obliged to on good leaderquestions about labeling, countries of attend Lean Leadership meetings. In 2010, ship based on our origin and prices. three one-day conferences were held, with five core values. We topics such as improvement of our employee expect to maintain Rynkeby has embraced the Childsatisfaction and communication/self-insight the good result of ren’s Code for Advertising Food – a (Enneagrammet). Great focus on leadership 2010. voluntary co-operation between food has had a positive effect on our employee industry, the Trade and the media satisfaction survey. A score of 4.2 in 2010 comand advertising co-operation to avoid pared to 3.9 in 2009 on the scale of 1 to 5. advertising for foodstuffs with a considerable content of sugar, fat and salt in media applying to children. CSR POLICIES VALUES Rynkeby does not promote products Corporate Social Our employees are observing that are not nutritious for children, i.e. Responsibility the five Rynkeby values. In our products with a content of carbonemployee satisfaction survey the hydrate over 12 g/100 ml. Our employees should know and statement »You and your colleafollow our CSR policies. gues are observing our values in In 2009 Rynkeby participated in a your working life?« has a score of Fair Speak EU project together with 4.2 on the scale of 1 to 5. the Copenhagen Business School 2011 TARGET (CBS) and others. All employees obtain knowledge 2014 TARGET of the Rynkeby CSR work, targets 2011 TARGET Everybody at Rynkeby Foods and policies. The awareness should should know and follow our five Still no directions/judgments for be measured – in our employee values. misleading marketing. satisfaction survey or otherwise. 7 Topic: Profit FOCUS AREAS separately. We shall do our utmost to secure observance of the UN conventions – and this is an area, which we RAW MATERIAL SOURCING will continue to develop, says Rikke (Code of Conduct and Risk Dons. Management) I 2012 supplier assessments and The quality of the raw materials, observance of the current Code of which Rynkeby Foods applies, must Conduct must be brought even more be of a high quality and produced in into focus. compliance with the Code of Conduct concerning human rights, anticorruption and labour. We make TARGET Rikke Dons. heavy demands on our suppliers and their sub-suppliers. SGF currently audits and controls its Share of SGF-approved raw matemembers according to analytical and rials: Min. 75%. Our challenge has been to determine social parameters. how far to go in the food chain with Supporters of the Code of Conduct: our supplier control as we apply many As a new initiative, we have risk asses100%. fruits and berries from many countries sed the whole world as to environfor our many different products, says ment and social offences. 2010 RESULT: Rikke Dons, Procurement Manager. Our suppliers must render an account Share of SGF-approved raw mateAnd complexity increases due to the of origin, and high-risk countries like rials: Min. 80.5%. fact that Rynkeby has a two-supplier China and India necessitate extra strategy for most raw materials to control and assessment. Supporters of the Code of Conduct: ensure delivery. For better focus on 100%. critical suppliers we have organized We always demand a signed Code them in two categories: Members of Conduct from our suppliers (via System for supplier assessment and nonmembers of the European Rynkeby/SGF) and furthermore implemented. association Sure Good Fair (SGF). The high-risk countries must be assessed LOCAL COMMUNITY CERCTIFICATES Rynkeby Foods strives for a continued good reputation in our local comRynkeby Foods will at all times manufacture safe, high quality products. munity and contributes to improving Therefore we introduced the ISO 22000 in 2006 – as the first juice manujoint potentialities. facturer in the world. This ISO standard combines quality and food safety. Therefore all employees are subject to the regulations of this standard. In 2010 we have co-operated with the Faaborg-Midtfyn municipality about Furthermore, Rynkeby is a member of the European juice association (AIJN) health promoting initiatives, e.g. and has embraced the voluntary quality control system (EQCS) of the Eurosmoking cessation, weight loss and pean juice association. This means that we are annually visited by Sure Good night shift working. Fair (SGF) testing our products for authenticity, labeling and chemical pollution. Rynkeby is also ecologically certified by the Danish authorities, KRAV We encourage our employees to par(Sweden), DEBIO (Norway) and Luomu (Finland) ticipate in local run and cycle races. ISO 22000 2010 RESULT: 0 complaints. 2010 RESULT 2011 TARGET No »severe deviations« No »severe deviations« 2011 TARGET: 0 complaints. 8 Topic: People maintaining our employees and Rynkeby Foods focuses both on people in our organization and expect to meet our 2014 target. on those connected to our business – employees, consumers, customers and neighbours. For instance, we want to Diversity We want diversity so that our organibe a healthy and attractive place to work for our employees zation reflects our surrounding society and to give the consumers a good and professional percepas to age, race, sex, religion and nation, also when they contact us concerning mistakes. tionality. We also want to make room for people who, despite their injuries, attrition or handicaps, are still able to make an effort for Rynkeby. Therefore we engage employees in light jobs or with flexible contracts if we can offer adequate tasks. In 2010 we had four employees with flexible contracts and one employee in a light job. We expect this level to be applicable for the coming years. We do not want to define precisely the number of employees with special contracts to be employed – we want to reflect the society and in general to A meeting in our factory. have employment agreements advantageous to both parties irrespective of FOCUS AREA: EMPLOYEES sex, handicap or race etc. The Rynkeby Foods employees are As it appears from the table below, Senior Policy the heart of our business. We want our targeted employee turnover rate Rynkeby also wants to employ the to be a healthy and attractive place for 2014 is 12%, which corresponds older and more experienced workto work, attracting and maintaining to our employees on average changforce. Therefore we have introduced skilled and satisfied employees. ing job every eight years. However, a senior policy. Today employees in 2010 our employee turnover rate attaining the age of 55 are offered On the basis of our five core values we amounts to 16.6%. This is due to a a »senior dialogue« with a view to will together create a good work enreduction of our staff by 11 emmatching expectations concerning vironment and generate good results. ployees. Excluding this, the result is working hours, retirement etc. and to We believe that a good, healthy busiapprox. only 12%. planning and – if possible – meeting ness with satisfied, healthy and skilled the wishes. employees generates the best results. We continue our focus on activities Development Dialogues TARGET To make sure that our employees TARGETS AND RESULTS 2009 2010 2014 continue to do fine, develop and remain competent, our employees are Employee turnover rate 12,8 16,6 12% invited to a development dialogue at Employee satisfaction (total score) 4,0 4,1 4,0 least once a year, with focus on job satisfaction, education and develop»There is a good balance between 3,9 4,1 4,0 ment. Action plans are elaborated your worklife and your private life« and currently followed up. Mental health/mobbing (number of 8% 4% 0% employees mobbed) Social events 1 week per employee/ Number of education days per year (Factory/Warehouse) Rynkeby also supports social events 3 weeks per co-ordinator and clubs run by our employees. Thus, our employee club, art club and fitSince 2006 Rynkeby has reduced the number of employees being mobbed from 16 to 4%. The reduction is due to a continued focus on this problem. ness club are financially supported by Rynkeby. 9 Topic: People FOCUS AREA: A great day PEOPLE when Vivian Vivian Møller, 35 years old and employee in the process laboratory got her light at Rynkeby, was born with a partial paralysis due to hypoxia during her job birth. Her paralysis makes her unable to grip with her right hand. Therefore – as I am not able to work full time – it was difficult for me to get a job. I did not succeed until three years ago when I walked around in Ringe and had heard about Rynkeby. I showed up and asked, if they had something for me to do and shortly after they called me and offered me a temporary contract with a test period of three months to see if I was able to do the things I do today. It was great control of waste water three times handle the taste glasses. because I think I am too good to a week. just sit at home day after day. The -They do a lot to help me if there mere pleasure of having earned Furthermore I assist my colleagues is something that I am not able to your money is great, says Vivian. when needed, she says. do by myself. I am really glad to be here. There is warmth and mutual Her responsibility is to prepare Due to Vivian’s handicap Rynkeby respect in the whole factory, says taste trays with samples from the has designed and made a special Vivian. daily production and to assist in our taste tray making it easier for her to FOCUS AREA: Rynkeby supports certain social events in our local community. Our ships but in future we will record our costs for this type of sponsorships to sponsor strategy is to support local render our support visible to the local SURROUNDINGS sports events for children. In 2010 community. Rynkeby Foods is one of the strongest we have not quantified our sponsorbrands in Denmark. Therefore the consumers expect our products and TARGET service to be in order. Most of our TARGETS AND RESULTS 2009 2010 2014 products are without preservatives Consumer claims (DK retail) per 100 mill. liter 400 300 300 and additives. In case of deviations, these will be quickly traceable in the Consumer claims (SE retail) per 100 mill. liter 500 700 700 product. Contacts/complaints, local community 500 0 0 We want the consumers to have a Customer satisfaction analyses (Factum) good and professional experience Aseptic products No. 4 No. 4 Top 3 when contacting Rynkeby concerning Chilled products No. 1 No. 1 Top 3 deviations. We want to learn from our mistakes and will therefore initiate Involvement in local events »Søsletteløbet« (a local race): 100 participants in 2011. corrective actions. 10 Topic: Health Rynkeby Foods wants to offer health in several dimensions. Juice, always being 100% fruit, is the healthy alternative to fresh fruit, and sweet fruit drinks are the healthy alternative to soft drinks. But Rynkeby shall also be a healthy and safe place to work, with healthy employees. Therefore we offer activities encouraging a healthy lifestyle, preventing diseases and assuring to make quick treatment available when needed. FOCUS AREA: Sponsor agreement Since 1999, Rynkeby has co-operated CONSUMERS with »Projekt 6 om Dagen«, a cooperation between authorities, Can Rynkeby Foods make Denmark patient associations, health organihealthier? We believe so! We believe zations and the fruit and vegetables that we can affect the health of the business to make Danes eat at least 6 Danes by manufacturing and offerfruits/vegetables a day, one of which ing good, healthy products – or by may be replaced by a glass of juice. finding some healthier alternatives to Since 2008, we have been the official unhealthy foodstuffs. Therefore the sponsor of »6 om Dagen«, and in consumers should know that Rynkeby 2010 we have worked intensively to juices are always 100% fruit – bespread the knowledge of this co-opercause fruit is healthy and good, and ation, via TV campaigns, presentation juice contains natural vitamins and of the »6 om Dagen«-logo on our minerals exactly as fruit. of »sweet« fruit drink – with no sugar juice packagings etc. added. The name of this fruit drink A new fruit drink: 0% is 0% because it holds neither sugar Sports and children in focus We should also like the consumers to nor sweeteners or other additives. It We give sports and children top priorknow that Rynkeby fruit drinks are the was developed especially for children ity through our sponsorships for local healthier alternative to soft drinks. In as an alternative to/in replacement of sport events for children. 2010 we developed a brand new type the traditional sweet fruit drinks. 2010 FACTS FULL INFORMATION 51% of the consumers believe that added sugar/additives are added to juice (consumer test) ABOUT FRUIT AND 12% of the consumers believe that Rynkeby is 100% fruit (consumer test) NO SUGAR 21% of the consumers believe that the Rynkeby 16 series is 100% fruit (consumer test) The consumers 22% of the consumers believe that the Rynkeby Økologisk Juice (eco juice) is 100% fruit (consumer test) should know that juice contains no FUTURE TARGETS added sugar and 2011: 50% of all Danes know that juice is 100% fruit (consumer test) additives. Therefore 2012: 60% of all Danes know that juice is 100% fruit (consumer test) we have asked the 2013: 70% of all Danes know that juice is 100% fruit (consumer test) consumers if they 2014: 80% of all Danes know that juice is 100% fruit (consumer test) believe that juice contains added 2011: 50% of all Danes know that no sugar is added to juice (consumer test) sugar and/or 2012: 60% of all Danes know that no sugar is added to juice (consumer test) 2013: 70% of all Danes know that no sugar is added to juice (consumer test) additives. 2014: 80% of all Danes know that no sugar is added to juice (consumer test) 11 Topic: Health FOCUS AREA: Rynkeby also co-operates with research RESEARCH institutes about health and quality 2010 ACTIONS 2011 ACTIONS In 2010, Rynkeby Foods has participated in the following projects: In 2011 Rynkeby Foods participates in the Consumer friendly packaing (DI). Topic: How do we adapt our following projects: packagings to become more consumer friendly, also for children, handicapped and elderly people? New sweeteners in Danish foodstuffs (Teknologisk Institut): A network coFood in later life (DI). Topic: Find a product development process for operation about new sweeteners with products suitable for elderly people living in their own homes. focus on the market. Step-by-step (Jordbrugsvidenskabeligt Fakultet Årslev). Topic: SensWell (Life, MAPP, JordbrugsvidenDevelopment of foodstuffs becoming healthier step-by-step conskabeligt Fakultet. Topic: Sensory food currently with the consumers getting used to less sugar, less fat and satisfaction and intake in relation to food more fibres. This project will be completed in 2011. composition and the eating situation. FOCUS AREA: TEAM RYNKEBY Team Rynkeby’s first »tour« was in 2001, when a few Rynkeby employees had support to form the »Team Rynkeby«. Since then, this bicycle race has become a great success in several countries. In 2010 more than 300 participants cycled from Denmark to Paris. In 2011, the number of participants exceeds 500 bikers, of which approx. 80 are starting out in Sweden, where two teams have been formed as a new initiative. In 2010, Jan Gintberg, a Danish stand-up comedian, preIn 2010, team Rynkeby gathered 4.72 million DKK to sented the Børnecancerfonden (foundation for children with Børnecancerfonden, and in 2011 the expectations are even cancer and their families) with a check of 4.72 million DKK higher. from Team Rynkeby. For several years Rynkeby Foods has made an active Team Rynkebys does not only support children with cancer effort to support children with cancer and their families. and their families. The project also contributes to increasing The surplus from the bicycle race Team Rynkeby – the the interest in bike races as an exercise form for both our annual bicycle race from Denmark to Paris, is therefore employees and our environment. In that way we contribute donated to Børnecancerfonden /Barncancerfonden to a healthier society. Principle sponsor of Børnecancerfonden Last year, Børnecancerfonden She calls the co-operation with Team dren who need to sweeten life a received 16 million DKK from Rynkeby fantastic and emphasizes little extra at certains times, e.g. in various sponsors. With the conhat the large, annual contributions case of relapse or death sentence, tribution of 4.72 million DKK Team make it possible for Børnecancersays Marianne Nielsen, who also Rynkeby was the absolute principle fonden to start and complete many emphasizes Team Rynkeby’s sponsor of Børnecancerfonden, good initiatives. -This also enables us marketing of her foundation as tells Marianne Nielsen, Director of to delegate more »coddling scholaressential to attract other – also Børnecancerfonden. ships« to children with cancer – chillocal – sponsors. 12 Topic: Health FOCUS AREA: which is already the most popular exercise form in Denmark, and partly A NEW BICYCLE RACE to support a good purpose. In this case the good purpose is DiabetesParallel to the Team Rynkeby health foreningen (The Diabetes Union) that success, Rynkeby Foods launches will receive the whole surplus from the a new related initiative on wheels races. in 2011. This initiative, called the to encourage job satisfaction and »Rynkeby SUNDhedsstafetten« (relay productivity in both public and private The Rynkeby SUNDhedsstafetten race), is the first national relay race workplaces. takes place in Århus, Odense and for bikers. Copenhagen, and we expect approx. Like the Team Rynkeby project, the 8,000 participants. Already next year This initiative is arranged together Rynkeby SUNDhedsstafetten serves we plan to add another 3-4 cities to with the company Sund på Job ofa two-fold purpose: Partly to improve the project. The participant fee per fering health-improving activities public health by focusing on biking, team is 750 DKK. Therefore we have established a health committee with the aim of FOCUS AREA: encouraging health at Rynkeby. As described on the following pages we EMPLOYEES focus on healthy food in our canteen, health examination (Body Age), slimming courses, smoking cessation courses and a lot of different exercise initiatives. In 2010, Rynkeby received the honourable award as the healthiest place to work at Funen. CEO Jørgen Dirksen with the award as the healthiest place to work at Funen 2010. The award is given by Udviklingsforum Odense together with Fyens Lifestyle diseases are a threat against modern society, and Stiftstidende (a local newspaper) and therefore Rynkeby wants to support and inspire our employees the Sund på Job consultants. This to a healthy lifestyle, both at work and at home. As a responaward is a big pat on the shoulder to all employees, who have joined the sible company, Rynkeby has decided to bring the health of our many health initiatives. The award employees into focus. was accompanied by a cheque for 20,000 DKK, which was spent on an At Rynkeby Foods we are convinced quality of life, live longer and are a employee event with focus on health that healthy employees have a better better capacity for the company. and values. FIRST AID 2010 ACTIONS 2011 TARGET We know that acting quickly in situations when first aid is needed We will offer a free first aid course at least can save lives and reduce complications. Therefore, Rynkeby offers once a year, for health coordinators durall employees free first aid courses every year, both for beginners ing their working hours. We expect to acand advanced learners. In 2010, 12 employees participated in first quire a heart starter to be able to render aid courses. quick aid in case of cardiac arrest. 13 Topic: Health FOCUS AREA: WORKING ENVIRONMENT The occupational health is about what we can do when at work. We can make sure that ergonomics are all right to avoid unnecessary load on our body. We make a structured effort to avoid industrial injuries and damages as they all affect our health to a The Danish Labour Inspectorate has approved Rynkeby’s working environment with certain extent. a green smiley. The photo shows Pauline Martin, filling machine operator. In 2010, Rynkeby Foods initiated ergonomic problems (e.g. neck, hand/ considerable reduction in the number and completed a large ergonomics wrist, shoulders, arms/elbows, lumbar of nuisances per employee compared project for all our warehouse workers. or knees) during the last seven days. to 2009. In 2008, Rynkeby received The aim of this project, continuing in In 2010, 70% of our employees had the green smiley from Arbejdstilsyother departments in 2011/2012, is had at least one of these physical net (Labour Inspectorate), which is to encourage correct working postures nuisances, which is less than in 2009. a symbol of a good and functioning and to use our body right to avoid However, the truth behind these working environment. We aim to strain injury. The participants will get figures is that there has been a clear maintain this recognition in the years individual recommendations, with decline within the individual groups, to come. exercises for muscular development, and therefore the 2010 result shows a e.g. in the Rynkeby fitness club. 2009 2010 2014 TARGET Employees with a In the health examination our emphysical nuisance 74% 71% Max. 35% ployees are asked if they have had FOCUS AREA: WORK PRESENCE It is not easy for an employee Of course, a good work presence to have to stay at home due to is a prerequisite of the fact that illness and it is not easy for his colRynkeby is able to manufacture leagues who have to run faster bewith the capacity planned to the cause a colleague is missing. Thus, greatest possible extent. it is best for everybody to keep the work presence rate as high as posTo make sure that our more than sible. Therefore Rynkeby currently 200 employees can have a fast works with initiatives concerntreatment and thus reduce their ing physical and mental working period of illness Rynkeby also environment supplemented with offers all employees a health a number of health initiatives. insurance. RESULTS 2014 TARGET Total work presence: Total work presence: 2009: 94,1% Min. 97% (total) 2010: 96,0% Lars Himmelstrup, Product Technician, in our laboratory. 14 Topic: Health FOCUS AREA: SMOKING Now his body is We know that smoking is unhealthy and we think that it is incompatible Despite many initiatives the number of smokers has not been reduced five years younger with a foodstuff manufacturing comas much as expected. In return our Michael Poulsen, 30 years old and pany. In 2009, Rynkeby Foods therewarehouse worker at Rynkeby fore decided to prohibit smoking Foods, accepted Rynkeby’s offer on our site. This prohibition applies to the warehouse staff of joining to both guests and employees. All a Body Age project. smokers wanting to stop smoking are offered smoking cessation courses smokers smoke approx. 27% less – When the project was kicked off and other aids (chewing gum, which corresponds to four cigarettes in September 2010 Michael’s acupuncture, plaster etc.). In the less per day than in 2009. We give Body Age was 40 years. Now, six long term we expect to reduce the the introduction of the smoking ban number of smokers and thus improve some of the credit for this decline. the health of our employees. 2009 2010 2014 TARGET Number of smokers 25% 23% Max. 15% Number of cigarettes per day, average 15 11 10 months later, he has lost seven kilos. His body’s age is now 35 years. -I exercise up to three times per week in our fitness club, before or after my working hours. This Focus Area OVERWEIGHT definitely gives more energy and improves your self esteem. Overweight can lead to a number of lifestyle diseases. Therefore Rynkeby wants I had not given that a thought to support lasting weight loss initiatives of our employees. Overweight employbefore we started the project. I ees are offered diet guidance by a clinical dietitian and exercise initiatives. also believe that the activities strengthen unity in the factory, Targets and actions have been set for all overweight employees wanting to lose says Michael. weight, and free, individual diet guidance is available. After a health examination in January 2011 42 employees have joined the Undoubtedly, he was influenced »Weight stop – new lifestyle« initiative, which is an individual offer to overby his colleagues’ and leaders’ weight employees wanting to lose weight and change their lifestyle. This offer is engagement in a healthy lifestyle. free and the participants are currently observed by a professional dietitian. -I guess I had not started if the engagement of my leader and my colleagues’ positive talk about 2009 2010 2014 TARGET their experiences had not forced Very overweight 25% 23% Max. 18% me to start, he says. Overweight 31% 30% 22% 15 Topic: Health FOCUS AREA HEALTHY CANTEEN The canteen of Rynkeby Foods is also In 2009, only 37% of our employees focusing on health. In 2010, the staff ate minimum two fruits or vegetables attended a »Projekt Kantinetjek« per day. We thought that we could (canteen check) offering courses in affect their intake by making it easier healthy canteen food. Today, »Kanand cheaper to buy fruit at Rynkeby tinetjek« is used as a new tool making so we made fruit within the reach at 1 it easy to evaluate if the offer of the DKK. Furthermore, healthy and nutricanteen is healthy and if it is possible tious food is served every day. Sweets to improve this offer. A new point and other unhealthy foodstuffs are system is applied, and the food is no longer available in our canteen – given points according to a set of however, we can still enjoy a piece of simple rules. The more points, the cake once a week. healthier the food. These initiatives literally seem to have It may be difficult to set targets as to borne fruit for in 2010 nearly 50% of the healthiness of the food of our emthe Rynkeby employees ate fruit and Pia Skytthe Pedersen prepares healthy ployees but in our health examination vegetables every day. canteen food our employees must give information on the frequency of their intake of Number of employees eating min. 2 fruits and vegetables every day fruit and vegetables. 2009 2010 2014 TARGET 37% 46% 57% FOCUS AREA: of Børnecancerfonden (Danish foundation for children with cancer EXERCISE and their families). In recent years Rynkeby has also participated in Rynkeby Foods supports a number local races for runners, walkers and of internal and external exercise bikers. The number of participants projects. In 2010 weekly exercises in from Rynkeby has been considerable walking, running (beginners and adfor the last two to three years. These vanced runners) and biking were initiactivities combine exercise with lovely ated. Furthermore Rynkeby supports food and social gathering – which our private fitness club. This club was we definitely think is also having a established in 2005 and has today 70 positive effect on our employee satismembers – all of them are Rynkeby faction. employees. In 2010, we invited the former triathParticipants in the relay race »DHL-Stafetten« lete Ole Stougaard to teach us a brand new, gentle running technique, 2009 2010 2014 TARGET which can be used by both beginners 28% 38% Min. 50%** and advanced runners. This initiative Participants in the race »Søsletteløbet« attracted more than 35 employees, of 2009 2010 2014 TARGET which 15% had never been running 20% 42% 50% before. We expect to launch a similar, Employees exercising at least 30 minutes per day free initiative in 2011. 2009 2010 2014 TARGET 48% 50% 60% Furthermore, Rynkeby supports Team Rynkeby, being the principal sponsor *includes employees only. ** **includes employees and their families. 16 Topic: Health Focus Area: HEALTH EXAMINATION As health is a permanent focus area and one of our most important focus areas within CSR in 2010 we currently check the health of our employees. Every two years we offer our employees a health examination, where cholesterol, BMI (Body Mass Index), fitness, blood pressure etc. is checked. have an average age of 42 years and Our plan is to make our employees We wish to check the health of our an average Body Age of 43.7 years. gather in groups of 5 to 20 persons to employees at least once every two compete against the other groups to years. In 2009, 81% of our employees In general, the result of the latest obtain the largest average body age joined the first health examination, examination is better than the 2009 reduction. Therefore an extraordinary and in 2011 84% of our employees examination but it has to be better. body age check will be made in attended the latest health examiA special focus will be set on our wareJanuary 2012. nation. house and production staff as they need it the most. Many parameters are included in In 2011, a so-called Body Age check – Body Age, e.g. overweight contributes showing your fitness in relation to the Under the title »A Younger Rynkeby« to a higher Body Age. Therefore we actual age of your body was added we launch a lot of initiatives based also offer very overweight employees to the health examination. This Body on the body age of our employees a free weight loss course in 2011. 42 Age showed that Rynkeby employees – to make our company younger. employees have joined this initiative. HEALTH AND PROFIT We are convinced that the health initiatives, Poul Erik Nielsen healthier we are the more energy (CFO). we have and the more we involve ourselves in our everyday life at He is also convinced that the fitness Rynkeby. A permanent pain in your of our employees has a positive neck may prevent you from doing impact on our bottom line. your job in an efficient way. It is also no good that you get tired -It is difficult to set a precise target after three hours at work and have but we believe that health increasto sleep when you get home, to es involvement and efficiency in our be ready for the first three hours company. Another issue is that – in the next day. This is not acceptthese times with general health foable because we are made to cus our many initiatives contribute work. Therefore we have to keep to the branding of Rynkeby as a our body sufficiently fit to be able company with focus on our employto have a proper working day folees and a will to help them. lowed by a proper leisure time. These words were said by one of the energetic anchor men and organizers of the Rynkeby Foods Poul Erik Nielsen. 17 Topic: Environment and climate CHECK LIST Improvements within climate and environment are very important in Rynkeby Foods’ work with social responsibility (CSR). As a Rynkeby employee you can What can we do? First of all we can ensure that our processes do this to contribute to a better environment!: are currently optimized. Then we can demand from our business partners that they do the same thing. In this process it is 1. Follow the caretaker’s list (opimportant to teach our employees to be environmentally conerators) and turn out the lights scious and to work for environmentally sound solutions. and compressor in weekends to save energy. 2. Close gates and doors to heated and cooled rooms (fast gates can be used). 3. Don’t use jetting hoses without nozzle for washing. 4. Separate waste and residues. There are containers for plastic and carton/paper – and product waste goes into the tank for deposit as biogas. Finished products go into the container for biogas. Juice/water does not belong in the tipping container – it is not combustible! 5. Air pressure leakages should be immediately repaired (Technical department). Responsible environmental work is Juice with a short shelf-life, to be kept 6. Use the pigging system when also information. Therefore, in 2010, refrigerated, often is our expensive possible as it reduces waste Rynkeby Foods and the SIK (the quality juice. Unfortunately, this juice (Factory) Swedish institute for foodstuffs and is also the most environmentally biotechnology) elaborated a lifecycle damaging products, and we want the 7. Check re-capper to avoid assessment (LCA) of one of the most consumers to know that. unnecessary discarding of packimportant processes in juice manuaging and save the remainder facturing. A LCA describes the energy We are already focusing on the enfor the next production (filling accounting of a given process. An imvironment and have launched many department)! portant conclusion on our calculations environmental initiatives. In 2010, we was that it is better for the environimplemented environmental optimi8. Limit your travel activities by ment to buy concentrate in South zation of new processes, products and aircraft (everybody) – airlift is a process designs. big environmental sinner! America and transport it to Europe for dilution than to buy fresh oranges in 9. When changing packaging do Spain for squeezing in Denmark. Initially, Rynkeby focuses on the proit successively and use existing cesses that we can affect ourselves, raw materials in new products As it is practically impossible to have which also reflects our target for enwhen possible. This gives less sufficient concentrate from Europe vironment and climate and our check product changes and reduces to cover Rynkeby’s needs we have list for our employees. It is a managewaste (Marketing). to make an effort to improve existment task to ensure implementation ing processes and let the consumers in our organization. 10. Drive environmentally sound know that they are also free to make (truck drivers + all other drivers). a choice. 18 Topic: Environment and climate 2010 ACTIONS Aksel Jørgensen (see photo) has been employed at Rynkeby for 32 years now In 2009 and 2010 Rynkeby Foods – about 20 of these years as a technical manager. Thus he has been part of co-operated with Enervision A/S, engithe development from the time when neer consultants specialized in energy factory optimization was more about and environment. This co-operation replacing tubes with larger tubes till has resulted in a mapping of possible today where the environment also plays environmental improvements in our an important role. The climate and factory. environment dimension makes my job more interesting but the main driver still is to be efficient and work smarter. If we One of these new initiatives was the are not up to date in all areas we have installation of a new compressor in no job tomorrow. That’s it – and that’s February 2010. This compressor is all!, says Aksel 20% more efficient and generates a a production of e.g. two instead of also been in focus and optimizations heat recovery of 59% of the energy three million liters per week. At the have been made to avoid unnecessupplied. We have also invested in same time we are planning the introsary waste. Furthermore, raw material new technology for our kettle instalduction of much more checkpoints to loss and packaging waste have been lation to be able to exploit the excess enable us to better pursue irregularintroduced as a key figure in relation heat from our production. Therefore ities. with the LEAN bonus of our produca flue-gas cooler and a smokestack were installed in January 2011. This tion staff. Thus, several environmental Larger production volume targets have become part of the investment enables us to preheat the As a result of our expected expansalary packaging of our employees, feed water for the production and sion in Scandinavia, our 2014 target which we expect will bring this topic transfer excess energy to the local is approx. 37% more production even more into focus. district heating power plant. This volume than in 2010. Therefore this makes a gain of up to 245 kW when larger volume will improve our energy In 2011, we will also focus on a big the kettle is fully loaded. bottom line. We expect to have the investment in more precise equiplargest gains in 2013/2014 when our ment for dry matter measuring, i.e. an Electricity consumption, waste volumes are considerably larger than increased precision when using conwater and CO2 in 2010 and 2011. centrates, which should reduce raw There has been an increased focus on electricity consumption, waste water material losses even more. More data Raw material loss and are to be scrutinized to find energy and CO2. Waste water has also been packaging waste savings and have a good environmenintroduced as a key figure in relation Are following the development tal behavior. with the LEAN bonus of our producplanned due to increased focus and tion staff. Unfortunately, our efforts better and quick exploitation of our Environmentally sound driving have still not had an effect on our raw material surplus so that destrucRynkebys’ own truck drivers have energy bottom line. The explanation tion is avoided. Add to this the fact been trained in environmentally is that our production volume in 2010 that we have invested in equipment sound driving style, which will form is about 20% less than in 2009. This for separation of juice, to limit raw part of their LEAN bonus in 2011. means that the energy saving initiamaterial loss. Packaging waste has in 2010 and 2011. tives implemented are not sufficient to compensate for the volume decline as Rynkeby’s energy consumption 2009 result 2010 RESULT 2011 TARGET is higher per unit manufactured at FUEL CONSUMPTION 2,61 km/l 2,73 km/l 3,21 km/l ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS 2009 RESULT 2010 RESULT 2014 TARGET Electricity consumption* 59,96 Kwh 60,9 Kwh 53,96 Kwh 59,96 Kwh Waste water* 0,941 m3 0,983 m3 0,847 m3 CO2 consumption* 16,18 kg 17,46 kg 14,56 Kg CO2 consumption* 2,86 % 2,44 % 2,10 % Packaging waste, of packaging consumption 2,07 % 1,45 % 1,05 % *per ton product 19 CSR Planet Health Environment/ climate Health Business People Profit People Rynkeby Foods A/S Vestergade 30 DK 5750 Ringe Tlf. +45 6362 3200
