Aeon Environmental al and Social Report eport 2011 Aeon Basic Principles Peace The Customer People Community The word aeon (Aeon) has its origins in a Latin root meaning eternity. Aeon abides by the unchanging principles of “pursuing peace, respecting humanity and contributing to local communities, centered on customers.” The Aeon Commitment was established to help us implement these principles and to guide us in our practice of the Customer-First philosophy. [Peace]: Aeon is a corporate group whose operations are dedicated to the pursuit of peace through prosperity. [People]: Aeon is a corporate group that respects human dignity and values personal relationships. [Community]: Aeon is a corporate group rooted in local community life and dedicated to making a continuing contribution to the community. Aeon Commitment We hope to create a future of limitless promise by transforming daily life through our open, dynamic approach. 1 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 Editorial Policy CONTENTS This report reports on characteristic initiatives of Aeon President's Commitment 3 Group companies, primarily for the General MerchandisAeon’s response to the Great East Japan Earthquake 5 ing Store Business and Supermarket Business. Aeon Group Profile 9 This report presents both environmental and social initiatives of Aeon Group companies, focusing on pure holding INFOCUS company Aeon Co.,Ltd. and the General Merchandising Store Formulation of the Aeon Sustainability and Supermarket Businesses. Initiatives included in the report Principle and KPI 11 have been selected based on the level of public interest, the level of emphasis by Aeon and other factors. They include CSR Management 15 environmental conservation activities and social contribution Corporate Governance activities conducted together with customers as well as Risk Management initiatives conducted through products and at stores. Compliance and Corporate Ethics Environmental Management •Report Period FY2010 (March 1, 2010 – February 28, 2011)* Key Issue 1 Realization of a Low-Carbon Society 23 *For operating companies with different fiscal years, the relevant time periods are indicated on each report section. Key Issue 2 Conservation of Biodiversity 29 •Scope of Report Key Issue 3 This report covers the 180 companies (as of February 28, Better Use of Resources 35 2011) that share the Aeon philosophy, centering on pure Key Issue 4 holding company Aeon Co.,Ltd., and the General MerchandisDealing with Social Matters 39 ing Store and Supermarket Businesses. “Aeon” in this report refers to overall scope. When a section applies to only certain Chronology of Aeon's Environmental Conservation and Social operating companies, it is indicated as such. Contribution Activities 64 •Target Audience Independent Review Group 65 Our customers, shareholders, students, local residents who live in the neighborhood of the stores of the group, business Chief Environmental Officer's Commitment 66 partners, NPOs, NGOs, government, investors and Aeon GRI Guidelines Indicators 67 people (Aeon employees) AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 2 President's Commitment Executing sustainable management that balances Group growth with the development of society of communities. Furthermore, the initiative taken by Aeon people (Aeon employees) to organize immediate responses to the disaster and help the communities they serve—for example, by guiding people to shelter and reopening stores as quickly as possible— reaffirmed my belief in the potential of retailing as a business made possible by the cooperative efforts of individuals. Launching the medium-term management plan in response to the three underlying megatrends In October 2010, Aeon instituted an all-new medium-term management plan. The formulation of this medium-term management plan takes into account Aeon 10 years into the future with a focus on the three underlying megatrends that will drive global changes in our operating environment. These megatrends include an “economic shift to Asia,” which will produce a new billion strong middle class Motoya Okada President in South Korea, China, Vietnam and India, “shift in population to Aeon Co., Ltd. urban areas,” in which urban areas with populations exceeding 10 million will double, and “shift to aging populations,” in which the population of persons 65 and older will increase by 1.4 times. We have also established three growth strategies that will be used to capture growth opportunities resulting from these Assisting disaster-stricken areas by remembering our changes in our operating environment. These strategies include core commitments to peace, people and community “strengthen our presence in Asian markets,” which focuses on We would like to express our deepest sympathies for all those working together as a Group to develop markets in China and who have suffered from the Great East Japan Earthquake. To do the ASEAN region, “enhance our share in major urban markets,” our part in overcoming this national tragedy, we at the Aeon which aims to multiply our stores, establish new operating Group will muster all of the resources at our disposal to steadfastly formats and expand upon business opportunities in major urban support efforts to rebuild and restore communities and livelihoods areas, and “achieve a top share in senior markets,” which focuses in the stricken areas. on products, sales floors and services that are senior-friendly. As we undertake relief efforts, we believe it is essential to We stand committed to placing these strategies into action practice our basic principles. That means pursuing peace through in order to help raise living standards for consumers in China prosperity for our customers, contributing to the development and Asia, enhance the convenience of consumers in major urban of the communities in which our customers live, and, as people, areas, and promote comfortable environments where senior taking actions that are good for our customers. citizens can shop with peace of mind. When we started operating in front of stores and through emergency shops on rooftop parking lots in the aftermath of Established the Aeon Sustainability Principle as a the disaster, when our stores in disaster-stricken areas served means to sustainably developing society as emergency shelters for neighboring residents, and when we In order to continue our contributions to society as a growth delivered emergency supplies from throughout the country to company, Aeon must not only execute its management plans, but local governments, I noticed that people were smiling and those also strengthen its CSR activities further under the aim of helping smiles reminded me of our basic role as a retailer in promoting sustainably develop society. This is because, going forward, our peace through prosperity and contributing to the development customers in China and the entire Asian region will continue to 3 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 grow in number, while our supply chain, including procurement Aeon growth. partners, continues to become more globalized, meaning the The key to successfully meeting these new challenges can be number of stakeholders affected by Aeon’s business activities will found in the awareness and actions of each and every member grow more and more. of the Aeon Group. Without forgetting my appreciation for the Under this awareness, we drew up the Aeon Supplier Code many people that have supported our successful history, and of Conduct, which has enabled us to work together with the our commitment to assist the victims of the Great East Japan supply chain, including our manufacturing partners, to pursue Earthquake, I believe the mission of management should be to trust environmental conservation activities and establish appropriate the potential of the retail industry, which is built upon our three working conditions. Moreover, international frameworks are at pillars of community, people and peace, develop human resources the heart of our management. In 2004, Aeon became Japan’s first that will take on new challenges, as well as consolidate and lead the retailer to sign on to the United Nations Global Compact, a set actions of these human resources in one direction. of 10 principles laid out by the UN on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. We were also the first to acquire SA8000 certification, an international standard on protecting human rights in the labor market. In addition, we need a CSR strategy that is integrated with our Group management strategy in order to continue to grow together with our stakeholders and local communities over the long term. To this end, together with formulating the medium-term management plan in March 2011, we formulated the Aeon Sustainability Principle that defines CSR activities for the entire Group. In this, we have laid out four key objectives for achieving sustainable management by 2020 that balances Group growth with the development of society. These are: 1) realization of a low-carbon society; 2) conservation of biodiversity; 3) better use of resources; and 4) dealing with social matters. This resolution represents our commitment to stakeholders, and each year, we will manage and release our results by stipulating indicators to quantitatively measure our progress as a means to steadily evolving our initiatives going forward. Our commitment to combine the heart and soul of every member of the Aeon Group In 2010, Aeon, formerly known as Jusco Co., Ltd., celebrated the 40th anniversary of its founding. During the past 40 years, the market and society have both undergone significant changes, but the reason behind why Aeon was able to consistently achieve growth can be found in its daily commitment to its stakeholders. This has enabled us to constantly evolve and transform significant changes in our operating environment into growth opportunities. As new megatrends sweep toward us both in Japan and overseas, I believe we must once again seek out new challenges and new horizons in the retail industry in order to continue to realize unique AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 4 Important Report Aeon’s response to the Great East Japan Earthquake At 2:46pm Japan Standard Time on March 11, 2011, an earthquake measuring magnitude 9, or Japan’s largest ever recorded earthquake to date, struck off the coast of Sanriku in Miyagi Prefecture. This earthquake produced ground shaking greater than 5 on Japan’s seismic intensity scale across an extensive area extending from the Tohoku region all the way to the Kanto region. The earthquake also triggered a massive tsunami that brought with it unprecedented damage to the coastal areas of Eastern Japan. Aeon extends its sincerest sympathy to those affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake and stands fully committed to supporting the recovery and reconstruction efforts of social infrastructure as well as the livelihoods of the people in the disaster-affected areas, by collectively utilizing the Group’s many strengths. This page provides a report on Aeon’s main responses in the aftermath of the Great East Japan Earthquake*. *Information appearing on this page is as of July 15, 2011. Please visit our website for the latest information. Aeon’s response after the Great East Japan Earthquake Great East Japan Earthquake strikes at 2:46pm on March 11, 2011 Headquarters response team set up internally at 3:00pm March April May June ● Dispatches support teams ● Restores product procurement ● Reopens Aeon Kesennuma store Efforts to reopen and distribution network on rooftop parking lot ● Initiates mobile sales stores ● Reopens first floor of Aeon ● Reopens entire Aeon Iwaki store Ishinomaki store ● Provides relief supplies to ● Provides ¥610 million to disaster-affected local employees and their families who Efforts to restore governments based on disaster ● Donates school bags to the were affected by the disaster prevention agreements ● Holds joint business fair together children of disaster-stricken areas ● Donates second-round of disaster and reconstruct with producers from the Tohoku ● Provides Aeon Ishinomaki ● Donates first-round of disaster relief funds local ommunities region Shopping Center as evacuation site relief funds ● Provides support to employees ● Provides ¥10 million in charitable that volunteer in disaster-affected donations to NPO Japan Platform areas ● Uses the WAON card to help Reconstruction support the reconstruction effort. ● Initiates the “Gambaro (Go) Japan! assistance Begins accepting in-store Yellow Receipt Campaign” to provided together ● donations and donations of support the reconstruction efforts. with employees ● Holds first restoration support loyalty reward points. and customers sale: April 8 to April 12 across Japan ● Holds second restoration support sale: April 28 to May 2 Initial response after the Great East Japan Earthquake Established “Headquarters Response Team” response team as well as service companies and subsidiaries* in the disaster-affected areas. We also used this system to collect and grasp Wide range of measures determined based on the prompt information on damage to stores, the safety of employees and our sharing of information on disaster-affected areas efforts to lead customers to safety. This information was in turn utilized At 3:00pm, immediately after the Great East Japan Earthquake, Aeon to dispatch support teams, and develop various measures toward the set up a headquarters response team headed by the president of Aeon restoration of product procurement and distribution functions and the Retail Co., Ltd. at the Makuhari head office, based on earthquake and provision of relief supplies based on disaster pevention agreements. disaster preparedness rules that lay out response protocol aimed at As the situation changed with each passing minute, persons in charge quickly restoring local communities and preventing the spread of on the ground at our stores in disaster-affected areas also strived to human damage. At 5:00pm, an on-the-spot headquarters response make decisions speedily in order to ensure the safety of our customers team was established at the Tohoku Company (Sendai Office). and the prompt reopening of our stores. The headquarters response team used a teleconferencing system *Subsidiaries Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. and Maxvalu Tohoku Co., Ltd. and service to share information promptly with the on-the-spot headquarters companies Aeon Topvalu Co., Ltd. and Aoen Global SCM Co., Ltd., etc. 5 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 Efforts to reopen stores Situation regarding the recovery and reopening of stores Restoring product procurement and distribution networks Approximately 97% of stores were fully operational Stores reopened thanks to procurement networks in one month after the earthquake Japan and overseas. Immediately after the earthquake, we were forced to temporarily Aeon promptly supplied products to disaster-affected areas by close approximately 65% of our 449 stores in the Tohoku region. As maximizing its own infrastructure, including its nationwide distribution a retail-focused business, Aeon believed the quick reopening of its network, product procurement routes that extend overseas and private stores, which form an integral part of local communities’ lifestyle brand Topvalu. In the process, we leveraged cooperation with business infrastructure, would be the first step in returning daily life to normal alliance partners Japan Airlines and the Japan Railway Group, and for those victims of the disaster and would help contribute to the actively shared information with each of its partner manufacturers. recovery efforts in disaster-stricken areas. To this end, we strived Later, we responded to water restrictions that caused a spike in to reopen our stores first through sales operations at storefronts, demand for drinking water by leveraging our global procurement followed by partial openings and then full reopenings. network spanning from South Korea and Canada to France to import Thanks to the assistance of countless individuals and the creative emergency supplies of water. onsite innovations of each store, the recovery effort moved forward Although our Tohoku regional distribution center (RDC) and other rapidly as approximately 70% of our stores were able to reopen in delivery bases were not operational and gasoline and vehicles were some format, such as sales at storefronts, on March 13, or the second in short supply due to the earthquake, we developed roundabout day following the earthquake and tsunami disaster. Just two weeks routes originating from our RDCs in Kansai, Chubu and Kanto to ensure after the earthquake on March 25, approximately 95% of our stores products made it to disaster-affected areas. Our conventional logistics had reopened. One month later on April 11, approximately 97% of infrastructure returned to normal operations during the month of April. stores had reopened for business. Distribution network restoration Situation of store reopenings in the Tohoku Region （%） Before Immediately after 100 Not operational the earthquake the earthquake Operational at 80 storefronts Partially Tohoku regional operational distribution center Kansai regional 60 distribution center 40 Fully operational Chubu regional distribution center 20 0 3/12 3/15 3/18 3/21 3/23 3/26 3/30 4/3 4/5 4/10 (day) Dispatch of employees locally Helping quickly restore and reconstruct stores and communities in disaster-stricken areas Immediately after the earthquake, members of Aeon’s executive management as well as a total of more than 2,500 employees from Group companies were dispatched to areas impacted by the earthquake. Employees were assigned to teams, and helped confirm the safety of local employees, assisted at the Aeon Ishinomaki store, which had become an evacuation center, provided sales support to disaster-stricken stores, as well as physically sorted and helped ship out products from the Tohoku RDC by sheer force in numbers. Operations were restarted on the first floor of Aeon Ishinomaki store on March 31 Operations were restarted on the Employees overcome with tears of Group employees to disaster areas Boarding a bus loaded with relief suprooftop parking lot of the Aeon Kesemotion at a morning briefing prior to plies ennuma store on April 1 reopening AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 6 Important Report Aeon’s response to the Great East Japan Earthquake Efforts to restore and reconstruct local communities Afterwards, we continued with our fundraising efforts, and provided Activities under disaster preventionagreements a total of around \350 million starting from June 15 as the secondRelief supplies provided to 6 prefectural and 14 city round of disaster relief funds to the disaster response headquarters of governments Iwate, Miyagi and Fukushima prefectures, which will require long-term The Aeon Group has signed disaster assistance, as well as the NPO Association for Aid and Relief, Japan (AAR prevention agreements with about 600 local Japan). governments throughout Japan to provide Furthermore, Aeon together with its employees from Japan and relief supplies and shelters in the event of a overseas, board members and former board members contributed large scale disaster. Under these agreements, a total of \610 million as condolence money or special disaster relief Truck filled with relief we have provided a total of approximately 2 supplies and heading to money to assist those employees impacted by the earthquake. a disaster-stricken area million items, such as food, drinks, clothing and medicine, as relief supplies to 6 prefectural governments and 14 city governments in areas impacted by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Aeon also plans to increase the number of prefectural governments with which it has concluded a comprehensive cooperation agreement, from 12 currently, in order to provide wider scale assistance and further Hosting a charitable School bags were strengthen its contributions to local communities during a large scale donation event donated to children of disaster. disaster-affected areas Table: Disaster relief fund recipients Utilizing store space Recipients Amount of Donations Opening sections of a store as an evacuation center Miyagi Prefecture ¥1,200 million Aeon Ishinomaki store, designated as a wide-area evacuation site, Iwate Prefecture ¥1,200 million opened each floor to disaster victims as an evacuation center. At its Fukushima Prefecture ¥1,200 million peak, the store accommodated approximately 2,500 local residents. Ibaraki Prefecture ¥100 million In addition, a section of the store was opened as a living space for Chiba Prefecture ¥100 million disaster victims for a further two weeks after the earthquake first Aomori Prefecture ¥50 million struck. Tochigi Prefecture ¥50 million NPO Japan Platform (JPF) ¥10 million Association for Aid and Relief, Japan (AAR Japan) Approximately ¥59.54 million Messages from disaster Floors of a shopping Aeon pharmacists used Providing support by taking leave for volunteer activities victims center were open to store inventories to fill Respecting employees’ wishes to assist the disasterdisaster victims prescriptions for disaster victims stricken areas Relief supply donations and financial assistance Aeon is committed to supporting the volunteer activities of employees in disaster-affected areas. As it is important to undertake Aeon continues to provide donations to NPOs and activities that match with local needs, volunteer activities involve disaster-affected prefectures collaborating with Ishinomaki Disaster Volunteer Center to exchange Aeon has donated a total of approximately \5 billion to disasterinformation and have focused on the cleanup of damaged homes. affected prefectures and NPOs in the form of donations received from Each program spans three days either during the week or over the its customers, funds raised by its employees, contributions from Group weekend in which employees systematically take paid vacation or companies and relief supplies. use long holidays or holidays following the policies of each company. First, in light of the urgent need of assistance immediately after the In addition, as suggested by employees, family members who are earthquake, emergency disaster relief funds were donated to the NPO of high school age and older are also welcome to join the volunteer Japan Platform. In addition, in April a total of \4.1 billion in donations, program. contributions from Group companies and relief supplies were, as the Currently there are two programs each first-round of disaster relief funds, delivered to the disaster response scheduled for the months of July and August, headquarters of Aomori, Iwate, Ibaraki, Chiba, Tochigi, Fukushima while programs starting September and and Miyagi prefectures, in order to immediately be used to rebuild later will be decided accordingly following infrastructure in each prefecture and for other assistance programs. coordination with the local volunteer center. Volunteers in action 7 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 Supporting the recovery effort together with Support utilizing the unique features customers and employees across Japan of each Group company Each Group company is undertaking support activities which make use of their unique features. Fundraising Examples of support activities Fundraising activities have been held at all stores and ■ Aeon Delight Co., Ltd. through Aeon Bank nationwide in Japan Over 100 security guards have been dispatched to disaster-affected stores to ensure store safety and assist with the restart of business. The company has also arranged to During the period between March 12 and May 8, Aeon held fundraising receive and transport relief goods including fire extinguishers, power generators, fuel transport tanks, and portable toilets to areas in need. activities at its 9,000 stores and offices in Japan and abroad as well as ■ MEGA PETRO Co., Ltd. (Group company that operates the PETRAS accepted donations by credit cards issued by Aeon Credit Service Co., gas station chain) Ltd. or by direct deposit in a special disaster relief account at Aeon The company is providing fuel supplies for the vehicles transporting emergency relief goods in collaboration with its business partners. Bank, Ltd. The amount of donations raised from customers as well as ■ Aeon Bank, Ltd. employees amounted to \1,370,255,978. The company is providing financial services to customers affected by the earthquake including low interest mortgages and reconstruction loans. ■ Aeon Credit Service Co., Ltd. The company launched a special emergency loan service for Aeon Card members in disaster-affected areas. Gambaro (Go) Japan! Yellow Receipt Campaign held in support ■ Ltd. Aeon Fantasy Co., Ltd. of the Great East Japan Earthquake reconstruction effort Company mascot Lala-chan visited evacuation centers near the Aeon Ishinomaki store in order to cheer up local children. In response to a request from the Parents' Conducting sales and campaigns in support of the reconAssociation for Food Allergy Patients, the company donated goods including struction efforts in the aftermath of the earthquake and hypoallergenic foods, sketchbooks, and crayons to evacuation centers in Fukushima Prefecture. In addition, flags to show support for children of disaster-affected areas tsunami disaster were sent to stores located in these regions. ■ MINISTOP Co., With a network of shopping centers The company contributed \5 for each soft serve ice cream purchased between April 1 and general merchandise stores in local and April 30 as a donation to local governments in disaster-affected areas. communities throughout Japan, Aeon believes it is important to take the lead in Initiatives to conserve energy raising awareness to support the recovery Aiming to reduce peak time power use by 25% over 2010 of Japan as well as disaster-affected areas. The Japanese government has set a goal to reduce peak time power use by 15% To this end, we have held sales in support over 2010, targeting businesses and households whose power is supplied by the of the nation’s recovery efforts together Tokyo Electric Power Company and Tohoku Electric Power in order to prevent power shortages anticipated to occur in summer 2011 from the Tohoku to Kanto regions. with our Group companies and customers. The 370 Aeon stores located within this target area have set a target to reduce peak From April 8 to 12, the Gambaro (Go) time power use by 25% over last year’s figure, which is higher than the government stipulated goal. The stores aim to serve their role as a good corporate citizen that is Japan! Special Relief Support Sale was held A disaster relief donation box closely tied to the community. To this end, a number of initiatives have been launched in about 22,500 specialty stores within was set up at each store. starting July 1 to reach this goal. our shopping centers throughout Japan, Measures aimed at reducing peak time power use by 25% over 2010 and 500 general merchandise stores directly operated by the Group, or ■ Initiatives aimed at reducing lighting. a total of 23,000 stores. During the sale, each store set up a disaster relief ● Reviews of in-store ambient lighting and brightness call for a reduction of 30-40% from original settings while maintaining a comfortable shopping environment for donation box, where the Gambaro (Go) Japan! Yellow Receipt Campaign customers. was held concurrently in support of the reconstruction effort from the ● Switch spotlights from incandescent light bulbs to LED light bulbs. ● Turn off exterior lighting and parking lot lights during certain hours of the day Great East Japan Earthquake. Aeon has donated 1% of the total amount ■ Sell a portion of beverages cases at room temperature of all receipts submitted by customers in the campaign were made ● Sell juices and teas packaged in PET bottles and alcoholic beverages such as beer at available for use in support of the earthquake relief effort. room temperature or higher than the normal refrigerating temperature. ■ Air conditioning temperature and air volume control ● Set the onsite temperature to 28 degrees Celsius (25 degrees Celsius for sales floors with food items) ■ Install demand controllers Support of reconstruction through e-money WAON ● Install control equipment that monitors power usage, and restrict power usage once energy consumption reaches a certain preset value, such that it cannot exceed this Enabling fundraising using WAON loyalty reward points limit, to implement systematic control of power usage. Based on feedback from customers who would like to use their WAON Instituting “summer time” operations across the Group loyalty reward points to assist disaster-affected areas, Aeon decided Aeon began shortening the hours of operation and usage of lights, elevators, and air conditioners at its head office and business offices on June 21 ahead of its store to enable fundraising using WAON points from April 1 to May 31. In locations. In addition, a total of 276 business locations including stores, head office, addition, we have donated 0.1% of all purchases made using WAON and business offices under the Aeon Group have implemented the “summer time” between April 1 and April 30 at over 100 thousand WAON-affiliated system. This involves shifting the hours of operation and business to an earlier time with an aim of spreading out peak hours and reducing the total power usage. stores throughout Japan to help with the disaster reconstruction efforts. AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 8 Aeon Group Profile We are Aeon. Aeon develops community-oriented shopping centers anchored by flagship general merchandising stores. Our General Merchandise Store (GMS) Business shopping centers include mall-type facilities made up of a variety of specialty stores covering a broad market range and smaller, Offering an attractive shopping environment to meet diversified customer needs more focused facilities with specialty stores and services needed for With operations based throughout Japan from Hokkaido to Okinawa, GMS operations are at everyday living. We operate a wide variety of businesses to help our the core of Aeon shopping centers. GMS offers clothing, food, and household goods to meet customers lead healthy, vibrant lives, including small supermarkets, our customers’ needs through sales floors with lifestyle-enhancing ideas. convenience stores, drugstores, and general financial services. We aim to create a future of limitless promise, while we remain, ■AEON Retail Co., Ltd. ■SUNDAY CO., LTD. ■Bon Belta Co., Ltd. as a global “customer satisfaction” business, firmly committed to ■AEON Hokkaido Corporation ■AEON KYUSHU CO., LTD. ■AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD. putting the customer first, not only in Japan but in China, Thailand, Malaysia and around the world. Supermarket Business As Japan’s No. 1 supermarket chain Operating Revenue (Millions of Yen) With approximately 1,300 stores operated by 19 companies throughout Japan, sales from supermarket operations exceed 1.8 trillion yen. Our supermarket business makes effective FY 2006 4,824,775 use of group synergies while earning the trust of customers and rooting our businesses in the FY 2007 5,167,366 local community. FY 2008 5,230,786 ■Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd. ■KASUMI CO., LTD. ■MAXVALU CHUKYO CO., LTD. FY 2009 5,054,394 ■Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd. ■Belc Co., LTD. ■MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD. ■Maxvalu Tohoku Co., Ltd. ■AEON KIMISAWA CO., LTD. ■MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD. FY 2010 5,096,569 ■Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd. ■KOHYO CO., LTD. ■MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD. ■Maxvalu Hokkaido Co., Ltd. ■MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD. ■AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD. (Maxvalu) ■The Maruetsu, Inc. ■MAXVALU KITA TOHOKU CO., LTD. Services and ■Inageya Co., Ltd. ■Maxvalu Kyushu Co., Ltd. Other Operations SC Development Operating Revenue Operations by Business Segment GMS and Other Specialty Store FY 2010 Retail Store Operations Operations Discount Store Business Offering greater convenience and low prices through low-cost operations Our Discount Store Business rises to the challenge of improving the quality, price and lineup of Operating Income (Millions of Yen) everyday essentials and achieving low-cost operations to provide customers with genuinely low prices and high levels of convenience. FY 2006 189,728 ■AEON Retail Co., Ltd. ■Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd. ■Maxvalu Kyushu Co., Ltd. FY 2007 156,040 ■AEON Hokkaido Corporation ■Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd. ■MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD. FY 2008 124,373 ■AEON KYUSHU CO., LTD. ■Maxvalu Tohoku Co., Ltd. ■MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD. ■AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD. ■Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd. (Aeon Supercenters, Mega FY 2009 130,193 AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd. ■Maxvalu Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Marts, and The Big are operated by the above companies.) FY 2010 172,360 Strategic Small Size Store Business Services and Serving everyday life at Other Operations Operating Income neighborhood stores by Business Segment GMS and Other This business serves our customers’ daily lives with over 3,500 convenience stores operated in SC Development FY 2010 Retail Store Operations Japan and other Asian countries, small-sized supermarkets, and specialty stores selling boxed Operations lunches and ready-made meals. Specialty Store ■MINISTOP CO., LTD. ■AEON Retail Co., Ltd. (My ■RECODS Co., Ltd. Operations ■ORIGIN TOSHU CO., LTD. Basket stores, A Colle) 9 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 Drugstore & Pharmacy Business Specialty Store Business Supporting our customers’ health through Supporting the unique lifestyle of specialized expertise and a diverse product lineup every customer Through alliances with nationwide drugstores and dispensing pharmacies, this business is Through partnerships with companies both Japanese and foreign, this business operates engaged in developing new healthcare products and services and supporting the training specialty stores dealing in a wide range of products that include fashion, sporting goods of pharmacists who will play a role in providing community healthcare. We also focus and books. These stores can be found in shopping centers, as stand-alone stores, in station on creating community healthcare stations through the development of “Recods” stores buildings, and in various other types and locations. and other new format stores that combine the benefits of drugstore specialization with convenience-store amenities. ■GFOOT CO., LTD. ■AEON BODY Co., Ltd. ■Mega Sports Co., Ltd. ■COX CO., LTD. ■Talbots Japan Co., Ltd. ■MEGA PETRO Co., Ltd. ■CFS Corporation ■Welpark Co., Ltd. ■AEON KYUSHU CO., LTD. (health and beauty care) ■Taka:Q Co., Ltd. ■Branshes Co. Ltd. ■LAURA ASHLEY JAPAN CO., LTD. ■TSURUHA HOLDINGS Inc. ■Shimizu Drug Co., Ltd. ■KUSURI NO AOKI CO., LTD. ■AEON Retail Co., Ltd. ■AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd. ■Abilities JUSCO Co., Ltd. ■PETCITY CO., LTD. ■AT Japan Co., Ltd. ■GROWELL HOLDINGS CO., LTD. (health and beauty care) (health and beauty care) ■AEON FOREST CO., LTD. ■MIRAIYA SHOTEN CO., LTD. ■Claire’s Nippon Co., Ltd. ■Medical Ikkou Co., Ltd. ■AEON Hokkaido Corporation ■AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD. ■TAKIYA Co., Ltd. (health and beauty care) (health and beauty care) Digital Business Financial Service Business Creating a comfortable environment at our shopping centers Offering comprehensive financial This business offers products and services through online shopping, online supermarkets services with retail expertise and other online sources. Mail-order retailing is also offered via catalogues and TV. Our Financial Service Business provides global financial services centered on the credit card Responsibilities also include managing the e-commerce and mail order business of the Group business in Japan and other countries in Asia. This business is also engaged in efforts to as a whole. achieve greater customer satisfaction by offering financial services that take advantage of the unique characteristics of retail operations, such as full retail-featured banking at Aeon ■AEON VISTY CO., LTD. ■Digital Direct Corporation ■AEON CREDIT SERVICE CO., LTD. ■AEON THANA SINSAP ■AEON BANK, LTD. ■AEON CREDIT SERVICE (THAILAND) PLC. (ASIA) CO., LTD. ■AEON CREDIT SERVICE (M) ASEAN Business BERHAD Interacting with customers through new multiple channels The ASEAN Business operates 27 stores in Malaysia located mainly in shopping centers on the west coast of the Malay Peninsula, and 13 supermarkets in Bangkok, Thailand. A liaison office Shopping Center Development Business was also established in Vietnam in 2009. Transforming from stores that just sell ■AEON Co., (M) Bhd. ■AEON (Thailand) CO., LTD. “goods,” into producers that create various “events” In Japan and overseas, our Shopping Center Development Business is developing and managing shopping centers that coexist in harmony with the local community. Efforts are being made to improve our services and facilities in response to the changing times and diversifying customer needs. China Business ■AEON Mall Co., Ltd. ■LOC DEVELOPMENT CO., LTD. Mobilizing all available group resources to operate businesses in China With shopping centers and GMS at the core of its operations, the China Business utilizes store development and operational expertise cultivated in Japan to operate financial businesses, services, specialty stores and a wide range of other businesses in China. Service Business ■AEON Stores (Hong Kong) ■Beijing AEON Co., Ltd. ■Qingdao AEON Dongtai Creating a comfortable environment at Co., Ltd. Co.,Ltd. our shopping centers ■Guangdong JUSCO Teem Stores ■AEON South China Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Our Service Business provides various services to ensure that our customers enjoy the time they spend at our shopping centers. Efforts are also being made to improve facility services to ensure our customers’ safety and comfort. ■AEON DELIGHT CO., LTD. ■AEON Eaheart Co., LTD. ■Reform Studio Co., Ltd. ■AEON Fantasy Co., Ltd. ■AEON CINEMAS CO., LTD. ■Warner Mycal Corporation ■ZWEI CO., LTD. ■JUSVEL CO., LTD. AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 10 IN FOCUS Formulation of the Aeon Sustainability Principle and KPI Participation in the United Nations History of CSR activities Global Compact Full-fledged CSR activities launched in 1989 Strengthening CSR activities from a global perspective In 1970, Okadaya Co., Ltd., Futagi Co., Ltd. and Shiro Co., Ltd. merged to form Jusco Co., Ltd., Aeon’s predecessor company. The In 2004, Aeon became the first retailer in Japan to participate in the company went on to expand its operations under the corporate United Nations Global Compact as a means to strengthening its CSR motto at the time of “support local communities through activities from a truly global perspective. Based on the 10 principles commerce,” as sales over the previous 40 years have grown from outlined in the Global Compact, we formulated the Aeon Supplier ¥500 million to ¥5 trillion, the number of stores has been expanded Code of Conduct (see pg. 55) and acquired SA8000 certification (see from 70 to 10,000, and the number of employees increased from pg. 55), an international standard 4,000 to 350,000. Amidst this continuing growth, Aeon engaged relating to human rights and working in a wide range of social contribution activities to demonstrate its conditions. leadership as a good corporate citizen, including the establishment Starting in 2008, we have of the Jusco Company Welfare Fund (now known as the Aeon participated in Supply Chain Welfare Fund) in 1977 as a means to improve the welfare of people Subcommittee of the Global with disabilities. Underpinned by these activities, Aeon embarked Compact Japan Network in order on the full scale development of a framework to promote CSR to promote CSR together with our activities from the latter half of the 1980s. After setting up the supply chain partners, and through Aeon Group 1% Club (now known as the Aeon 1% Club) in 1989, this organization, we hold ongoing we went on to establish the JUSCO Earth-Friendly Committee and discussions with member companies. the Aeon Group Environmental Foundation (now known as the Aeon Environmental Foundation) in 1990. Later in 1991 we initiated the “Aeon Hometown Forests Program,” followed by the “Bring Your Own Shopping Bag” Campaign on a trial basis as well as the experimental “Collecting Recyclable Resources at Stores” Campaign. Each of these initiatives has been linked up with our current CSR initiatives. History of Environmental and Social Activities as well as Future Aspirations Scope / Level of activities 1990 to 1991 2000 to 2001 2008 to 2010 2020 Building a Framework and Launching Initiatives ● Established the Aeon 1% Club and Aeon Environmental Systemization of Management Focused on Foundation Expansion of Policy and Publication Society and the Environment ● Initiated the “Aeon Hometown Individual Initiatives ● Response to climate change Forests Program” ● Commenced the “Bring Your ● Started the Aeon Happy Yellow ● Response to protecting Receipt Campaign ecosystems Own Shopping Bag” Campaign ● Initiated the My Basket & My Bag on a trial basis as well as Realize sustainable launched the experimental campaigns management “Collecting Recyclable Resources ● Acquired ISO 14001 certification Formulated the Aeon at Stores” Campaign. Manifesto on the Prevention ● Started Clean & Green activities of Global Warming and the ● 1965 Donated 1,000 cherry trees to the Aeon Biodiversity Principle city of Okazaki at the opening of the Changed company name Okazaki Okadaya Store Started Aeon Day Launched the JUSCO ● 1977 Established the JUSCO Company Earth-Friendly Committee Welfare Fund (now known as the Aeon Welfare Fund) Year 11 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 To this end, Aeon formulated a new medium-term management Establishment of the Aeon Sustainability plan as a growth strategy for the Group in October 2010 and the Principle Aeon Sustainability Principle in March 2011, which functions as a key guideline for Group-wide CSR activities. We have announced Established four key objectives and target indicators both internally and externally that we will seek to achieve geared toward the realization of sustainable management sustainable management by 2020 that balances Group growth with the development of society by tackling the four key objectives Symbolized by ISO 26000, an international guideline on CSR defined as: 1) realization of a low-carbon society; 2) conservation of launched in November 2010, the belief that “various organizations biodiversity; 3) better use of resources; and 4) dealing with social must promote measures aimed at realizing a sustainable society” is matters. today spreading around the world. Aeon’s business activities have Aeon has positioned the forward three-year period from fiscal also become much more globalized over the previous several years, 2011 as the time to build up a foundation aimed at sustainable while the number of our stakeholders as well as our own impact on management, and plans to monitor and release its progress in the environment and society is increasing. In order to continue to attaining the key performance indicators (KPI), which quantitatively grow going forward, Aeon must maintain a longer term perspective evaluate the results of its initiatives to attain each of the four key and steadily promote CSR activities on a Group-wide level. objectives. Aeon Sustainability Principle Aeon aims to realize a sustainable society with stakeholders based on our basic principle of “pursuing peace, respecting humanity and contributing to local communities, centered on customers.” With “realization of a low-carbon society,” “conservation of biodiversity,” “better use of resources” and “dealing with social matters” as pillars, we will think globally and advance activities locally and actively. Toward realizing sustainable management Toward balancing Group growth with the development of society Key Issue 1 Key Issue 2 Key Issue 3 Key Issue 4 Realization of a Conservation Better Use of Dealing with Low-carbon Society of Biodiversity Resources Social Matters AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 12 IN FOCUS Formulation of the Aeon Sustainability Principle and KPI Key Issue Main Category Subcategory KPI formulation process Key Issue 1 Reduce Total CO2 Emissions Realization of Setting indicators that take into account matters of a Low-carbon Develop Eco Stores interest both internally and externally Society When formulating its key objectives and setting KPI, Aeon closely reviewed initiatives from two perspectives, “matters of particular interest to stakeholders (A)” and “important matters for the growth Reduce CO2 Emissions in Stores of Aeon (B),” given the purpose of balancing Group growth with the development of society. Improve Energy Efficiency As for “A,” we first confirmed key matters based on international CSR guidelines and standards, including ISO 26000, GRI (G3) and the United Nations Global Compact, as well as Japan Ministry of the Environment Guideline Comparison Sheet issued by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan, and then narrowed these further by Prevent Leakage of Fluorocarbons and Promote Use of Natural Refrigerants referring to inquiries and feedback provided by customers to our Group companies. Regarding “B,” we identified important matters from the management policies developed by Group companies and our medium-term management plan. Communicate CO2 Reductions to Customers Based on these matters from “A” and “B” respectively, we Reduce C02 Emissions in Products and Logistics defined the four key objectives noted above. In addition, we studied the nature of initiatives executed at our Group companies for each of the four key objectives and came up with approximately 20 items Promote Visualization in Logistics that will help us quantitatively ascertain our progress. The chart at right contains a list of the finalized items that were approved by our Key Issue 2 executive management team. Moving forward, Aeon will monitor and make KPI public Conservation Biodiversity Conservation in Products and Logistics Communicate Biodiversity-friendly Products to Customers annually, as well as review these KPI on an annual basis in light of of Biodiversity social trends and feedback from its stakeholders. Biodiversity Conservation at the Store Level Develop and Evaluate Indicators Actions Taken with Customers Aeon Hometown Forests Program Key Issue 3 Reduce Amount of Materials Used in Packaging and Containers Better Use of Effective Utilization in Stores Resources Management System for Waste Emissions Together with Customers Reduce Number of Plastic Shopping Bags Key Issue 4 Make Contributions to Local Communities Dealing with Community Involvement Social Matters Develop the Human Resources of the Future Accountable Procurement Guidelines Promotion of Fair Trade Promote the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct Labor and Human Rights Promote Diversity 13 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 KPI Scope Covered Fiscal 2013 Target Summary of Actions/Initiatives ● 2010: 2.50 million tons (1) Make investments in energy conservation centered on lighting solutions ● 2013: 2.25 million tons Total Annual CO2 Emissions Consolidated Group companies in Japan (2) Step up measures to operate stores with reduced amounts of energy (20% reduction compared to 2006) (3) Conduct energy management training courses *Emissions factor uses the adjusted emissions factor for 2010 (1) Formulate concept for next-generation Eco Stores (Future Stores) Formulate concept of and develop next-generation Eco Stores that Consolidated Group companies in Japan (2) Select suitable properties from among our supermarkets aims to reduce CO2 emissions by 50% (3) Undertake design and development using the new concept ZEco Store Development Re-examine concept behind standard Eco Stores and apply standards (1) Re-examine concept for each type (general merchandising store and supermarket) Consolidated Group companies in Japan to all new stores (2) Apply standards to new stores ● 2010: 1,550 thousand kl (1) Make investments in energy conservation centered on lighting solutions Total Energy Use Consolidated Group companies in Japan ● 2013: 1,400 thousand kl (2) Step up measures to operate stores with reduced amounts of energy (crude oil equivalent: thousands of kiloliters) (10% reduction) (3) Conduct energy management training courses (1) Conduct energy management training courses for store managers Improvement in Energy Management of Stores Increase the accumulated number of employees that have taken the (2) Continue to hold the course divided into focus areas including air conditioning, lighting and Number of Employees Completing [Passing] the Energy Consolidated Group companies in Japan seminar to 600 by 2013 refrigerated display cases Management Seminar (3) Follow up after the training course Reduce energy consumption by 15% on a basic unit basis compared 5 companies in China: to 2010 (1) Continue to conduct energy management training courses Beijing AEON Co., Ltd., Qingdao AEON Dongtai Co., Ltd., AEON (Example: Energy use per total floor area) Improvement of Energy Consumption Unit of China Businesses (2) Operate stores using an energy conservation check-list South China Co., Ltd., Guangdong JUSCO Teem Stores Co., Ltd., *Chinese government target is to reduce energy consumption per GDP unit by (3) Promote investments in energy conservation AEON Stores (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd. 16% of 2010 levels in 2015 (12th 5-year plan) Measures for Ascertaining Replacement Amount and Preventing LeakConsolidated companies in Japan for General Merchandising Store Ascertain replacement amount of fluorocarbons and implement (1) Formulate rules for ascertaining replacement amounts age of Fluorocarbons used in Refrigerated Display Cases and Supermarket businesses leakage prevention measures (2) Examine and execute leakage prevention measures Number of Stores Installing Refrigerated Display Cases that use Consolidated companies in Japan for General Merchandising Store Shift trials from 1 system conventionally to multiple systems in new Start to resolve challenges relating to regulations, safety and costs through partnerships with Natural Refrigerants on a Trial Basis and Supermarket businesses general merchandising stores and supermarkets external stakeholders (1) Ensure transparency and fairness using self-calculation guidelines ・Streamline through system accreditation ● 2010: 21 SKUs (2) Step up communication to customers Number of Products with CO2 Visualization (number of product Private Brand (PB) products ●2013: 100 SKUs ・Appeal benefits to customers SKUs for which CO2 emissions are calculated) *SKU numbers of products given priority for CO2 reductions ・Market contributions to a more affordable lifestyle and a low-carbon society (3) Eliminate waste through CO2 emission analysis and cost analysis (4) Expand the number of products in the initiative (in particular, TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN products) (1) Improve fuel efficiency by introducing energy-friendly vehicles ・Trial use of large, natural gas-powered vehicles CO2 Emissions per Case during Shipment from Distribution Reduce CO2 emissions per case during shipment by 5% compared to ・Promote greater use of eco-friendly vehicles Aeon Global SCM Co., Ltd. Center to Store fiscal 2010 (2) Continue to hold the eco-driving accreditation course (3) Expand the system for recognizing good, eco-friendly drivers (4) Visualization of emissions occurring during shipment of PB products from the factory to the store (1) Step up communication of biodiversity initiatives ・Develop core PB products and market accordingly ・Market regionally developed products (regional TOPVALU) in each region Visibility of Biodiversity-friendly Products Private Brand (PB) products Visibility of Biodiversity-friendly PB products in a consumer survey: 40% (2) Expand the number of biodiversity-friendly products developed ・Provision of TOPVALU Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certified products: ¥11,000 million (7.3% share of total TOPVALU marine produce category sales) (3) Verify visibility and criterion and analyze the resultsZ Formulate indicator measuring the impact commercial facilities have (1) Participate in the corporate network “Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity” Formulation and Evaluation Indicators for Impacts on Ecosystems Consolidated Group companies in Japan on the surrounding ecosystem and evaluate stores based on relevant (2) Formulate an impact indictor for the above-mentioned initiative standards (3) Study offset methodology ● 2011: Develop structure (1) Formulate manual and improve managerial skills in regional training Maintenance and Management Situation of Forests Consolidated Group companies in Japan ● 2012: Phased implementation (2) Create program management ledger for each store ● 2013: 100% implementation (3) Establish budget for each store and systematically maintain and manage forests Amount for Third-Party Processing Required under the Act on (1) Reduce materials used in stores, such as plastic shopping bags Consolidated companies subject to third-party processing require● 2010: 55 tons the Promotion of Sorted Collection and Recycling of Containers ・Change packaging material specifications ments ● 2013: 47 tons and Packaging ・Re-examine provision methods (38 companies as of 2010) (15% reduction) (basic unit per 100 million in net sales) (2) Properly follow legal requirements for calculating usage amounts Cumulative total of more than 250 persons] Number of Employees Completing Internal Training Course to ●2011: 50 persons (1) Partner with external specialist organizations to compile training curriculum Consolidated Group companies in Japan Improve Management of Waste Emissions ●2012: 100 persons (2) Continue to conduct rank-based waste management training ●2013: 100 persons (1) Based on agreements with local governments, increase the number of stores no longer Percentage of Cuetomers Declining Plastic Shopping Bags Consolidated companies in Japan for General Merchandising Store ● 2010: 61.5% offering free plastic shopping bags (nationwide store average) and Supermarket businesses ● 2013: 70.0% (2) Approach local governments in areas that still offers free plastic shopping bags (1) Thoroughly promote campaign in stores Submission rate of greater than 20% in all stores taking part in the 20 Consolidated companies in Japan for General Merchandising (2) Increase the number and location of submission boxes Yellow Receipt Campaign Submission Rate campaign Store, Supermarket and Shopping Center Development businesses (3) Promote greater participation by marketing the campaign in various media including the (In 2010, 46.5% of stores had submission rate of under 20%) corporate website (1) Support the Aeon 1% Club Secretariat to establish new clubs ● 2010: 191 clubs Number of Aeon Cheers Clubs Consolidated Group companies in Japan (2) Host store leader training and efficiently manage the clubs ● 2013: 400 clubs (3) Provide more information in stores (1) Establish working group internally Compilation of CSR Procurement Guidelines (sustainable ・Evaluate impact on business activities Consolidated Group companies in Japan Develop preliminary management structure based on guidelines procurement and purchasing guidelines) Ex.: Social responsibility in terms of biodiversity and other areas (2) Link with the Supplier Code of Conduct TOPVALU Brand Manufacturing Factories (1) Develop system for second-party audits overseas Have 1,200 factories acquire accreditation Number of Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct Accredited Suppliers TOPVALU Manufacturing Partner Factories (2) Bolster training for audit staff (2010: 1,006 factories) (3) Create foundation for third-party audits overseas Accreditation Rate: More than 90% Confirmation status of Fair Trade Manufacturers for the (1) Formulate guidelines TOPVALU Manufacturing Partners Confirm manufacturers at least once in 3 years TOPVALU Brand (2) Confirm manufacturers based on guidelines ● 2020: 30% Ratio of Female Executive Officers Consolidated Group companies in Japan and overseas *Ratio of Female Executive Officers = Female Executive Officers / Total Actively develop female managers under the management training program. Executive Officers ● In 2020: (1) Actively hire human resources around the world Ratio of Employees of Foreign Nationality Aeon Co., Ltd. Make ratio of non-Japanese employees to Japanese employees 1:1 (2) Centrally manage human resource information AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 14 CSR Management Corporate Governance Basic Approach Corporate Governance Framework Aeon engages in ongoing efforts that address the three core Aeon operates under the “Company with Committees” system management challenges of corporate governance reform, Group of corporate governance. Supervisory and executive functions of management reform and execution of the Group’s corporate management have been clearly divided, with supervisory functions social responsibility as a means to building a foundation that will assigned to directors and executive functions fulfilled by executive continually enhance the corporate value of the entire Aeon Group. officers. Executive officers have been given wide-ranging authority to work toward the realization of our medium-term and longterm goals, which serves to facilitate timely managerial decisionmaking. At the same time, we have strengthened the supervisory role of directors to ensure the transparency and objectiveness of managerial decisions and thereby increase returns to shareholders. Corporate Governance Framework (As of May 31, 2011) Shareholders’ Meeting Propose appointment/ Appointment/ Propose appointment/ Appointment/dismissal dismissal of directors dismissal dismissal of independent auditors Supervision, Independent Auditors Appointment/ dismissal Executive Nominating Committee Officers Board of Directors President Compensation Audit Committee Outside Directors：5 Accounting and 18 other executives Inside Directors：4 audit (Three double as a director) Chairman of the Board: Audit non-executive Compensation Committee Aeon Management Committee Figure) Group Management Structure Peace G Chief Officer for G Chief G Chief Strategy G Chief Financial G Chief Officer for G Chief Function Environmental Administration The Products and Officer Officer Human Resources G: Abbreviation for Group Officer Customer Officer People Community Product Reform Audit Business Committee Chief Executive Officer of Companies within the General Merchandise Store (GMS) Business General Merchandise Store (GMS) Business Nomination Raise the corporate Committee Chief Executive Officer of value of the Group as Companies within the Supermarket (SM) Business Supermarket (SM) Business a whole Compensation Committee Chief Executive Officer of Companies within the General Shareholders' Meeting (Shareholders) Discount Store (DS) Business Discount Store (DS) Business Chief Executive Officer of Companies within the Strategic Small Size Store Business Strategic Small Size Store Business Board of Directors' Meeting Chief Executive Officer of Companies within the Drugstore and Pharmacy Business Drugstore and Pharmacy Business Vice President (1) Create a new Group President Chief Executive Officer of Companies within the growth model Financial Service Business Financial Service Business Chief Executive Officer of Companies within the Shopping Center Development Business Shopping Center Development Business Chief Executive Officer of Service Business Companies within the Service Business (2) Reorganize our business operations Chief Executive Officer of Companies within the Specialty Store Business Specialty Store Business Companies within the (3) Further strengthen the Chief Executive Officer of ASEAN Business Group IT and Digital Business company policy of Chief Executive Officer of centralization and Companies within the ASEAN Business delegation Group IT and Digital Business Chief Executive Officer of China Business Companies within the China Business As of April 2011 15 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 CSR Management Risk Management Chart) Board of Directors’ Meeting and Corporate Committees Basic Approach Held Main Role Aeon regards risk management as an important task of ・Oversees the execution of work duties of directors and executive management that is the responsibility of each department. Based Board of officers Directors’ 8 times ・Determines matters that must be decided by the board of on this recognition, daily risk management is handled at the Meeting per year directors as stipulated by Article 416 of Japan’s Companies Act company and department level, while internal control divisions like and matters that cannot be mandated to executive officers. the Group General Affairs Department and Quality Management ・Oversees the execution of work duties of directors and Audit 13 times executive officers Department monitor the status of risk management at each Committee per year ・Determines resolutions concerning whether to appoint, dismiss or reappoint the Company’s auditor to be submitted to the department. general shareholders’ meetingxecutive officers. The Risk Management Committee chaired by the president of Nomination 3 times ・Determines resolutions concerning the appointment and Aeon Co., Ltd. performs reviews of and makes decisions regarding dismissal of directors to be submitted to the general Committee per year shareholders’ meetingecutive officers. external risk factors, such as natural disasters and new infectious Compensation 3 times ・Determines compensation of individual directors and executive diseases, that cannot be addressed by individual companies, and Committee per year officers risks found in products, facilities and services across the entire Aeon Group, At the same time, we work to foresee, predict and prevent risks Internal Control Systems with particularly high impact potential by assembling interdivisional Internal control systems are being further developed by reinforcing task forces. systems for promoting corporate ethics, the foundation of internal control. We are working to disseminate and instill good corporate ethics in all employees of the Aeon Group in accordance with the Response to Incidents, Aeon Code of Conduct, which was established in 2003. In addition, Accidents and Natural Disasters an internal reporting channel (hotline) has been set up as a part of Aeon’s Risk Management Rules has been established to set out the our monitoring activities. reporting route and response procedures in the case of an incident, Overall internal control design and operation is overseen by the accident or natural disaster, so that the Group General Affairs Internal Audit Department, which reports to the Aeon Management Department can immediately set up a response headquarters, and Committee (highest level management committee) and Audit the subsequent impact can be minimized. Committee. A natural disaster response system has been established in which the situation of each Group company and store is reported over the Company’s intranet or the Internet, and information is Group Management promptly shared with each Group company and the response Under the unchanging premise of its Customer-First philosophy, headquarters. In addition, certain Group companies, including Aeon Aeon’s Group management seeks to harmonize its strong operating Co., Ltd. and Aeon Retail Co., Ltd., have implemented an emergency companies, which are located closest to its customers, with its call system in which information is immediately reported to the pure holding company, which can respond agilely to a myriad of Company’s management team and the safety of employees is changes in operating environment, in order to maximize the value it confirmed whenever an earthquake measuring greater than 6 on provides to its customers. This also represents the key to unlocking Japan’s seismic intensity scale occurs. the Group’s continuous development. By transitioning to a pure holding company structure as part of our group management reform, we will be able to build a new growth model for the Group, streamline our business operations and further strengthen efforts to centralize and delegate. This structure will also enable us to seek even greater corporate value for the entire Aeon Group through Group-wide strategic planning, optimum allocation of management resources, generation of Group-wide synergies and adherence to basic principles. AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 16 CSR Management Compliance and Corporate Ethics Basic Rules Promotion Framework —Aeon Code of Conduct The Corporate Ethics Team was established to promote compliance Aeon established the Aeon Code of Conduct in 2003 in order and the code of conduct throughout the Aeon Group, and is under to express the Aeon Basic Principles in terms of a specific set of the direct control of the chief officer for Group human resources at guidelines. Education and training on the code, establishment of Aeon Co., Ltd. The Corporate Ethics Team develops and executes a hotline, and monitoring activities were all also started in 2003 in policies for the overall Aeon Group based on an annual plan and conjunction with establishment of the code. proposes and recommends specific measures to address various The Aeon Code of Conduct makes explicit to Group employees problems and issues facing the company. The status of compliance criteria for action, consideration and judgment in order to serve issues and initiatives as well as the promotion of the code of customers. It is intended as a shared set of values for the Aeon conduct pertaining to the overall Group are reported to the Aeon Group. Executive Meeting, which is Aeon Co., Ltd.’s executive organ, and to Training on the Aeon Code of Conduct for Group companies in the Audit Committee (outside directors). Japan began on a full-fledged basis in 2004. The same training has Companies in the Aeon Group have appointed managers in been provided by Group companies overseas since 2006. charge of promoting the code of conduct and have established administrative offices for the same purpose. These managers conduct training at their respective companies, conduct fact-finding investigations for matters reported through the hotline, respond to questions, and report to Aeon Co., Ltd. Additionally, each store and business office selects one to three Our Commitment employees to serve as leaders in charge of promoting the code of conduct. They work as instructors to disseminate and instill corporate ethics at the workplace level. 1. Aeon people are always grateful to the many other individuals who provide support and help, never forgetting to act with humanity. Code of Conduct Hotline Aeon set up the Aeon Code of Conduct Hotline for employees in 2. Aeon people value the trust of others more than 2004. The hotline can be used not only to report non-compliance anything else, always acting with integrity and and improprieties, but also to speak to someone about various sincerity in all situations. workplace issues, such as not being able to speak with a boss or encountering something that is troubling. The hotline handles 3. Aeon people actively seek out ways to exceed a wide variety of reports and consultations. It is available to all customer expectations. employees working at the Aeon Group. There are two lines in operation, one for internal consultations and another to connect 4. Aeon people continually challenge themselves and consult with an outside party. to find new ways to accomplish the Aeon ideas. Reports and consultations are passed on to Group companies concerned as feedback through managers appointed in charge 5. Aeon people support local community growth, of promoting the code of conduct. Within two weeks time, an acting as good corporate citizens in serving investigation is conducted to ascertain the facts behind each report or consultation, with the results reported directly to Aeon Co., Ltd. society. In addition, all consultation matters are conveyed to the executive management team of Aeon Co., Ltd. and the presidents of all Group companies in a weekly and monthly report. 17 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 Implementing the Aeon Code of Conduct Survey Education and Training Every year since 2003 we have conducted an anonymous survey of Aeon conducts training to disseminate and instill corporate employee awareness in October to ascertain the extent to which ethics, primarily through four programs: training for executive the Aeon Code of Conduct has penetrated the organization as well management, training for code of conduct promotion leaders, as to gather information on workplace issues, employee working general training, and training for new employees. A code of conduct formats, motivation levels and the like. This survey is used as a basis curriculum is also incorporated into problems asked on hiring for assessing employee awareness and corporate culture across examinations and in recruitment training. the entire Aeon Group, including its overseas locations, through evaluation of the visibility of promotional activities, the personal ● Training for Executive Management (since 2003) commitment of employees and the situation of each workplace. Its Executive management from Group companies learns about findings are also compiled, analyzed as well as shared with Aeon and shares the situation surrounding corporate ethics and risk Group companies, and are used in the review of more effective management both within and outside their own respective employee training methods. companies. The curriculum aims to empower participants with In 2010, we received 6,501 responses to this survey from 63 the ability to make their own decisions based on the Aeon Code Group companies in Japan, representing an 81% response rate, of Conduct and to lead as well as set a precedent for general and 19,747 responses from 17 Group companies outside of Japan employees. (9 from China and 8 from the ASEAN region), representing a 90.6% response rate. While the survey results showed that most ● Training for Code of Conduct Promotion Leaders (since 2003) employees in Japan and overseas feel their job is satisfying or Participants learn about corporate ethics and case method rewarding, responses also showed that workplace communication practices. They also acquire skills for conducting study sessions at needs to be improved. their own workplaces on the material covered. Based on these results, we plan to focus efforts on enhancing workplace communication in 2011. ● General Training (since 2006) All employees of the Aeon Group participate in general training once a year to review the Aeon Code of Conduct. Reconfirming the necessity of corporate ethics helps create a shared set of values among employees. Promoting the Code at Group Companies Overseas ● Training for New Employees (since 2004) Promoting Corporate Ethics at Group Companies Overseas New employees of Group companies receive training as a part of Aeon has been conducting compliance training, establishing new employee orientation. Through the Aeon Code of Conduct, hotlines and instituting monitoring systems at Aeon Group employees learn about acting and making decisions while putting companies overseas since 2006. These activities to disseminate customers front and center. and instill compliance are currently being conducted at 18 Group companies in China and the ASEAN region. Creating Support and Awareness-Raising Tools In addition to training programs, Aeon also creates a variety of tools to disseminate and instill its code of conduct. For example, the monthly Aeon Code of Conduct Newsletter presents issues reported or consulted on via the Aeon Code of Conduct hotline. Every month 200,000 copies are created and distributed to employees of Aeon Group companies. The newsletter has been very well received by employees, promoting some to revisit to code of conduct and raising awareness of the hotline. AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 18 CSR Management Environmental Management Formulation of the New Environmental Policy System Targets for the following fiscal year are determined by sharing environmental activities undertaken across the entire Group under In March 2011, Aeon established the Aeon Sustainability Principle the guidance of the Group Chief Environmental Officer as well as by as well as revised and renamed the Aeon Environmental Principles an evaluation of the progress toward meeting previous targets. as the Environmental Guideline. The Aeon Sustainability Policy replaces the existing Aeon Environmental Principles as the fundamental policy that governs 環境指針体系 the environmental and social contribution activities that all Aeon Group companies should take part in. In addition, the Aeon Peace Manifesto on the Prevention of Global Warming and the Aeon Aeon Biodiversity Principle also represent environmental goals and Basic Principles The policies for the entire Group. Customer People Community The Environmental Guideline was created by revising the previous Aeon Environmental Principles based on the focused target areas Aeon Manifesto on of the Aeon Sustainability Principle as well as a revision to the Aeon the Prevention of Aeon Group-wide Global Warming framework of the purpose and goals of environmental conservation Policy Environmental Sustainability Principles Modify Principle Aeon Biodiversity activities undertaken by Aeon Co., Ltd. and Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. Principle Since the Aeon Group encompasses a multitude of business (Revise Content) areas, the challenges that each Group company faces may differ Environmental depending on their operating format and sector. As such, effective Policy of Environmental Guideline of Environmental Environmental Guideline of Aeon Co., Ltd. measures are conducted following the environmental guidelines Individual Aeon Co., Ltd. and Modify and Policy of Policy of Companies Company B Company C and environmental management systems developed by each Group Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. company based on their own unique characteristics. (Revise Content) Environmental Guideline We strive to balance enriching lifestyles with environmental conservation by providing safe and comfortable stores, products and services to our customers. We also operate an environmental management system to execute measures, perform regular reviews, and promote continual improvements. 1. We will strive to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases in 3.We will strive to implement resource conservation and all of our business activities in order to realize a low-carbon resource recycling initiatives in order to use resources in a society. sustainable manner. (1)We will continually improve the energy efficiency of our (1)We will promote “reduce, reuse and recycle” for all the stores. resources we use. (2)We will strive to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases (2)We will strive to select raw and general materials that have in all phase of our products’ supply chain. less of an impact on the environment. 2. We will promote conservation activities and ascertain the 4.We will comply with environmental related laws, ordinances benefits and impact of our business activities on natural and regulations, and strive to prevent pollution. In addition, ecosystems. we will widely make public and spread awareness of this (1)We will strive to develop and procure products that policy to our employees and all stakeholders who support our use properly managed resources in consideration of business activities. sustainability. (2)We will promote tree planting and raising activities as well 5.We will develop partnerships with many stakeholders, as undertake activities that safeguard the ecosystems of including our customers, and widen the reach of our local communities. initiatives. Enacted March 1, 2011 Motoya Okada President Aeon Co., Ltd. 19 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 ISO Certification Environmental Education As of February 28, 2011, 32 companies in the Aeon Group have Aeon provides time in its various training sessions for learning acquired ISO 14001 certification, the international standard for about Aeon’s environmental principles and policies in order to raise environmental management systems. the awareness of employees regarding the environment. Since fiscal 2008 we have encouraged employees to take List of ISO-Certified Companies the Certification Test for Environmental Specialists® (Eco Test)*. (As of February 28, 2011) ISO9001 ISO14001 Department managers at the head office and higher ranked Aeon Co., Ltd. Aeon Credit Service Co., Ltd. personnel as well as store managers and others take the test. Since Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. Ryukyu JUSCO Co., Ltd. 2008 a total of 4,497 Aeon personnel have passed. Aeon Supercenter Co., Ltd. Maxvalu Kyushu Co., Ltd. Companies that have acquired ISO 14001 certification provide Maxvalu Minami Tohoku Co., Ltd. Maxvalu Hokkaido Co., Ltd. training for their employees. For example, Aeon Retail has established Maxvalu Kita Tohoku Co., Ltd. Aeon Delight Co., Ltd. a web-based training tool and requires employees to keep an Maxvalu Kanto Co., Ltd. LAURA ASHLEY Japan Co., Ltd. ISO 14001 handbook with them. Training seminars for internal Maxvalu Chukyo Co., Ltd. Mega Sports Co., Ltd. environmental auditors led by outside instructors are also held every Maxvalu Nagano Co., Ltd. BLUE GRASS Co., Ltd. year to facilitate smooth operation Maxvalu Hokuriku Co., Ltd. Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd. of the environmental management Aeon Integrated Business Service Co., Ltd. Research Institute For Quality Living Co., Ltd. system. As of February 2011, a total of Maxvalu Tohoku Co., Ltd. Qingdao Aeon Dongtai Co., Ltd. approximately 1,480 employees have Certo Corporation Guangdong JUSCO Teem Stores Co., Ltd. attended the seminars since 2000, Food Supply JUSCO Co., Ltd. Shenzhen Aeon Co., Ltd. when ISO certification was acquired. Environmental Specialist Certification Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd. MYCAL Corporation Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd. The Maruetsu, Inc. * The Certification Test for Environmental Specialists is a certification program sponsored by the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry. It was started in AIC Inc. Aeon Hokkaido Corporation 2006 in order to develop human resources who possess broad-reaching basic Aeon Mall Co., Ltd. Aeon Global SCM Co., Ltd. knowledge of environmental issues and who can utilize their awareness of these issues in everyday activities, and to help build a sustainable society with a healthy Aeon Kyushu Co., Ltd. balance between the environment and the economy. Environmental Accounting GMS (includes some SM and SuC) SM Aeon Group Total Companies covered: Companies covered: Aeon Retail, Aeon Hokkaido, Aeon Kyushu, Ryukyu Jusco, Mycal, Aeon Supercenter Maxvalu Hokkaido, Maxvalu Tohoku, Maxvalu Tokai, Maxvalu Chubu, Maxvalu Nishinihon, Maxvalu Kyushu Environmental Economic benefits of Environmental Environmental Economic benefits of Environmental Environmental Economic benefits of Environmental conservation costs environmental conservation conservation benefits conservation costs environmental conservation conservation benefits conservation costs environmental conservation conservation benefits 24,210 21,616 244 19,368 17,994 130 4,842 3,622 114 Eco Store 103,193 144,467 7,305 69,082 68,113 4,519 34,111 76,354 2,786 SM 205,022 562,527 24,715 138,188 449,508 20,283 66,834 113,019 4,432 GMS 8,008 76,342 2,391 4,522 57,428 1,644 3,486 18,914 747 Operations 340,433 804,952 34,655 231,160 593,043 26,576 109,273 211,909 8,079 ●The following 17 Group companies are subject to environmental accounting. Aeon Retail Co., Ltd., Aeon Hokkaido Co., Ltd., Aeon Kyushu Co., Ltd., Ryukyu Jusco Co., Ltd., Mycal Corporation, Aeon Supercenter Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Hokkaido Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Tohoku Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd., and Maxvalu Kyushu Co., Ltd., MAXVALU KITA TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., MAXVALU CHUKYO CO., LTD., MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD., ●The report compiles the costs (monetary) and benefits (monetary and CO2 reduction) of environmental measures and energy conservation measures conducted by the companies at their stores. Costs associated with new and upgraded facilities are tabulated based on annual depreciation expense, not total investment. The report covers facilities that were built or upgraded in fiscal 2010. Facilities built or upgraded prior to fiscal 2010 are not included in the figures. ●The following represent specific costs recognized for each item. Eco Stores:Costs are compiled for investments in environmental equipment and facilities, and photovoltaic power systems (at both new and existing stores) New Stores: Costs are compiled for installation of various facilities and equipment in a standard format with ecological specifications. Existing Stores: Costs are compiled for installation of various facilities and equipment associated with energy efficiency repairs at existing stores. Operations: Costs are compiled for operational improvements, including installation of system and programs for energy use transparency. AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 20 Towards Realization of Sustainable Management Key Issue 1 Realization of a Low-carbon Society Guided by the Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention of Global Warming, we are creating stores with low environmental burdens and developing environmentally friendly products, both in an effort to reduce CO2 emissions. Initiatives Taken to Date Aimed at Realization of a Low-carbon Society 1990 Launched the JUSCO Earth-Friendly Committee L 2005 Opened the Aeon Chikusa Shopping Center, the first Aeon Eco Store 2008 FY 2010 Progress Formulated the Aeon Manifesto on the FY2012 Reduction FY2010 Reductions Targets(Vs. FY2006) Prevention of Global Warming Becoming the first retailer in Japan to name AEON At Stores * Energy source 500 kilotons-CO2 730 kilotons-CO2 a specific goal for reducing output of CO2 2008 Through Products and Logistics 570 kilotons-CO2 390 kilotons-CO2 Opened Aeon Lake Town, one of Japan’s With Customers 310 230 largest environmentally friendly shopping kilotons-CO2 kilotons-CO2 centers Purchases of CO2 Emissions Credits 470 kilotons-CO2 40 kilotons-CO2 Total 1,850 1,390 kilotons-CO2 kilotons-CO2 Future Initiatives Aimed at Realization of a Low-carbon Society 2011 Formulate concept of Formulate KPI and develop nextThe chart at right Total Annual CO2 Emissions generation Eco Stores presents Aeon’s 2.25 million tons KPI. Initiatives are that aims to reduce CO2 already underway emissions by 50% aimed at achieving our KPI targets set Number of Products for fiscal 2013. for which CO2 Emissions Reduce CO2 emissions per during the Lifecycle case during shipment by 5% have been Calculated compared to fiscal 2010 2013 100 SKUs *Please refer to pages 13 and 14 for more information on our KPI. 23 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 Initiatives for the Realization of a Low-carbon Society The Progress of Eco Stores and Eco Shopping Centers Shopping Center (SC) Name Amount of CO2 Reductions (Annual) 1. At Stores Aeon Chikusa SC 1st Store 2005 Aeon Co., Ltd. (now Aeon Retail Co., Ltd) Aichi 729t-CO2 Prefecture Actual value Aeon’s first eco store Aeon Kashima SC 2nd Store Developing Eco Stores Aeon Co., Ltd. (now Aeon Retail Co., Ltd) Chiba 1,656t-CO2 Prefecture Actual value First eco store in the Kanto region 2006 Aeon Dainichi SC 3rd Store Aeon’s Eco Stores target 20% lower CO2 emissions than Aeon Co., Ltd. (now Aeon Retail Co., Ltd) Osaka 4,769t-CO2 Actual value conventional stores. Ever since our first Eco Store, the Aeon Chikusa First eco store in the Kansai region Shopping Center, was opened in May 2005, we have continued to Aeon Kagoshima SC 4th Store develop Eco Stores. 2007 Aeon Kyushu Co., Ltd Kagoshima 1,507t-CO2 Prefecture Actual value First eco store in Kyushu Our 11th Eco Store, the Aeon Itamikoya Shopping Center (Itami City, Hyogo Prefecture) opened in March 2011. Taki Crystal Town SC 5th Store Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd Mie 438t-CO2 Target value This shopping center actively incorporates natural power. This First Maxvalu eco store Prefecture “solar and green” shopping center has more than 1,000kW-worth Aeon Tomakomai SC of solar panels – one of the largest applications of solar energy by a Aeon Hokkaido Corporation 6th Store 3,300t-CO2 Hokkaido Actual value First conversion of an existing store commercial facility in Japan – and 10,000m2-plus of green space on walls, on roofs, and in parking lots. It also employs high-efficiency Aeon Laketown 7th Store 2008 MORI zone certified for “S” ranking Saitama 11,062t-CO2 air-conditioning and lighting and, for construction materials, uses under the CASBEE system. Prefecture Actual value wood from forest thinnings and recycled materials to save energy Aeon Hiezu SC 8th Store and resources. Aeon Retail Co., Ltd Tottori 2,247t-CO2 Actual value Through various technologies and innovative approaches, the Additional floor space added to an existing store Prefecture Aeon Itamikoya Shopping Center aims to achieve CO2 emissions Aeon Mall Kusatsu 9th Store Aeon Mall Co., Ltd. Shiga 3,027t-CO2 30% lower than those of stores we developed in the past. First eco store in Kyushu Prefecture Target value From fiscal 2011 onwards, we will drive forward further initiatives for achieving the two objectives listed under KPI: 1. Aeon Tsuchiura SC 10th Store 3,600t-CO2 2009 Aeon Retail Co., Ltd Ibaraki Target value Formulating the concept for the next-generation Eco Stores (Future Prefecture Stores) aimed at 50% CO2 emission reduction and developing the 11th Store stores, and 2. Formulating the concept for various types of standard 2010 Aeon Itamikoya SC Hyogo 3,900t-CO2 Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. Prefecture Target value Eco Stores and applying the standards to all new stores. The concepts and eight approaches of Eco Stores Concepts We will actively use natural energy such as wind, solar and water as appropriate 1. Energy saving/generation Change and for the local community. Tangible Aspects technical 2. Environmental efficiency We will build stores using materials minimizing environmental burden. innovation 3. Natural environment We will make efforts to let in natural light, sound and water. 4. Landscape and biodiversity We will provide a space that can be a home not only to humans but to all living things. Learning and collaboration 5. Safety, security and We will actively work to provide everyone with environmentally friendly products. environmental consideration Intangible Aspects We are striving to recycle waste within the local area in partnership with members 6. Recycling within the region (including the government and non-profit organizations) of the local community. We will provide easy-to-understand information about the environmental Disseminated 7. Disclosure policies being pursued at our stores and across AEON as a whole. information We will strive to create stores that don’t require plastic shopping bags 8. 21st century community (in other words, stores which don’t waste resources). AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 24 Aeon Group’s Activities Reducing CO2 Emissions at Existing Stores —— Companies Based in China Aeon continues to install energy efficient facilities like canopy As of September 2011, Aeon operates 30 general merchandise lighting in food display cases and works to thoroughly reduce stores and 9 supermarkets in China, and is actively working to unnecessary lighting, by turning off every other row of lights, for develop stores with a lower impact on the environment. example. For example, AEON South China Co., Ltd.*, which operates eight In addition to installing energy efficient facilities, our employees stores, standardized energy conservation checklists and started to are involved in actively conserving energy at stores and business share its progress toward achieving targets set out for each store offices. They have been steadily generating results through and sales floor at the time of its merger in 2009, which helped the persistent daily efforts, turning off unnecessary lights and turning Company reduce the amount of electricity and gas it used in 2010 off the power on devices not in use. by 10% compared to 2009. In addition, Aeon Yantai Shopping The Japanese government has set a goal to reduce peak time power Center, opened by Qingdao AEON Dongtai Co., Ltd. in 2008, use by 15% over 2010, targeting businesses and households whose incorporated a wide range of innovations to lessen its impact on power is supplied by the Tokyo Electric Power Company and Tohoku the environment as an eco-friendly shopping center, including the Electric Power in order to prevent power shortages anticipated to occur installation of solar panels, cooling storage facilities, and greenery in summer 2011 from the Tohoku to Kanto regions. Aeon, however, has on the rooftop as well as in the food court. set a reduction goal of 25% over last year’s figure, which is higher than As an energy conservation target for its five companies in China, the government stipulated goal. The stores aim to serve their role as a Aeon plans to reduce their energy consumption unit in fiscal 2013 good corporate citizen that is closely tied to the community. To this end, by 15% compared to fiscal 2010, and is undertaking a variety of a number of initiatives have been launched starting July 1, 2011 to reach actions aimed at achieving this goal. this goal (see pg. 8). *After Shenzhen AEON Co., Ltd. and AEON (China) Co., Ltd. merged in 2009 the new entity’s name was changed to AEON South China Co., Ltd. Every other light turned off Canopy lighting TOPICS Aeon Lake Town: Japan’s First Winner of Sustainable Design Award In November 2010, Aeon Lake Town won the Sustainable Design Award, a first for a Japanese shopping center, at the Asia Shopping Centre Awards hosted by the International Council of Shopping Centers, Inc. It also won a gold award in the category of innovative design and development. Sustainable Design Award is presented to shopping centers that take into account environmental protection of the local community and its sustainability. Aeon Lake Town’s environment-conscious initiatives including solar panels, hybrid gas ecosystem and quick recharging stations for electric vehicles as well as holding of environmental events such as exhibitions of ecological themed artwork have been instrumental in earning accolades as an eco-friendly shopping center. 25 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 Initiatives for the Realization of a Low-carbon Society Reducing Distribution-related CO2 Emissions 2. Through Products, Aeon is employing various shipping innovations to reduce CO2 Distribution emissions related to distribution. As an example, for TOPVALU Barreal, the new genre of beer we introduced in June 2010, we have Developing and Selling Products that Contribute to cargo ships bring stocks from the foreign brewery directly to nine CO2 Emission Reduction different Japanese ports located near Aeon distribution centers. That reduces CO2 emissions by cutting the distance that must be Aeon develops and sells products that help reduce CO2 emissions traveled by trucks within Japan. when they are used by customers. Regarding to truck transportation generally, we have increased In fiscal 2010, we introduced LED light bulbs that last 40 times our distribution efficiency by, for instance, using large trucks that longer and use 90% less electricity than conventional bulbs. can carry bigger loads and using return trips, as well, to move We are also working to develop and sell products that can goods. Furthermore, we are converting our fleet of trucks to indirectly but effectively reduce CO2 emissions during use by our ever-more fuel-efficient models that place lower burdens on the customers. For example, in our TOPVALU line of products we have environment. We are also teaching our drivers environmentally developed and sell HEATFACT labeled functional innerwear, as well friendly driving skills to reduce fuel consumption. In fiscal 2010, we as the wearable blankets. We market these conducted this training at 27 locations throughout Japan for a total products to help reduce the use of heating of 575 drivers. and air conditioning units, which results in ※ Eco Drive: Driving technique that enables drivers to reduce fuel consumption by starting the vehicle and moving forward gently and eliminating wasteful idling to reduced CO2 emissions. ultimately reduce CO2 emissions. Example of reduction in truck transportation (transportation of TOPVALU Barreal) When the volume of Aeon products is distribution small… center TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN LED light Ships bring products directly from bulbs the foreign factory to a single Japanese port. Brewery From there, products are then moved by truck throughout Japan. The distance traveled by trucks is long. Barreal is Aeon moved in large distribution center volumes, so… Products are brought directly Brewery from the foreign brewery to nine different ports close to Aeon distribution centers. This reduces the distance traveled by trucks within Japan. AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 26 Initiatives for the Realization of a Low-carbon Society Carbon Offset Campaigns 3. With Customers In fiscal 2010, Aeon implemented three carbon offset campaigns aimed at offsetting all or part of our greenhouse gas emissions which we were unable to reduce by emission reductions and absorptions achieved at other locations. Expanding Carbon Footprint Labeling for Products ●Carbon Offset Campaign Carbon footprint (CFP) labeling refers to labeling a product to show the CO2 emissions it generates through its lifecycle, from raw Aeon carried out two sets of campaign in which we sold materials to processing, distribution, consumption, disposal and environmentally friendly food and household products and recycling. purchased emissions credits (certified emissions reductions, or Informing customers regarding the CO2 emissions of everyday CER: Kyoto Mechanism credits) related to a wind power generation products further increases their interest in the environment, and project in India (transferred to the government free of charge) to ascertaining CO2 emissions given off in the various processes that offset CO2 emissions in delivery, store sales and disposal of products. make up a product’s lifecycle helps spur initiatives for reducing CO2 emissions. ■Period: From May 22, Saturday, through June 20, Sunday, 2010 In June 2008, Aeon participated in the CFP seminar hosted by the ■Participating companies: 20 Group companies (consolidated) Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and has been implementing ■Amount of emissions credits purchased: 2,148 tons-CO2 the related operations in collaboration with METI. From fiscal 2009 onwards, we have been driving forward an in-house ■Period: From October 22, Friday, through November 21, Sunday, project along with the METI project. 2010 In February 2010, we applied and received approval for draft ■Participating companies: 20 Group companies (consolidated) development plan for Product Category Rules (PCR), which defines ■Amount of emissions credits purchased: 1,424 tons-CO2 the criteria for CFP calculation and labeling method, for five products (TOPVALU Gurinai bell peppers from Miyazaki Prefecture, TOPVALU ●Eco Gifts uncured ham, TOPVALU spray dry instant coffee, TOPVALU KYOKAN Aeon purchased emissions credits (certified emissions SENGEN LED light bulbs (warm white) and TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN reductions, or CER: Kyoto Mechanism credits) related to LED light bulbs (neutral white). a biomass power generation project in India (transferred Aeon will continue actively working toward the viability and to the government free of charge) to offset CO2 emissions popularization of the carbon footprint program from the standpoint in delivery of gifts for Motherʼs Day, Fatherʼs Day, and of a retailer in direct contact with customers on a daily basis, by traditional midsummer and end-of-the-year gift seasons increasing sales of CFP-labeled products and other such efforts. in fiscal 2010. ■Period: From March through July, 2010 ■Participating companies: 20 Group companies (consolidated) ■Amount of emissions credits purchased: 2,050 tons-CO2 ■Period: From October through December, 2010 ■Participating companies: 20 Group companies (consolidated) ■Amount of emissions credits purchased: 2,000 tons-CO2 TOPVALU Gurinai bell peppers from Miyazaki Pref. ●Sale of My Baskets with Carbon Offsets Aeon sold My Baskets with Carbon Offsets and purchased CO2 emissions credits (certified emissions reductions, or CER: Kyoto Mechanism credits) related to a biomass power generation project in India (transferred to the government free of charge) to offset CO2 emitted in the process from production through delivery of My Baskets. ■Period: From March 2010 through February 2011 ■Participating companies: 21 Group companies ■Amount of emissions credits purchased: 556 tons-CO2 27 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 ■Period: From March 2010 through February 2011 ■Participating companies: 21 Group companies ■Amount of emissions credits purchased: 556 tons-CO2 Purchase of CO2 emissions credits in Japan In August 2010, Aeon purchased Japanese CO2 emissions credits equivalent to approximately 15,000 tons-CO2, the biggest purchase by a single company in Japan, based on the Domestic Clean Development Mechanism*. We utilized the income from pay plastic bags*, as stores discontinued free plastic bags, for purchasing the emissions credits. Prior to this, Aeon split the proceeds from pay plastic bags for purchase of CO2 emissions credits (transferred to the government free of charge) and donations to local governments and community organizations engaged in environmental activities near the stores. Aeon until now has been purchasing CO2 emissions credits related to overseas emission reduction projects. With the establishment of an emissions credits system in Japan, we allocated half of the funds to purchase Japanese emissions credits. This enables Aeon not only to help energize the greenhouse gas reduction projects across Japan but also to help the nation achieve the emissions reduction targets under the Kyoto Protocol through amortization of those credits. *Domestic Clean Development Mechanism: The Domestic Credit Certification Committee under the Japanese government certifies emission reductions as domestic credit achieved through efforts aimed at curbing greenhouse gases by small and medium-sized enterprises and businesses engaged in agriculture and forestry using technologies and funds provided by large companies, and large companies utilize such credits to achieve their targets under voluntary action plans. *Proceeds from plastic bags = selling price – (consumption tax – purchasing cost) AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 28 Towards Realization of Sustainable Management Key Issue 2 Conservation of Biodiversity Aeon’s business activities would be impossible without agricultural and marine products – gifts from the cultivation of plants and harvests of sea life. Understanding this, we created the Aeon Biodiversity Principle, which provides fundamental guidance for our development of ecologically conscious products and stores, and tree-planting and other activities. Initiatives Taken to Date Aimed at Conservation of Biodiversity 1990 L Launched the JUSCO Earth-Friendly Committee 1991 Initiated the “Aeon Hometown Forests Program” The Jaya Jusco Stores (now known as AEON Malaysia) Malacca store was the first location to undertake this tree-planting project. 2006 Became the first retailer in Japan to sell marine products certified as sustainable by the Marine Stewardship Council 2010 Established Aeon Biodiversity Principle Future Initiatives Aimed at Conservation of Biodiversity 2011 Formulate indicator Formulate KPI Visibility of Biodiversitymeasuring the impact commercial The chart at right friendly PB products in a facilities have on the surrounding presents Aeon’s consumer survey ecosystem and evaluate stores KPI. Initiatives are 40% already underway based on relevant standards aimed at achieving our KPI targets set Aeon Hometown Forests for fiscal 2013. Program Maintenance and Management Situation of 2013 Forests *Please refer to pages 13 and 14 for more information on our KPI. 29 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 Initiatives for Conserving Biodiversity Increasing FSC-certified Stores (Ministop) 1. At Stores In December 2009, Ministop opened the nation’s first FSC-certified convenience store, Ministop Koshigaya Lake Town East. Ministop followed this up, in February 2011, with the opening of the Ministop Hamamatsu Toyoyasu store in the Shizuoka Prefecture Conserving the Ecosystem When Developing Stores city of Hamamatsu. This store uses not only wood products that are 100% FSC-certified but also a solar power system and LED lighting. Aeon pays great attention to conservation and creation of Ministop is planning to actively develop more environmentally ecosystems in developing its stores through initiatives such as conscious stores using domestic FSC-certified wood products in the promoting green purchasing of construction materials and planning future. and implementing biodiversity evaluation and environmental burden reduction measures when opening stores. Store under construction MINISTOP store Aeon Biodiversity Principle Grasping the impact our overall corporate activities have on the ecosystem, we actively focus on reducing the impact on the ecosystem and conservation activities, working in collaboration with our stakeholders, including our customers, local authorities and non-profit organizations. We focus on the following points related to the ecosystem in our corporate activities: Through our corporate activities, we 1. Remain conscious of blessings and burdens. 2. Engage in initiatives that protect and nurture. 3. Disclose information on our activities. Action Guidelines (Excerpt) 1. Products: We will set sustainability targets for resource-managed fresh seafood and processed by products, engage in their purchase and sale while sharing those targets with our business partners, and communicate related information to customers. 2. Stores: We will continue to promote treeplanting campaigns with customers at new store sites and continue to develop Eco Stores with less environmental impact than conventional facilities. 3. With Customers: Through tree-planting campaigns and other programs, we will share environmental awareness and learn together with everyone. AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 30 Initiatives for Conserving Biodiversity We will continue conducting tree-planting activities with a view to achieving our 2012 goal of planting 11 million trees. 2. With Customers * Combined total of Aeon Hometown Forests Program and Aeon Environmental Foundation Aeon Tree-Planting Activities Aim of the Aeon Hometown Forests Program Aeon has run the Aeon Hometown Forests Program since 1991. When we began the Aeon Hometown Forests Program, Whenever a new store is opened, we join together with our we asked Professor Emeritus Akira Miyawaki of Yokohama National University, a global authority on plant ecology, customers to plant trees on the site, with leadership provided by to act as an advisor. Professor Miyawaki helped us create Professor Emeritus Akira Miyawaki of Yokohama National University. shopping center environments enveloped in greenery and In 2010 we planted a total of 96,668 seedlings at 23 locations. filled with the songs of birds and fragrance of trees. In addition, the Aeon Environmental Foundation organizes Our focus treeplanting campaigns to reestablish forests devastated by natural We plant native trees – those that are best suited for the disasters. In 2009 we conducted tree-planting in Japan at Lake local natural environment. Shikotsu in Hokkaido, Miyake Island in Tokyo, Minamishimabara Our focus in Nagasaki, and other locations, and overseas in Vietnam, Laos, At each location, local customers take the lead in planting Cambodia and other countries. trees one by one. Altogether we have planted 9,475,492 trees as of February 28, Our focus 2011. At each location, local customers take the lead in planting trees one by one. Trees Planted by Area (As of February 2011) China Aeon Hometown Forests Program 1,113,117 Japan Laos 7,756,797 Planting trees near the Great Wall 96,500 Thailand 225,500 Cambodia 10,744 Planting trees on Miyake Island Kenya 3,450 Malaysia 224,184 Total Number of Trees Planted 2006 7,151,677 Australia 2007 7,926,735 200 2008 8,734,751 2009 9,229,303 2010 9,475,492 31 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 The Elementary Student Rice Paddy Project Highlight – Activity in Shiga Prefecture Wanting children to understand something of the gifts of nature This project also teaches children about biodiversity. In Shiga and the importance of eating, Aeon began the Elementary Student Prefecture, for example, students participate in the Fish Cradle Rice Paddy Project in 2008. This project is a cooperative effort Paddy Project the prefectural government is advancing. The aim of undertaken with local agricultural cooperatives and NPOs to teach this project is to protect a species of carp unique to Lake Biwa. children about food by having them experience everything from In the past, canals connected Lake Biwa with adjacent rice the planting through the harvest, and, ultimately, the sale of rice paddies. In spring of each year, carp would travel up these streams at a retail store. In fiscal 2010, we expanded this project to include to rice paddies to spawn. After hatching, the fry would then spend Akita, Iwate, Shiga, and Saga prefectures. time developing in the paddies before making their way to the The students help to grow our lake. In recent years, however, canal modifications have made it TOPVALU Gurinai Specially Cultivated impossible for fish to travel between the lake and rice paddies and Rice, using less than half the chemicals invasive species have greatly reduced Lake Biwa’s carp habitat. The and synthetic fertilizer normally used Fish Cradle Paddy Project aims to help the carp overcome these by commercial growers. challenges by releasing adults into rice paddies to spawn, allowing In fiscal 2011, about 230 elementary the eggs to hatch, and then releasing the fry when they are about school students from Akita, Iwate, 2cm long into canals. Shiga, and Saga prefectures are The project has sparked interest in protecting Lake Biwa’s native participating in the project, similar to species and engendered greater “hometown” appreciation among fiscal 2010. The project plans to offer children who have participated in it. the rice to be harvested in coming fall for preparing school meals at TOPVALU Gurinai Specially elementary schools in the areas affected Cultivated Rice grown in the Elementary Student Rice by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Paddy Project Children searching a paddy for fry to return to Lake Biwa Releasing carp fry into a canal TOPICS Cleaning of ecosystems throughout Japan The Aeon Happy Clean Campaign The Aeon Happy Clean Campaign took place between May and October 2010. During this period, approximately 10,300 customers, local government employees, NPO personnel, employees, and others worked together to clean seashore, riverside, wetland, woodland, and other ecosystems in 28 locations across Japan. AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 32 Initiatives for Preserving Biodiversity Adjustment of mesh size to catch only the desired species 3. Through Products, The mesh size of nets, Fish larger than Mesh size is adjusted Ocean to catch salmon. surface Distribution salmon cannot enter the net’s mesh. Fish smaller than salmon swim for example, is adjusted, through the net. Selling MSC/FSC-certified Products so that only salmon are caught. The Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certification, also known as the marine eco-label, assures consumers that marine products Ocean bottom were harvested through properly managed fishing practices. The aim of the MSC certification is to help protect limited marine resources. Aeon has been Introducing FSC-certified Paper as Clothing Price selling Alascan red salmon, Tags and Labels salmon roe and other MSCcertified seafood since 2006 In December 2010, we announced that we would become the first and added salted mackerel Japanese retailer to use clothing price tags and labels made of FSCand seasoned cod roe to the certified paper. This initiative is aimed at strengthening our efforts list in fiscal 2010. In total, to preserve sustainable forests by not only focusing on products and we now offer customers stores but also utilizing FSC-certified materials in indirect materials 11 MSC-certified products such as frequently used price tags and labels. across 22 species—more MSC-certified TOPVALU salted wild salmon Use of these tags and labels is slated to begin on products sold than any other retailer in beginning in 2011 and will gradually expand from there. Japan. Since October 2010, we have been selling these products in approximately 1,200 stores and are gradually increasing that number. The Forest Stewardship Council has a system for certifying Offering TOPVALU Gurinai Products that wood products and paper were manufactured using timber from properly managed sustainable forests. Aeon has been selling Aeon’s TOPVALU Gurinai is a line of delicious, nutritious and notebooks and other products using FSC-certified paper since 2008. environmentally-friendly agricultural, livestock and marine products Moving forward, we will actively disseminate information to that are produced taking full advantage of the powers of nature. improve awareness of MSC/FSC certification so as to gain customer We are making efforts to provide safe and secure products through understanding and at the same time expand the lineup of certified the establishment of standards aimed at minimizing food safety products. hazards in vegetables and fruits and by building an interactive system to connect producers and customers. TOPICS MIDORI Prize for Biodiversity Established by the Aeon Environmental Foundation 2010 was not only the International Year of Biodiversity (declared by the UN) but also the 20th anniversary of the establishment of the Aeon Environmental Foundation. In celebration of both, the Aeon Environmental Foundation established the MIDORI Prize for Biodiversity to promote the conservation of biodiversity and the sustainable use of natural resources by recognizing and supporting individuals who have helped to promote biodiversity. October 27, 2010 Award Ceremony The prize winners for 2010 include Jean Lemire of Canada, a biologist, adventurer, and filmmaker; Gretchen C. Daily of the U.S., a professor at Stanford University; and Emil Salim of Indonesia, a Member of the Advisory Council to President Yudhoyono and former Minister of State for Population and the Environment. German Chancellor Angela Merkel was presented with the Special MIDORI Prize for Biodiversity. 33 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 Aeon Group’s Environmental Conservation Activities – Branshes Co., Ltd. Protect the Homes of the Fish – Branshes’ Coral Forest Project Inspired by a desire to “bequeath a beautiful, safe and exciting sea to the children of the future,” kids apparel retailer Branshes Co., Ltd. in July 2009 launched the “Protect the Homes of the Fish – Branshes’ Coral Forest” project. The company has initiated measures to restore the coral reefs in Okinawa, fast disappearing due to the rise in sea temperatures and deteriorating water quality. Under the project, Branshes Co., Ltd. develops and sells original hand towels and uses 10% of their sales for planting corals in Okinawa sea. The company entrusts coral planting to Sea Seed, which specializes in farming and transplanting of corals. Branshes Co., Ltd. features the planted corals on its website and will continue with activities to protect the ocean ecosystem. AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 34 Towards Realization of Sustainable Management Key Issue 3 Better Use of Resources To make maximum use of limited resources, Aeon not only reviews any excessive use of resources in the course of its business activities and reduces waste but also promotes initiatives to have customers participate in resource saving activities. Initiatives Taken to Date Aimed at Better Use of Resources 1990 Launched the JUSCO Earth-Friendly Committee 1991 Commenced the “Bring Your Own Shopping Bag” campaign,“Collecting Recyclable Resources at Stores” Movement on a trial basis 店舗での資源回収をスタート 2000 Launched the My Basket campaign 2007 Began the “Stop Free Plastic Shopping Bags” program Future Initiatives Aimed at Better Use of Resources 2011 Number of Employees Formulate KPI Reduce Amount of Completing Internal Training The chart at right Materials Used in Packaging Course to Improve Management of presents Aeon’s and Containers Waste Emissions Cumulative total of KPI. Initiatives are 15% reduction already underway more than 250 persons aimed at achieving our KPI targets set Percentage of for fiscal 2013. Cuetomers Declining Plastic Shopping Bags (nationwide store average) 2013 70% *Please refer to pages 13 and 14 for more information on our KPI. 35 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 Initiatives for Better Use of Resources Recycling Food Product Wastes 1. At Stores Aeon works to reduce food product waste generated by our stores and promotes effective use of waste as a resource. In May 2008 present day Aeon Retail Co.,Ltd., became the first company in Japan’s retail industry to acquire recycling business Promoting Green Purchasing plan certification* under Japan’s food recycling law, which was revised in December 2007. The company built a recycling loop that We began “green purchasing” efforts in 1996. When purchasing involves collecting food waste generated at stores, turning the stationery and other office supplies, we adequately consider their waste into feed, and then selling pork from pigs raised on the feed necessity and make purchasing decisions while prioritizing products at Aeon stores. Pork from pigs raised on recycled feed has been sold with low environmental impact. This is done as a matter of course at select stores in the Kanto region since June 2008. for office supplies, but we are also expanding the scope of green Aeon Retail’s food recycling ratio in fiscal 2010 was X.X%. The purchasing to include display cases, shelving and other fixtures food retail industry must achieve a recycling ratio of 45% by fiscal used on sales floors as well as construction materials and the like. 2012. Aeon will continue to promote food recycling initiatives to achieve this target. ●Construction materials We commenced green purchasing for construction materials in * Collection and shipping of recycled food resources in accordance with a certified recycling business plan does not require regular waste collection and transport fiscal 2001. When developing new general merchandise stores, licensing, which has made it possible to efficiently collect waste over a wide region we strive to use products procured through green purchasing for transcending municipal boundaries. construction materials and increase the range of items subject to green purchasing. In fiscal 2010 we conducted green purchasing for 14 types of construction materials. Building A Local Recycling Loop Provide pork products, NB product manufacturer boxed lunches, etc. Products AEON Group processing company Proper Management of Waste Disposal Customers Contract manufacturer AEON Portion of store (Stores in Kanto region) leftovers Aeon holds internal training courses on a regular basis aimed at Food manufacturing byproducts improving its management of waste disposal. Excess food products Each year the Waste Management Training Course, which was Local recycling developed together with an external specialist organization, is held Pork loop Feed for environmental managers of Group companies. We also provide Group processing company Feed factory training on proper waste separation practices to general employees of Group companies and stores. For example, Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. has created a training material for store employees that it uses to conduct training courses on waste management in store operations. Pork production facility Aeon Group’s Environmental Conservation Activities — Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd. Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd. Waste cooking oil is recycled as biodiesel fuel Maxvalu Chubu and Maxvalu Tokai recycle waste cooking oil used by their stores’ prepared foods departments for deep frying and turn it into biodiesel fuel that is used to power the companies’ vehicle fleet. A closed recycling loop has been created whereby a waste product produced by the company is then recycled by the same company. Maxvalu Chubu uses the fuel in three company vans that run on biodiesel while Maxvalu Tokai uses the fuel in one delivery truck and three company vans. AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 36 Initiatives for Better Use of Resources Stores stopping free plastic shopping bags 2. With Customers Total stores (2007 to 2011.02) Tohoku 756 Hokkaido 144 107 Hokuriku/Shin’etsu Reducing Use of Plastic Bags (Total for 22 Aeon Group companies) 21 In 1991, Aeon embarked on efforts to conserve petroleum, the raw Kinki material for plastic bags, and cut CO2 emissions from the production Chugoku 60 Kanto of plastic bags by calling on customers to use their own shopping bags. This was the beginning of the “Bring Your Own Shopping Bag” 71 55 Tokai campaign, which we supplemented with the “My Basket” campaign in 2000. Shikoku 232 In 2007, we became the first national retail chain to begin the “Stop Free Plastic Shopping Bags” program (at some stores). Our Kyushu 3 Okinawa current goal is for at least 1,000 stores to discontinue free plastic bags by 2012, and we are continuing our efforts together with local 28 35 residents by crafting agreements with community organizations and local governments. By the end of February 2011, we had expanded our efforts to Reducing Waste by Collecting Resources at Stores cover 756 stores throughout Japan, greatly increasing the number of people who decline plastic bags and significantly cutting the Aeon stores have resource collection bins for items like drink number of plastic bags distributed. cartons, food trays, aluminum cans, and PET bottles, and encourage customers to recycle. Collected drink cartons and aluminum cans Percentage of Customers Declining Plastic Bags and are recycled and some are used as raw materials for TOPVALU Total Plastic Bag Reduction KYOKAN SENGEN brand products. Food trays and PET bottles are Total of 20 consolidated companies (Percentage is calculated by averaging also appropriately recycled. figures for the final month of the fiscal year from each company involved.) （%）Percentage of customers declining plastic bags 80 60.0 61.5 60 48.0 40 16.4 20 2007 2008 2009 2010 0 50,000 424.50 million 100,000 767.14 Collection bins at a store million 150,000 1,309.2 million 1,661.5 Amounts Collected by Store Bins 200,000 Reduction in the number million Total of 21 consolidated companies (10,000 bags) of plastic bags provided Drink cartons Food trays Aluminum cans PET bottles Conservation of Resources (total for Aeon) Approx.134.57million. Approx.325.93million. Approx.204.41million. Approx. 104.81million. Oil barrels (200 ℓ) Saving of approx. 152,000 barrels Amount collected (tons) Amount collected (tons) Amount collected (tons) Amount collected (tons) 3,867 4,112 4,037 2,281 3,027 3,271 6,603 Formula (courtesy of the Japan Polyolefin Film Industry Association) 1,956 2,704 5,801 1,703 5,169 The total energy used to manufacture a plastic bag (raw materials, resin, manufacturing, shape forming) is 17,124kcal/kg. The energy used to manufacture a 9.9g plastic bag divided by the calorific value of the raw materials comes to 18.3mℓ (11.5mℓ crude oil solidified in the bag and 6.8mℓ crude oil emitted as CO2 during the manufacturing process). Reduction in the number of plastic bags To calculate total in liters provided during fiscal 2009 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 1,661,550,000 bags × 18.3mℓ ÷ 1,000 = 30,406,365ℓ 紙パック （100㎖）1本＝30g、食品トレイ1枚＝7g、 アルミ缶（350㎖）1本＝16g、 30,406,365ℓ ÷ 200 ℓ ＝ 152,000 barrels ペットボトル1本＝63gとして換算 37 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 Initiatives for Better Use of Resources the clothing and the amount of hangers used only for transport. In fiscal 2010 we used 2,430,000 cases of returnable containers, 3. Through Products, 2,453,000 cases of agricultural product containers, and 1,0150,000 reusable hangers, which helped us substantially reduce cardboard Distribution waste. Returnable Container, Agricultural Product Container Reducing Containers and Packaging Reusable Hanger Production Aeon, in careful consideration of the impact on the quality of Site product contents and safety during shipment, is working to reduce FY10 the amount of materials it uses in containers and packaging. Returnable Container Use Our efforts to reduce these materials include making product Cardboard 24.30 million cases containers lighter and more thin-walled, switching to recyclable FY10 Agricultural Product Container Use materials, as well as using less containers and packaging through 24.53 million cases developing tray-less products and promoting loose sales. AEON Moving forward, we plan to take further actions in order to achieve our fiscal 2013 target of reducing the required amount of container and packaging for third party processing (per \100 million in net sales) under the Act for Promotion of Sorted Collection and Reusable Hanger Recycling of Containers and Packaging by 15% compared to fiscal Manufacturer 2010. FY10 Reusable Hanger Use Promoting Our Eco Products Brand Cardboard 10.15 million TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN AEON The TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN brand Aeon began developing and marketing in 2000 is a line of ecoproducts emphasizing the “4Rs” – reduce, reuse, recycle, and returnable. Through this brand, we aim to Aeon Group’s Environmental Conservation Activities bring customers products that are — SELF + SERVICE truly attractive combinations of high Collecting Clothing for Recycling into Bioethanol quality and reasonable prices, and SELF+SERVICE, a specialty shop for clothing and accessories began show that environmentally friendly collecting used clothing in 2003 and has gradually expanded products do not have to cost more. recycling applications. In fiscal 2010, we introduced a In 2010, the company collected some 41,000 articles of clothing. liquid bulbs and laundry detergent We are also participating in the FUKU-FUKU Project administered by that is twice as effective as JEPLAN Co., Ltd. which recycles clothing into bioethanol. Through conventional detergent. TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN this initiative, 28,000 articles of clothing were collected at 49 herbal fragrance concentrated SELF+SERVICE stores. laundry detergent Expanded Use of Returnable Containers and Reused Hangers Aeon is reducing the amount of cardboard thrown away at stores by using returnable containers and agricultural product containers that can be used repeatedly when shipping products. In addition, our apparel departments conduct reused hanger delivery in which clothing is brought to the store on hangers and then displayed on the sales floor using the same hangers. This reduces the amount of cardboard boxes used when transporting AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 38 Towards Realization of Sustainable Management Key Issue❹ Dealing with Social Matters As a member of both local communities and international society, Aeon stands fully committed to addressing a multitude of social matters as well as promoting sustainable corporate activities. Initiatives Taken to Date Aimed at Dealing with Social Matters 1977 Established the JUSCO Company Welfare Fund (now known as the Aeon Welfare Fund) 2001 Started the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign Cumulative total of ¥1,364.33 million in goods donated as 2003 of February 2011 Established the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct 2004 Commenced sales of TOPVALU Fair Trade Coffee 2004 Aeon announced its participation in the United Nations Global Compact Future Initiatives Aimed at Dealing with Social Matters 2011 Formulate KPI Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Number of Aeon Cheers Clubs Campaign Submission Rate The chart at right presents Aeon’s Greater than 20% 400 clubs KPI. Initiatives are already underway aimed at achieving our KPI targets set Number of Aeon Supplier Code of Make ratio of non-Japanese for fiscal 2013. Conduct Accredited Suppliers employees to Japanese employees 1,200 factories 1:1 2013 * Please refer to pages 13 and 14 for more information on our KPI. 39 AEON Sustainability Report 2011 Responsibilities to Local Communities How Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign works 1. Giving Back to the Place their yellow receipts in the box for the Community Customers organization they would like to support. Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign AEON Stores calculate the total value of receipts collected for each organization There are many volunteer organizations out in the community that could use some help. There are also many Aeon customers who want to help and encourage the activities of these organizations. However, there are actually only limited ways of making support Volunteer and encouragement a reality for both sides. Realizing that we could organizations Receive goods worth 1% of the total value of receipts contributed to their cause play a major role as a member of the community, Aeon started the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign in 2001 to support volunteer organizations together with our customers. The campaign involves customers depositing yellow receipts received on Aeon Day—every month on the 11th—into a box Contributions made under the Aeon Happy Yellow labeled with the activities of local volunteer organizations, and Receipt Campaign Aeon donating items worth 1% of total receipts received to (¥100 million) （億円） the organizations. Volunteer organizations have their activities 3 3 publicized to large numbers of people and customers get the 2 2 opportunity to help out local organizations involved in their communities. 1 1 In fiscal 2010 the campaign was conducted by 21 companies and 1,156 stores. Items worth a total of ¥277.82 million were 0 0 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 (Yr.) 01 02 03 04 05 donated to 21,622 organizations. In our KPI established in July 2011 we have included the Yellow Receipt Campaign submission rate as an evaluation indicator for our Cumulative total of 2011年2月 activities. Going forward, we will continue to take further actions ¥1,364.33 million toward achieving a greater than 20% submission rate at all stores in goods donated 13億6 taking part in the Yellow Receipt Campaign by fiscal 2013. as of February 2011 相当の Clean & Green Activities Aeon is actively involved in community landscaping projects around its stores. Clean & Green Activities, conducted since 1991, consist of employees volunteering to clean up parks and rivers around stores and areas surrounding public facilities. These activities have been conducted every month on the 11th, Aeon Day, since 2001. Deposit box Cleaning up around a store AEON Sustainability Report 2011 40 Comprehensive Cooperation Agreements with Issuing Gotochi (Local) WAON Cards Local Governments WAON is e-money that can be used not only at Aeon stores but Aeon has entered into cooperation agreements with local also at merchants that join the system. Working with communities governments to effectively apply our respective resources in a throughout Japan, Aeon had issued 25 different Gotochi (Local) variety of ways, such as by promoting disaster preparedness, social WAON cards as of the end of February 2011. When customers use welfare, and environmental conservation, and to use Gotochi (Local) their Gotochi (Local) WAON cards (with some exceptions), they WAON cards to invigorate commerce and tourism. This began with not only help to invigorate the local economy but also promote a June 2010 agreement with the government of Osaka Prefecture, local tourism, contribute to the preservation of cultural assets, and and we have since entered into agreements with 11 prefectural conserve the environment. governments as of the end of February 2011. Based on these agreements, we have, for example, agreed to Himeji-jo WAON provide emergency supplies and space for emergency shelters in Part of the proceeds from the purchase is used for preservation and times of disaster, hold local product fairs and promote local tourism inheritance of Himeji Castle through our stores, and work with local governments to plan and market boxed lunches made with local agricultural products. Through activities like these, we help to invigorate local economies and improve services for daily life. Shizuoka Fujisan Fiscal 2010 Agreements with Local Governments Part of the proceeds from the purchase is used for improvement of • June 2010 Osaka Prefecture the environment surrounding Mt. Fuji • October 2010 Yamagata and Mie prefectures • November 2010 Miyagi and Gifu prefectures • December 2010 Shimane and Shizuoka prefectures • January 2011 Tottori Prefecture • February 2011 Shiga, Yamanashi, and Iwate prefectures Shiga Mother Lake WAON Part of the proceeds from the purchase is used for preservation of Lake Biwa Morioka Sansa Dance Performance at Iwate Prefecture Fair sponsored by Aeon Lake Town (Saitama Prefecture) AEON Malaysia 41 AEON Sustainability Report 2011 Aeon Group’s Activities — Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd., Promoting Local Cultures Aeon Retail Co., Ltd.’s Nishi Nihon Regional Company, MYCAL CORPORATION As a member of the local community, We respect regional cultures Supporting the Himeji Castle Daitenshu Restoration Project and traditions and are involved in promoting local cultural life. We actively participate in local and traditional events, support the Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd., based in Himeji, jointly with Aeon transmission of that local culture and history to the next generation Retail’s Nishi Nihon Regional Company and MYCAL CORPORATION, and actively help in event management. carried out Himeji Castle Happy Future Project to support a major In fiscal 2010, we supported a large number of local traditional renovation work at the castle from May 2010 to March 2011. events, including Morioka Sansa Odori Festival, Akita Kanto Festival, Under the campaign, every time a customer purchases any and Yosakoi Festival in Kochi. We also support local cultural events of the products subject to the campaign, Aeon and some 30 and sports festivals. manufacturers who cooperated in the initiative donate ¥1 – We also launched the Hometown Discovery Program for ¥0.5 each by Aeon and the manufacturer – to the Himeji Castle Supporting Local Traditional Performing Arts starting in fiscal 2010. Daitenshu (castle tower) preservation fund. Maxvalu Nishinihon In the program, Aeon stores host performances of local traditional carried out the campaign at all its 162 stores located in Hyogo, performing arts and entertainment that have been passed down Okayama, Tokushima and other prefectures with Aeon Retail’s Nishi through the generations for the local community. Nihon Regional Company doing the same with eight stores and MYCAL with four stores. The campaign was able to raise a total of ¥16.6 million for donation thanks to the cooperation from great many customers. Assistance through Aeon Welfare Fund Aeon established the Aeon Welfare Fund in 1977. The fund conducts a variety of support activities to help people with disabilities attain greater autonomy, more fully participate in society and improve their overall welfare. Employees contribute ¥50 to the fund every month and management matches this donation for a total contribution of ¥100. This money is used to fund donations of welfare-use vehicles and volunteer activities. Donation presentation ceremony In fiscal 2010, we donated a total of 4 vehicles to 4 welfare facilities located around the country. In total, we have donated 25 vehicles to date. Volunteer activities consisted of visits to 774 The project’s point of purchase facilities nationwide. Employees visit the facilities in person and advertising help out at Christmas parties or with major cleaning projects. Aeon employees visited a total of 6,959 facilities during the period from Aeon Group’s Activities—Aeon Ryukyu Co., Ltd. fiscal 1991 to fiscal 2010. Supporting Rescue Helicopter Operations In the northern part of Okinawa Prefecture, the population is declining and aging, and there is a shortage of hospitals, which creates various emergency medical care problems like the inability of ambulances to transport people to hospitals in time. In response to this, MESH Support, an NPO, operates an air ambulance to transport those in need by helicopter, an effort which has been supported by Aeon Ryukyu Co., Ltd. since 2008. Part of our assistance is Donating a welfare-use vehicle Hosting a mochitsuki (rice cake provided through the sale of special goods, with a portion of the making) event for welfare facilities proceeds donated to MESH Support. These goods, which we began to sell in September 2009, were developed in cooperation with suppliers. In fiscal 2010, funds related to the sale of these goods, storefront collections, and other funds came to around ¥12,840,000. As of the end of fiscal 2010, we have provided MESH Support with financial assistance totaling ¥28,170,000. The MESH Support Rescue Helicopter AEON Sustainability Report 2011 42 Aeon Group’s Activities – Companies Based in China Introducing Balloon Shelters Promoting Various Activities Aligned to the Unique Needs of the Local Communities Surrounding Our Stores Aeon has promoted installation of “balloon shelters”—large tents Each of our five companies in China actively promotes for use in emergency evacuations—since 2004 to be ready in the environmental and social action programs, including tree planting event of an earthquake or other major natural disaster. The tents and Clean & Green Activities, also conducted in Japan, aligned to have been placed at a total of 28 locations, primarily shopping the unique needs of the local community. centers around the country (as of February 28, 2011). The tents are lightweight and easy to carry, so those stored close by can be ● Guangdong JUSCO Teem Stores Co., Ltd. brought to locations affected by disasters. The Mini Tomato Club (similar to the Aeon Cheers Club in Japan) hosts a contest for eco-friendly hand-made goods aimed at raising awareness toward the environment in local children. Hands out free LED light bulbs to members of local communities surrounding each store to raise awareness of energy conservation and reducing peoples’ carbon footprint. ● AEON South China Co., Ltd. Provides supplies to assist disadvantaged families during Chinese New Year. A balloon shelter. Balloon shelters can be easily inflated with a special blower and be ready for use in around 40 minutes. They come two to a set and one set ● Qingdao AEON Dongtai Co., Ltd. has room for around 100 people to lay down. Employees visit assisted living facilities and seniors living alone as well as provide supplies. Supporting Disaster Recovery Responsibilities to Local Communities When a serious disaster strikes, Aeon responds immediately to help 2. Assistance for Recovery victims get back on their feet as quickly as possible. We provide from Disaster emergency financial assistance, give our customers an opportunity to help through a Reconstruction Support Donation Campaign at our stores, and match employee and customer contributions, basically one-for-one. All of the funds are then presented to the Signing Disaster Prevention Agreements embassy of the affected nation or to aid organizations. In fiscal 2010, we provided emergency funds to assist victims of Aeon strives to ensure that employees working at our stores natural disasters in countries like Australia and Brazil, and provided constantly act as members of the community. The same applies both emergency assistance and funds from storefront collections during natural disasters. We continue to sign disaster prevention to help those stricken by agreements with local authorities throughout Japan, pledging earthquakes in Chili, China, cooperation and support in the event of an emergency in an effort and New Zealand. Together to be of use to people in the local community. with emergency relief We have signed 1,150 disaster prevention agreements with 629 for disasters occurring in local government bodies (as of February 28, 2011) and assist with Japan, we donated a total local disaster prevention activities, including providing emergency of ¥144 million (including suppliers in the event of a disaster, providing car parks for use as ¥39,620,000 contributed by evacuation points and organizing joint emergency drills. customers) to embassies and Presenting relief funds to the Chilean other organizations. Embassy to help Chilean earthquake * Aeon announced its participation victims in the United Nations Global Compact 43 AEON Sustainability Report 2011 Fundraising Activities (FY 2010) Main fundraising activities (Japan) Funds raised from Aeon 1% Club Activity Activity period Participating Companies Total Amount Donees customers and employees Contributions Funds to support construction of April 21, 2009 65 Aeon The Japan Committee ¥38,242,627 ¥38,257,373 ¥76,500,000 schools in Laos – June 21, 2009 Group companies for UNICEF Nippon Television 24-hour television July 3, 2009 77 Aeon Network Corporation ¥328,011,074 ーー ¥320,011,074 – September 6, 2009 Group companies “24-Hour Television Charity Committee” October 6, 2009 59 Aeon Embassy of the Republic of Sumatra Earthquake Relief Efforts ¥12,753,736 ¥12,746,264 ¥25,500,000 – October 20, 2009 Group companies Indonesia in Japan January 16, 2010 78 Aeon Haiti Earthquake Relief Efforts ¥48,609,734 ¥51,390,266 ¥100,000,000 Japan Platform – January 31, 2010 Group companies Total Amount ¥427,617,171 ¥102,393,903 ¥530,011,074 Continuous Fundraising Activities Activity Activity period Funds raised from customers and employees Accumulated funds Donee Red Feather October 1, 2009 The Central Community ¥12,647,632 ¥178,510,976（1983-2009） Community Chest – October 31, 2009 Chest of Japan Emergency Disaster Relief (FY 2010) Aeon 1% Club Relief recipients Donation date 主な募金活動（国内） contribution donation for earthquake victims in Disaster relief活動名称 Italy April 7, 2009 お客さまと ¥5,000,000 イオン1％クラブの 活動期間 参加企業 総 額 贈呈先 従業員からの募金額 拠出額 Disaster relief donation for torrential rain victims in Yamaguchi Prefecture July 24, 2009 ¥5,000,000 2009年 4月21日 イオングループ ラオス学校建設支援募金 Disaster relief donation for torrential rain victims in northern Kyushu July 31, 2009 3,824万2,627円 ¥3,000,000 3,825万7,373円 7,650万円 財団法人「日本ユニセフ協会」 〜 6月21日 計65社 Disaster relief donation for torrential rain victims in Hyogo Prefecture August 17, 2009 ¥5,000,000 in Taiwan 7月 Disaster relief donation for typhoon victims2009年 3日 イオングループ August 18, 2009 ¥5,000,000 日本テレビ 24時間テレビ 3億2,801万1,074円 ーー 3億2,801万1,074円 〜 9月 6日 計77社 「24時間テレビチャリティ委員会」 Disaster relief donation for typhoon victims in the Philippines October 2, 2009 ¥5,000,000 Disaster relief donation for earthquake victims in Sumatra October 5, 2009 ¥5,000,000 2010年10月 6日 イオングループ スマトラ島沖地震被災支援募金 Disaster relief donation for typhoon victims in Vietnam October 7, 2009 1,275万3,736円 ¥5,000,000 1,274万6,264円 2,550万円 駐日インドネシア共和国大使館 〜10月20日 計59社 Disaster relief donation for earthquake victims in Haiti January 18, 2010 ¥3,000,000 2010年 1月16日 イオングループ ＮＰＯ法人 ハイチ地震被災支援募金 4,860万9,734円 5,139万266円 1億円 〜 1月31日 計78社 「ジャパン・プラットフォーム」 TOPICS 支援先 贈呈日時 イオン1％クラブの 合計金額 拠出額 4億2,761万7,171円 1億239万3,903円 5億3,001万1,074円 Selling Products with Donation イタリア地震被災者への災害支援金寄付 2009年4月7日 to Support 5,000,000円 Recovery from Chile Earthquake and New Zealand Earthquake 継続的な募金活動 In an effort to assist in the recovery 山口県豪雨災害地域への災害支援金寄付 from the Chile5,000,000円 2009年7月24日 Earthquake that occurred in February 2010, Aeon decided to donate ¥20 to the affected areas for each bottle of new Chilean 活動期間 wine (imported by Cordon Vert CO., LTD.*) sold. We sold these donation-linked wines at about 活動名称 九州北部豪雨災害地域への災害支援金寄付 2009年7月31日お客さまと従業員からの募金額 3,000,000円 累計募金額 贈呈先 630 stores including those directly managed by Aeon Group throughout the country as well as through the liquor retail chain YaMaYa 兵庫県豪雨災害地域への災害支援金寄付 2009年8月17日 5,000,000円 CORPORATION group stores and donated 2009年10月 1日 a total of approximately ¥1.18 million through the Embassy of the Republic of Chile in Japan. 赤い羽根共同募金 1,264万7,632円 1億7,851万976円（1983年度〜2009年度） 財団法人「中央共同募金会」 台湾台風被災者への災害支援金寄付 〜 10月31日 2009年8月18日 5,000,000円 Also, following the New Zealand Earthquake in February 2011, we conducted a campaign to donate ¥10 for every bottle of New Zealand wine sold and ¥1 for every piece of2009年10月2日 フィリピン台風被災者への災害支援金寄付 pumpkin, corn5,000,000円 and kiwi sold at about 1,200 stores under Aeon Group throughout Japan starting in March 2011. As a result, we donated スマトラ島沖地震被災者への災害支援金寄付 a total of approximately 2009年10月5日 5,000,000円 ¥4.23 million through the New Zealand Embassy Tokyo, Japan. * Cordon Vert CO., LTD.: A liquor importer 2009年10月7日 ベトナム台風被災者への災害支援金寄付 jointly established 5,000,000円 by Aeon and YaMaYa CORPORATION ハイチ地震被災者への災害支援金寄付 2010年1月18日 3,000,000円 AEON Sustainability Report 2011 44 Responsibilities to Local Communities Launch of Aeon UNICEF Safe Water Campaign 3. Assistance to Developing Countries In Cambodia and Laos, untold numbers of children must perform domestic labor in the form of gathering and carrying water. Unable to attend school, these children are losing their chance at an education. School Construction Support Project Aeon wanted to provide safe drinking water that would allow these children to devote time to studying rather than retrieving In partnership with the Japan Committee for UNICEF, Aeon is water. We, therefore, launched the Aeon UNICEF Safe Water helping to build schools in parts of Asia where they are sorely campaign in October 2010. Through this campaign, we not only needed. In stores and other facilities operated by Aeon Group collect donations from customers in our stores but also contribute companies across Japan, we collect donations from customers for ¥5 from the sale of every bottle of TOPVALU Mineral Water to make the School Construction Support Project. To date, we have helped it possible for even greater numbers of our customers to help to construct a total of 326 schools in Cambodia, Nepal, and Laos, children in Asia. giving around 110,000 children a chance to go to school. With customer donations, funds from mineral water sales, and For the three-year a contribution from the Aeon 1% Club, we were able to send ¥40 period beginning in million to the Japan Committee for UNICEF in December 2010. As a 2010 and extending result, the Safe Water Campaign through 2012, our plans is giving 32,000 children a year call for supporting access to safe drinking water. the construction of 30 This campaign is scheduled schools in Vietnam´s to take place for the three-year Hue Province. period between 2010 and 2012. Vietnamese school children Young girl collecting water from a turbid pond Former school New school Presentation of donation to Japan Committee for UNICEF Gravity-driven water pump 45 AEON Sustainability Report 2011 Responsibilities to Local Communities PET-bottle Caps Recycle Campaign 4. Nurturing the Next Since 2008, Aeon has been collecting PET bottle caps from customers at our stores with Fashion Service NANIWA, a business Generation partner. As recyclable resources, collected caps are sold for cash, which is then contributed to three different international organizations*1 supporting children in Asia´s developing countries. Aeon Cheers Club’s Activities In fiscal 2010, cash from 316,240,000*2 bottle caps was donated to these organizations, which used these funds to provide vaccines, The Aeon Cheers Club provides hands-on opportunities for children nutritious food, and school supplies to children in Myanmar, firstto ninth-year students to learn about the environment. Vietnam, and Thailand. Through the Aeon Cheers Club, children living near Aeon stores come together once a month to participate in various *1 The three international organizations are: environmental activities with the support of store employees. Japan Committee Vaccines for the World´s Children (JCV) Save the Children Japan Activities follow a six-year cycle of annual themes. The themes are Plan Japan “garbage”, “recycling”, “resources (energy)”, “the sun and nature”, *2 Caps collected from August 21, 2009 through August 20, 2010. “plants”, and “animals”. The theme for fiscal 2010 was “animals.” Over the year, approximately 3,600 children participated in nature observations, animal studies, and other store-based activities through 190 clubs all over Japan. In our KPI established in July 2011 we have included the number of Aeon Cheers Clubs as an evaluation indicator for our activities. Going forward, we will continue to take further actions toward Vaccination of children in Myanmar boosting the number of Aeon Cheers Clubs to more than 400 by fiscal 2013. School supplies for children in Nutritious food for children in Vietnam Thailand Kids listening to an explanation at a Presentations on the year’s activities nature observation event AEON Sustainability Report 2011 46 Promoting Dietary Education International Youth Exchange Opportunities We engage in a variety of dietary education activities at stores and Through domestic and international activities, Aeon provides schools. learning and international exchange opportunities for teens. ● Dietary education classes are conducted at stores ● Teenage Ambassadors program Include such activities as shopping games, vegetable quizzes and Every year since 1990, Aeon has invited Teenage Ambassadors from salad-making exercises. Participants learn the importance and fun countries around the world to come to study the environment and of food through seeing, hearing, touching, making and easting. experience high-school life in Japan. In fiscal 2010 the Through fiscal 2010, we had brought 508 high school students classes were held 21 from 14 countries to Japan as Teenage Ambassadors. And since times by Aeon Retail for 2006, we have been sending Japanese high school students abroad 675 elementary school to spend time in the countries of their visiting peers. students and XXX times In fiscal 2010, 20 high school students from Naples, Italy were by Maxvalu Nishinihon invited to visit the city of Kagoshima for the 50th anniversary of the for 768 students. two cities’ sister city relationship. The Italian students stayed with home-stay families and attended classes which Dietary education classes helped to foster cultural ● Dietary education outreach program exchange with their Aeon Retail also conducts a dietary education outreach program. Japanese counterparts. Employees visit elementary schools as company instructors and In fiscal 2011, 20 hold classes related to high school students food. from Kagoshima City Nine classes were will visit the city of Teenage Ambassadors from Naples, Italy visiting held in fiscal 2010 and Naples. a high school in Kagoshima city they were attended by 210 elementary school ● The Aeon Scholarship program students. 2006 was also the year in which we created the Aeon Scholarship program. Through the end of fiscal 2010, we had provided scholarships Dietary education outreach program to a total of 1,237 foreign students attending 11 universities in Japan, 6 universities in China, and 2 universities in Thailand. ● The Elementary Student Rice Paddy Project In fiscal 2011, we See pg. 32 also plan to begin offering the scholarship * The Asian University Student Exchange Forum to Vietnamese students In fiscal 2010, Aeon inaugurated the Asian University Student Exchange Forum. In the initial edition of the forum, Japanese university students were sent to Vietnam attending university to discuss biodiversity with their local counterparts. in Vietnam, as well as In the future, discussion topics will be widened to include themes like “the environment and economics” and participating countries will be expanded to expand the scope of include Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, and China. A key purpose of the forum is the program to include to provide a place where young adults who are tomorrow´s leaders can develop understanding of values different from their own. more universities. Aeon Scholarship recipients participating in a tree-planting event at an Aeon store TOPICS Contribution of funds to reduce child poverty in Japan Aeon supports Save the Children Japan’s child poverty reduction activities in Japan by contributing funds of 0.1% of the receipts turned in by customers for purchases made at Aeon 40th anniversary sale events. These events were held four times during the year over 20 days and contributed around ¥3,110,000 in total. Presentation ceremony 47 AEON Sustainability Report 2011 Aeon Group’s Activities Aeon Group’s Activities—Aeon Fantasy Co., Ltd. — Aeon Co. (M) Bhd. (Aeon Malaysia) Campaign to Make Children’s Dreams Come True Administering a Children’s Welfare Foundation Since 2003, Aeon Fantasy Co., Ltd., which is engaged in family Aeon Co. (M) Bhd. (Aeon Malaysia) established the “With All Our entertainment service such as operating indoor amusement parks Hearts” (WAOH) Malaysian JUSCO Foundation*1 in 2004 to help in shopping centers around the country, has been conducting a improve living, education and medical conditions for Malaysian campaign to realize the dreams of children. The campaign is carried children. The foundation is funded with a portion of sales proceeds out twice a year, in July under the theme “Fantasy Tanabata – Wish and through charity activities. upon a star” and in December under the theme “Lala-chan Santa In fiscal 2010, approximately 320,000 ringgit*2 was donated to will help you realize your dream”. care facilities, children’s cancer centers, schools and other worthy From the many dreams submitted through mobile phones, organizations. over the website and by postcards, the company selects 10 families who will be visited by Lala*1 The foundation changed its name to “With All Our Hearts” (WAOH) Malaysian chan, the mascot. Lala-chan Aeon Foundation in January 2010. *2 Currency of Malaysia. 320,000 ringgit is equivalent to around ¥ 8.97 million. then helps them in realizing dreams such as “I want to make Lala-chan bread for everyone living in evacuation centers,” “I want to dance Yosakoi together,” and “I want to become a rock star and dance on stage.” Visiting hospitalized children (AEON Malaysia) Aeon Group’s Activities—Companies Based in China Providing a Wide Range of Assistance to Children in Need Our companies in China also provide assistance to children in need locally. ● Guangdong JUSCO Teem Stores Co., Ltd. Works together with its business partners to donate down coats to elementary schools located in disadvantaged areas of Gansu and Sichuan. ● Qingdao AEON Dongtai Co., Ltd. Works together with the Red Cross Society to hold the Fukukayu Charity Event at the end of the year, donating all proceeds for the medical expenses of children suffering from congenital heart disease. ● AEON South China Co., Ltd. Invites children living in social welfare facilities to its stores to experience shopping. ● AEON Stores (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd. Holds a charity calendar sale in order to provide assistance to children with physical or mental disabilities. AEON Sustainability Report 2011 48 Responsibilities to Customers reconsider matters like raw materials, additives, and manufacturing processes; and we finalize product specifications. Supplied products 1. Product Safety and are inspected and the ones that pass are sent to stores. Security Even after a product is introduced, we perform regular product quality evaluations, and conduct plant hygiene inspections and other types of manufacturer audits to ensure our products pose no safety or security issues. Product Safety and Security * Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct: Aeon has developed a code of conduct that manufacturers must abide by. The use of this code of conduct is our attempt Aeon developed its own TOPVALU brand of products to make daily to ensure that suppliers comply with national and local laws, operate safe, life better for customers. From product planning and design, to healthy work environments, respect human rights, and guarantee their workers appropriate working conditions and wages. selection of manufacturers, finalization of product specifications, manufacturing management, and sales, we strive to create products TOPVALU Quality Assurance from the customer’s perspective. Product development During product planning and design, our development, quality Aeon product enabled by the ability assurance, and customer service people scrutinize potential raw planning and design to gather direct customer input material suppliers, investigate possible safety concerns, examine the use of additives, research manufacturing processes and consider other key issues to ensure that the final product is safe and poses no Selection of health risks. Sales through AEON TOPVALU manufacturers that We select manufacturers by first performing Aeon Supplier Aeon Group stores quality meet Aeon’s standards Code of Conduct* audits, product safety examinations, and plant assurance Customer feedback Manufacturing at plants hygiene inspections, examining the results and then entering gathered by TOPVALU meeting Aeon’s strict plant customer service inspection, labor into agreements with those companies we think can provide the section management, environmental products we expect. and other standards To ensure that is the case, manufacturers make prototypes, Distribution by Aeon customer monitors and employees evaluate these prototypes, we Painstaking distribution management 7 TOPVALU brands TOPVALU Product Labeling TOPVALU products are labeled with accurate, straightforward information that customers need. We intend to provide even more detailed information in the future to accommodate increasing 5 TOPVALU Commitments customer concern over food product labeling. 1 Reﬂecting the opinions of customers in products ● Food Allergen Labeling We invite customers to test products and give their opinions Information on food allergens is provided on product labels. The about quality and function. information covers use of seven officially designated ingredients* 2 Oﬀering reassuring products with consideration and 18 other secondary items as well as whether any allergens for safety and the environment are handled in the manufacturing process. Inspections are also We reduce the use of food additives and use raw materials and packaging with less environmental impacts. conducted every year to confirm labeling accuracy. 3 Presenting necessary information in an easy-to* The seven ingredients, which are the most common allergens, are wheat, milk, understand format eggs, buckwheat, peanuts, prawns and crab. The Ministry of Health, Labour and We clearly indicate information on nutrition and genetically Welfare also recommends labeling 18 secondary items (soy beans, roe, squid, modified ingredients. mackerel, salmon, abalone, chicken, pork, beef, kiwi fruit, bananas, peaches, 4 apples, oranges, gelatin, yams, walnuts, and matsutake mushrooms). Providing products at aﬀordable prices We offer product prices that are more affordance than those of national brands. 5 Guaranteeing customer satisfaction We give a refund or exchange a product if the customer is not satisfied. 49 AEON Sustainability Report 2011 ● Labeling of Genetically Modified Ingredients In April 2001 the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare began Disclosing Traceability Information giving approval to genetically modified foods only if their safety could be confirmed and made it mandatory to label their use. But Aeon promotes traceability, which enables product production even before this, in September 2000, Aeon began labeling TOPVALU locations, production methods and distribution routes to be products in response to urging from our customers. Labeling is recorded and retained and disclose information to customers. provided even for items not mandated by law. In order to confirm label accuracy, products subject to labeling (separate items) ● Producer Data Search System Provides Searchable undergo testing for genetically modified DNA every year. Information on Fruit and Vegetable Products In 2003 we established the Producers Data Search System for ● Labeling of Place of Origin of Ingredients for Processed Foods AEON’s TOPVALU Gurinai products to give customers online access We carry out labeling of the place of origin of ingredients as much to information on producers. We also added a barcode function that as possible, not just limiting it to the food groups for which such allows customers to access producer data by reading the QR code. labeling is mandated by Japanese Agricultural Standards (JAS) In addition to traceability information, customers are also presented law*. In addition, we have established clear quality standards for with tasty recipes using the scanned ingredient. ingredients irrespective of their place of origin and sign agreements In fiscal 2010 a cumulative total of approximately 350 with manufacturers, and carry out testing for food allergens and agricultural products were labeled with QR codes. DNA not to mention investigations related to ingredient standards and residual pesticides. ● Domestic Beef Safety Confirmation System Provides * Act for Standardization and Proper Labeling of Agricultural and Forestry Products Production History and Distribution Routes for Each and Every Cow Food Allergen/Genetically Modified Ingredients Labeling Aeon established the Domestic Beef Safety Confirmation System in 2002, prior to enforcement of the Beef Traceability Act*, in order to provide peace of mind to customers buying beef. The system allows customers to find out information about beef products from cattle raised in Japan, including where the cow was raised, who raised it and what feed it was raised on. The system is available via a website, or, at some stores, information terminals with touch panels have been set up. * Enforced in December 2004, the law’s formal name is the Act on Special Measures concerning the Management and Relay of Information for Individual Identification of Cattle. Labeling of Place of Origin of Ingredients Ensuring Food Sanitation Control Under the Aeon Food Sanitation Certification System established in 1995, Aeon engages in a variety of activities to prevent the occurrence of food-related incidents such as food poisoning and contamination (implementing 19 companies related with GMS Business and SM Business). AEON Sustainability Report 2011 50 ● Quality Keepers Responsibilities to Customers Aeon has assigned “Quality Keepers” at stores to verify store sanitation levels and product quality. Quality Keepers check store 2. Store Safety and products and food preparation areas at stores, and if a problem is found, they order improvements. In addition, sales staff inspect a list Security of items related to sanitation and quality management, including a temperature management chart that is used to record temperature Designing Stores Based on Universal Design management for display cases, refrigerators and freezers, and sellConcepts by dates that are set for each product. Aeon developed its own building standards based on the Heartful ● Sanitation Training for Employees Building Law enacted in 1994 (revised in December 2006 and Employees in the food departments of Aeon stores must undergo renamed the new Barrier Free Law*). We use the standards when sanitation training at least once a year. Employees review basic building new stores and remodeling existing locations. We are also sanitation knowledge and rules for food preparation areas. Practical committed to incorporating universal design principles into store skills tests are also conducted for each person based on a test development processes to strengthen store function and design. booklet. As of February 28, 2011, 657 of our facilities had been certified as compliant with the new Barrier Free Law. ● Audits of Food Preparation Areas Food preparation areas are audited at least twice a year. Audits are * The Act for Buildings Accessible to and Usable by the Elderly and Physically Disabled Persons, or Heartful Building Law, was revised to become the new Barrier continued until certain established standards are met. Free Law in December 2006. ● Sanitation Contests We hold a sanitation contest once a year and honor stores recognized as excellent in audits of food preparation areas. Aeon Group’s Activities――Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd. Behind-the-Scenes Store Tours (Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd.) Step-free entrance Remote controlled car parking for physically disabled customers In January 2010, Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd. began conducting behindthe-scenes store tours for customers. Except for newly opened stores, all Maxvalu stores conduct two tours every Saturday. Tours are led by employees and assistant customer store managers* entrusted with managing product quality and improving customer service and who also answer questions about food safety and security, and gather input and requests concerning quality assurance, Priority benches Large direction signs in multi-story car while leading customers parks through the back sections of (All photos are from Aeon LakeTown) stores. In fiscal 2010, 495 tours were conducted for 1,505 Training Service Care-Fitters to Assist Seniors and participants. People with Disabilities Behind-the-scenes store tour We encourage Aeon employees to acquire Care-fitter* certification * Stores appoint a local customer selected from applicants as assistant store to help ensure that seniors and people in need of assistance can manager, who monitors sanitation and quality control. shop at our stores with total peace of mind. Certification training includes simulating the experience of being elderly and practicing providing assistance to people with disabilities. Certified Care-fitters numbered 8,750 as of February 28, 2011. * Care-fitter certification is administered by the non-profit Nippon Care-Fit Service Association. 51 AEON Sustainability Report 2011 Raising Safety Levels of Store Facilities and Fixtures Aeon pursues safety for facilities and fixtures used in its stores to Qualification certificate prevent accidents involving customers. In addition, automated for service care external defibrillators (AED) have been set up at stores in the event workers a customer or employee faints. ● Safety Measures for Escalators There has been an increase in recent years in accidents involving children getting caught in the gap between an escalator and the wall at shopping malls and department stores. Aeon stores work to prevent Training exercise: Experiencing the world as an escalator-related incidents by setting up elderly person might barriers or dividers to prevent exposure to such gaps. Safety Measures for Escalators Training Staff to Help Those with Dementia ● Establishing Parking Lot Guardrails Accidents often occur in the parking lots of retail complexes caused In 2007 Aeon became the first member of the retail industry to by drivers mixing up the gas and brake begin company-wide participation in the Million Supporters pedals. We have therefore established strategy for people who suffer from dementia, organized by the parking lot guardrails in order to prevent Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare and the NPO Community-Care cars from crashing into stores and Policy Network. ensure the safety of customers. We also run seminars to train our employees to act as supporters Parking Lot Guardrails so that they can have understanding and provide appropriate support. The number of trained supporters for those with dementia ● Installing Automated External Defibrillators (AED) had reached 21,757, with 484 staff members qualified as “Caravan Automated external defibrillators, or AED, administer an electric Mate” training course instructors as of February 28, 2011. shock to people experiencing sudden cardiac arrest as a way to Through this initiative Aeon is working to support people with resuscitate them. As of the end of February 2011, Aeon has installed dementia and their families in partnership with local community a total of 1,242 AED units at 846 stores and shopping centers. members. In addition, store management, security guards and other staff members are trained in emergency lifesaving techniques. The badge and orange band worn by staff specially trained to assist customers with dementia Role-playing in Caravan Mate training AEON Sustainability Report 2011 52 Fire Prevention, Disaster Preparedness and Measures to Combat New Flu Viruses for Crime Prevention at Stores the Safety of Customers and Employees Aeon has established fire prevention, disaster preparedness and Aeon formed a project team in 2006 as a measure to address crime prevention measures at its retail facilities, which are visited risks from the outbreak of infectious diseases such as the global by large numbers of customers, in order to respond quickly and spread of highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza in humans. We appropriately and ensure the safety of customers if an incident established Rules for New Flu Viruses in September 2006 and have occurs. since been readying infection prevention measures in order to ensure the safety of customers and employees. ● Fire Prevention and Disaster Preparedness at Stores In conjunction with the global spread of the new flu virus Aeon stores check safety and disaster preparedness measures on a H1N1 starting in the spring of 2009, we revised the rules based daily basis, while security staff and store managers also conduct a on the latest information and re-distributed them to Aeon Group final inspection after stores are closed. companies. We also distributed the New Flu Virus Handbook to Fire prevention drills are conducted twice a year and earthquake store employees in order to raise awareness of new flu viruses. response drills are run once Moreover, a list of new flu supplies was provided at stores for a year. Full store employees customers in the form of a pamphlet and awareness-raising poster. as well as temporary, partWe also gave out information on helpful measures at home and time and tenant employees placed an alcoholbased disinfectant spray at store entrances for participate in the drills. They customers to use on their hands. are conducted to help us In fiscal 2010, we launched our Influenza Infection Reporting respond quickly and ensure System. This system identifies the influenza infection status in each the safety of customers in store and business location for all Group companies in Japan, and An emergency drill in Sennan the event of a fire or earthquake.(Osaka prefecture) integrates this information with nationwide data on the spread of influenza provided by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. This combination of data helps narrow down areas for which ● Installing Security Cameras to Strengthen Crime measures can be taken to prevent the spread of influenza. Prevention Measures There have been a number of incidents at supermarkets over the past several years involving food products with needles or other Aeon Group’s Activities— dangerous objects. Aeon has therefore installed security cameras in Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd. food departments and begun using needle detectors at its stores. If Crime Prevention Training a needle were to be discovered, it would be promptly delivered to the police or healthcare center and customers would be informed through an in-store display or announcement in order to prevent All Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd. stores have been designated 110additional injury or damage. Ban Stores, which are stores that offer emergency, evacuation, and We are also conducting crime prevention drills to ensure the first-aid services to crime and accident victims. These stores also safety of customers in the event an incident or accident occurs in a promote safe communities. store. As part of these efforts, stores also hold annual crime prevention training with the assistance of local police. In fiscal 2010, 20 stores conducted this training. Through training to deal with matters like muggings at ATMs and bank transfer fraud by offering sanctuary to victims and contacting police, these stores are raising crime awareness among both local customers and employees. Crime prevention training 53 AEON Sustainability Report 2011 Responsibilities to Customers Customer Service Department Broadly Collects Comments and Requests 3. System for Addressing The Customer Service Department at Aeon headquarters receives Customer Feedback product and service related comments and requests from customers that visit our stores. Comments and requests, which come in via the phone, Internet, letters and other channels, are responded to after checking with the relevant departments. In addition, for TOPVALU Placing Suggestion Boxes products, we have set up a call center and collect customer suggestions. Aeon puts the customer’s perspective at the hear t of management. This information is reported to directors and executive officers, We strive to create conditions in which customers feel free to as well as shared with employees of relevant departments through provide suggestions and to promptly incorporate customer systems that manage customer feedback. comments into product lineup and service improvements, Aeon headquarters received 54,362 comments and inquiries environmental conservation activities and other areas. from customers in fiscal 2010, an decrease of 8.9% (5,287) over The Suggestion Boxes and Communication Boards (bulletin fiscal 2009. Approximately 25% of these were suggestions or boards for comments and suggestions) at our stores represent one comments regarding products, 8% were suggestions or comments such initiative. Comments and suggestions provided by customers on services, 53% were questions about products and 14% were are replied to directly by a store representative and posted for questions about services. In fiscal 2010 there was a decline in the others to see. We receive many number of customer comments and inquiries received compared suggestions from customers to the previous three years due to a drop in the number of major about things that are difficult for scandals and incidents where food products were either mislabeled, stores and employees to notice. contaminated or tampered with. However, we continue to receive a The suggestions are utilized to steady number of customers inquiries on product safety and quality improve product lineups and assurance. services and in environmental Aeon is committed to listening to the comments of each conservation activities and other individual customer and using this information to improve products initiatives. and services. Suggestion Box and Communication Board Kohyo Co., Ltd.’s Mislabeling of Product Origins and Preventative Measures On November 30, 2010, Kohyo Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of Aeon headquartered in Osaka City, was ordered to cease relevant advertisements and take remedial measures by the Consumer Affairs Agency of Japan, based on Article 6 of the Act against Unjustifiable Premiums and Misleading Representations, for mislabeling the origin of “live horned turban” (a marine snail) advertised in a newspaper insert. This incident occurred from April 1, 2010 to May 7, 2010 when Kohyo Co., Ltd. took out newspaper ad inserts on 10 separate occasions that listed the daily special as “live horned turban from Shimane Prefecture or other domestic sources.” The origin country, however, of the actual product was South Korea. After this mistake was uncovered, Aeon Co., Ltd. and Kohyo Co., Ltd. launched a joint investigative committee that included third parties to review the incident. The results showed that the reason for the labeling mistake was because the origin country of the product was not thoroughly crosschecked with the country of origin listed on the newspaper ad insert. Aeon considers this problem as problem for all of its Group companies. Together with building a structure to prevent similar reoccurrences, we will take actions to ensure that the Group companies comply with laws more thoroughly. AEON Sustainability Report 2011 54 Responsibilities to Business Partners Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct 1. Promoting Supplier (Business Code of Conduct) Requirements Conform with legally stipulated social responsibility standards in countries where Code of Conduct manufacturing and procurement takes place Conform with national laws and regulations Business Dealings in Accordance with 1. Child labor: Illegal child labor is prohibited Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct 2. Forced labor: Forced, prison and bonded labor are prohibited 3. Safety,hygiene and health: Provide safe, healthy workplaces Aeon has been taking measures to raise the level of its quality 4. Freedom of association and right to group negotiations: management structure to ensure the quality of TOPVALU Respect employee rights products, which we plan and develop on our own. At the same 5.Discrimination: Discrimination on the basis of place of origin or creed is time, we formulated the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct for prohibited contract manufacturers in 2003 to fulfill our responsibilities to the 6. Disciplinary action: Cruel punishment of employees is prohibited society such as maintaining proper commercial transactions with 7. Working hours: Comply with laws related to working hours manufacturers and ensuring appropriate workplace conditions 8. Wages and benefits: Comply with laws related to wages and benefits at manufacturing sites. We demand compliance with this code of 9. Management responsibility: Pledge compliance with the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct conduct in all our business dealings. 10. Environment: Work to prevent environmental pollution and damage The code covers compliance with national and local laws, 11. Business dealings: Comply with local laws on commercial transactions respect for human rights, and safe, healthy working conditions, 12. Certification, auditing and monitoring: Accept certification, among other topics. Compliance pledges have been received from auditing and monitoring under the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct approximately 500 manufacturing partners. There is also a system 13. Ban on gift-giving: Gift-giving between Aeon and suppliers is prohibited in place whereby Aeon certified auditors and outside agencies conduct audits of partner production sites to check compliance with these requirements and promote improvements. Acquisition of SA8000 International Certification on Human Rights and Employment XXXXXXX After establishing the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct, in 2004 we acquired SA8000 certification, an international standard, becoming The Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (CoC) stipulates that suppliers the first Japanese retailer to do so. must continually undergo second-party audits by Aeon auditors The standard establishes normative guidelines for protecting the and third-party audits by professional outside auditing firms. human rights of workers on international labor markets. It requires As of February 28, 2011, third-party audits have been conducted compliance in eight areas that include protecting human rights and for 1,172 factories. CoC Individual Support nondiscriminatory employment practices as well as development Sessions are held on an ongoing basis to of a related management system and ongoing improvement to it. rectify areas in need of improvement. A Certification applies to head office processes and TOPVALU supplier formal certification ceremony is also held management by Aeon Co.,Ltd. and Aeon Retail Co.,Ltd. and AEON every year for companies passing CoC TOPVALU CO., LTD. SA8000 certification was renewed in January 2008 audits. after passing a renewal audit that is administered every three years. Aeon will continue to pursue appropriate business processes Scene of an audit together with suppliers on the twin basis of the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct and SA8000. Cumulative Total Number of Code of Conduct-Certified Factories Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct-certification procedure (the cumulative total of factories obtaining certification as a result of third-party audits) Corrective action report FY 2006 211 factories Compliance declaration Second-party audit Auditor and schedule Supplier Code of Conduct Office Supplier registered coordinated (Aeon) Supplier briefing Audit requested Advance checklist sent FY 2007 471 factories Audit conducted ･Audit conducted covering 90 items Aeon approved auditor Need to undergo regular auditing ･Audit conducted by Aeon auditor after certification FY 2008 732 factories Online advance questionnaire Corrective action report Third-party audit Sent to assessment body FY 2009 931 factories Responses and assessment (external body) confirmed ･Audit conducted by third-party auditing firm Schedule confirmed with ･Audit conducted covering 370 items auditing body Certification FY 2010 1,172 factories 55 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 Responsibilities to Business Partners Direct Business Dealings with Fishery Cooperatives 2. Collaboration with Aeon has done business directly with fishery cooperatives since Business Partners 2008 in an effort to raise customer satisfaction by providing even fresher fish while at the same time helping maintain cultural practices associated with consuming fish through a sustainable Promoting Food Artisan Project fishing industry. We began direct dealings with JF Shimane (Shimane Prefecture), Aeon has conducted the Food Artisan Project since 2001 with JF Ishikawa (Ishikawa Prefecture), JF Amaha (Chiba Prefecture), many producers across the country dedicated to preserving local JF Enoshima Katase (Kanagawa Prefecture) and JF Yamagata flavors. The project seeks to preserve local culinary cultures. Local (Yamagata Prefecture) in In 2010, direct dealings were newly started producer organizations , government agencies, universities and with Hiroshima Fishery Cooperative. other research institutions, and retailer Aeon work to develop Through dialogue with the National Federation of Fisheries mechanisms to support local regions. Everyone involved pools Cooperatives Associations Aeon intends to continue conducting their wisdom and works to publicize the ingredients and traditional initiatives that benefit our techniques that support exceptional local culinary cultures. So far, we have taken initiatives to pass on the cultivation and culinary culture of the following four items: Sakurajima daikon radish, a traditional vegetable of Kagoshima Prefecture; Annou imo, a sweet potato from Tanegashima in Kagoshima Prefecture; olives from Shodoshima in Kagawa Prefecture; and cereal grains from Iwate Prefecture. In June 2011, we established the “Delicious Junsai Promotion Committee” jointly with local organizations in Mitane Town, Sales floor All fish caught by this fishing Akita Prefecture, which is the largest producer of junsai, or water vessel is purchased by Aeon shield, in Japan. We have been taking initiatives in carrying out research on more efficient Environmental Conservation Activities with harvesting techniques and Our Business Partners product publicity to boost demand of Akita junsai, demand Aeon conducts a variety of environmental conservation activities for which has been falling together with business partners. due to a shortage of pickers, For example, we conduct cleanup campaigns together with local expansion of Chinese produce Junsai from Akita Prefecture suppliers in Hokkaido, Tohoku, Kanto/Tokai, Chubu, Kinki, Chugoku/ in the market and other factors. Shikoku, and Kyushu / Okinawa. Business partners also participate in Aeon’s tree-planting efforts. In addition, we work with manufacturers to improve containers and packaging, for example by using shared containers to raise loading efficiency. Joint efforts are also made to reduce CO2 emissions to help prevent global warming. Picking junsai Environmental assessment by children AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 56 Responsibilities to Business Partners Making an international contribution through the Fair Trade scheme 3.Practicing Fair Trade Producers in developing countries Developing and Selling Fairtrade Products Producers in developing countries Responding to customers’ requests to help the world’s underprivileged through their daily shopping, Aeon began developing and marketing Fairtrade* coffee and other products in 2004. In November 2010, we produced TOPVALU Fairtrade Chocolate to incorporate a suggestion from Chuo University students and requests from our customers for goods that are easy to buy. This Aeon chocolate is now being sold at approximately 3,500 of our stores Products sold and purchased by customers across Japan. FLO certification market TOPVALU Fairtrade Chocolate is made with Fairtrade-certified cacao beans imported from the Dominican Republic. Processing these beans in Japan lowers the cost of the finished product and results in the flavor Japanese customers prefer. TOPVALU Customers Fairtrade Chocolate is the first Fairtrade-certified chocolate to Courtesy call paid together with Chuo be manufactured in Japan. University students to the Dominican Ambassador to Japan * Fairtrade means doing business with producers that need support in developing countries and setting product prices at appropriate levels given the labor involved. The initiative helps producers attain economic and social autonomy while also supporting environmental conservation. Practicing Community Fair Trade (The Body Shop) The Body Shop, a beauty products chain based in the U.K. (managed in Japan by Aeon Forest Co., Ltd.), conducts its own fair trade program called Community Fair Trade, which is based on the concept of “Trade not Aid.” The program was started by the late Anita Roddick, founder of The Body Shop, and is involved in a variety of initiatives, including establishing fair wages and labor conditions and raising awareness of AIDS. In fiscal 2010, In fiscal 2009, Community Trade for coconuts was started with the Samoan nonprofit Women in Business Development. At present, high quality ingredients and products are purchased from some 25,000 people through trade with almost 30 partners in over 20 countries. Approximately onetenth of total ingredients are procured through Community Trade and nearly 70% of products found at The Body Shop have Community Trade ingredients. Samoan producer (The Body Shop) 57 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 Responsibilities to Employees Increasing Employment for People with Disabilities 1. Promoting Diversity Led by Aeon Retail, Aeon is working to establish conditions that allow people with disabilities to work with a sense of purpose. As of June 2011, Aeon Co., Ltd. has an employment ratio for Basic Principles on Personnel and people with disabilities of 1.82%*. This ratio for the total of all Aeon Basic Approach to Personnel Group consolidated subsidiaries also exceeds the legally required level. On August 21, 2008 we established our Basic Principles on Aeon also established a special subsidiary Abilities JUSCO Co., Personnel and Basic Approach to Personnel in order to further Ltd. in an effort to increase employment of people with disabilities. raise the motivation of each and every employee in conjunction People with disabilities take on the challenge of realizing their own with switching to a pure holding company. We develop personnelpotential, working at seven Scrum CD stores in the Tohoku region related systems and programs on the basis of these basic principles alongside able-bodied staff (as of June, 2011). and approach. * Aeon Co., Ltd. has received accreditation for applying the Special Subsidiary Company System to applicable Group companies. Therefore, the ratio is reported Basic principles on personnel based on the total for Aeon Co., Ltd. (parent company), Abilities JUSCO Co., Ltd. With the primary objective of management based on respect for human (special subsidiary company) and Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. (affiliated company). rights, the Aeon Group’s basic principles on personnel revolve around listening to employees’ aspirations, understanding employees’ feelings and making the most of what employees have to offer, based on the guiding philosophy of ensuring that all Aeon people lead a full life at work, at home and in the community. Hiring Employees of Foreign Nationality Basic approach to personnel Management based on respect Since its founding, Aeon has recruited and hired human resources Creating a corporate for human rights under the basic policy of treating all with fairness based solely on environment in which human Listening to employees’ resources can continue to grow aspirations Understanding their skills and performance and not on nationality, gender, age, or employees’ feelings Making the as they work over the long term most of what employees have to offer other personal attributes. Dealing with personnel based To meet the goal to expand our presence in the Asia region on ability and achievement, Ensuring a full life at work, at home and in the community outlined in our three-year medium-term management plan, which not nationality, age, gender or category started in fiscal 2011, we plan to aggressively hire young human resources, who will form the cornerstone of future management not only in Japan, but also in China (including Hong Kong), Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia and Vietnam. By the year 2020, we aim to employ an equal number of Promoting Positive Action Japanese and non-Japanese staff in our global operations. We are working to promote Positive Action, which seeks to make us a company where both men and women can flourish, through participation in a council to promote women’s workplace performance sponsored by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. We drew up the Positive Action Declaration in April 2010. It states our commitment to providing all employees with an equal opportunity to perform at the workplace and to creating workplaces that are pleasant places to work for both men and women. In fiscal 2011, much like in fiscal 2010, we will promote workplaces that are easy to work in from a work-life balance perspective, workplaces where women in particular feel their work is valuable at every stage of life, as well as equal opportunity employment, recruitment and placement. AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 58 Promoting Equal Opportunities for Responsibilities to Employees Part-time Employees We have developed various programs that allow part-time 2. Securing Work-Life employees to thrive at the workplace. For example, Aeon Retail Co has a system that makes it possible Balance for all employees to utilize the same training and hiring programs. It instituted the Community Employee* Program in 2004 to eliminate differences in roles, expectations and treatment depending on Establishing Four Career Paths for Employees employee classifications (full employee or part-time employee) and to enable the continued growth of all employees depending We have a variety of programs that allow employees to choose a on ability, performance and motivation. The program eliminates way of working that matches their own values. For example, we differences in educational and hiring opportunities and makes it established four career paths in 2004. Under this system employees possible for anyone to take on the challenge of a higher position. may choose to take on the challenge of a different career path. Also, there are no difference in opportunities for acquiring * Community Employee is a collective designation for Aeon Retail employees qualifications or applying for new positions depending on the path, working in a specific location and not subject to geographic transfer. There are both hourly wage positions and monthly salaried positions. and employees are able to participate in various training programs regardless of the path. ● Community Employee Career Advancement People who enter the company as Community Employees have The four career paths available to AEON Retail Co., Ltd. employees the option of switching to managerial work after learning Aeon’s ● National (N) staff: Can essentially be transferred anywhere in Basic Principles and etiquette, mastering coursework for specified Japan or overseas programs and attaining a certain level of achievement. They also ● Regional (R) staff: Can be transferred anywhere within a specific have the opportunity to switch to the main career track, which regional block carries with it the possibility of job transfer and relocation. ● Community-based staff: No transfer requiring relocation. Option of daily/monthly salary or hourly wage. ● Contract workers: No transfer requiring relocation. Part-time only Improving System for Employing the Elderly Establishing Various Childcare and Nursing Care Aeon Retail raised its mandatory retirement age to 65 in 2007 in Support Programs order to address Japan’s aging population. Employees are allowed to choose to continue working in their We believe that for each person to achieve work-life balance current format or switch to a format that lets them work where they conditions must be in place that allow employees to work with want without the possibility of relocation. peace of mind. The Aeon Group has therefore established various childcare and nursing care support programs. To take one example, Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. makes childcare leave available for up to April 20 of the year the child enters middle school. The legal requirement is until the child enters elementary school, but workers often want to take time off after that in order to attend parents’ days at school and the like. In addition to enhancing such support programs, Aeon Retail is working to promote programs among employees in line with an action plan created based on the Act for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. As a result of these efforts, the company acquired the Kurumin nextgeneration certification* in January 2010. For employees with families for which nursing care is deemed necessary, we have established a nursing care leave program and a nursing care work program that provide time off or shortened working hours so the employee can provide the required nursing care. * Aeon Group companies certified as of June 2010: MYCAL CORPORATION, RYUKYU JUSCO CO.,LTD., Maxvalu Chubu Co.,Ltd., Maxvalu Nishinihon Co.,Ltd., KASUMI CO.,LTD., AEON Mall Co.,Ltd. and AEON CREDIT SERVICE CO.,LTD. 59 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 Responsibilities to Employees Welfare Programs 3. Support for Human A general Aeon Group friendly society foundation, the Aeon Good Life Club administers support programs to help members and their Resources Growth families live life to the fullest. Main Welfare Programs Personnel and Training Systems Support for living with peace of mind Assistance for childcare costs and aid for nursing care leave Employees are one of Aeon’s most important management Support for medium/ Group life insurance and consultation desk for savings/ long-term provisions insurance/medical, etc. resources. This is because each employee is a unique presence Support for joyful living Discounts on lodging, theme parks, etc. that concretely expresses Aeon’s principles to customers through products, services and customer interactions. Aeon has established personnel systems based on abilities and performance and training systems to support ongoing growth so that employees engage in their work with a sense of its value. For example, Aeon Retail has established three different job areas, that correspond to the skills and working formats of working people. Training is conducted to provide employees, in a regular, ongoing manner, with the knowledge and skills that are needed depending on their job area. ● Aeon Business School Trains Core Personnel The Aeon Business School is a backbone education system for training core personnel, who will be the driving force for our future business development. Employees with a willingness to take on challenges systematically learn the knowledge and skills necessary for the jobs they aspire to. In fiscal 2010, ten courses were held and a total of 273 people participated. AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 60 ● Internal Job Posting System Encourages Participation in Aeon’s in-house qualifications New Ventures Inhouse qualifications Number of qualifications holders Aeon has instituted an internal job posting system that broadly calls ◎Fresh fish master (grade 1) 12 on employees to participate in new business ventures and other ◎Fresh fish master (grade 2) 1,335 projects. With the corporate environment changing at a dizzying pace, workers can no longer just leave their careers up to their ◎Fresh fish master (grade 3) 2,835 companies. This system makes it possible for employees to take Baby advisor 545 charge of their own jobs and positions. Fashion advisor 53 In fiscal 2010, the Aeon Group accepted applications from its Liquor advisor 140 employees for jobs within its Asian businesses (including leaders, Fish advisor 175 managers and members) as well as with TOPVALU Collection Co., Digital advisor 242 Ltd., Aeon Marketing Co., Ltd., Aeon Retail Co., Ltd.’s My Basket Home appliance advisor 58 Business and DS Business. General appliance advisor 45 We intend to continue actively placing motivated personnel in ◎Cycle advisor 753 new positions. Senior cycle advisor 56 Beauty advisor 313 ● Wide Array of Internal Certification Systems for Specific Handcraft advisor 109 Jobs Aeon has established a wide array of internal certification systems ◎Hot deli master 2,195 for specific jobs in order to deliver safer and more secure products ◎Sushi master 2,173 and services. Eight of these certifications have been accredited by ◎Farm product master 959 the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare and recognized for their ◎Greenery master 356 high quality. The knowledge and skills of certified personnel are ◎Gardening master 172 also utilized to raise customer satisfaction. Checkout certification (grade 2) 531 ◎denotes qualifications accredited by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. *Total for Aeon Retail Co., Ltd., Aeon Hokkaido Corporation, SUNDAY Co., Ltd., Aeon Kyushu Co., Ltd., Aeon Supercenter Co., Ltd., Aeon Marche Co., Ltd., MYCAL Corporation, Ryukyu JUSCO Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Hokkaido Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Kyushu Co., Ltd. Personnel and Training Systems (AEON Retail Co., Ltd.) J Positions M Positions S Positions J1 J2 J3 M1 M2 M3 Personnel System Sales floor supervisors highly Specialized in Serve as management and proficient in day-to-day operations accomplishing goals promote business Set targets to reform operations Sales floor supervisors, assistant supervisors, 【Organization management】 shop leaders, etc. Store managers, assistant store managers, section Business department managers, store managers managers, supervisors at large stores, product managers, staff managers 【Experts in different areas】 Products (product developers, buyers, merchandisers), logistics, store development, IT, human resources, finance and other corporate staff Qualification promotion system, self-application system, internal job postings Training by Rank and Job Training System Promotion training by qualification, training when promoted for qualifications Basic training Aeon Business School Manager training Global personnel training Domestic study abroad Systems for supporting employee-directed development, including qualification acquisition, correspondence courses, periodical subscriptions and participation in public seminars 61 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 Responsibilities to Employees Setting Up Hotline for Employees 4. Creating Pleasant, Aeon set up the Aeon Code of Conduct Hotline for employees in Comfortable Workplaces 2004. The hotline can be used not only to report non-compliance and improprieties, but also to speak to someone about various workplace issues, such as not being able to speak with a boss or encountering something that is troubling. The hotline handles Health and Safety Committees a wide variety of reports and consultations. It is available to all employees working at the Aeon Group. Health and Safety Committees are organized at the store and There are two lines in operation, one for internal consultations business office level in order to ensure the safety and health of and another to connect and consult with an outside party. employees and promote the creation of pleasant, comfortable working conditions. For example, at Aeon Retail, store managers, managers of personnel and general affairs departments, employee representatives and labor union representatives attend the committee meetings, which are held once a month. Safety and Sanitation Committees discuss employee working conditions and points of improvement for workplace environments, with the involvement of both labor and management. Labor Union Status Aeon emphasizes dialogue between labor and management, and discussions are held with the labor union through Safety and Sanitation Committees and the labor-management council. Additionally, Aeon Retail’s labor union began allowing part-time employees to become members in conjunction with establishment of the Community Employee Program in 2004. As a result, as of the end of February 2011, the labor union had 81,855 members, including 63,945 part-time employees. After the Aeon Retail merger in June 2001, our labor union was reborn as the Aeon Retail Workers Union, and today total membership stands at 101,087 (including 79,845 part-time employees). We actively work to incorporate employee feedback through workplace meetings participated in by union members. Employees Healthcare Aeon is working to raise the percentage of employees receiving regular health exams in order to help employees maintain or improve their health. Based on the results of the exams, follow-up in provided depending on the urgency of the problem, and if reevaluation is necessary, employees are encouraged to get checked out at a hospital and report the results to the company. A counseling office is provided to support good mental health. It is one of the member services of the Aeon Good Life Club, a general foundation run by the Aeon Group. AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 62 Responsibilities to Employees 5. Respecting Human Rights Human Rights-related Training Aeon respects the human rights of all people and does not discriminate on the basis of nationality, race, sex, academic background, religion, mental or physical disability, or any other attribute. Each and every Aeon employee strives to listen closely to co-workers and make the company a place where people respect one another as equals. To accomplish this Aeon holds training programs to facilitate correct understanding and deepen awareness of a variety of issues, among all employees including issues pertaining to social discrimination, people with disabilities, foreign residents, abuse of power, diversity, and work-life balance. The Aeon Group as a whole trains employees on human rights issues at training for new executive officers, training for new employees of the Aeon Group, Aeon Business School (personnel training course), and the like. At training for new employees of the Aeon Group, participants acquire basic knowledge related to human rights that is required of employees. At the individual company level as well, efforts are made to raise human rights awareness through a variety of in-house training programs. TOPICS Distribution of a booklet of customer thank you notes We prepared a booklet called Happy Letter Book and distributed it to Aeon Group employees as part of the projects commemorating our 40th anniversary. Happy Letter Book compiles thank you notes and words of encouragement from customers. Employee happiness rests on customer feedback, which in turn would lead to gratitude towards customers and local communities – Aeon continues to aspire to be such a Group. 63 AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 Chronology of Aeon's Environmental Conservation and Social Contribution Activities Primary environmental conservation and social contribution activities Year Activity 1965 Donation of 1,000 cherry trees to the city of Okazaki at the opening of the Okazaki Okadaya Store 1977 Established of the JUSCO Company Welfare Fund (now known as the Aeon Welfare Fund) 1979 Established Cultural Foundation of Okada 1989 JUSCO Group is renamed Aeon Group, and the Aeon Group 1% Club (now known as the Aeon 1% Club) is established Launched the JUSCO Earth-Friendly Committee 1990 The Aeon 1% Club started the Small Ambassadors (now known as Teenage Ambassadors ) Program as a part of its international cultural and personnel exchange activities Launched the Aeon Hometown Forests Program, with Jaya JUSCO Stores Malacca Store (Malaysia) as its first store Established the Aeon Group Environment Foundation (now known as the Aeon Environment Foundation) 1991 Started Clean & Green activities Commenced the Bring Your Own Shopping Bag campaign on a trial basis Began trial operation of the food tray collection and recycling campaign 1992 Planted trees at JUSCO Shin Hisai Store (now known as Hisai store) – the first store in Japan under the Aeon Hometown Forests Program 1993 Started development of organic and other agricultural produce as the Green Eye (now known as TOPVALU Green Eye) private label 1994 Formulated the independent Aeon Heart Building Design Standards based on the Heart Building Law ( the Barrier Free New Law from December 2006). Opened JUSCO Minamikata Store as the first building in Japan certified under the Heart Building Low 1995 Introduced returnable food container and reusable hanger systems Launched the Environment Committee 1996 Founded the JUSCO Children's Eco Club (now known as the Aeon Cheers Club) 1998 Established the Aeon Group Environment Foundation and conducted the 1st tree planting in the Great Wall Forest Rejuvenation Project Launched the My Basket and My Bag campaigns Started sales of TOPVALU Kyokan Sengen products 2000 Commenced development of SELF + SERVICE ecology shops Acquired ISO 14001 certification across the entire company Changed company name to Aeon Co., Ltd. and started the Aeon Day 2001 Started the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign Aeon 1% Club starts support for the construction of schools in Cambodia (total of 149 schools from 2001 to 2003) 2002 Started Aeon Clean Road Activities in partnership with the Volunteer Support Program of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Began use of biomass packaging materials 2003 Formulated the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct Formulated the Basic Policy for the Prevention of Global Warming Announced participation in the Global Compact advocated by the United Nations 2004 Achieved SA8000 certification for Aeon Co., Ltd. TOPVALU supplier management systems and Aeon corporate operations Commenced sales of TOPVALU Fair Trade Coffee under the TOPVALU label Aeon 1% Club starts support for the construction of schools in Nepal (total of 57 schools from 2004 to 2005) 2005 First eco store, Aeon Chikusa SC, opens Second eco store, Aeon Kashiwa SC, opens Third eco store, Aeon Dainichi SC, opens 2006 Stores and shopping centers acquire chain of custody certification for processing and distribution of MSC certified products (MSC-CoC), the first such certification by a general merchandiser in Japan Aeon 1% Club starts support for the construction of schools in Laos (Total of 120 schools from 2006 to 2009) Review of the process of issuing plastic shopping bags (discontinuing the free provision of plastic shopping bags in food departments) begins with the JUSCO Higashiyamanijou Store 2007 Aeon Co., Ltd. becomes the first company in the general retailing industry to sign an agreement on initiatives towards the establishment of a recycling-oriented society with the Japanese Ministry of the Environment Forth eco store, Aeon Kagoshima SC, open Aeon formulates the Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention of Global Warming, becoming the first retailer in Japan to name a specific goal for reducing output of CO2 Aeon Clean Japan campaign started as an initiative to mark Aeon’s 250th anniversary Ran a carbon offsetting campaign for the CO2 produced when delivering year-end gifts Fifth eco store, Taki Crystal Town CS, opens 2008 Sixth eco store, Aeon Tomakomai SC, opens Seventh eco store, Aeon Laketown, opens Eighth eco store, Aeon Hiezu, opens Eco shopping mall (ninth eco store), Aeon Mall Kusatsu, opens Trial sales of Carbon Footprint product labeling for nine varieties across seven TOPVALU products Tenth eco store, Aeon Tsuchiura SC, opens 2009 Aeon Environmental Foundation establishes Japan Awards for Biodiversity Participated in Japan Climate Leaders' Partnership as a founding member Started Aeon Environment School to commemorate 20th anniversary of Aeon 1% Club Established Aeon Biodiversity Policy 2010 Commenced store sales of Japan's first carbon footprint-labeled product at Kusatsu Saty AEON Environmental and Social Report 2011 64 Independent Review Peter D. Pedersen E-Square, Inc. Evaluation of Report Contents interest to not only Aeon people (Aeon employees) but also other stakeholders as well. Like the previous year’s report, I feel Aeon’s Environmental and I felt that the relationship between the four key issues, Social Report 2011 features content that helps foster pertinent chapters and sub-chapters as well as the subsequent layout of the CSR communication with stakeholders. This year’s report report was somewhat difficult to understand. narrows its focus to four key issues, which provides for a more Specifically, there were areas where the link between the main systematic manner of delivering information. Overall the report text and description of KPI and chapter titles were unclear in the left a favorable impression on me as it also includes updates section entitled “Dealing with Social Matters.” Slightly modifying based on the areas for improvement that I pointed out in last the layout of chapters and including a list of related pages for year’s independent review, and provides easy-to-understand easy reference will, I believe, make it easier for readers to find information on the emergency measures implemented by the information as well as make the overall report easier to read. Aeon Group in the aftermath of the Great East Japan Earthquake. I would also like to suggest including interviews with Aeon people and other stakeholders in the main body of the report as one • Particular Strengths method of involving stakeholders more. By having stakeholders talk Aeon’s report is split into different media depending on the target about their own thoughts and beliefs, the report will foster a greater reader. Information pertinent to customers is mainly included closeness with readers as well as a broaden understanding of the in the print edition, while information for professionals, such as Group through offering different perspectives. financial institutions, ratings agencies or NGOs, is featured in the online version. This approach conveys Aeon’s proactive stance Evaluation of Report Contents toward accurately disclosing information in a more focused manner. OK I believe the bar for the quality of company-wide initiatives The report covers the Aeon Sustainability Principle, which will be raised one level higher thanks to the Group’s key issues was enacted in March 2011, and indicates the four key issues and newest KPI, both established in 2011. This is because it will as well as KPI tied to each. The report also more clearly outlines also provide an opportunity to reaffirm the importance of and Aeon’s commitment to achieving sustainable management by relationship between individual initiatives taken to date, and balancing Group growth with the development of society, as make it possible for more focused initiatives to be taken on a well as specific initiatives it will take to fulfill this commitment. company-wide basis. While I believe Aeon will regularly revise its Moreover, I applaud the fact that the scope of goals and targets, key objective and KPI going forward, I hope that it will actively which predominantly focused on Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. in previous incorporate external perspectives into its management as well by reports, has been greatly expanded to include all consolidated holding stakeholder dialogue and other means. As is expounded Group companies in Japan (and certain businesses in China) as a in the Aeon Code of Conduct, the company is supported by a result of the new KPI. great many people. As such, a key to promoting CSR management By discussing what Aeon aspires to achieve and what actions will be the extent to which engagement is deepened with both it has taken to address the four key issues, as well as including the internal and external stakeholders. newest KPI in parts of each chapter, the report enables readers to In closing, Aeon views Asia as a new growth opportunity for better understand the actions that Aeon has taken with sincerity the Group, as approximately 10% of its operating income already in each of these initiatives. originates from markets in Asia. In the previous fiscal year, Aeon also showcased its activities in China in a special feature article. I • Further Improvement Possible hope that Aeon continues to undertake CSR activities in the Asia I believe it would be beneficial to feature an explanation region and report on these, in order to align the direction of its concerning the process for determining the four key issues CSR management with business strategy. and KPI. The details surrounding how the CSR action policy of I have high expectations for Aeon’s CSR initiatives going the entire Aeon Group was finalized through dialogue are of forward. 65 AEON Sustainability Report 2011 Group Chief Environmental Offer's Commitment Yukiyo Komatsu Group Chief Environmental Oﬃcer Aeon Co., Ltd. I would like to express my deepest sympathies to all of those who understanding of the importance of protecting biodiversity. have suffered from the Great East Japan Earthquake. I also pray for Aeon has established a firm base from which to pursue the good health and rapid return to more normal living conditions environmental and social contribution activities. Key elements for all those affected. include the JUSCO Earth-Friendly Committee, established in 1990; As the Group Chief Environmental Officer, I would like to take the Aeon Hometown Forests Program (P9), the “Bring Your Own this opportunity to report on Aeon’s environmental and social Shopping Bag” campaign (P11), the Aeon 1% Club (P5), and the intiatives for fiscal 2010 and directions for the future. Aeon Environmental Foundation (P9). Across the various activities, we have been consistent in our commitment to being among The Great East Japan Earthquake and Aeon’s Social the first to act, continuing the activities we initiate, and working Responsibilities together with customers. These qualities will continue to underpin Aeon established a Headquarters Response Team in the Aeon’s environmental and social contribution activities as we immediate aftermath of the earthquake, and distributed expand the scope of our endeavors. emergency supplies as a member of local communities. Also we got stores back up and running as quickly as possible as a part of The Medium-Term Management Plan and the infrastructure of daily life. Finally, we gave customers all over Sustainable Management Japan a chance to help financially and assist those in need in other In October 2010, Aeon announced that its medium-term concrete ways as a national retail chain. management plan would consist of pursuing growth in Asian, Each and every employee renewed their sense of social senior, and major urban markets. Aeon’s growth must go handresponsibility though disaster support activities. Moving forward, in-hand with conservation of the environment and be socially Aeon will continue its efforts to help disaster victims by identifying sustainable. The way we manage our business, in other words, ways we can contribute and acting on them. must be sustainable. We have laid out four key objectives for pursuing sustainable Focus on Environmental and Social Contribution management. These are: 1) realization of a low-carbon society; Activities 2) conservation of biodiversity ; 3) better use of resources; and Aeon conducted the Aeon Happy Clean Campaign in celebration 4) dealing with social matters. In working toward a sustainable of the 40th anniversary of the establishment of Jusco Co., Ltd. and international society, all of these objectives must be achieved, and in support of the objectives established in the tenth meeting of Aeon, which is globalizing its operations, bears an even greater the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biodiversity responsibility for achieving these objectives. (COP 10). In this project, we joined with customers to clean Moving forward, we will consider, commit to and advance beaches and woodlands in 28 locations across Japan, and we concrete policies for achieving the four objectives, monitor our believe everyone who participated came away with a better progress, and issue annual reports to readers. AEON Sustainability Report 2011 66 GRI Guidelines Indicators Section Index Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2011 1 Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, 1.1 or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization p.3 President's Commitment and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2 Organization Profile 2.1 Name of the organization Front cover 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services p.49-50 TOPVALU Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating 2.3 p.9-10 Aeon Group's Business companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of the organization s headquarters Back cover Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries that 2.5 either have major operations or are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues p.9-10 Aeon Group's Business covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 2.7 customers/beneficiaries) Scale of the reporting organization, including: • Number of employees • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector 2.8 organizations) p.9 Settlement Report • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) • Quantity of products or services provided Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including: • The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and 2.9 expansions • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alterationoperations (for private sector organizations) 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 3 Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided p.2 Report period 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) May 7, 2009 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biannual, etc.) p.2 Report period 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Back cover Report scope and parameters Process for defining report content, including: • Determining materiality p.2 Editorial Policy 3.5 p.2 Scope of report • Prioritizing topics within the report p.2 Target audience • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report Parameters of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint p.2 Editorial Policy 3.6 ventures, suppliers) p.2 Scope of report p.2 Editorial Policy 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or parameters of the report p.2 Scope of report Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 3.8 operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions p.21 ISO14001 Targets and Performance 3.9 and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators p.22 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities and other information in the report p.20 Environmental Accounting Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier 3.10 reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of p.23 Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention of Global Warming base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, parameters, or 3.11 p.20 Environmental Accounting measurement methods applied in the report GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report p.07-72 GRI Guidelines Indicators Assurance Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain 3.13 p.65 Independent Review the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). 67 AEON Sustainability Report 2011 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagement Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest 4.1 governing body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational p.15-16 Corporate Governance oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governing body is also an executive officer 4.2 (and, if so, their function within the organization's management and the reasons for p. 3 President's Commitment this arrangement) For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of 4.3 p.15-16 Corporate Governance the highest governing body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or p.15-16 Corporate Governance 4.4 direction to the highest governing body. p.60 Part-time employees also join the labor union Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governing body, senior 4.5 managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest governing body to ensure conflicts of interest are 4.6 p.15-16 Corporate Governance avoided. Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest 4.7 governing body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles p.17 Aeon Code of Conduct 4.8 relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their p.19 Aeon Environmental Principles implementation. Procedures of the highest governing body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, p.11 Joining the Global Compact 4.9 including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with p.55 SA8000 internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governing body's own performance, particularly 4.10 with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitments to External Initiatives Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed p.17-18 Compliance 4.11 by the organization p.16 Risk Management Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other p.11 Joining the Global Compact 4.12 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses p.55 SA8000 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ international advocacy organizations in which the organization: • Has positions in governing bodies 4.13 • Participates in projects or committees • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues • Views membership as strategic Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization p.39-63 Responsibilities to Stakeholders 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type 4.16 and by stakeholder group Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, 4.17 and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting 5 Management Approach and Performance Index Economic Disclosure(s) on Management Approach Goals and Performance Policy Additional Contextual Information Economic Performance Index Aspect: Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, EC1 employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities EC2 due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Aspect: Market Presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at EC5 significant locations of operation AEON Sustainability Report 2011 68 GRI Guidelines Indicators Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant EC6 p. 55 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct locations of operation Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local EC7 community at locations of significant operation Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts p.11 Aeon Environmental Foundation p.11 Aeon 1% Club p.11 Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign p.11 Clean & Green Activities p.16 Emergency measures p.43 Balloon shelters Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily p.46 Promoting Dietary Education EC8 for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement p.11 Aeon Walfare Fund p.45 PET bottle cap collection campaign p.44 Fundraising Activities p.51 Universal Design p.51 Service Care Workers p.52 Supporters Strategy for people with dementia p.52 Fair Trade Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the EC9 extent of impacts Environmental Disclosure(s) on Management Approach p.19 Aeon Environment Principles p.21 Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention of Global Warming Goals and Performance p.18 ISO14001 Targets and Results p.19 Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention of Global Warming Policy p.18 ISO14001 Targets and Performance Organizational Responsibility p.65 Group Chief Environmental Officer's Commitment Training and Awareness p.20 Environmental Education Monitoring and Follow-up p.22 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities Additional Contextual Information p.20 Environmental Accounting Environmental Performance Indicators Aspect: Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume p.22 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities EN2 Percentage of recycled input materials used Aspect: Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source p.22 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source p.19 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements p.21 ISO14001 Targets and Performance Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, p.37 Plastic bag Reduction EN6 and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives p.24 Eco Stores EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved p.242 Eco Stores Aspect: Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Aspect: Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas EN11 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in EN12 p29-34 Preserving Biodiversity protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity p30 Aeon Biodiversity Principle Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in EN15 areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight p.22 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight p.22 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities p.19 Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention of Global Warming EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved p.24 Increase Number of Eco Stores p.22 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 69 AEON Sustainability Report 2011 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under EN24 the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related EN25 habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff Aspect: Products and Services p.37 Plastic bag Reduction p.26 Carbon footprint initiatives p.33 TOPVALU Gurinai Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of EN26 p.38 TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN impact mitigation p.27 Carbon offsets p.33 MSC certification (marine eco-label)/FSC certification p.24-32 Eco Stores Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by EN27 category Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for EN28 noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Aspect: Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and EN29 materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the p.27 Logistics Initiatives workforce Aspect: Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type p.20 Environmental Accounting Social Performance Index Labor Practices and Decent Work (Fair Employment Conditions) Disclosure(s) on Management Approach Goals and Performance p.17 Aeon Code of Conduct p.59-60 Accommodating Diversity Policy p.61-62 Support for Human Resources Growth p.63 Creating Pleasant, Comfortable Workplaces p.17 Aeon Code of Conduct p.59-60 Accommodating Diversity Organizational Responsibility p.61-62 Support for Human Resources Growth p.63 Creating Pleasant, Comfortable Workplaces p.17 Aeon Code of Conduct Training and Awareness p.61-62 Support for Human Resources Growth Monitoring and Follow-up p.6 Aeon Code of Conduct Additional Contextual Information Labor Practices and Decent Work (Fair Employment Conditions) Performance Index Aspect: Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or partLA3 time employees, by major operations Aspect: Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is LA5 specified in collective agreements Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management worker health LA6 and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workLA7 related fatalities by region Education, training, counseling, prevention, and riskcontrol programs in place to assist LA8 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Aspect: Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category AEON Sustainability Report 2011 70 GRI Guidelines Indicators Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued LA11 p.61-62 Support for Human Resources Growth employability of employees and assist them in planning the end of their careers Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development LA12 reviews Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governing bodies and breakdown of employees per category LA13 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Human Rights Disclosure(s) on Management Approach p.11 Joining the Global Compact p.55 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct Goals and Performance p.55 SA8000 p.63 Respecting Human Rights p.11 Joining the Global Compact p.55 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct Policy p.55 SA8000 p.63 Respecting Human Rights p.11 Joining the Global Compact p.55 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct Organizational Responsibility p.55 SA8000 p.63 Respecting Human Rights p.55 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct Training and Awareness p.55 SA8000 p.63 Respecting Human Rights p.11 Joining the Global Compact Monitoring and Follow-up p.55 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct p.55 SA8000 Additional Contextual Information Human Rights Index Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human HR1 rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on HR2 human rights and actions taken Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of HR3 human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Aspect: Non-Discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Aspect: Freedom of Association Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and p.11 Joining the Global Compact HR5 collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these p.55 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct rights p.55 SA8000 Aspect: Child Labor p.11 Joining the Global Compact Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures HR6 p.55 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor p.55 SA8000 Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor p.11 Joining the Global Compact Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory HR7 p.55 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor p.55 SA8000 Aspect: Security Practices p.11 Joining the Global Compact Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures HR8 p.55 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations p.55 SA8000 Aspect: Indigenous Rights Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and HR9 actions taken Society Disclosure(s) on Management Approach Goals and Performance p.17 Aeon Code of Conduct Policy p.17 Aeon Code of Conduct Organizational Responsibility p.17 Aeon Code of Conduct Training and Awareness p.17 Aeon Code of Conduct 71 AEON Sustainability Report 2011 Monitoring and Follow-up p.17 Aeon Code of Conduct Additional Contextual Information Social Performance Index Aspect: Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage SO1 the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting Aspect: Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and SO3 p.17-18 Compliance procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Aspect: Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and SO6 related institutions by country Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly SO7 practices and their outcomes Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for SO8 noncompliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility Disclosure(s) on Management Approach Goals and Performance p.49-51 Product Safety and Security Policy Organizational Responsibility Training and Awareness Monitoring and Follow-up Additional Contextual Information Product Responsibility Performance Index Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are PR1 assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services p.54 System for Addressing Customer Feedback categories subject to such procedures Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR2 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Aspect: Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of PR3 significant products and services subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR4 concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring PR5 p.54 System for Addressing Customer Feedback customer satisfaction Aspect: Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing PR6 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Aspect: Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and PR8 losses of customer data Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations PR9 concerning the provision and use of products and services AEON Sustainability Report 2011 72 Everyday Eco. Now in Progress. Everyday Aeon is wholly committed to protecting the environment-from encouraging use of My Bag and My Basket, to selling fresh ﬁsh unpackaged, recycling and tree planting. Together with our customers we want to create a pleasant, promising day, every day. The momentum of Everyday Eco continues to build. For any inquiries or comments concerning this report or our environmental and social activities, please contact: AEON CO.,LTD. Corporate Citizenship Department 1-5-1 Nakase, Mihama-ku, Chiba-shi, Chiba, 261-8515 Japan Tel: +81-43-212-6037 Fax: +81-43-212-6790 URL: http://www.aeon.info/
