Annual Sustainability Report 2010 1.0 Message from our C.E.O. 4 2.0 Company Profile 7 2.1 Business Activities 7 2.2 Company History 8 2.3 Shareholder Structure 9 2.4 Organisational Structure 9 2.5 Operating and Financial Data 10 2.6 Significant Changes in Operations during 2010 11 2.7 Social Responsibility Awards and External Programmes 12 3.0 Report Parameters 15 3.1 Stakeholder Analysis and Report Content 15 3.2 Scope and Limitations of Report 17 4.0 Corporate Governance 19 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 22 5.1 Significant Issues 22 5.2 Overview of Principal Mitigation Measures 24 5.2.1 Mitigation of Infrastructure Expansion 24 5.2.2 Energy Efficiency 25 5.2.3 Water Efficiency 27 5.2.4 Waste Management 28 5.2.5 Fuel Consumption 29 2 Annual Sustainability Report 2010 5.3 Environmental Management System 31 5.4 Environmental Certification 35 6.0 Quality of Life for Employees 36 6.1 Description of Workforce 37 6.2 Safety in the Workplace 39 7.0 Community Involvement and Support 41 7.1 Direct and Indirect Economic Benefits 41 7.2 Community Involvement 44 7.3 Anticorruption Measures 45 8.0 Commitment to Human Rights 48 9.0 United Nations Global Compact 50 10.0 GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators 53 Appendixes Appendix A ASUR Environmental Objectives and Performance, 2010 60 Appendix B ASUR Environmental Performance Indicators, 2010 64 3 Annual Sustainability Report 2010 MESSAJE FROM OUR c.e.o. 1.0 The year 2010 has been a period of stabilisation for ASUR. Following the challenges of 2009, including the global financial crisis and the H1N1 influenza outbreak, in 2010 our business began to recover; one indication of this is that we ended the year with a 7.6% increase over 2009 in terms of total passenger figures in all our airports. Difficult times often provide us with a good opportunity to step back and take stock of our situation; at ASUR we came out of the setbacks of 2009 with renewed determination to do everything we can to ensure that our business is sustainable in the long term. This includes reaffirming our commitment to the goals of safeguarding our environment, improving community relations, providing better working conditions for our employees and ensuring that our business is conducted with the highest regard for ethical practice. We recognise that each of these four aspects of corporate social responsibility will be crucial to maintaining and ensuring the company’s future success. 4 During 2010, we continued to monitor our performance with regard to our main environmental indicators. In line with our stated goal to reduce the carbon footprint of the company’s operations, we reduced total electricity consumption by 3.7% across the airport group as a whole. Water consumption also fell by 2.4%, compared to 2009. These reductions were achieved despite the increase in passenger figures mentioned above. “during 2010, we continued to monitor our performance with regard to our main environmental indicators” During the period, the total amount of refuse or non-hazardous waste generated in our nine airports grew by 8.5%. Although once the rise in passenger figures is factored in the increase was 1.1%, we consider our recycling and waste handling systems to be a significant area of opportunity for improvement. In 2010, the company increased its permanent staff to 875 employees, up from 830 in 2009. The number of staff members on temporary employment contracts fell as a percentage of total employees from 13 to 11% over the same period. We continued to provide constant training for our employees, and maintained high levels of safety in the workplace. The company’s direct investment in community projects also increased considerably to close to $14 million pesos. However, in the area of community relations we recognise that there is improvement to be made in the company’s engagement with various stakeholder groups. 1.0 Message from our C.E.O. 5 During 2010, ASUR continued to play an active role in supporting and promoting the United Nations Global Compact, at the national, regional and international levels. Also, for the third year running, the company received the Socially Responsible Company award from CEMEFI, the Mexican Centre for Philanthropy. This report is conceived as the principal means of communicating to our stakeholders the steps that ASUR is taking to respond to their concerns and achieve the company’s goals in the field of sustainability. As such, we welcome any feedback, comments or requests for additional information that the readers of this report may have. Adolfo Castro Rivas C.E.O. OF ASUR 1.0 Message from our C.E.O. 6 Annual Sustainability Report 2010 COMPANY profile 2.0 Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste, S.A.B. de C.V. operates a group of airports in the southeast region of Mexico under the brand name ASUR. These airports are located in the cities of Cancún, Cozumel, Huatulco, Mérida, Minatitlán, Oaxaca, Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa. The company’s headquarters are located in Mexico City. It has no operations outside of Mexico. 2.1 Business Activities The company’s core activity is to administer and maintain the infrastructure of its airports to ensure sufficient capacity for safe, efficient operations and a high standard of service. Basic infrastructure includes that required for aircraft takeoff and landing operations and for arriving and departing passenger flows, as well as facilities for the authorities involved in airport operations (air traffic controllers, customs, immigration, etc.). Traditional construction techniques are used at Huatulco Airport 7 “the company’s aeronautical, complementary and commercial activities represent the three revenue streams of ASUR” In addition to the above, the company enters into agreements with external providers for a range of additional services, including complementary services for aircraft (such as baggage handling and ramp services) and commercial services for passengers (such as restaurants, shops and car rental, among other business lines). The company’s aeronautical, complementary and commercial activities represent its three revenue streams. 2.2 Company History ASUR’s nine airports are operated under 50-year concessions that were granted to the company in 1998, as part of the Mexican government’s plan to open up the country’s state-owned airport sector to private investment. Under the privatisation scheme, an initial stake of 15% in the company’s capital stock (the BB series shares) was sold to a strategic partner, Inversiones y Técnicas Aeroportuarias, S.A. de C.V. (ITA), with expertise in Mexican business operations and in the international airport industry. The remaining 85% of the company’s shares (the B series) began trading on the stock exchanges of Mexico City and New York in two public offers in September 2000 and March 2005. 2.0 Company Profile 8 2.3 Shareholder Structure In June 2007, the strategic partner ITA reduced its shareholding in the company from 15% to 7.65%. ITA is currently owned by Fernando Chico Pardo, a Mexican investor. The 92.35% of ASUR’s shares that are not held by ITA are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: ASR) and the Mexico City Bolsa (BMV: ASUR). “875 employed people by ASUR at 31st of December 2010” ONE HOLDING COMPANY Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste, S.A.B. de C.V. 2.4 Organisational Structure Aeropuerto de Cancún, S.A. de C.V. Aeropuerto de Cozumel, S.A. de C.V. As of the 31st of December 2010, ASUR Aeropuerto de huatulco, S.A. de C.V. employs a total of 875 people. Our organisational structure is as follows: each Aeropuerto de mérida, S.A. de C.V. of the nine airports of ASUR is a subsidAeropuerto de minatitlán, S.A. de C.V. iary of the holding company, Grupo AeroAeropuerto de oaxaca, S.A. de C.V. portuario del Sureste, S.A.B. de C.V. In Aeropuerto de tapachula, S.A. de C.V. addition, there are two subsidiary service companies, one that directly employs the Aeropuerto de veracruz, S.A. de C.V. Group’s unionised staff (RH ASUR, S.A. Aeropuerto de villahermosa, S.A. de C.V. de C.V.) and another that directly emrh asur, S.A. de C.V. ploys all the Group’s non-unionised staff (Servicios Aeroportuarios del Sureste, Servicios Aeroportuarios del Sureste, S.A. de C.V. S.A. de C.V.). 11 subsidiariEs Figure 1 Structure, Holding Company and Subsidiaries 2.0 Company Profile 9 2.5 Operating and Financial Data In 2010, a total of 16,715,138 passengers passed through ASUR’s terminals (not including private aviation or transit passengers), of which 9,823,871 (59%) were international and 6,891,267 (41%) were domestic passengers. Domestic International The total passenger figure for 2010 increased by 1,179,510 (7.6%) compared to the year 2009. The company’s largest airport is the one located at Cancún, which accounted for 74% of total passenger traffic in 2010 (up from 72% in 2009). Figure 2 Breakdown of International and Domestic Passenger Traffic, 2009 vs. 2010 “16,715,138 passengers passed NOTe through ASUR’s terminals Not including general aviation and transit in 2010” passengers Together, the nine airports of ASUR serve passengers arriving from every continent, although a considerable majority of passengers arrive from North American destinations: in 2010, passengers from the United States of America and Canada accounted for 79% of international passengers. In 2010, the net income of the company was 1.3 billion Mexican pesos (equivalent to approximately 101 million US dollars). The com2.0 Company Profile 10 pany ended the year with total assets worth 18.6 billion pesos (approximately 1.5 billion US dollars), total liabilities of 3.8 billion pesos (approximately 303 million US dollars) and total equity of 14.8 billion pesos (approximately 1.2 billion US dollars).* NOTe * Figures stated in millions of Mexican pesos 2010 2009 Assets 18,630 16,696 Liabilities 3,834 2,838 Equity 14,795 13,858 Revenues 4,235 3,131 Operating costs 2,511 1,794 Figure 3 Summary of P&L and Net income 1,275 797 Balance Sheet 2.6 Significant Changes in Operations during 2010 During 2010, there were no significant changes regarding the size, structure or ownership of the company, including the location of its airports and the opening, closing or expansion of the facilities it operates. Similarly, there were no major changes in the structure of the company’s share capital. 2.0 Company Profile 11 In relation to infrastructure expansion, no large-scale projects were undertaken in the year 2010. The necessary capacity increases were achieved by remodelling and optimising existing buildings and facilities, notably in the airports of Mérida, Oaxaca, Veracruz and Villahermosa, as well as Terminal 2 at Cancún. 2.7 Social Responsibility Awards and External Programmes During 2010, ASUR maintained its status as an active signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) by complying with the UNGC’s reporting requirements. The Global Compact is an initiative established by the United Nations to promote the values of social responsibility and respect for human rights in businesses around the world. ASUR received Environmental Quality Assurance certificates for five of its airports from the Profepa Additionally, for the third year running, we were awarded recognition as a Socially Responsible Company by the Mexican Centre for Philanthropy, known by its Spanish initials CEMEFI. CEMEFI bases its awards on self-assessments of internal practices and programmes carried out by the companies themselves, which are required to submit adequate documentation of the corresponding activities. The 2.0 Company Profile 12 assessments monitor performance in four key areas: quality of life for company employees; business ethics and anti-corruption practices; community support and relations; and environmental protection. In the reporting period, ASUR received Environmental Quality Assurance certificates for five of its airports from the Mexican Environmental Protection Agency, Profepa. The certification in question represents official confirmation by the Mexican environmental authorities that the recipient has complied in full with all observations resulting from the audits conducted by the authorities to enforce Mexican environmental legislation. The airports certified were Cozumel, Huatulco, Oaxaca, Tapachula and Villahermosa. Certificates are valid for a period of two years; the remaining airports in the Group – Cancún, Mérida, Minatitlán and Veracruz – are due for recertification in 2011. “for the second year running Cancún Airport was ranked “Best Airport” The environmental management systems in place in the airports at Cozumel, Mérida, Minatitlán, Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa were recertified under ISO 14001 in 2010, valid for a period of three years. Finally, with regard to ASUR’s passenger service standards, in 2010 for the second year running Cancún Airport was ranked “Best Airport” in the Latin America and Caribbean region in the Airport Service Quality (ASQ) survey programme organised by Airports Council 2.0 Company Profile 13 International. In ASQ surveys, passengers are asked to rate their degree of overall satisfaction with airports’ service levels, as well as performance in a wide range of specific areas, from efficiency and the standard of facilities to cleanliness and staff courtesy. 2.0 Company Profile 14 Annual Sustainability Report 2010 parameters REPORT 3.0 This Annual Sustainability Report relates to the company’s operations in the period between the 1st of January and the 31st of December 2010, and follows on from ASUR’s 2009 Annual Sustainability Report which can be consulted at www.asur.com.mx. 3.1 Stakeholder Analysis and Report Content Based on internal analysis and management assessments, we have determined the main stakeholders of the company and the aspects of our business that are of particular interest to them. In general terms, ASUR’s stakeholders can be divided into internal and external stakeholders. The former include the company’s employees, shareholders and the members of the company’s Board of Directors and corporate governance committees. ASUR’s external stakeholders can be further subdivided into two main categories: those that have a relation with the region where the company’s airports are located, including local residents, local authorities and the local business communities; 15 “actions taken by ASUR to reduce their environmental impact, represents one of the most important concerns of all our stakeholders “ and those that are involved in the company’s aeronautical activities, including airlines, passengers and national and international aviation authorities. This report is conceived primarily as a tool for the stakeholders of ASUR; it has the aim of creating a greater degree of transparency concerning the company’s operations and providing information of interest on the company’s response to stakeholders’ specific concerns. Priority has been given to those topics considered of greatest interest to our stakeholders and in which our operations are assessed to have the most material impacts. We believe that the working conditions we provide for our employees, the benefits we bring to local communities and wider issues such as ASUR’s record with regard to respect for human rights and the measures we have implemented to prevent corruption, are of particular interest to our most important stakeholders. However, it is our firm belief that the environment, and specifically what ASUR is doing to reduce its environmental impacts, is one of the primary concerns of all our internal and external stakeholders. Consequently, in addition to social and economic considerations, we place particular emphasis in this report on the most important environmental issues that affect and are affected by the company’s activities. 3.0 Report Parameters 16 In selecting the information to be included in this report, ASUR has applied the four principles of Materiality, Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context and Completeness established by the Global Reporting Initiative for defining report content. 3.2 Scope and Limitations of Report This report is intended to complement ASUR’s Annual Financial Statements for 2010, which contain in-depth information on the financial performance of ASUR during the period in question. It will therefore focus in particular on social and environmental matters without including detailed financial data, except insofar as they relate to the standard disclosures contained in the company profile (Section 2) and to economic performance indicators (Section 7). “this report will therefore focus in particular on social and environmental matters without including detailed financial data” The environmental performance indicators mentioned in Section 5 include data from the nine airports in the Group only, as these are considered to be the most relevant due to the nature of the company’s activities. All other indicators refer to the nine airports, the company’s head offices in Mexico City and other company subsidiaries, as described in Section 2.4. 3.0 Report Parameters 17 The report covers operations performed directly by the companies that form part of the ASUR business group. At this time, mechanisms are not in place to include the activities of clients, suppliers or subcontractors within the parameters of this report, unless otherwise stated. “The report covers operations performed directly by the companies that form part of the ASUR business group” This report has been prepared on a consistent basis with ASUR’s Annual Sustainability Report for 2009 in terms of scope, boundary and measurement methods, and contains no restatements or reinterpretations of data contained in that report. Any consultations relating to this report may be addressed to: Alistair McCreadie +52 (55) 5284.0488 amccreadie@asur.com.mx. 3.0 Report Parameters 18 Annual Sustainability Report 2010 gobernance CORPORATE 4.0 As a publicly traded company, ASUR adheres to a strict set of regulations in its corporate governance practices. Our Board of Directors, headed by the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the company, Fernando Chico Pardo, is made up of a majority of independent members, our Audit Committee is made up entirely of independent members and our other corporate governance bodies all have varying degrees of independent oversight. The term “independent” is defined in accordance with the Mexican Securities Market Law, and excludes any persons who are executive or non-executive employees of the company or its subsidiaries; shareholders that own a controlling share in the company; the company’s clients, service providers, suppliers, debtors, creditors and business partners, and their board members or employees; in general, any individuals who exert influence or authority over the company; and the relations by blood or marriage of any of the above. 19 Company Shareholders Ultimate authority at the company Responsible for: decision-making at the highest level Due representation of minority shareholders Board of Directors Responsible for: strategic decision-making Number of members: 7 Independent members: 4 Nominations and Audit Committee Compensations Committee Responsible for: oversight of operaResponsible for: proposals for appointtions to ensure appropriate standard ment of board members; approval of of business ethics executive pay Number of members: 3 Number of members: 3 Independent members: 3 Independent members: 1 Acquisitions and Contracts Operations Committee Committee Responsible for: compliance with inResponsible for: oversight of acquisivestment commitments; proposals to tions to ensure appropriate ethical Board for dividends, budget, business standards plan, etc. Number of members: 3 Number of members: 4 Independent members: 1 Independent members: 2 Figure 4 Overview of Corporate Governance Structure of ASUR In accordance with Mexican law, ASUR’s shareholders represent the highest authority in the company. Shareholders’ meetings are held on at least an annual basis, in 4.0 Corporate Governance 20 order to vote on the most important issues such as dividend payments and other matters that require shareholder approval by law. In addition, according to the company’s bylaws, any shareholder or group of shareholders representing at least 10% of the company’s capital stock has the right to convene a shareholders’ meeting at any time. “ASUR has a reporting system that may be used by anyone within the company to flag instances of abuse or corruption, or to submit complaints relating to workplace matters” Pursuant to the company’s Code of Ethics, which is subject to approval by the Audit Committee, ASUR has an internal reporting system that may be used by anyone within the company to flag instances of abuse or corruption, or to submit complaints relating to workplace matters. The system’s users have the option to submit reports anonymously or to confirm their identity. All such reports are received directly by the Internal Auditing Department, which has the duty to investigate them and report to the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee ultimately reports to the Board of Directors and the company shareholders regarding the reports received and how the matters raised were resolved. 4.0 Corporate Governance 21 Annual Sustainability Report 2010 ENVIRONMENTAL responsibility 5.0 5.1 Significant Issues At ASUR, we are aware that the long-term viability of our business depends to a great extent on the conservation of our environment, and that this is among the foremost concerns of our main stakeholders in relation to our business activities. For this reason, ASUR places emphasis on environmental matters within the context of the company’s social responsibility activities. As a company whose main business driver is tourist travel, it is clearly in our interest to preserve the natural beauty and biological diversity of the destinations that our airports serve. Cancún Airport, located in one of Mexico’s most-visited tourist resorts, accounts for more than 70% of the company’s total passenger traffic, and there are other airports in the Group – notably Cozumel and Huatulco – that also rely heavily on the tourist industry. There are several specific issues that are particularly relevant for ASUR and our stakeholders in relation to the environment. 22 “it is clearly in our interest to preserve the natural beauty and biological diversity of the destinations that our airports serve” The conservation of natural habitats for wildlife and the responsible use of water resources are among our primary concerns. Potentially one of the most significant matters for the company, however, is that of climate change. Any combination of the predicted effects of climate change, which include rises in sea levels with the corresponding loss of beaches, an increased risk of 1 | source extreme weather events such as hurricanes and floodNicholls, R.J., P.P. Wong, V.R. Burkett, J.O. ing, and the disappearance of land and marine habitats Codignotto, J.E. Hay, R.F. McLean, S. Ragoonsuch as mangroves and coral reefs,1 has the potential aden and C.D. Woodroffe, 2007: Coastal systems to significantly impact the airports in ASUR’s group and low-lying areas. Climate Change 2007: located in beach destinations (Cancún, Cozumel and Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability. ContribuHuatulco), as well as those serving low-lying or floodtion of Working Group II to the Fourth Assessprone areas (Mérida, Minatitlán, Tapachula, Veracruz ment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on and Villahermosa). Climate Change, M.L. Parry, O.F. Canziani, J.P. Palutikof, P.J. van der Linden and C.E. Hanson, Given the nature of the possible effects of climate Eds., Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, change on our business, the reduction of our carbon UK, 315-356; and Magrin, G., C. Gay García, D. Cruz Choque, J.C. Giménez, A.R. Moreno, G.J. footprint is a major objective for ASUR. Nagy, C. Nobre and A. Villamizar, 2007: Latin America. Climate Change 2007: Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability. Contribution of Working Group II to the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, M.L. Parry, O.F. Canziani, J.P. Palutikof, P.J. van der Linden and C.E. Hanson, Eds., Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK, 581-615. 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 23 5.2 Overview of Principal Mitigation Measures 5.2.1 Mitigation of Infrastructure Expansion Large-scale infrastructure expansion at any of ASUR’s airports, which tend to be surrounded by undeveloped land, often necessitates the modification or destruction of natural habitats. For this reason, projects of this type are only undertaken following careful consideration and analysis of the mitigation measures that can be applied, and when it is determined that there is ample justification, usually to eliminate operational hazards or serious capacity constraints, which in turn may have negative consequences for both local economies and the environment. “the necessary increases in the airports’ operating capacity were achieved by remodelling and reconfiguring existing buildings and facilities” Following the construction of a new terminal building and a second runway in Cancún, which began operating in 2007 and 2009, respectively, no major projects that expand the footprint of the airports’ infrastructure were undertaken in 2010. The necessary increases in the airports’ operating capacity were achieved by remodelling and reconfiguring existing buildings and facilities, most notably in the airports of Mérida, Oaxaca, Veracruz and Villahermosa, as well as Terminal 2 at Cancún. 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 24 5.2.2 Energy Efficiency For the last several years, the most important front that we have been working on in our airports to reduce the company’s carbon footprint is to moderate the amount of electricity we consume. In ASUR’s facilities, electricity is consumed principally for the purposes of cooling and lighting terminal buildings, operating navigational aids such as radars and runway lighting systems, and maintaining the necessary communications and information systems for the company to conduct its business activities safely and efficiently. “ASUR has a company-wide policy to reduce energy consumption in existing buildings and ensure that energy efficiency is taken into account in the design of new facilities” ASUR does not produce any of the electricity it consumes; one hundred percent of the company’s electricity requirements are covered by purchasing from external suppliers, in this case Mexico’s Federal Electricity Comission . According to figures published by the International Energy Agency, in 2008 (the most recent data available), 82% of the electricity generated in Mexico was produced from non-renewable sources (natural gas, oil, coal and nuclear energy) and 18% was produced from renewable sources (hydroelectric, geothermal, biomass and wind power).2 2 | source International Energy Agency website, at http://www.iea.org/stats/electricitydata. asp?COUNTRY_CODE=MX 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 25 “total annual electricity consumption in the nine airports in the Group fell by 3.7% and increase in passenger numbers 7.3%” ASUR has a company-wide policy to reduce energy consumption in existing buildings and ensure that energy efficiency is taken into account in the design of new facilities. Terminal 3 at Cancún Airport – the newest terminal building at our biggest airport and the only one the company has developed as new-build infrastructure since we took over the concession in 1998 – incorporates a series of energy efficiency measures such as plentiful natural lighting that does not cause the building to heat up, and an adaptive air-conditioning system that uses cold water extracted from underground in its chillers, thereby reducing energy input requirements. We also have systematic procedures to ensure that non-essential electrical systems in our airports are shut off when not in use, as well as a series of ad-hoc measures implemented according to specific conditions in the different airports and administrative offices, such as lighting systems that shut off automatically when there is no movement in certain areas and the installation of revolving doors that act as air-conditioning traps, preventing the loss of cold air and reducing energy consumption. In 2010, ASUR continued to build on the success of previous years with its energy-saving programme: compared to 2009, total annual electricity consumption in the nine airports in the Group fell by 3.7% from 62,938,597 to 60,584,421 kilowatt-hours (equivalent to a reduction from 226,579 to 218,104 gigajoules). 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 26 Over the same period there was a 7.3% increase in passenger numbers, so when consumption is measured on a per-passenger basis to provide a more comparable parameter from year to year, there was a 3 | source saving of 10.3%. 3 Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 5.3 Environmental These figures state only the intermediate energy produced by MexiManagement System. co’s Federal Electricity Commission and purchased by ASUR. At this time, data are not available that allow a calculation of the amount of direct energy from primary sources consumed in order to produce the electricity. 5.2.3 Water Efficiency In addition to reducing the company’s carbon footprint through energy efficiency, ASUR has also been working hard to improve its systems for monitoring and reducing the amount of water we use. “in 2010 ASUR’s total water consumption in the nine airports decreased by 2.4%” Eight of ASUR’s nine airports are equipped with treatment plants that receive all waste water from aircraft, terminals and administrative buildings. In the case of Cozumel Airport, waste water is sent to the Cancun Airport’s waste municipal drainage system and is treated at the municipal plant. The water treatment plant airports’ plants use biological and mechanical treatment processes to purify waste water to a standard where it is clean enough to be either reused or discharged without presenting a risk to other water sources. The water that is recycled is mainly used for watering green areas, which helps to reduce the demands placed by the airports on local sources. Any water that cannot be stored and used for this purpose is 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 27 released into either the subsoil or into local wetlands, in accordance 4, 5 | source with the permits issued by Mexico’s National Water Commission (COInternal ASUR data. NAGUA). See tables in Section 5.3 Environmental Management Overall, in 2010 ASUR’s total water consumption in the nine airports System. decreased by 2.4% from 569,624 to 555,939 cubic metres (m3). Water consumption on a per-passenger basis (measured in litres per passenger) decreased by 9.1%4. The amount of metered discharge increased by 6.0% in absolute terms (from 380,845 to 403,864 m3), although it decreased by 1.2% in litres per passenger5. 5.2.4 Waste Management An important aspect in ensuring that our operations do not represent a risk for local environments and ecosystems is to make sure that all the waste materials generated in our airports are appropriately disposed of. Consequently, each airport has waste management facilities for hazardous and non-hazardous waste. The waste materials that are classified as hazardous under Mexican legislation include toxic, inflammable and corrosive substances, among others, as well as items of equipment that have come into contact and are contaminated with these materials. In our airports, all substances and articles of this kind are safely stored, appropriately labelled and eventually handed over to specialist waste disposal companies, in strict adherence to the applicable regulations. The waste disposal companies, which are required to be licenced by the Mexican authorities, eliminate the hazardous waste using methods that avoid pollution and provide ASUR with waste disposal certificates stating the methods used. 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 28 “total amount of hazardous waste decreased 2.5% per passengers in 2010” Non-hazardous waste is handled in separate facilities at ASUR’s airports. It is sorted into organic waste (used for compost) and nonorganic waste (materials such as glass, paper, cardboard and aluminium) before being collected by the local municipal refuse disposal service. As well as attempting to reduce the amount of waste produced, at Cancún Airport in particular – the largest airport in the Group – we have set ourselves the goal of reusing or recycling 20% of all nonhazardous waste produced, to keep it from being disposed of in local landfills (see Appendices A and B for more information). In 2010 the total amount of non-hazardous waste produced increased by 8.5% from 4,114 to 4,465 tonnes (an increase of 1.1% measured on a per-passenger basis), while the total amount of hazardous waste rose by 4.6% from 19.4 to 20.3 tonnes (a drop of 2.5% measured on a 6 | source per-passenger basis)6. Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 5.3 Environmental Management System. 5.2.5 Fuel Consumption Since ASUR’s business activities do not involve the manufacture or creation of any kind of physical product, the company’s consumption of materials is relatively insignificant. Aside from the electricity required to power our facilities, which is discussed in greater detail in the relevant sections of this report, the principal input required on a consistent basis for our airports’ day-to-day operations is fuel. 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 29 “the total amount of fuel consumed by ASUR’s airports per-passenger during 2010 decrease of 4.9% ” Petrol (gasoline) and diesel fuels are consumed to operate a wide range of support vehicles, including shuttle buses for transporting passengers to various parts of the airports, utility vehicles, and so on. Natural gas (liquefied petroleum gas) is used mainly in the airport’s kitchens, which supply staff restaurants and food and beverage outlets for passengers. The total amount of fuel consumed by ASUR’s airports increased from 2009 to 2010 by 2.1%, from 446,361 to 455,712 litres. However, due to the rise in passenger numbers over the same period, on a per-passenger basis this represented a decrease of 4.9%7. The measurements of fuel consumption in ASUR’s airports include only the fuel used in the facilities and the vehicles that are the property of the airport company. They do not take into account fuel consumed by the airports’ subcontractors, or that consumed by aircraft for takeoff and landing procedures. While ASUR recognises that this information may be of interest to our stakeholders, at this time no systems are in place for us to obtain these data. 7| source Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 5.3 Environmental Management System. 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 30 5.3 Environmental Management System ASUR has an Environmental Management System that is applied in all nine of the airports the company operates. The purpose of the system is to establish environmental objectives for each airport, as well as a framework for the achievement of those objectives. The system creates a series of parameters that can be used to monitor and assess each airport’s performance in relation to the environmental objectives established, providing the company management with valuable information for the decision-making process. “the Environmental Management Systems in each of ASUR’s airports are certified according to ISO 14001” Environmental objectives are determined by each airport on an ad hoc basis, in order to ensure that local conditions are taken into consideration in ASUR’s environmental protection programme. The full details of the environmental objectives established in 2010 for the nine airports in the Group, as well as performance against those objectives, can be consulted in Appendix A. The Environmental Management Systems in each of ASUR’s airports are certified according to ISO 14001. The following tables provide an overview of the performance in all nine of ASUR’s airports with regard to some of the most relevant environmental parameters established by the System: 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 31 Total Figures Parameter unit mmt 2009 2010 % CAMBIO Total water consumption m3 569,624 555,939 -2.4% Total water discharged m 3 380,845 403,864 6.0% Total electricity kWh 62,938,597 60,584,421 -3.7% consumption Gj 226,579 218,104 -3.7% Total hazardous waste produced kg 19,380 20,274 4.6% Total non-hazardous t 4,114 4,465 8.5% waste produced Total fuel consumption l 446,361 455,712 2.1% Per-Passenger Basis Parameter unit mmt 2009 2010 % CAMBIO Water consumption per passenger l/pax 35.9 32.7 -9.1% DWater discharged per passenger l/pax 24.0 23.7 -1.2% Electricity consumption kWh/pax 4.0 3.6 -10.3% per passenger Mj/pax 14.3 13.0 -10.3% Hazardous waste produced g/pax 1.2 1.2 -2.5% per passenger Non-hazardous waste kg/pax 0.3 0.3 1.1% produced per passenger Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 26.8 26.8 -4.9% Figure 5 Summary of Environmental Performance Indicators for All Airports 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 32 For a breakdown of these performance indicators for each of the nine airports operated by ASUR, please refer to Appendix B. The parameters measured are described in more detail below: 1. Water Consumption This parameter refers to the total amount of water consumed by the airports during 2. Water Discharged: the year, whether taken from the municipal This parameter refers to the total water supply or extracted from underground amount of waste water discharged by aquifers. Water recycled from treatment the airports during the year, in accorplants is not included in this figure. Data are dance with the permit obtained from the provided on total consumption (stated in local authorities, following the required cubic metres), as well as consumption on a treatment processes. Data are provided per-passenger basis (litres per passenger) on total discharge (stated in cubic meto provide a more comparable parameter tres), as well as discharge on a per-pasfrom one airport to another and from one senger basis (litres per passenger) to year to another. provide a more comparable parameter from one airport to another and from one year to another. 3. Electricity Consumption This parameter refers to the total amount of electricity consumed by the airports from the national grid during the year. Data are provided on total consumption (stated in kilowatt hours and the equivalent in gigajoules), as well as consumption on a per-passenger basis (kilowatt hours and megajoules per passenger) to provide a more comparable parameter from one airport to another and from one year to another. These figures state only the intermediate energy produced by Mexico’s Federal Electricity Commission and purchased by ASUR. At this time, data are not available that allow a calculation of the amount of direct energy consumed in order to produce the electricity. 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 33 4. Hazardous Waste Produced This parameter refers to the total amount of waste classified as hazardous under Mexican law, which is produced by the airports and appropriately disposed of during the year. Data are provided on total production (stated in kilograms), as well as production on a perpassenger basis (milligrams per passenger) to provide a more comparable parameter from on airport to another and from one year to another. 5. Non-hazardous Waste Produced This parameter refers to the total amount of waste classified as non-hazardous under Mexican law, which is produced by the airports and disposed of in municipal landfills during the year. Recycled waste is not included in this figure. Data are provided on total production (stated in tonnes), as well as production on a per-passenger basis (kilograms per passenger) to provide a more comparable parameter from on airport to another and from one year to another. 6. Fuel Consumption This parameter refers to the total amount of petrol (gasoline) and diesel consumed by the airports during the year, for example in utility vehicles and shuttle buses to transport passengers for boarding. Data are provided on total consumption (stated in litres), as well as consumption on a per-passenger basis (millilitres per passenger) to provide a more comparable parameter from one airport to another and from one year to another. 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 34 5.4 Environmental Certification The Environmental Management Systems in each of ASUR’s airports are certified according to ISO 14001. Certification is valid for a threeyear period, following which the systems are reassessed. During 2010, the airports at Cozumel, Mérida, Minatitlán, Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa were recertified. Certification for the remaining three airports was still valid as of the 31st of December 2010. “all nine of ASUR’s airports currently have valid environmental compliance certification” Mexico’s Environmental Protection Agency (PROFEPA) also performs audits once every two years to ensure that ASUR’s airports are in full compliance with the country’s environmental legislation. Following the inspection procedure, provided that no violations of environmental legislation are identified, the individual airports are issued certificates confirming their compliance with the law. All nine of ASUR’s airports currently have valid environmental compliance certification: the airports at Cozumel, Huatulco, Oaxaca, Tapachula and Villahermosa were recertified during 2010, and those at Cancún, Mérida, Minatitlán and Veracruz are due to be audited during 2011. To date, no administrative or judicial sanctions, including fines or nonmonetary penalties, have been imposed on the company for failure to comply with national, international or local environmental laws or regulations. 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 35 Annual Sustainability Report 2010 QUALITY OF LIFE FOR employees 6.0 As a fundamental part of ASUR’s duty of care toward its employees, we aim to provide decent working conditions in all our companies. One example of this is the support provided to employees and their families for the completion of their basic education: for the 2009-2010 academic year the company distributed a total of 128 scholarships among its staff of 875 workers, with a value of $596,301 pesos. The company has a permanent training programme for employees in all ten locations where we have operations (the head offices in Mexico City and the nine airports). During 2010, training was provided to staff members in a wide range of areas, covering topics such as technical systems training, aviation security, fire safety and first aid, and foreign languages. A total of 85,708 hours of training was provided for the company’s 875 employees during the year. Training exercise for Airport Rescue and Fire Fighting corps at Veracruz Airport 36 In addition to the professional development of staff members, the company plans a series of activities, including social and sporting events, to provide an opportunity for employees to socialise and to support local cultural traditions. Among the events organised in 2010 were a football tournament and a 5and 10-kilometre race, as well as celebrations of Children’s Day, Mothers’ Day, Christmas and the traditional Mexican festivities of the Epiphany (Día de Reyes) and the Day of the Dead (Día de Muertos). In Oaxaca, a local celebration was held ASUR employees for the Day of the Samaritan (Día de la Samaritana). responsible for operating baggage-screening system 6.1 Description of Workforce As of the 31st of December 2010, the majority of ASUR’s workforce was employed on a permanent, full-time basis; of a total workforce of 978 people, 875 (89%) had indefinite, written labour contracts for full-time employment. The following table shows a breakdown of the 875 permanent employees of the company according to the location where they work: City State NO. of Unionised % Non-unionised % employees Cancún Quintana Roo 398 122 31% 276 69% Mérida Yucatán 92 45 49% 47 51% Cozumel Quintana Roo 61 35 57% 26 43% Veracruz Veracruz 58 27 47% 31 53% Villahermosa Tabasco 57 29 51% 28 49% Figure 6 Tapachula Chiapas 47 24 51% 23 49% Breakdown Oaxaca Oaxaca 44 22 50% 22 50% of ASUR Cd. de México D.F. 44 0 0% 44 100% Workforce Huatulco Oaxaca 39 20 51% 19 49% on Minatitlán Veracruz 35 16 46% 19 54% Geographic Basis TOTAL 875 340 39% 535 61% 6.0 Quality of Life for Employees 37 “as of the 31st of December 2010, the majority of ASUR’s workforce was employed on a permanent, full-time basis” The remaining 103 workers (11%) were employed on a temporary basis via an employment agency, to cover non-permanent absences such as maternity leave or for interim positions. These temporary workers are distributed among the airports on an ad hoc basis, as needed. As of the 31st of December 2010, the geographic distribution of the 103 workers was as follows: 82 at Cancún Airport; 6 at Veracruz Airport; 6 at Villahermosa Airport; 5 at Mérida Airport; 2 at Huatulco Airport; and 2 at Oaxaca Airport. ASUR’s unionised workers all belong to the National Airport Industry Workers Union (Sindicato Nacional de Trabajadores de la Industria Aeroportuaria y de Servicios Similares y Conexos de la Republica Mexicana). Once every two years, the company management and the union undertake a collective bargaining procedure to determine employment conditions for unionised employees and the benefits that they are entitled to. The agreements reached in this negotiation are formalised in a written collective labour agreement that is signed by the representatives of the company and the union. The renegotiation process was undertaken during 2010, and a new agreement became effective on the 21st of October 2010. In addition to those mentioned above, there are significant numbers of workers based at each of the company’s airports who are not directly employed by the company. They may be broken down into a num6.0 Quality of Life for Employees 38 ber of different categories, including: government employees, such as those working for the air-traffic-control, immigration and customs services; the employees of ASUR’s commercial concession holders, such as food and beverage or retail outlets and car rental offices; the employees of other businesses with a permanent base at the airport, such as ramp service providers and the airlines themselves; and the employees of those companies subcontracted by ASUR to provide specific services in the airports. In the latter case, the most significant services subcontracted by ASUR in all nine of its airports are cleaning services for terminal buildings, administrative offices, and so on; and security services, including general surveillance staff and the personnel manning security filters and passenger inspection points. At this time, data are not available in relation to employment types, contract types or collective bargaining agreements for the aforementioned workers. 6.2 Safety in the Workplace During 2010, the 875 permanent employees of ASUR worked a total of 2,486,408 hours, equivalent to 310,801 days (eight-hour shifts). In the period in question, there were in total nine cases of accidents in the workplace, affecting 1.03% of staff members, with no cases of occupational disease and no fatalities. During the year, the total number of lost days resulting from these accidents was 257, equivalent to 0.08% of total days worked. In accordance with the system used by the Mexican Social Security Institute, accidents in the workplace are defined as incidents leading 6.0 Quality of Life for Employees 39 “the absence corresponded to a 0.71% of total days worked” to an injury that requires the staff member in question to miss one or more days of work. The total number of lost days includes all calendar days between the initial accident and the date on which the employee returns to work, even when said days are not working days. The date on which the accident occurs is counted as day one for this purpose. Minor accidents requiring first-aid treatment only are not included in the number of accidents in the workplace. In the same period, the absentee rate (defined as the total number of days that employees were absent from work due to general, nonwork-related illness or when no justification was presented for the absence) corresponded to a total of 2,207 days, or 0.71% of total days worked. These data refer exclusively to the 875 direct, permanent employees of ASUR as of the 31st of December 2010. At this time, there are no systems in place that require subcontractors, service providers or other parties with employees working at the airport to provide ASUR with accident, injury and absenteeism data. 6.0 Quality of Life for Employees 40 Annual Sustainability Report 2010 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT and support 7.0 The contribution that ASUR makes towards creating decent living standards for its employees and their families is undoubtedly one of the most important ways in which the company provides support for local communities. In 2010, the company payroll represented an investment in the community of a total of $286 million pesos. However, ASUR also plays a role in the indirect creation of jobs at the local level, as well as collaborating with various organisations on a number of projects intended to benefit local communities. 7.1 Direct and Indirect Economic Benefits The table below provides a breakdown of the economic value generated, distributed and retained by ASUR in 2010. 41 Economic value generated Total economic value generated 4,235.5 Economic value distributed Operating costs 2,223.0 Employee wages & benefits 286.4 Payments to providers of capital 788.3 Payments to governments 454.9 Community investments 13.9 Total economic value distributed 3,766.5 NOTe Economic value retainedO Figures stated in millions of Mexican pesos Total economic value retained 469.0 Figure 7 Economic Value Generated, Distributed and Retained As per the methodology established in the Global Reporting Initiative’s G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, the figures in this table are based on ASUR’s audited financial statements for the year 2010, which are prepared in accordance with Mexican financial reporting standards. The item “Total economic value generated” corresponds to the company’s revenues. Under “Economic value distributed”, the item de “Payments to providers of capital” includes interests on loans and dividends paid to shareholders. “Payments to governments” correspond to taxes, and the figure for community investments includes all cash donations, as well as the estimated values of donations in kind and man hours used for volunteer projects. 7.0 Community Involvement and Support 42 “the airports that we operate form a key part of local transport networks” During the year 2010, ASUR did not receive any financial assistance from the Mexican government. In addition to the direct economic benefits mentioned above, the activities of ASUR in the regions where we operate have the potential to generate indirect benefits for local populations. The airports that we operate form a key part of local transport networks, and as such play an important role in the promotion of regional economic development. As a matter of policy, ASUR undertakes a series of activities intended to raise the profile of the destinations where we operate. We have a dedicated Route Development team, whose job it is to promote our destinations with the world’s airlines. The goal of this is to bring in more flights to our destinations, and more visitors mean increased revenues for local businesses as well as our airports. We also participate in networking conventions and congresses around the world relating to the airport and tourism industries, often in coordination with the Mexican federal and state tourism authorities and local business groups. 7.0 Community Involvement and Support 43 7.2 Community Involvement The nine airports of ASUR are involved in various community projects. These projects are selected and administered by each airport individually, to promote a sense of ownership and greater commitment at the local level. Support is provided monetarily and in the form of donations of goods and services, as well as volunteering. The total value of cash donations, donations in kind and man hours in 2010 has been estimated at approximately $14 million pesos. During the period, the projects supported fell under four main categories: public health services, care for people with disabilities, public safety and the environment. “the total value of cash donations and donations in kind in 2010 has been estimated at approximately $14 million pesos” The organisations that received support from ASUR in the healthcare sector included the Mexican Red Cross. A fundraising marathon was also organised at Cancún Airport, and the proceeds were donated to a local charity that raises awareness and provides support for sufferers of breast cancer. In the field of assistance for people with disabilities, a programme remains in place at Veracruz Airport whereby lost objects or articles confiscated at the airport’s security filters (i.e., items that are prohibited in hand luggage) are donated to an organisation that provides support for the blind, provided the items remain unclaimed by their owners for a certain period. 7.0 Community Involvement and Support 44 In relation to public safety, Huatulco Airport waived a series of airport fees to facilitate the importing of a fire engine donated through the United States Agency for International Development. In keeping with the company’s focus on environmental matters, several of ASUR’s airports participated in different ways to support environmental initiatives in their local communities. Among the projects were the donation of advertising spaces in the nine airports of the Group for a nationwide campaign on protected natural areas; outreach with local universities to raise awareness of environmental issues; a volunteer programme in Huatulco to clean local beaches; and the reforesting of a local outdoor sporting facility in Oaxaca. 7.3 Anticorruption Measures ASUR has a written Code of Ethics that sets forth the ethical standards the company expects its employees, executives and corporate governance officials to adhere to. “on an annual basis, awareness campaigns are carried out for all employees and the members of the company’s” This Code of Ethics is provided to each new employee as part of the company’s induction procedures. On an annual basis, awareness campaigns are carried out for all employees and the members of the company’s Board of Directors and corporate governance committees are required to certify that they have not incurred any violations of the Code. 7.0 Community Involvement and Support 45 The company also has an internal reporting system through which reports or complaints may be submitted directly to the Internal Auditing Department for investigation, by e-mail or voicemail. Employees are encouraged to use this system to report instances of corruption or abuse, and they may choose to submit reports anonymously or not. In the event that they do confirm their identity, it is guaranteed that they will not be penalised in any way, even if the reports submitted prove to be baseless. “during 2010, 100% of the company’s employees were provided with training relating to the Code of Ethics” The Internal Auditing Department reports directly to the Audit Committee, which is composed entirely of independent members (that is, people who are not shareholders or executive officers in the company, or their related parties). As well as investigating all reports received via the company’s internal system, the Internal Auditing Department establishes a quarterly programme of audits to be carried out in different business units. The Audit Committee approves the work programme of the Internal Auditing Department and is informed of the results of the audits performed. During 2010, 100% of the company’s employees were provided with training relating to the Code of Ethics. ASUR’s Internal Auditing Department carried out audits in all nine airports in the Group, as well as two commercial concession-holders operating at the airports. These audits resulted in a total of 208 relevant observations. A total of 21 reports were submitted via the internal reporting system during the year, of which 4 were considered to be of critical importance, 5 were of medium importance and 12 were of minor importance. 7.0 Community Involvement and Support 46 Of the critical matters that came to the attention of the Internal Auditing Department during the year, most were related to internal procedural concerns and no disciplinary action was taken. In those cases where the investigations carried out by the Internal Auditors detected unethical behaviour by company employees, dismissal proceedings were initiated. 7.0 Community Involvement and Support 47 Annual Sustainability Report 2010 COMMITMENT TO human rights 8.0 ASUR has a written policy in which the company formally sets forth its commitment to upholding and promoting human rights. This policy expressly states that the company will guarantee the right to personal integrity of its employees, which means that workers may not be subjected to corporal punishment or verbal abuse of any nature, and that sexual harassment of any kind is strictly forbidden. The policy also contains a non-discrimination clause that prohibits discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity, nationality, gender, marital status, physical ability, religion, sexual orientation, social circumstances or political affiliation. The company has also assumed the obligation to protect its employees’ right to freedom of association. As mentioned in the section of this report that deals with Quality of Life for Employees, the company management and the airport workers’ union adhere to a regular collective bargaining procedure to establish employment conditions and benefits for unionised employees. 48 “the company also has the obligation to avoid any situations in which it might be complicit in human rights abuses” According to the company’s policy on human rights, ASUR does not use or benefit from forced labour or child labour of any kind. All working agreements are governed by consensual, written employment contracts, and the company’s policy is not to employ anyone who is under 15 years of age. In practice, no one younger than 18 is employed by ASUR. The company also has the obligation to avoid any situations in which it might be complicit in human rights abuses. Employees are encouraged to use the company’s internal reporting system to notify the Internal Auditing Department of any rights abuses. During 2010, a complaint was filed claiming that an employee of Villahermosa Airport, who had been dismissed, had been subject to harassment in the workplace. The matter was investigated by the Internal Auditing Department and the claims were found to be baseless. During the period, no threat was identified in the company’s operations to the freedom of association or collective bargaining rights of its employees. Similarly, none of the companies in the group used forced labour or child labour. 8.0 Commitment to Human Rights 49 Annual Sustainability Report 2010 UNITED NATIONS global compact 9.0 “At ASUR, we will continue to support the United Nations Global Compact and are committed to finding new ways to improve our implementation of the 10 Principles. We believe that the Global Compact is a tool that helps us to improve our standards of ethical business practice, in the long run contributing to the success and sustainability of our company.” Fernando Chico Pardo Chairman of the Board of Directors 50 The Global Compact is an initiative established by the United Nations to promote the values of social responsibility and respect for human rights in businesses around the world. ASUR became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2005, and the Chairman of ASUR’s Board of Directors, Fernando Chico Pardo, was appointed as a member of the UNGC’s Board of Directors on the 11th of March 2009. The UNGC asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption; these core values are the Ten Principles. Below is a table that states what the Ten Principles are and where they are addressed in the text of this report. Figure 8 United Nations Global Compact Principles Principle Refer to I. Businesses should support and respect the SecTIOn 8.0 protection of internationally proclaimed huCommitment to Human Rights man rights II. Businesses should make sure that they are SecTIOn 8.0 not complicit in human rights abuses Commitment to Human Rights SecTIOn 6.1 III. Businesses should uphold the freedom of Description of Workforce association and the effective recognition of SecTIOn 8.0 the right to collective bargaining Commitment to Human Rights Section 8.0 IV. Businesses should uphold the elimination Commitment to Human Rights of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 9.0 United Nations Global Compact 51 Principle Refer to V. Businesses should uphold the effective Section 8.0 abolition of child labour Commitment to Human Rights VI. Businesses should uphold the elimination SecTIOn 8.0 of discrimination in respect of employment Commitment to Human Rights and occupation Section 5.0 VII. Businesses should support a precautionEnvironmental Responsibility ary approach to environmental challenges VIII. Businesses should undertake initiatives SecTIOn 5.0 to promote greater environmental responsiEnvironmental Responsibility bility IX. Businesses should encourage the develSecTIOn 5.0 opment and diffusion of environmentally Environmental Responsibility friendly technologies X. Businesses should work against corruption SecTIOn 7.3 in all its forms, including extortion and bribery MAnticorruption Measures 9.0 United Nations Global Compact 52 Annual Sustainability Report 2010 GRI Standard Disclosures and performance indicators 10.0 This report has been prepared in accordance with the sustainability reporting guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and is intended as a Level C report under that system. The Global Reporting Initiative is a network based organisation that promotes the use of a standardised framework for sustainability reporting. During 2010, ASUR participated in a multi-stakeholder working group organised by GRI to create a sector supplement to the G3 Guidelines for the airport industry. Below is an index of the GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators that are addressed in this report, and where the relevant information can be found in this document. 53 Figure 9 Index of GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators Standard Disclosures GRI Reporting Description Refer to Parameter Statement from the most senior decisionSection 1.0 maker of the organization about the relevance 1.1 Message from our C.E.O. of sustainability to the organization and its strategy Section 2.1 2.1 Name of the organization Company Profile Primary brands, products, and/or services Section 8.0 2.2 Business Activities Operational structure of the organization Section 2.4 2.3 Organisational Structure Section 2.0 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Section Company Profile Number and names of countries where the Section 2.0 2.5 organization operates Company Profile Section 2.3 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Shareholder Structure Section 2.5 2.7 Markets served Operating and Financial Data 10.0 GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators 54 GRI Reporting Description Refer to Parameter Section 2.4 Organisational Structure 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Section 2.5 Operating and Financial Data Section 2.6 Significant changes during the reporting period Significant Changes in Opera2.9 regarding size, structure, or ownership tions during 2009 Section 2.7 Awards received in the reporting period Social Responsibility Awards and 2.10 External Programmes Reporting period Section 3.0 3.1 Report Parameters Section 3.0 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Report Parameters Section 3.0 3.3 Reporting cycle Report Parameters Contact point for questions regarding the report Section 3.2 3.4 or its contents Scope and Limitations of Report Section 3.1 Stakeholder Analysis and Re3.5 Process for defining report content port Content Section 3.2 3.6 Boundary of the report Scope and Limitations of Report 10.0 GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators 55 GRI Reporting Description Refer to Parameter Specific limitations on the scope or Section 3.2 3.7 boundary of the report Scope and Limitations of Report Basis for reporting on joint ventures, Section 3.2 3.8 subsidiaries, leased facilities, outScope and Limitations of Report sourced operations Section 3.2 Re-statements of information provided 3.10 Scope and Limitations of Report in earlier reports Significant changes from previous resection 3.2 3.11 porting periods in scope, boundary or Scope and Limitations of Report measurement methods Section 10.0 Table identifying the location of the 3.12 GRI Standard Disclosures and Standard Disclosures in the report Performance Indicators Governance structure of the organizaSection 4.0 4.1 tion Corporate Governance Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Section 4.0 4.2 governance body is also an executive Corporate Governance officer Number of members of the highest govSection 4.0 4.3 ernance body that are independent and/ Corporate Governance or non-executive members Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations Section 4.0 4.4 or direction to the highest governance Corporate Governance body 10.0 GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators 56 GRI Reporting Description Refer to Parameter Section 3.1 List of stakeholder groups engaged by 4.14 Stakeholder Analysis and Rethe organization port Content Section 3.1 Basis for identification and selection of 4.15 aStakeholder Analysis and Restakeholders with whom to engage port Content Performance Indicators GRI Reporting Description Refer to Parameter Section 5.2.5 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Fuel Consumption Percentage of materials used that are Section 5.2.5 EN2 recycled input materials Fuel Consumption Direct energy consumption by primary Section 5.2.5 EN3 energy source Fuel Consumption Indirect energy consumption by primary Section 5.2.2 EN4 source Energy Efficiency Section 5.2.3 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water Efficiency Section 5.2.4 Total weight of waste by type and disEN22 Waste Management posal method 10.0 GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators 57 GRI Reporting Description Refer to Parameter Section 2.6 Significant Changes in OperaInitiatives to mitigate environmental tions during 2009 EN26 impacts of products and services, and Section 5.2.1 extent of impact mitigation Mitigation of Infrastructure Expansion Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions Section 5.4 EN28 for noncompliance with environmental Environmental Certification laws and regulations Total workforce by employment type, Section 6.1 LA1 employment contract, and region Description of Workforce Percentage of employees covered by Section 6.1 LA4 collective bargaining agreements Description of Workforce Rates of injury, occupational diseases, Section 6.2 LA7 lost days, and absenteeism, and numSafety in the Workplace ber of work-related fatalities by region Section 7.1 Direct economic value generated and EC1 Direct and Indirect Economic distributed Benefits Section 7.1 Significant financial assistance received EC4 Direct and Indirect Economic from government Benefits Percentage and total number of busiSection 7.3 SO2 ness units analyzed for risks related to Anticorruption Measures corruption Percentage of employees trained in orSection 7.3 SO3 ganization’s anti-corruption policies and Anticorruption Measures procedures Actions taken in response to incidents of Section 7.3 SO4 corruption Anticorruption Measures 10.0 GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators 58 GRI Reporting Description Refer to Parameter Total number of incidents of discriminaSection 8.0 HR4 tion and actions taken Commitment to Human Rights Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and Section 8.0 HR5 collective bargaining may be at signifiCommitment to Human Rights cant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, Section 8.0 HR6 and measures taken to contribute to the Commitment to Human Rights elimination of child labour Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or Section 8.0 HR7 compulsory labour, and measures to Commitment to Human RightS contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour 10.0 GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators 59 Annual Sustainability Report 2010 Appendix A ASUR Environmental Objectives and Performance, 2010 Airport Objective Activities Measurement Progress Parameter /Result Reduce amount of non-hazReuse or recycling of materials, Compliance with Cancún ardous waste disposed of in including plastics, paper, glass, reduction percent60% landfill sites by 20% aluminium, etc. age goal Use of recycled water from Reduce amount of fresh waPercent of plant Terminal 3 treatment plant on Cancún ter used for watering off-site output used for off5% roadside verges on access road green areas site watering leading to airport Encourage growth of vegUse of sewage sludge from Percent of plant Cancún etation without using chemitreatment plants as fertiliser on output used for 100% cal fertilisers green areas surrounding airport fertilisation Replacement of incandescent Number of incanReduce consumption of lighting fixtures with energy-savCOZUMEL descent lighting 47% electricity ing lighting systems (fluorescent fixtures replaced and LEDs) Installation of dedicated refuse Ensure appropriate handling Number of containCozumel containers in public areas for 3% of hazardous waste ers installed disposal of batteries Replacement of battery-operated Reduce generation of hazNumber of flushCozumel flushometers with equipment 27% ardous waste ometers replaced operating on mains electricity Reduce amount of paper / Separation of paper/ cardboard Percentage of total Huatulco carboard waste disposed of waste; disposal with recycling 41% waste recycled in landfill sites facility Reduce amount of PET Separation of PET plastic Percentage of total Huatulco plastic waste disposed of in waste; disposal with recycling 63% waste recycled landfill sites facility 60 Airport Objective Activities Measurement Progress Parameter /Result Reduce electricity consumpImplementation of series of enConsumption comMérida tion, measured on a perergy saving measures in differpared to previous -7.7% passenger basis ent areas of the airport year Replacement of toxic refrigeratNumber of items of Mérida Reduce air pollution hazards ing gases with harmless gases equipment up5% in various airport cooling units graded Encourage growth of vegUse of sewage sludge from Percent of plant Mérida etation without using chemitreatment plants as fertiliser on output used for 100% cal fertilisers green areas surrounding airport fertilisation Reduce extraction from Implementation of series of Compliance with water sources by 1%, meaMinatitlán water conservation measures in reduction percent100% sured on a per-passenger different areas of the airport age goal basis Installation of flow meter to acMeasure consumption of curately measure water used Completion of Minatitlán 100% water more efficiently for irrigation of green areas in project airport grounds Implementation of series of enNumber of apron Reduce total consumption of Minatitlán ergy saving measures in differworkers receiving 100% electricity by 2% ent areas of the airport training Construction of new cistern for storing well water; installation of Improve quality of drinking Completion of Oaxaca silica sand and activated carbon 90% water project filters; implementation of testing of hardness of drinking water Ensure vehicles used by airport community have complied with Reduce / contain vehicle mandatory emissions testing; Completion of Oaxaca 100% emissions require emissions testing certifiproject cate for free access to airport car park Appendix A ASUR Environmental Objectives and Performance, 2010 61 Airport Objective Activities Measurement Progress Parameter /Result Study to determine appropriate location and tree species; orReforestation of urban green ganisation of volunteer taskforce Number of survivMérida 23.5% areas from airport community; tree ing trees planting; tree maintenance and watering Replacement of toxic refrigeratPercent of total Tapachula Reduce air pollution hazards ing gases with harmless gases 50% units upgraded in air conditioning cooling units Implementation of series of enConsumption comReduce total electricity conTapachula ergy saving measures in differpared to previous -13.1% sumption ent areas of the airport year Reduce amount of fresh waUse of recycled water from treatpostponed pending Tapachula ter used for watering on-site ment plant on green areas inside authorisation from green areas airport grounds authorities Reduce amount of non-hazReuse or recycling of materials, Compliance with Veracruz ardous waste disposed of in including plastics, paper, glass, reduction percent100% landfill sites by 19% aluminium, etc. age goal Limit total annual electricity Implementation of series of enActual consumpVeracruz consumption to maximum ergy saving measures in differtion compared to -9.4% amount of 2,373,480 kWh ent areas of the airport maximum limit Limit total annual fuel conImplementation of series of fuel Actual consumpVeracruz sumption to maximum saving measures in different tion compared to -7.1% amount of 32,290 litres areas of the airport maximum limit Limit total annual consumpImplementation of series of Actual consumption of paper in administraVeracruz paper saving measures in airport tion compared to 7% tive offices to maximum administrative offices maximum limit amount of 100,000 sheets Awareness raising campaign; VillaherReforest areas surrounding selection of site; acquisition of Number of trees * mosa airport by planting 500 trees trees; preparation of site and planted tree planting *postponed due to natural disaster Appendix A ASUR Environmental Objectives and Performance, 2010 62 Airport Objective Activities Measurement Progress Parameter /Result Implementation of series of enConsumption comVillaherReduce total electricity conergy saving measures in differpared to previous -3.7% mosa sumption ent areas of the airport year Replace 100% of paper Contact supplier; switch to rePercent of paper Villaherused in administrative ofcycled paper in airport’s adminisreplaced with re100% mosa fices with recycled paper trative offices cycled product Appendix A ASUR Environmental Objectives and Performance, 2010 63 Annual Sustainability Report 2010 Appendix B ASUR Environmental Performance Indicators, 2010 ASUR All Airports Total Figures Parameter unit mmt 2009 2010 % CAMBIO Total water consumption m3 569,624 555,939 -2.4% Total water discharged m3 380,845 403,864 6.0% Total electricity kWh 62,938,597 60,584,421 -3.7% consumption Gj 226,579 218,104 -3.7% Total hazardous waste produced kg 19,380 20,274 4.6% Total non-hazardous t 4,114 4,465 8.5% waste produced Total fuel consumption l 446,361 455,712 2.1% Per-Passenger Basis Parameter unit mmt 2009 2010 % CAMBIO Water consumption per passenger l/pax 35.9 32.7 -9.1% DWater discharged per passenger l/pax 24.0 23.7 -1.2% Electricity consumption kWh/pax 4.0 3.6 -10.3% per passenger Mj/pax 14.3 13.0 -10.3% Hazardous waste produced g/pax 1.2 1.2 -2.5% per passenger Non-hazardous waste kg/pax 0.3 0.3 1.1% produced per passenger Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 26.8 26.8 -4.9% 64 Cancún Total Figures Parameter unit mmt 2009 2010 % CAMBIO Total water consumption m3 335,697 306,231 -8.7% Total water discharged m3 2,610,89 281,178 7.7% Total electricity kWh 43,448,286 41,794,777 -3.8% consumption Gj 156,414 150,462 -3.8% Total hazardous waste produced kg 4085 7,576 85,5% Total non-hazardous t 3646 4,034 10,7% waste produced Total fuel consumption l 220,518 224,728 1,9% Per-Passenger Basis Parameter unit mmt 2009 2010 % CAMBIO Water consumption per passenger l/pax 29.6 24.4 -17.8% DWater discharged per passenger l/pax 24.0 22.4 -2.9% Electricity consumption kWh/pax 3.8 3.3 -13.3% per passenger Mj/pax 13.8 11.9 -13.3% Hazardous waste produced g/pax 0.4 0.6 -67.1% per passenger Non-hazardous waste kg/pax 0.3 0.3 0.3% produced per passenger Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 19.5 17.9 -8.2% Appendix B Environmental Performance Indicators 65 Cozumel Total Figures Parameter unit mmt 2009 2010 % CAMBIO Total water consumption m3 23,194 25,722 10.9% Total water discharged m3 21,761 25,759 17.5% Total electricity kWh 2,200,931 2,250,689 2.3% consumption Gj 7,923 8,102 2.3% Total hazardous waste produced kg 5,090 3,532 -30.6% Total non-hazardous t 30 37 25.0% waste produced Total fuel consumption l 26,950 41,289 53.2% Per-Passenger Basis Parameter unit mmt 2009 2010 % CAMBIO Water consumption per passenger l/pax 51.8 57.1 10.2% DWater discharged per passenger l/pax 48.6 56.8 16.8% Electricity consumption kWh/pax 4.9 5.0 1.6% per passenger Mj/pax 17.7 18.0 1.6% Hazardous waste produced g/pax 11.4 7.8 -31.1% per passenger Non-hazardous waste kg/pax 0.1 0.1 24.2% produced per passenger Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 60.2 91.6 52.2% Appendix B Environmental Performance Indicators 66 Huatulco Total Figures Parameter unit mmt 2009 2010 % CAMBIO Total water consumption m3 15,764 12,108 -23.2% Total water discharged m3 8,463 6,288 -25.7% Total electricity kWh 870,079 847,896 -2.5% consumption Gj 3,132 3,052 -2.5% Total hazardous waste produced kg 1,657 1,532 -7.6% Total non-hazardous t 52 24 -54.8% waste produced Total fuel consumption l 13,958 15,377 10.2% Per-Passenger Basis Parameter unit mmt 2009 2010 % CAMBIO Water consumption per passenger l/pax 40.4 31.2 -22.8% DWater discharged per passenger l/pax 21.7 16.2 -25.3% Electricity consumption kWh/pax 2.2 2.2 -2.0% per passenger Mj/pax 8.0 7.9 -2.0% Hazardous waste produced g/pax 4.3 4.0 -7.1% per passenger Non-hazardous waste kg/pax 0.1 0.1 -54.4% produced per passenger Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 35.8 39.7 10.8% Appendix B Environmental Performance Indicators 67 Mérida Total Figures Parameter unit mmt 2009 2010 % CAMBIO Total water consumption m3 84,398 97,812 15.9% Total water discharged m3 61,408 53,985 -12.1% Total electricity kWh 7,123,760 7,074,957 -0.7% consumption Gj 25,646 25,470 -0.7% Total hazardous waste produced kg 2,278 3,040 33.5% Total non-hazardous t 88 92 4.6% waste produced Total fuel consumption l 43,628 34,767 -20.3% Per-Passenger Basis Parameter unit mmt 2009 2010 % CAMBIO Water consumption per passenger l/pax 77.9 83.9 7.7% DWater discharged per passenger l/pax 56.7 46.3 -18.3% Electricity consumption kWh/pax 6.6 6.1 -7.7% per passenger Mj/pax 23.7 22.0 -7.7% Hazardous waste produced g/pax 2.1 2.6 -24.0% per passenger Non-hazardous waste kg/pax 0.1 0.1 -2.8% produced per passenger Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 40.3 29.8 -25.9% Appendix B Environmental Performance Indicators 68 Minatitlán Total Figures Parameter unit mmt 2009 2010 % CAMBIO Total water consumption m3 14,800 14,184 -4.2% Total water discharged m3 4,075 5,788 42.0% Total electricity kWh 853,410 753,339 -11.7% consumption Gj 3,072 2,712 -11.7% Total hazardous waste produced kg 1,025 989 -3.5% Total non-hazardous t 9 4 -52% waste produced Total fuel consumption l 11,480 18,928 -64.9% Per-Passenger Basis Parameter unit mmt 2009 2010 % CAMBIO Water consumption per passenger l/pax 98.0 112.8 15.1% DWater discharged per passenger l/pax 27.0 46.0 70.5% Electricity consumption kWh/pax 5.7 6.0 6.0% per passenger Mj/pax 20.3 21.6 6.0% Hazardous waste produced g/pax 26.8 7.9 15.8% per passenger Non-hazardous waste kg/pax 0.1 0.0 -42.3% produced per passenger Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 76.0 150.5 98.0% Appendix B Environmental Performance Indicators 69 Oaxaca Total Figures Parameter unit mmt 2009 2010 % CAMBIO Total water consumption m3 15,396 17,823 15.8% Total water discharged m3 4,638 7,802 68.2% Total electricity kWh 896,168 903,576 0.8% consumption Gj 3,226 3,253 0.8% Total hazardous waste produced kg 2,020 1,800 -10.9% Total non-hazardous t 81 94 -15.2% waste produced Total fuel consumption l 24,107 27,360 -13.5% Per-Passenger Basis Parameter unit mmt 2009 2010 % CAMBIO Water consumption per passenger l/pax 28.4 38.6 36.0% DWater discharged per passenger l/pax 8.6 16.9 97.7% Electricity consumption kWh/pax 1.7 2.0 18.5% per passenger Mj/pax 5.9 7.2 18.5% Hazardous waste produced g/pax 3.7 3.9 4.7% per passenger Non-hazardous waste kg/pax 0.2 0.2 35.4% produced per passenger Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 44.5 59.3 35.4% Appendix B Environmental Performance Indicators 70 Tapachula Total Figures Parameter unit mmt 2009 2010 % CAMBIO Total water consumption m3 23,397 22,595 -3.4% Total water discharged m3 8,185 10,959 33.9% Total electricity kWh 1,778,560 1,546,300 -13.1% consumption Gj 6,403 5,567 -13.1% Total hazardous waste produced kg 1,076 810 -24.7% Total non-hazardous t 44 34 -23.0% waste produced Total fuel consumption l 43,488 43,181 -0.7% Per-Passenger Basis Parameter unit mmt 2009 2010 % CAMBIO Water consumption per passenger l/pax 119.3 119.0 -0.2% DWater discharged per passenger l/pax 41.7 57.7 38.3% Electricity consumption kWh/pax 9.1 8.1 -10.2% per passenger Mj/pax 32.7 29.2 -10.2% Hazardous waste produced g/pax 5.5 4.3 -22.2% per passenger Non-hazardous waste kg/pax 0.2 0.2 -20.4% produced per passenger Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 221.7 227.4 2.6% Appendix B Environmental Performance Indicators 71 Veracruz Total Figures Parameter unit mmt 2009 2010 % CAMBIO Total water consumption m3 22,889 24,077 5.2% Total water discharged m3 6,975 7,058 1.2% Total electricity kWh 2,373,480 2,150,460 -9.4% consumption Gj 68,545 7,742 -9.4% Total hazardous waste produced kg 1,724 642 -62.8% Total non-hazardous t 75 83 10.7% waste produced Total fuel consumption l 32,290 20,545 -36.4% Per-Passenger Basis Parameter unit mmt 2009 2010 % CAMBIO Water consumption per passenger l/pax 25.1 27.0 7.5% DWater discharged per passenger l/pax 7.6 7.9 3.5% Electricity consumption kWh/pax 2.6 2.4 -7.4% per passenger Mj/pax 9.4 8.6 -7.4% Hazardous waste produced g/pax 1.9 0.7 -61.9% per passenger Non-hazardous waste kg/pax 0.1 0.1 -13.1% produced per passenger Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 35.4 23.0 34.9% Appendix B Environmental Performance Indicators 72 Villahermosa Total Figures Parameter unit mmt 2009 2010 % CAMBIO Total water consumption m3 34,089 35,386 3.8% Total water discharged m3 4,251 5,228 23.0% Total electricity kWh 3,393,923 3,262,427 -3.9% consumption Gj 12,218 11,745 -3.9% Total hazardous waste produced kg 425 354 -16.8% Total non-hazardous t 89 63 -29.6% waste produced Total fuel consumption l 29,941 29,537 -1.3% Per-Passenger Basis Parameter unit mmt 2009 2010 % CAMBIO Water consumption per passenger l/pax 42.5 45.9 8.2% DWater discharged per passenger l/pax 5.3 6.8 28.1% Electricity consumption kWh/pax 4.2 4.2 0.2% per passenger Mj/pax 15.2 15.1 0.2% Hazardous waste produced g/pax 0.5 0.5 -13.3% per passenger Non-hazardous waste kg/pax 0.1 0.1 -26.6% produced per passenger Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 37.3 38.3 2.8% Appendix B Environmental Performance Indicators 73
