Statement of Continued Support We are happy to share our third COP whereby, we reinforce our continued commitment to the Principles of the UN Global Compact. Integration of environmental, social and ethical issues is most critical in determining our business and growth strategy. We also continue to make efforts to internalize the ten guiding Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti Corruption into our organizational policies, programmes, operations and culture. Responsible business practices and sustainable development continue to be the way we do business at Moser Baer. All these goals for protection of environment, safety, well being and development of our employees are integrated into our annual business plans so that they remain central to our plans, as important as sales and profit. Further, our emphasis on the ethical way of conducting business with our stakeholders to build mutual trust and guarantee long term relationships continues and we have ‘zero tolerance” for any violation. Our teams are dedicated to work on newer ways in which we can genuinely contribute to the development of the society in which we operate. We continue to work on issues such as women empowerment, health, education, livelihood and digital literacy etc. in the areas surrounding our plants for the sustainable development of these communities More information and data on how we are integrating the UN Global Compact Principles and other sustainability issues are available in our Annual Report and Corporate Responsibility Report and on our website. Deepak Puri Chairman Date: 30.03.2011 Communication on Progress 2009-10 Pages in Corporate Responsibility Report-2010 http://moserbaer.com/o Global Compact Principle Summary of Action Taken & Impact Achieved verview_csr_sustainab ility-report.asp 1: Businesses should As responsible corporate, we ensure that human rights of Page 37-40 support and respect the our workers are protected and respected. Our commitment protection of is further strengthened by the fact that we have policy and internationally proclaimed programmes to ensure awareness on human rights, on human rights; implementation of human rights related practices and also to identify and control any violation at our workplace. 2: and make sure that they As an SA 8000 certified company, Moser Baer has put in Page 37-40 are not complicit in place stringent policies to ensure that there is zero tolerance human rights abuses. of any human rights violation. 3: Businesses should We believe in the culture of Participative Management. The Page 36-37 uphold the freedom of Company practices ‘Open Door Policy’ for all associates association and the wherein each employee has access to the Highest Level of effective recognition of the Management to register their concerns. Thereby mammoth right to collective efforts are put towards ‘sharing’ &“Listening our bargaining; associates”. Towards the direction of Employee Participation Management and Employee Listening, we have several different forums of communication and interaction with our Roll employees and Un-skilled Trainees separately wherein our associates can discuss their concerns and suggestions across the table with the Management. The forums are open to all associates and cover 100% of our population. Moser Baer encourages and practices the culture of Participative Management. Under the Employee Participation Management, the company involves its employees in decision-making process through various committees and Cross Functional Teams in its transparent working environment. 4: the elimination of all We do not practice Forced Labour, in any form; for any Page 38 forms of forced and reason whatsoever. In its Recruitment Policy, Moser Baer compulsory labour; has incorporated the provision of not holding back the original documents or any other personal property of the person while hiring. The philosophy that drives the Company's HR Policies and Labour Practices is to 'avoid any kind of harassment of workforce. We have a systematic disciplinary system which prohibits any kind of monetary harm or physical coercion of employees. have been encountered till date.Effective monitoring and systems have ensured that we have been successful in keeping the workplace free of any kind of Child Labor, Forced labor, Discrimination and malpractice disciplinary cases . 5: the effective abolition of Moser Baer is a SA 8000 certified company and various Page 38 child labour; audits and reviews are carried by the internal auditors as well as the external agencies to verify that the systems are free of unfairness and prejudice. The Company has neither encountered nor encouraged Child Labour. Regular audits are conducted as part of SA8000 and a documented Remediation Plan for Child Labour is in place. Effective monitoring and systems have ensured that we have been successful in keeping the workplace free of child labour so far. 6: and the elimination of We believe in Equal Opportunity Employment and Page 37,38,40 discrimination in respect Affirmative Action of employment and occupation. We have the policy mandate for non discrimination and harassment against any employee or applicant for the employment on the basis of race, color, and creed. religion national origin, sex and sexual orientation, disability, age marital status or status with regard to public assistance. Performance Appraisal System, Feedback of Employees in Communication meetings, Feedback from Training Programs, One-to-one interaction and various formal and informal channels of communication are processes built in to ensure fairness and affirmative action. We hire talent from all across India and follow a holistic approach towards Recruitment & Selection. We believe that all employees should experience the ‘joy and pride of association’. 7: Businesses should We strive towards sustainable development by trying to Page 27-29 support a precautionary find a balance between the needs of our stakeholders and approach to responsible care for the environment and especially towards environmental challenges; climate change. Our Environment, Health and Safety key matrix is aligned with annual business plan to quantify our environmental initiatives and also linked to each and every functional Business Plan. We are committed to protect and promote the clean and green environment. We have a detailed Environment, Health & Safety Policy and all our plants have environmental management systems conforming to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 which are certified by leading international certification bodies. We also have a robust EHS audit carried out at all our locations periodically to ensure continual improvement in our environment, health and safety performance. 8: undertake initiatives to Management Programs in regard to recourse optimization, Page 27-29 promote greater material efficiency improvement, Energy and Water saving environmental which are directly related to our overall objectives. We have responsibility; taken several improvement programs in regard to Reduce, Reuse and Recycle ( In house solvent recycling plant, Polycarbonate recycling plant, Wood pallet recycling plant, Canteen WasteBio Gas plant) Moser Baer is an ISO 14001:2004,OHSAS 18001:2007,ISO 9001:2008 and SA 8000 certified company, and it is fully committed to develop health and safety and clean environment to protect vital human resources, plant and machinery from any hazard and risk. Moser Baer follows all the applicable rules and regulations and considers government as one of its key stakeholders. Driven by our commitment to nature, we have taken concrete steps to sustain the ecological balance. We realize that development and protection of our natural environment must go hand-in-hand.. 9: and encourage the Moser Baer is extending the synergies between existing Page 27-29 development and diffusion core manufacturing and technology competencies into the of environmentally fast growing global photovoltaic market. Moser Baer plans friendly technologies. to manufacture solar energy systems by straddling multiple technologies including crystalline silicon, nano technology and thin film to reset global benchmarks in technology and offer environmental friendly energy at affordable cost to consumers worldwide 10: Businesses should Moser Baer firmly believes that, business ethics if not up to Pages 39-40. work against all forms of scratch can leave one with a bad reputation alienating our corruption, including stakeholders. We therefore lay a lot emphasis on ethical extortion and bribery. way of conducting business with our stakeholders to build mutual trust and guarantee long term relationships. In the light of the above we ensure that we leave no stone unturned in creating a value-based culture where every individual of the organization is aligned towards our corporate ethical policy and works with total integrity – one of our core values. We have built strong systems and processes that enable us to proactively identify or rectify occurrence of any malpractices/unethical behavior, thereby creating a corruption-free environment.We believe that corporations like ours have a responsibility towards setting up high standards of ethical behaviour, both within the organization as well as in their external relationships.
