3rd November, 2011 Statement of support As a member of the Global Compact, PTC India Limited is committed to the principles of the Global Compact. The examples detailed below would enumerate the Company’s support for protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Tantra Narayan Thakur Chairman & Managing Director PTC India Limited New Delhi PTC India Limited (Formerly known as Power Trading Corporation of India Limited) 2nd Floor, NBCC Tower, 15 Bhikaji Cama Place New Delhi 110 066 Tel: 011-41595163, 41659128, 41659500. Fax: 011-41659126 E-mail: harshavardhan@ptcindia.com, info@ptcindia.com Website: www.ptcindia.com About PTC PTC India Ltd., a Government of India initiative, is the pioneer in starting a power market in India. The Company has maintained its leadership position in the power trading since inception. The trading activities undertaken by PTC include long term trading of power generated from large power projects as well as short term trading arising as a result of supply and demand mismatches, which inevitably arise in various regions of the country. The Company is credited with number of products in the electricity trading market to meet the divergent needs of the customers. Driven by the vision to forge a vibrant power market, PTC has been able to provide innovative services to its clients and build faith and trust as a reliable partner resulting in repeated transactions. PTC endeavors in promoting wind and solar power development. It provides trading solutions of renewable power through bilateral contracts and also trading of Renewable Certificates through the power exchange. PTC has signed a MOU with Bureau of Efficiency with an aim to implement energy efficiency solutions. Few prestigious projects undertaken include implementing energy efficiency solutions at President Estate, AIIMS, ESI Hospitals etc. PTC has set up two subsidiary companies, namely, PTC India Financial Services Limited (PFS) and PTC Energy Limited (PEL). PFS is an Infrastructure NBFC providing financing solutions for companies with projects across the energy value chain. PFS is a co promoter of first national level Power Exchange i.e. Indian Energy Exchange Limited (IEX) PEL has been set up to develop asset base business related to the power and other sources of energy. PEL’s main role has been to generate, supply, distribute, transmit and deal in electricity and all forms of energy including sale & purchase of all forms of energy including coal/ fuels, conversion of coal/ fuels into electricity, fuel linkages and provide advisory services in energy sector including energy efficiency. PTC, with a diversified board of directors including eminent people as independent directors, is a unique example of a highly successful public-private partnership with major PSUs of the Union Power Ministry as promoters and wide ownership interest. Building of an integrated energy value chain is central to the Company’s growth agenda. PTC has made foray into fuel intermediation, renewable sources as well as investment in energy assets. PTC has managed its leadership position in the power market adhering to its core value of transparency and keeping customer’s need at the top. From initiating trading of electricity in the Indian power market, PTC has come a long way in becoming a Complete Energy Solution Provider. Human Rights • Principle 1: PTC India Limited supports and respects internationally proclaimed human rights and follows the legal framework for the guarantee of human rights through Fundamental Rights and Directive Principles as laid down under the Constitution of India. • Principle 2: There are no complicit in human rights abuses. PTC follows strict adherence of human rights and there has been no such incidence. Labour • Principle 3: PTC upholds the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. There is an Employees Welfare Association for PTC employees which undertake various employee welfare as well as engagement related activities. • Principle 4: There is no forced or compulsory lobour in PTC. • Principle 5: Engagement of persons below 18 years is completely prohibited in PTC. We do not practice child labour. • Principle 6: There is no discrimination in terms of employment and occupation. Environment • Principle 7: PTC business is inclined towards encouraging generation of energy through alternate/Renewable Energy sources and has a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. • Principle 8: PTC group has undertaken initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and has made equity investment in Biomass and Wind Energy Farms. The Biomass project is commissioned and feeding green energy to grid. • Principle 9: PTC encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies especially through its energy efficiency projects. PTC is encouraging energy conservation through energy efficiency mechanism. Anti-Corruption • Principle 10: There is transparency in our business practice and we are against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.
