United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress Message of Continued Support from Enecore Carbon’s Managing Director, Stuart Cerne: I am pleased to present Enecore Carbon’s first United Nations’ Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) and to confirm our continued support of the Global Compact and its principles. With this COP, we express our intent to advance the principles related to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making them part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of Enecore Carbon (“Enecore”) as well as engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Over the past year, Enecore has grown substantially, opening a new headquarters in Hong Kong and a representative office in Hanoi. Along with this growth, we have improved our corporate governance and commercial practices, developing a robust set of procedures and policies to ensure we are following best practices in relation to both our internal governance and core business activities. We have become a truly multicultural organization, with employees representing over half a dozen different nations and we continue to expand our service offerings within the carbon and energy management sector. These factors create a corporate culture that inherently understands the responsibility we have in terms of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption towards our customers, employees, shareholders and the local communities in which we work. Over this past year, Enecore has worked towards embedding the UN Global Compact principles into our company policy and we have benefited greatly from supporting this initiative as it has assisted us in establishing a set of ethical guidelines, policies and procedures to ensure we go above and beyond expectations in all aspects of our business. Following the General Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (v.3.1), Enecore’s first COP provides a balanced, clear and reliable report for stakeholders and a solid foundation for the development of baselines, indicators and outcomes upon which we can continue to improve in the future. I am very proud of the achievements Enecore has made in relation to the UN Global Compact principles over the past year and recognize the unique opportunities we have to support these principles. I look forward to Enecore seizing these opportunities in the years to come. Sincerely, Stuart Cerne Managing Director Enecore Carbon Limited September 2011 Enecore’s Communication on Progress (COP) Boundary and Sphere of Influence of the COP Enecore’s first COP is based on the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (version 3.1). As illustrated in Figure 1, the range of entities encompassed by the COP (the “Enecore Group”) includes all offices and companies of and including the parent, Enecore Carbon Limited. Thus, the Enecore Group currently consists of 3 operating companies and a Representative Office, which are all ultimately owned by Enecore Group Co. Ltd, a British Virgin Islands-registered company. Fig. 1 Boundary of Enecore’s COP The Global Compact asks companies to ‘embrace, support and enact the 10 principles within their “sphere of influence”’, illustrated in Figure 2, where influence diminishes as the circles increase in size: Fig. 2 Sphere of Influence Public Policy and Advocacy Community Interaction Supply Chain Enecore Carbon Limited Core Business Activities 2 This year, Enecore has focused on supporting the principles in relation to its core business activities, and will expand its efforts to other areas within its sphere of influence over time. The Global Compact defines core business activities as those both in the workplace and the marketplace. In this context, Enecore has applied the main aspects of the GRI performance indicators to those core business activities we carry out in the market – as a provider of energy and emission reduction solutions to a broad range of clients and those activities we carry out in relation to our internal corporate operations. Structure of this COP This report is structured in accordance with The Practical Guide to the United Nations Global Compact – Communication on Progress. As such, each section relates to one category of principles (although the Human Rights and Labour sections have been merged as there is extensive overlap). The relevant principles are briefly stated at the beginning of each section and then the commitment, systems, activities and annual performance in relation to the stated principles are described, in turn. After the narrative portion of the section, the section is completed by a table setting out the relevant GRI core aspects and performance indicators as well as Enecore’s 2011 performance and future goals in relation to each performance indicator. Stakeholders Given the nature of our business, we have a broad number of stakeholders, including employees, advisory clients, project owners, carbon credit buyers and government legislative bodies responsible for energy, carbon, climate change and environmental regulation, as well as those impacted by the services we provide for specific projects, including local communities. Overview of Enecore Enecore’s objective is to be a leading provider of carbon, energy and emission reduction solutions to a broad range of clients. We are headquartered in Hong Kong, with regional and representative offices in Beijing and Hanoi. Enecore has been active in the carbon market since 2006 with the provision of services relating to the identification, evaluation, development and management of projects eligible under the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) for the generation of Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) and Verified Emission Reductions (VERs). The company has an intrinsic commitment to the protection of the environment and mitigation of climate change due to the nature of its business but also upholds sustainable business practices and strong corporate governance through its declaration of Enecore’s core values and competencies, as set out in Table 1 below. Enecore Carbon Limited 3 Table 1. Enecore’s Core Values and Competencies Enecore’s Core Values Core Competencies Economically, Socially and Environmentally  Climate and energy-related projects that Sustainable Development respect the physical limits of the natural world and its resources  Leadership in best practices and risk management Quality Service  Customer Focus  Technical Excellence  Attention to Detail Commercial Focus  Commercial Orientation  Work Planning / Organizational Skills  Problem Solving  Analytical Skills Team Collaboration  Teamwork and Collaboration  Communication Skills  Interpersonal Skills Respect for Employees  Leadership / Delegation  Supervisory Skills Fairness and Integrity / Public Responsibility  Transparent Decision Making  Responsible Projects and Advice Innovation  Innovation / Change Orientation  Initiatives / Motivation Enecore ensures that all of its directors, executives and employees are aware of the UN Global Compact principles, and requires all staff to strictly adhere to these principles. Enecore also has a policy of requiring its counterparties to contractually agree that they shall uphold the principles. Service Offerings Enecore primary business is focused on assisting clients in originating and developing emission reduction projects, and maximizing the value of their carbon assets. As part of this, we also work closely with project owners in order to identify emission reduction opportunities and assists in making them financially feasible through an accurate estimate of the carbon finance available for the projects. We work in close consultation with our clients to cover all aspects of CDM development and find solutions to potential implementation problems. Enecore also coordinates the project cycle from origination to issuance. This process involves managing the relationship between the project owner, buyer, Designated National Authority (DNA), Designated Operational Entity (DOE) and the Executive Board (EB). We assist project owners in finding the right buyer for their projects and in structuring favorable Emission Reduction Purchase Agreements (ERPAs) at competitive prices with the most financially reliable Enecore Carbon Limited counterparties in the market, i.e. credit rating A/A+. In addition, Enecore offers advisory and consulting services in supporting organizations with regards to the development and execution of their carbon and energy management strategies across business units, operating companies and supply chains. We also aim to offer services to support clients in identifying, financing and implementing energy efficiency measure. 4 Staff Enecore’s team comprises carbon market and policy experts, environmental economists, risk managers, and lawyers, working alongside our in-house technical team of CDM experts, project managers and developers. Enecore’s experts are professionals with initiative and ambition. They create excellent working relationships with clients, as well as key bodies involved in the CDM process. Enecore’s multicultural staff is comprised of over 30 employees, who are located in Beijing, Hanoi and Enecore’s headquarters in Hong Kong. Clients Enecore helps some of the world’s largest organizations in managing compliance to mandatory and voluntary efficiency and emission reduction targets; Enecore’s clients include major energy companies, such as China Datang, China Guodian, CNOOC, CEZ, Gas Natural, RWE Power, Gazprom and Shell. Enecore has also provides its services to a number of financial institutions active in the carbon market, including Deutsche Bank, BNP Paribas, JPMorgan and Citi. Enecore Carbon Limited 5 Human Rights and Labour Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure we are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment: The protection of human rights at Enecore is supported and guided by internationally accepted principles, including those in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In preventing discrimination, employment related decisions such as recruitment, promotion, transfer, training, dismissal and redundancy as well as terms and conditions of employment are based on consistent selection criteria. Individuals are assessed according to their ability to carry out a given job. Employees who make employment related decisions do not assume that persons of a particular age, sex, marital status, family status, race, colour, descent, national or ethnic origin, nationality or religion, or who are not pregnant or without a disability are only able to do certain kinds of work, and are prohibited from considering these factors in their employment-related decision making. Enecore upholds the freedom of association and although Enecore’s employees are generally professionals and thus not members of labour unions, all employees are entitled to form and join trade unions, and Enecore recognizes their right to collective bargaining. Enecore does not support forced, compulsory or child labour and our policies and processes aim to eliminate discrimination and harassment in employment on the grounds of age, sex, marital status, pregnancy, family status, disability, race, colour, descent, national or ethnic origins, nationality or religion. Systems: Enecore protects human rights in employment, as supported by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as reflected in our Human Resource Philosophy and related policies including our Equal Opportunities Policy and Employee Code of Conduct. Employees’ freedom of speech and association are respected, balanced by reporting and ‘whistleblowing’ policies to protect against discrimination and harassment and workplace safety is given top priority to protect human health and security through our Occupational Health and Safety Policy. Our Equal Opportunities Policy aims to eliminate discrimination, harassment and vilification in employment on the grounds of age, sex, marital status, pregnancy, family status, disability, race, colour, descent, national or ethnic origins, nationality or religion. Enecore Carbon Limited Enecore’s team of professionals provide legal identification (passports or identity cards) when employed and the youngest member of our time is in their early twenties. Our adult workforce is paid wages well above minimum statutory levels, and therefore children of Enecore employees would not need to be sent to work. 6 Activities: This year, Enecore developed numerous frameworks to enhance the protection of human rights and fair labour practices, which are applied across the Enecore Group. These include the following:  Development of human resource philosophy and standardized hiring policies and human resource procedures, encompassing the entire life cycle staff, from recruitment to retirement;  Development of standardised employment contract templates, job descriptions across business units and levels of authority;  Development of an Occupational Health and Safety Policy;  Development of an Employee Code of Conduct;  Development of an Equal Opportunities Policy; and  Development of Whistleblowing Policy and reporting procedures to deal with discrimination and harassment. Enecore aims to provide employment that offers fair and equitable remuneration in relation to responsibility and performance. The salary policy at Enecore is designed to attract, motivate and retain a high-caliber workforce. The policy also ensures that pay and benefits offered are fair, equitable and competitive. On top of this, we have remuneration practices, including incentives and employee share plans for senior staff. Retirement benefits for all employees working in the Hong Kong, Beijing and Hanoi in accordance with the relevant local mandatory provisions (the only exception being expatriates assigned to Beijing, who are not covered by a mandatory scheme, however this is factored into the basic compensation, so that individuals may contribute to their own scheme of choice).. Employees are able to review their employment contracts at any time, and copies of signed contracts are provided to employees upon commencement of employment. Enecore is committed to achieving a high standard of occupational safety and health, adhering to the principle that the wellbeing of employees should be given the first and foremost consideration at work. Enecore’s Occupational Health and Safety Policy and Code of Conduct ensure that both our employees and contractors are protected by and meet acceptable safety standards and requirements. Senior employees are also provided with a stipend to pay for a portion of their medical insurance premiums. Regional Office Managers are responsible for keeping information on all relevant labour and employment regulations in the given geography and being aware of updates for any relevant human resource documentation to ensure Enecore remains compliant, as well as providing regular updates to the Group HR Coordinator on changes to regulations. Office Managers also set up and manage appropriate systems to determine, submit and manage all statutory employee benefits (health and social insurance, pension schemes) for all employees in the local offices and communicate with the relevant regulatory bodies. Performance: Enecore has based its performance for this year on the GRI’s Core Human Rights and Labour Enecore Carbon Limited Performance indicators, and has set future goals in relation to each as stated in Table 3 below. This year Enecore made important strides in strengthening its human rights and labour policies; developing a consistent human resource system across the Enecore Group, covering the entire life cycle of employment from recruitment to retirement (and differentiated where necessary to account for jurisdictional variations of law and regulation). A human resource manual was also created, setting out Enecore’s Human Resource Philosophy, Equal Opportunities Policy and Whistleblowing Policy as well as 7 an employee Code of Conduct and Occupational Health and Safety Policy. All of these policies and procedures are audited and reviewed on an annual basis and major issues are discussed at monthly board meetings, or sooner if the urgency was to arise. The Whistleblowing Policy is designed to encourage employees to raise serious concerns internally, without fear of reprisal or victimization. Such matters include breaches of legal or regulatory requirements, criminal offences, breach of civil law and miscarriage of justice, improper conduct or unethical behavior likely to prejudice the standing of Enecore and deliberate concealment of any of the above. The Whistleblowing Policy also sets strict guidelines with regards to reporting any evidence of activities that are not in alignment with the UN Global Compact principles. In the context of discrimination, in proportion to the nature of the complaint, disciplinary action will be taken against employees who: o have discriminated, harassed or victimized others; o have instructed, induced, threatened or knowingly helped others to discriminate, harass or victimize others; and o have made allegations which are false or not made in good faith. Internally, all of Enecore’s staff members are employed solely based on their skills, performance and ethical conduct; these indicators are also used when considering salaries and promotions. At present, local staff comprises 33% and 50% of our Senior Management team in Beijing and Hanoi, respectively and we are proud to be a provider of quality employment to the local labour force. In terms of core business activities within the market, all hydropower projects exceeding 20 MW undergo human rights screening for compliance with international criteria and guidelines, including those contained in the World Commission on Dams November 2000 Report “Dams and Development – A New Framework for Decision-Making.” The screening is undertaken in compliance with the application of ARTICLE 11 b (6) of the EU’s Emissions Trading Directive. Other project types are not subject directly to human rights screening, however local and global stakeholder consultation is an integral step in the process towards registration as a CDM project. Table 2. Human Rights Aspects and Performance Indicators Aspect and Performance Enecore’s 2011 Performance Enecore’s Future Goals Indicator Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices % and total number of All Enecore contract templates have an explicit With the coming into significant investment clause requiring our counterparties to guarantee force of the “UK Antiagreements and that they are fully aware of and understand the Bribery Act”, Enecore contracts that include provisions of the Global Compact, and will abide will need to adjust its clauses incorporating and adhere to the Global Compact and any contract templates to human rights concerns, related laws and regulations in the relevant ensure we maintain Enecore Carbon Limited or that have undergone jurisdiction as well as ensuring that all of its global compact human rights screenings directors, managers, employees, affiliates, provisions whilst also agents and professional advisers are fully aware, complying to our Clients abide and adhere to the Global Compact. requirements in terms of UK Anti-Bribery Act % of significant suppliers, Hydropower projects exceeding 20 MW undergo There are no future plans contractors, and other human rights screening for compliance with in relation to this business partners that international criteria and guidelines, including indicator. 8 have undergone human those contained in the World Commission on rights screening, and Dams November 2000 Report. For other types of actions taken projects, local and global stakeholder consultation is an integral step in the process towards registration as a CDM project. Total hours of employee No training has been provided to employees This year, Enecore is training on policies and concerning human rights. developing a Human procedures concerning Resource manual, which aspects of human rights sets out an Employee that are relevant to Code of Conduct and an operations, including Equal Opportunities the % of employees Policy. Employees will trained receive training with regards to this manual over the next 12 months. Aspect: Non-discrimination Total number of No incidents of discrimination have occurred. Enecore aims to incidents of continue to have zero discrimination and incidents of corrective actions taken discrimination. Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations and None identified. Enecore aims to significant suppliers implement a due identified in which the diligence policy, which right to exercise freedom screens projects to of association and ensure there is no collective bargaining may significant risk of be violated or at violations of the right to significant risk, and exercise the freedom of actions taken to support association or collective these rights bargaining, however this is not expected to take place in the next 12 months as we believe that given the nature of our business the implementation of other measures to be a priority. Aspect: Child Labor Enecore Carbon Limited Operations and None identified. Enecore aims to significant suppliers implement a due identified as having diligence policy, which significant risk for screens projects to incidents of child labor, ensure there is no and measures taken to significant risk of child contribute to the labour, however this is 9 effective abolition of not expected to take child labor place in the next 12 months as we believe that given the nature of our business the implementation of other measures to be a priority.. Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor Operations and None identified. Enecore aims to significant suppliers implement a due identified as having diligence policy, which significant risk for screens projects to incidents of forced or ensure there is no compulsory labor, and significant risk of forced measures to contribute or compulsory labour, to the elimination of all however this is not forms of forced or expected to take place in compulsory labor the next 12 months as we believe that given the nature of our business the implementation of other measures to be a priority. Aspect: Assessment % and total number of Internally, Enecore follows an antiThis year, Enecore is operations that have discrimination policy as set out in its Code of developing a Human been subject to human Conduct and Equal Opportunities Policy. Resource manual, which rights reviews and/or sets out an Employee impact assessments Code of Conduct and an Equal Opportunities Policy. Employees will receive training with regards to this manual over the next 12 months. Aspect: Remediation Number of grievances No human rights grievances have been filed. Enecore aims to related to human rights continue to have zero filed, addressed, and incidents of human resolved through formal rights grievances. Enecore Carbon Limited grievance mechanisms Aspect: Market Presence Range of ratios of As Enecore is a small company and thus in our As entry level wages at standard entry level offices there are often only one or no employees Enecore are well above wage by gender at entry level. We indicate below the gender of minimum wage levels, compared to local our ratios: there are no future plans minimum wage at Hong Kong: 4 (female only) in relation to this 10 significant locations of Vietnam: 12.5 (female only) indicator. operation Beijing: 6.25 (male only) Aspect: Labor/Management Relations % of employees covered None. There are no future plans by collective bargaining in relation to this agreements indicator. Minimum notice Although there is no set minimum notice period, There are no future plans period(s) regarding management acts with transparency and as the in relation to this significant operational company is small, directors communicate with indicator. changes, including employees so that they are made aware of whether it is specified in operational changes shortly after decisions being collective agreements made. Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Rates of injury, Office As there have been zero occupational diseases, Total Total injuries, diseases or Days lost days, and Males Females No. of No. of work-related fatalities of Sick absenteeism, and total Males Females (the table is purely based Leave number of work-related on numbers of sick days, fatalities, by region and Hong none being due to by gender occupational health and Kong 2.5 14.75 4 5 safety issues), there are Beijing 5 4 8 8 no future plans in relation to this indicator. Hanoi 3 2 4 2 Education, training, As this is a fairly low risk to Enecore employees There are no future plans counseling, prevention, (they are located in major cities within Asia), we in relation to this and risk-control follow Government advice in relation to indicator. programs in place to epidemics such as SARS and would implement assist workforce training programs for such issues as the need members, their families, arises. or community members regarding serious diseases Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of Board of Directors: There are no future plans governance bodies and Gender: 1 male, 1 female in relation to this breakdown of employees Age Group: 30-35=1; 35-40=1 indicator. per employee category according to gender, age Senior Management Team: Enecore Carbon Limited group, minority group Gender: 3 male, 3 female membership, and other Age Group: 25-30=2; 30-35=1; 35-40=2; 40-45=1 indicators of diversity Minority Group: 1 Asian; 5 Caucasian Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Ratio of basic salary and As Enecore is a small company with limited There are no future plans remuneration of women employees, there are few comparisons that can in relation to this to men by employee be made across gender lines and employment indicator. 11 category, by significant levels across offices. We provide one locations of operation comparison below, from our headquarters: Hong Kong Principal (ratio women to men): 1.2 Aspect: Public Policy Public policy positions Enecore is a member of the Business There are no future plans and participation in Environment Council (http://www.bec.org.hk) in relation to this public policy the Climate Change Business Forum indicator. development and (http://www.climatechangebusinessforum.com), lobbying the British Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong (http://www.britcham.com/), the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China (http://www.euccc.com.cn/), the Project Developer Forum (http://ww.pd-forum.net/) and the China Wind Energy Association (http://www.cwea.org.cn/). These business forums engage in discourse on environment and climate change related public policy and interact with and lobby authorities. Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which As Enecore is a small, advisory services based There are no future plans health and safety company, this indicator is not a priority and thus in relation to this impacts of products and the company does not conduct these types of indicator. services are assessed for assessments. improvement, and % of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures Enecore Carbon Limited 12 Environmental Principles Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibilities. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment: Enecore is committed to minimizing our environmental impact, taking a precautionary approach and improving our environmental performance wherever possible. We also encourage our clients, suppliers and other stakeholders to follow the same principles. Systems: Enecore’s Environmental Policy states we act in a precautionary manner and encourage and support broader support to minimizing environmental impacts. One of our core business activities is as an advisor for CDM project development and as such, we not only encourage, but actively engage in the development of activities that aim to reduce emissions. Our regional offices also undertake local initiatives including recycling, minimizing use of resources and energy saving activities. Activities: This year, Enecore developed an Environmental Policy, which sets out a number of aims and actions related to the GRI environmental aspects that shall be implemented over the next 12 months. At the office level, the Hong Kong and Beijing offices recycle all plastics, metals and paper waste that are able to be recycled in their jurisdictions and print double-sided. Beijing also changes its pen cores rather than throwing out the pen casing when worn out, cutting down on plastic waste. Headquarters implements energy saving measures such as turning off computer screens whenever employees are not using them and the Beijing office also joins them by turning off all computers, printers, air conditioning and lights at the end of each work day. The Beijing office also relocated this year and installed LED lights as part of the fit-out of the new office. Enecore is a member of the Business Environment Council (http://www.bec.org.hk) the Climate Change Business Forum (http://www.climatechangebusinessforum.com), the British Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong (http://www.britcham.com/), the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China (http://www.euccc.com.cn/) and the China Wind Energy Association (http://www.cwea.org.cn/). These business forums engage in discourse on environment and climate change related public policy and interact with and lobby authorities. Performance: Enecore has based its performance for this year on the GRI’s Core Environmental Performance Enecore Carbon Limited indicators, and has set future goals in relation to each as stated in Table 3 below. In addition to the development of an Environmental Policy, Enecore implemented a number of environmental initiatives within our various offices this year in relation to our internal operations; these include energy reduction strategies at our headquarters, which include turning off all equipment and lighting when not in use and both Beijing and Hong Kong offices recycle, where possible. Employees are encouraged to use public transport when commuting, and travelling to meetings. Enecore also uses 13 telephone and video conferencing for as many meetings as possible, while ensuring that necessary flights are direct so as to reduce unavoidable emissions. Enecore does not invest directly in CDM projects; it receives fees in exchange for services to achieve registration and issuance of carbon reduction credits under the CDM. In this way, our advisory service offerings include assisting clients in relation to large scale CDM projects. We recognize that despite their lower-carbon benefits, these projects may still have a large impact on the environment. However, these projects must meet strict requirements in order to become eligible under the CDM mechanism. These requirements, as set out in the CDM Rulebook at 3/CMP.1, Annex, paragraph 37 include that the project developer must confirmation they have undertaken the following: stakeholder participation and consultation, consideration of environmental impacts, and additionality of emission reductions as well as baseline and monitoring methodologies. Enecore believes these requirements for validation ensure there is a robust process for the protection of the environment and the local communities that are impacted by these projects. Where these requirements overlap with the GRI performance indicators used in this COP, the former are referenced as “CDM Rules”. Table 3. Environmental Aspects and Performance Indicators Aspect and Performance Enecore’s 2011 Performance Enecore’s Future Goals Indicator Aspect: Materials Materials used by weight or As Enecore is a small, serviceEnecore will implement a policy volume based company, its primary to measure office paper use for material used is paper for office all offices and minimize the use needs. Enecore does not of paper in the office, including currently measure materials setting double-sided printing as used. a default in all offices and seeking to purchase recycled and recyclable paper products, where possible. % of materials used that are Enecore does not measure the % The Beijing office is currently recycled of materials used that are working with a recycling recycled. Enecore’s HQ has a collection company called Daily recycling policy within its Office Cleaning and negotiating an Management Procedures agreement whereby Enecore Manual and recycles all plastics, trades its renewable resources metals and paper waste that is for recycled stationary. Enecore able to be recycled in Hong will review what materials are Kong. able to be recycled in Hanoi and Beijing changes its pen cores implement a recycling policy for rather than throwing out the pen those offices next year. Enecore Carbon Limited casing when worn out. Both offices print double sided. Direct energy consumption by Enecore does not measure its The efficiency measures shall be primary energy source direct energy consumption but turned into an energy saving its headquarters implements policy and rolled out across all energy saving measures such as offices in the coming year. turning off computer screens whenever employees are not 14 using them and the Beijing office also joins them by turning off all computers, printers, air conditioning and lights at the end of each work day. As the Hong Kong office is leased from a serviced office provider, they do not measure energy use on a per office basis. We are working with them to see if we can get an estimate of our direct energy use. The Beijing office also relocated this year and installed LED lights in the new fit out. Indirect energy consumption by As Enecore is a small, serviceNo goals are currently set in primary energy source based company consumption is relation to this indicator for the minimal and this indicator is not future. considered a current priority, therefore Enecore does not measure indirect energy consumption. Aspect: Water Total water withdrawal by The only water consumed by No goals are currently set in source Enecore is for the personal relation to this indicator for the consumption and hand washing future. of its employees. Most water consumed comes from bottled sources and thus wastewater is minimized. Enecore’s environmental policy also encourages the conservation of water. Aspect: Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, All Enecore offices are within the Enecore will not expand into leased, managed in, or adjacent CBD of Hong Kong, Beijing and land near protected areas or to, protected areas and areas of Hanoi and therefore the areas of high biodiversity value high biodiversity value outside company has no land near outside of protected areas. protected areas. protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value outside Enecore Carbon Limited protected areas. As we are currently a small, office-based operation we would only lease portions of buildings for the foreseeable future and therefore not engage in building 15 new facilities or evening owning entire buildings. Description of significant impacts All CDM projects that we provide No goals are currently set in of activities, products, and services for are required to relation to this indicator for the services on biodiversity in consider environmental impacts future. protected areas and areas of as part of the validation process high biodiversity value outside under CDM Rules before they protected areas. can become eligible. Some previous projects that are within protected areas have designed their projects to take into account biodiversity. For example, wind project turbines have been relocated so as not to be in migratory pathways of birds. Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Total direct and indirect GHG As Enecore is a small, serviceEnecore will explore the emissions by weight based company and does not potential for measuring and currently measure its direct or reporting our carbon footprint indirect GHG emissions but over the next year, reducing our recognizes that GHG emissions impact where possible. are our one of our largest environmental impacts. Other relevant indirect GHG As Enecore is a small, serviceAs above, Enecore will explore emissions by weight based company it has minimal the potential for measuring and GHG emissions and does not reporting our carbon footprint currently measure these over the next year, reducing our emissions but recognizes that impact where possible. GHG emissions are our one of our largest environmental impacts. Emissions of ozone-depleting As Enecore is a service-based No goals are currently set in substances by weight company, its emission of ozonerelation to this indicator for the depleting substances is minimal future. and this area is not seen as a priority. NOx, SOx, and other significant As Enecore is a service-based No goals are currently set in air emissions by type and weight company, its emission of NOx, relation to this indicator for the Sox or other significant air future. Enecore Carbon Limited emissions is minimal and this area is not seen as a priority. Total water discharge by quality As Enecore is a service-based No goals are currently set in and destination company, its water discharge is relation to this indicator for the minimal and this area is not seen future. as a priority. Total weight of waste by type As Enecore is a service-based Enecore aims to implement a and disposal method company, its waste is minimal, waste measurement system and 16 comprised entirely of office to implement recycling in all waste. offices by next year. Enecore’s headquarters in Hong The Beijing office is currently Kong recycles all paper, metallic working with a recycling and plastic waste. collection company called Daily The Beijing office changes its pen Cleaning and negotiating an cores rather than throwing out agreement whereby Enecore the pen casing when worn out. trades its renewable resources for recycled stationary. Total number and volume of Enecore has not been involved in No goals are currently set in significant spills any spills. relation to this indicator for the future. Aspect: Products and Services Initiatives to mitigate The very nature of Enecore’s As Enecore continues to grow, it environmental impacts of project offerings are to mitigate will provide greater services products and services, and the impacts of climate change offerings that aim to reduce extent of impact mitigation through acting as a consultant emissions and improve energy for CDM projects and to assist in efficiency. the protection of the environment through the provision of related advisory services. In relation to the impacts of CDM projects, Enecore relies on the requirements for project eligibility set out in the CDM Rules. % of products sold and their Enecore offers services and thus No goals are currently set in packaging materials that are does not sell any products that relation to this indicator for the reclaimed by category are packaged. future. Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant Enecore has never been fined or Enecore will continue to stay fines and total number of nonsanctioned for non-compliance abreast of environmental laws monetary sanctions for nonwith environmental laws or and regulations. We aim to compliance with environmental regulations. Enecore’s develop systems and procedures laws and regulations Procedural Manual and to accurately measure and commercial contracts state that manager our most significant it will remain in compliance with environmental impacts over the all relevant environmental laws next 12 months, setting realistic and regulations. targets for environmental Enecore Carbon Limited performance and ensuring that these are communicated and monitored throughout the business. Environmental performance against our company policy will be reported on an annual basis to the Board 17 of Directors. Aspect: Transport Significant environmental Enecore is a small, service-based Enecore will aim to record all impacts of transporting products organization, whose largest business related travel emissions and other goods and materials transportation impact is airplane over the next year. used for the organization’s business travel of employees. operations, and transporting The majority of employees use members of the workforce. public transportation to commute to Enecore offices and this practice is encouraged by Enecore. Aspect: Overall Total environmental protection The Beijing office spent RMB Enecore aims to undertake an expenditures and investments by 4,820 more than the cost of energy audit and develop an type. regular lighting for the energy management system installation of LED lighting in (measuring expenditures and their new office fit out. Though investments) within the next 3 not explicitly measured, by years. conserving energy through efficiency measures in its HQ, Enecore believes it has saved money through its environmental protection activities. . Enecore Carbon Limited 18 Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment: Enecore and its Board of Management have zero tolerance for corruption, including bribery, and embezzlement as well as any other trading influence, abuse of functions, illicit enrichment, obstruction of justice, laundering or concealment of ill-gotten gains and are committed to ensure all staff and associates understand that Enecore does not tolerate corruption in any form. Systems: Enecore’s Anti-Bribery policy states that the company has zero tolerance for bribery of any form. The Company has recently initiated an annual Anti-Bribery Risk Management Assessment and implements treatments and control mechanisms across all business lines. The Company’s Code of Conduct, included in the Procedures Manual which will be rolled out this year, also states employees must act with professionalism, high ethical standards, integrity and honesty, and this is reiterated in all contract agreements between Enecore and outside parties. Enecore also has a Whistleblowing Policy and related procedures to ensure the highest standards of openness, probity and accountability and ensure employees understand they are expected to conduct themselves with integrity, impartiality and honesty so any inappropriate behaviour or organizational malpractice that compromise the interest of the shareholders, investors, customers and the wider public does not occur. Enecore explicitly prohibits insider trading and expects all employees and counterparties to disclose actual or potential conflicts. Activities: In the past year, Enecore developed its policies on Code of Conduct, Anti-Bribery and Whistleblower systems, included within the Procedures Manual. The Company undertook its first annual Anti-Bribery Risk Management Assessment and developed treatments and control mechanism that shall be implemented via procedures across all business lines in the coming year. We have also ensured that all contract templates have an explicit clause requiring our counterparties to guarantee that they are fully aware of and understand the provisions of the Global Compact, and will abide and adhere to the Global Compact and any related laws and regulations in the relevant jurisdiction as well as ensuring that all of its directors, managers, employees, affiliates, agents and professional advisers are fully aware, abide and adhere to the Global Compact. Performance Enecore has based its performance for this year on the GRI’s Core Anti-Corruption Performance indicators, and has set future goals in relation to each as stated in Table 4 below. Enecore believes this year’s development of a robust set of anti-corruption related policies and procedures, including Anti-Bribery, Code of Conduct and Whistleblowing, will enhance the protections from improper practices already enforced through its Insider Trading and Conflict of Interest policies. Enecore Carbon Limited The Anti-Bribery Policy also notes the future development of a Compliance Committee that will review, inter alia, anti-bribery systems and make recommendations to the Board of Directors. Commitment of top management is also integrated into the system as it is stated the Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for the anti-bribery system, and shall take necessary actions in relation to the system and Compliance Committee recommendations. The Company has also introduced a Corporate Gift Policy which sets restrictions on the types of gifts that can be offered or received by employees in the course of their business activities. 19 Table 4. Anti-Corruption Aspects and Performance Indicators Aspect and Performance Enecore’s 2011 Performance Enecore’s Future Goals Indicator Aspect: Corruption % and total number of business Enecore developed an AntiEnecore will conduct annual units analyzed for risks related to Bribery Policy, Anti-Bribery Risk reviews of its policy, procedures corruption Management Assessment and and controls related to bribery. related procedures to implement These reviews will be controls in August 2011. The undertaken by the Compliance Anti-Bribery Risk Management Committee and Assessment analyzed all business recommendations will be made units for risks related to bribery, to the Board of Directors in which is broadly defined. relation to any amendments. Ultimate responsibility will like with the Board of Directors who will review the Anti-Bribery system on an annual basis and take any necessary actions. Over time it intends to implement further controls in relation to other forms of corruption. % of employees trained in Enecore developed an AntiEnecore plans on rolling out its organization’s anti-corruption Bribery Policy, Anti-Bribery Risk training program on corruption policies and procedures. Management Assessment and in the next 12 months, in related procedures to implement addition to the roll-out of the controls in August 2011. The Procedures Manual which procedures require annual contains all relevant policies. training in bribery and other corruption. Actions taken in response to No incidents of corruption have Enecore shall take actions if incidents of corruption. been identified at this time. there are incidents of corruption in future. Enecore Carbon Limited 20 Enecore Contacts For any questions related to this Communication on Progress, please contact the following Enecore representative: Angela Pringle Head of Sustainability Solutions Unit 8, Level 3, Three Pacific Place 1 Queen’s Road East, Hong Kong Tel: +852 2855 6984 Email: angela.pringle@enecore.com Enecore Carbon Limited 21
