+ CSR Report Corporate Social Responsibility: “If they [companies] believe they are in business to serve people, to help solve problems, to use and Meeting Professionals employ the ingenuity of their workers to improve the lives of people around them by learning from the International nature that gives us life, we have a chance.” —Paul Hawken, environmentalist and author Sept. 17, 2010 Sept. 17, 2011 September 2011 | Page 1 Meeting Professionals International A Message from: MPI is the meeting and event industry’s most vibrant global Bruce MacMillan, CA community, helping members thrive by providing human connections to knowledge and ideas, relationships and President and CEO marketplaces. MPI is a nonprofit association headquartered in Meeting Professionals Dallas, Texas, with offices in Luxemburg, Canada and repreInternational sentation in Qatar and Beijing. F ollowing another year of economic uncertainty, it is reassuring that sustainability remains as critical as ever Vision in the modern business environment. The U.N. Global To build a rich global meeting industry community. Compact Accenture CEO Study 2010 shows that 80 percent of CEOs “agree” or “strongly agree” that “the economic downturn has raised the importance of sustainability as Mission a leadership issue for top management.” To make our members successful by building human Many companies see the value of CSR as a tool to influence connections through knowledge/ideas, relationships consumer behavior and drive efficiency and productivity gains, and marketplaces. but the end result is ultimately reduced environmental impact and resource use and a holistic approach to the communities in which they operate. The event industry needs leaders, and our members CSR Goals and clients who have invested in sustainability strategies—no matA cornerstone of MPI’s strategy is thought leadership, and ter how small—realize that their efforts are valuable. After all, corporate social responsibility plays a key role. CSR is the employees are sustainability ambassadors with success stories that umbrella concept whereby we consider the long-term interests should be captured and shared. of our actions and take responsibility for the impact of these The event industry has twice the responsibility—in our own actions on employees, customers/members, the community businesses first, looking at systems, processes and impacts, and by and the environment. helping our clients tell their amazing stories through live events. Sustainability is more than a sideline philosophy—it’s a systemA sustainable meeting or event incorporates economic, atic, enterprise-wide practice, and businesses need to increase the environmental and societal considerations. It simultaneously value of their experiences with a well-structured, compelling narsupports the host organization’s prosperity, minimizes its environmental footprint and has a positive and lasting human rative for all stakeholders. impact on its stakeholders and host community. Increasingly, organizations are harnessing the power of events to create change, drive innovation and make the world a better MPI actively demonstrates this principle through its major live place. The growth of TED, a non-profit brand of global conferevents in Europe and North America, sharing best practices ences designed to “use the power of ideas to change attitudes, and innovation in sustainable meetings. This report provides lives and ultimately, the world” is just one example of this success. an in-depth illustration of how we fulfill our mission while Google Ideas launched its own philanthropy event in 2010, the supporting the 10 principles of the U.N. Global Compact and Summit Against Violent Extremism. demonstrates how, through thought and practice, we ensure These types of events are rewriting what it means to be a corthat our members are equipped with the knowledge and tools porate citizen in the 21st century. And MPI is committed to proto be successful with their organizations’ sustainable, social viding tools to help its members become more sustainable, learn and ethical imperatives. from best practices and continue on this great journey. Meetings and events are critical to meeting the world’s challenges, making our industry critical as a leader and catalyst for greater change, and MPI members are leading the way. Sustainability is more than a sideline philosophy—it’s a systematic, enterprise-wide practice, and businesses need to increase the value of their experiences with a well-structured, compelling narrative for all stakeholders. September 2011 | Page 2 THE 10 Principles Human Rights Businesses should: • Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labor Standards Businesses should: • Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Core Values • Principle 4: Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor It is imperative at MPI that our strategy and philosophy translates into our everyday behavior and stakeholder interactions. Our core • Principle 5: Abolish child labor values are instilled in our staff, and examples of these core prin• Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in respect of ciples are praised at our internal company meetings. employment and occupation • Always put people first. We value people as our only asset— strong individuals, invincible teams. We are responsible for ourEnvironment Businesses should: selves, and to each other. We enrich our communities and sustain our environments. Our partnerships with member volunteers are • Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environthe keys to our success. mental challenges • Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater envi• Do everything with positive energy and a commitment to ronmental responsibility quality. We have unrelenting passion for quality, personal accountability for our choices and performance results and fanatical sup• Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of port for our members, our industry and our teammates’ successes. environmentally friendly technologies • Foster trust and integrity. We cultivate innovation balanced by Anti-Corruption discipline and respect in an environment where it is safe to express Businesses should: opinions and take risks, where diversity of thought is essential and • Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, where creative failure is viewed as a way to learn and grow. We are including extortion and bribery honest and ethical and earn each other’s respect daily. • Take only our work seriously, not ourselves. We have a crosscultural work environment that encourages laughter, imagination, fellowship, citizenship, creativity and celebration. We commit to share what we do and collaborate without bias or boundaries. • Commit to principled profit. We re-invest in our mission to serve the needs of our members and our industry. We practice sound business with diligence to remain economically viable. How we accomplish our goals is as important as what we accomplish. U.N. Principles The U.N. Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses or organizations that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. The Global Compact is the largest corporate citizenship and sustainability initiative in the world, with more than 7,700 corporate MPI practices sustainability participants and stakeholders from more than 130 countries. MPI encourages its members to join the initiative. As more at the core of its live events. and more organizations take part, businesses—as a primary agent See page 6. driving globalization—help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. September 2011 | Page 3 ports for the following audiences to maxicommunity at its headquarters in Dallas, MPI SUCCESS STORIES mize the power of this research: Texas. The MPI internal sustainability team RESEARCH LAUNCH collaborated with the Volunteer Center of • The meeting and hospitality sectors and In July 2011, MPI launched a three-year North Texas to determine two appropriate their suppliers (industry engagement study into the value of corporate social reorganizations in terms of volunteer numarticles, papers and case studies); sponsibility to the meeting and event indusbers, time and relevance. • Business buyers (consumer demand try, conducted by the U.K. Centre of Event Supporting MPI’s commitment to articles, papers and case studies); and Management, the International Centre for Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of • Government and non-governmental CSR Responsible Tourism and the Centre for Human Rights, 40 employees volunteered and sustainability agencies (executive Hospitality & Retailing at at Head Start of Greater Dallas Inc., Leeds Metropolitan Uniwhich provides children with the versity. This study, the most foundation of skills and knowledge comprehensive of its kind, they need to be successful in school will bring new insights into and life and fosters self-reliant famihow the meeting and event lies and communities. The team industry can build a sustainpainted closets, created a playground able future. bicycle trail and decorated the outThe research will anadoor recreational space with artlyze global trends by inwork, murals and “put-in cups.” terviewing top executives A second team volunteered from major venues, orat Operation Kindness, the oldest ganizations and suppliers and largest no-kill animal shelter in as well as event consumNorth Texas. The team beautified ers worldwide, including the yards around the shelter with a selection from leading native plants, weeded and made organizations such as the repairs to the Memorial Garden. U.N. Environmental ProVolunteers also socialized with the gramme, the U.N. World animals and took them on walks. Tourism Organization, Alongside the combined 320 the International Hotel & volunteer hours, the U.S. federal Restaurant Association, government matches time for dolthe World Wildlife Fund, lars with an in-kind program at the Sustainable Tourism Head Start, and MPI efforts were Council, Conservation doubled with a financial contribuInternational, the Intertion. At Operation Kindness, three national Finance Corpostaff members opted to provide ration, the InterAmerican loving forever homes to three previDevelopment Bank, the Inously homeless animals. ternational Trade Centre, the International Organization for Standardization, CLEAN THE WORLD the British Standards InstiMPI entered its second year of parttute, the certification bodnership with Clean the World, an Ories of BS 8901, relevant lando, Florida-based social enterprise sustainable tourism and that collects, recycles and distributes event programs, CERES, hotel soaps to help stop the spread the International Labour of preventable diseases. In just two Organisation and industry years, Clean the World has distriband events associations. uted more than 8 million soap bars The findings will be colto children and families in nearly 45 lated and used to formulate countries, collected from more than an executive summary, case 1,000 hotel partners throughout studies, white papers and artiNorth America. cles. The final report will pull summary, papers, articles and case A stirring presentation by Shawn Seitogether all aspects of the research. The studies). pler, executive director of Clean the World, results will determine the role CSR plays at the 2010 MPI World Education Congress in consumer buying behavior, in relation in Vancouver, introduced the nonprofit to to the decision-making unit and the role of personal beliefs. It will identify key influDAY Of KINSHIP the Canadian marketplace. Results were immediate. WEC 2010 delegates donated ences on consumers in the meeting sector MPI practices sustainable thinking at the more than 400 pounds of soap, and Clean and underscore factors that will impact core of its live events and in the resources the World collected an additional 2,000 and potentially increase the level of imporand tools it provides to its membership, but pounds in the first two months of operation tance to these groups. it also ensures that its staff has structured in Canada, signing up 65 new hotels. MPI will create three presentation reopportunities to contribute to the local Clean the World has now opened two September 2011 | Page 4 • Simplified user levels (basic and advanced) Award-winning • Measurement and reporting of the Education water, waste, energy, paper, food and MPI champions CSR as a critical compocommunity impacts of events nent of meetings and events, and educa• Conversion and calculation of carbon tional offerings reflect this commitment, emissions through international from the generation of case studies to standards and datasets education sessions. recycling centers in Canada—in Vancou• Planning questions informed by The 2011 WEC in Orlando featured ver and Toronto. The Vancouver facility industry standards (APEX/ASTM, a CSR track. Delegates interacted with serves Western Canada and was estabBS 8901/ISO 20121 and the Global experts by examining case studies and lished with help from a US$5,000 donaReporting Initiative) studying the application of sustainability tion from the MPI Foundation to Mission • Improved graphical report generation principles to meetings and events. TopPossible, a downtown Vancouver charity and export capabilities ics included everything from sustainable that helps empower the homeless and dis• Integration with other measurement advantaged. systems, such as IHG Green Engage. MPI is now advancing Clean the World’s meeting industry partner proThe tool officially launched this gram, designed to help planners implesummer, with the news that the Danish ment sustainable practices during the RFP meeting industry will include it in its naprocess. The turnkey CSR initiative turns meetings into life-saving events in which host properties and event delegates play a role in the collection and shipping of soap to the Clean the World headquarters, “The Danish Sustainable where the materials are processed and disEvents Initiative will include tributed to communities in need. Fifty-five volunteers at the MPI 2011 a Danish National SustainWEC in Orlando reprocessed and sterilized 680 pounds of amenities at the nearability Week together with by Clean the World headquarters. Proda Meeting Industry CEO Foucts processed by WEC volunteers will be used by up to 725 children. rum, technology showcases, The effort marked just one of seven social initiative projects at the 2011 WEC. the implementation of the MPI Sustainability MeasureSustainable ment System on a national Event Tool level and the production of an Following an in-depth beta testing period with close to 300 users, the MPI Sustainevent sustainability report folable Event Measurement Tool underwent lowing the Global Reporting a series of upgrades and is now free to any suppliers in the industry, with eventInitiative (GRI) framework.” catering to the advanced psychology of specific reporting functions limited to sustainability presented by a doctor in MPI members. The tool is now open to —Jonathan Cohen, the international psychosocial and environmental commuthousands more users who can gauge the business tourism sales manager for nication studies. Many of these sessions sophistication of their sustainability apVisit Denmark are available to MPI members free of proaches. charge through its web platform, extending the life of valuable knowledge. Enhanced features include: CSR focused education sessions at the WEC included: tional sustainability project, the Danish Sustainable Events Initiative, to ensure • “Green Menu Engineering: Working that Danish sustainability leadership in with your Venue to Save Money and action is advanced, showcased and shared. the Environment” Denmark will host the Presidency of the • “Where’s the ROI in Green Meetings?” Council of the European Union in the first • “Why Sustainability Reporting is Here half of 2012, resulting in more than 100 to Stay” meetings of various sizes and attracting • “Coca Cola: Evolving Corporate Client more than 15,000 delegates to CopenhaExpectations” gen and Horsens. • “De-carbonating Your Events” • “The Full Monty: Standards Exposed” • “Next Practices When Getting Bigger Means Going Smaller” • “Choosing Green Hotels & Venues” September 2011 | Page 5 • “The Myth of Apathy: Engaging People with Sustainability” ECOS Project • “How to Engage Attendees and Change MPI continues to support the Events for the World” Communities of Sustainability project adopted by its Canadian chapter network, Meanwhile, MPI’s magazine One+ reinforcing support for the U.N. Millenoffers regular pieces on sustainability and nium Development goals to end poverty CSR, and it produced a themed sustainand hunger and achieve universal educaability issue in late 2010 featuring articles tion. The projects include the following. on standards and guidelines, the business benefits of implementing CSR, sustainable Kids Up Front Foundation events and food and beverage, personal The British Columbia Chapter donated health, behavioral science, local sourcing, left-over trade-show giveaways from the green technology, venues greening their MPI 2010 World Education Congress to a operations and environmentalist Ed Beglocal children’s charity for a total value of ley Jr. The issue won a silver award for CAD$1,400 coupled with a $10,000 doSingle Issue Special Topic from Associanation from its National Meetings Industion Media & Publishing and two profile try Day program. The money will create features also earned top honors. an endowment fund to help students become better future meeting professionals through education. Events Interfaith Food Bank Sustainable leadership is part of MPI’s live The Calgary Chapter partnered with event strategy. It continued this commitAVW-TELAV (which donated trucks and ment to the environment and society with drivers) to collect food for the Calgary Ina slate of innovative CSR projects at the terfaith Food Bank during the 2010 holi2011 World Education Congress in Orday season. The volume of collections is lando, called Big Heart Events. The offalways high that time of year. site and onsite projects, in addition to the education sessions, ensured that delegates gave back to the greater Orlando commuSanta’s Anonymous & nity while learning about best practices in Edmonton Food Bank the industry. The Greater Edmonton Chapter collected MPI offered the following community 50 gifts for Santa’s Anonymous for chilprojects: dren ages 1 to 13. Chapter members also helped sort and package food at the Ed• Oyster bed restoration at the Brevard monton Food Bank, to which the chapter County Zoo. Delegates prepared more donated $15,000 in National Meetings than 20 mats for the Mosquito Lagoon Industry Day proceeds. oyster reef. • Epilepsy Association of Central Osborne House Florida. Delegates re-labeled and The Manitoba Chapter collected needpre-stuffed thousands of envelops with ed items for the Osborne House, an orgaepilepsy literature. nization that empowers women and chil• Heavenly Hoofs Therapeutic Riding dren who are victims of domestic abuse by Center. Delegates repaired fences, providing them with a safe and supportive cleaned stables and widened access for environment through residential and nonvehicles. residential programs and services. Dona• OneSight Eyewear. Delegates donated tions included slightly used clothing, bedprescription eyewear and nonding, towels, toys, toiletries and money. prescription sunglasses. Six companies participated and collected • Canine Companions for Independence. more than 1 ton of clothing, linens, houseDelegates socialized guide dogs over hold goods and 20 televisions. four days. • Keep America Beautiful. Delegates took part in lake cleanup efforts coordinated Daily Bread Food Bank by Keep Orlando Beautiful. The Toronto Chapter donated food and funds to the Daily Bread Food Bank for Following the WEC, MPI began the second year in a row. It also encourwork on the industry’s first event report aged members to participate in the probased on the GRI Event Sector Supplegram individually by: ment draft for the London Olympics. This will be available to MPI members along • Donating non-perishable food with comprehensive education programitems at MPI Monthly meetings ming and templates. • Purchasing a $5, $10 or $20 prepackaged food bundle September 2011 | Page 6 • Organizing a company food drive • Participating in the ECOS food sort Events for Communities of Sustainability and delivery day Key Results AVW-TELAV picked up the donations and assisted with sorting. Value of Value of Community Will Project Chapter Amount Volunteers Hours Goods Impacted Continue? Dinners Unlimited Atlantic N/A 11 $660 $16,386 300 People Yes Canada The MPI Ottawa Chapter and AVWTELAV second annual bake-off supportBritish N/A 15 $600 $10,000 75 People Yes ed Dinners Unlimited, which provides Columbia unlimited plated dinners in a fun, festive Calgary 20,900 lbs. 18 $2,160 $41,800 500 People Yes atmosphere, up to four times a year. In 2010, MPI members baked and cooked Edmonton N/A 7 $410 $25,000 350 People Yes food for a potluck dinner, and 550 food Manitoba 2,000 lbs. 3 $800 $4,000 300 People Yes plates were served to the less fortunate at the event. This year, the chapter helped Montréal/ N/A 16 $960 $1,000 100 People Yes fulfil the organization’s ultimate wish to Québec serve turkey (which it doesn’t have the Ottawa N/A 80 $4,800 $2,000 550 People Yes facilities to do). The New Delta Ottawa Toronto 1,808 lbs. 14 $840 $4,146 100 People Yes City Centre Hotel cooked the turkeys, AVW-TELAV provided transport and TOTALS 37,901 lbs. 164 $11,230 $104,332 2,275 People ARAMARK Canada and Carleton University Dining Services supplied potatoes, stuffing and gravy. Compared to 2010 Sun Youth • 3,326 more pounds of food The Montréal & Québec Chapter and • $25,297 more in goods AVW-TELAV participated with the local • 293 more people impacted Sun Youth organization in La Grande Guignolée. MPI board member Heather Miliken and AVW-TELAV picked up food and money donations for Sun Youth, Moisson Montréal and La Société St-Vincent de Paul. The chapter, AVW-TELAV and Sun Youth also sorted non-perishable food and toys for Christmas baskets. Feed Nova Scotia The Atlantic Canada Chapter partnered with Feed Nova Scotia, a charitable organization that collects and distributes food to more than 150 member food banks. Volunteers sorted 8,193 pounds of food—259 boxes built, packed, weighed and put on pallets. CSR Site The Corporate Social Responsibility site provides a single point of access to the latest in sustainable thinking, research and content. Regularly updated, the site also feeds hot topics to the MPI homepage, drawing further traffic. Members can access the Sustainable Event Measurement Tool and join discussion forums. The site is one of the most popular sections of the website, and articles are often among the most-read pieces. Page views amounted to 15,328 between May 1, 2010 and June 27, 2011. September 2011 | Page 7 The 10 Principles Human Rights % Implemented Equality MPI Actions Over the past year, MPI has delivered on its commitment to a workplace of equal employment opportunities and pledges to continue to: • Ensure that all personnel actions including, but not limited to, recruiting, hiring, compensation, benefits, transfers, promotions, terminations, association-sponsored training, education and social and recreational programs is administered without regard to age, color, disability, marital status, national origin, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation and veteran status. 100% Equal Employment • Ensure that all employees and applicants are afforded equal opportunities in all aspects of employment, free from all forms of discrimination or harassment. All association management personnel share this commitment and understand that their performance evaluation is affected by their abilities to support, implement and enforce this policy. Our People and Performance department monitors our recruitment and staff relations and ensures the implementation of the association’s human rights policies. The Events for Communities of Sustainability project comprised an estimated US$11,230 in hours and Social Sustainability 100% delivered US$104,332 in goods. Internally, MPI implemented a structured day of kinship and organized Program two community service projects. MPI prioritizes relevant and valuable content based on needs and continues to review the demand for 0% Forums for Education education around human rights and anti-bribery issues. MPI provided safe and healthy working conditions for staff and protected the economic livelihood of local communities through its BS 8901 event management system, setting key performance initiatives for all major events in sourcing labor and offering community service projects—leaving a positive legacy 100% Other in every city it visited. MPI funded access to seasonal flu and H1N1 vaccines to MPI staff and their families and provided precaution information to its member community. Labor Diversity % Implemented Equality MPI Actions MPI maintained its global office network and ethnically and gender-balanced workplace. MPI manage100% Global Offices ment works in Canada, China, Luxembourg, Qatar and the U.S., bringing a global perspective to its operations. MPI has created and still promotes the adoption of its CultureActive Tool to better understand and com100% Tools municate with its global membership. The tool, used by organizations such as the World Bank, allows users to explore their own cultures and compare them to more than 60 others. MPI issued a code of ethical conduct policy to its staff, and the code remains available on the associa100% Code of Ethical Conduct tion’s Intranet. Women in MPI increased its percentage of women in management positions (director level or higher) to 50 percent 100% Management from 43 percent. September 2011 | Page 8 Labor Workplace % Implemented Equality MPI Actions MPI implemented a mid-year climate survey to inform its annual survey and gather anonymous feedback on staff working practices and morale. 100% Engagement MPI staff reviewed the results at an all-team summit. MPI focuses on its core values to ensure increased staff adoption and dissemination MPI is an equal-opportunity employer and offers jobs to qualified persons without discrimination due to 100% Non-discrimination age, color, disability, marital status, national origin, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation and veteran status or any other characteristic protected by law or protected-group status. The MPI conflict of interest policy obligates all employees to conduct business within guidelines that prohibit actual or potential conflicts of interest. Transactions with outside firms must be conducted within a framework established and controlled by the association’s executives. Business dealings with 100% Ethics outside firms do not result in unusual gains for those firms. Said unusual gains include—but are not limited to—bribes, fringe benefits, kickbacks, product bonuses, special privileges, unusual price breaks and any other windfalls designed to benefit the employer, the employee or both. Principles of Professionalism is the code of ethics for our global community. MPI employees can present job-related concerns to management for resolution. Examples of complaints that may be resolved include: • Policies, practices, procedures, regulations or rules that are discriminatory or unfair; • Coercion, harassment, intimidation or reprisal; 100% Problem Resolution • Discrimination based on age, color, disability, marital status, national origin, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status or any other characteristic protected by law or other protected group status; and • Improper or discriminatory administration of employee benefits or conditions of employment, such as compensation, fringe benefits, holidays, performance reviews, promotions or scheduling of vacations. MPI has a staff person dedicated to CSR who guides the association to better alignment with the U.N. 100% Management Global Compact. Sustainability is an integral part of MPI’s strategic imperatives. Each team member is responsible for creating a personal development and training plan. MPI supports Professional 100% certifications, memberships, seminars and university courses, providing full or partial reimbursement of Development costs for approved sessions. MPI evaluated the structure of management performance assessments and included sustainability obManagement Perfor30% jectives in relevant staff key performance initiatives as necessary. It continues to evolve its performance mance Assessments assessments. MPI engages with its supply chain to contract suppliers that use the same criteria for social responsiOutsourced and Work 20% bility. Due to the complexity of its business relationships and the difficulty in evaluating success, the Relationships organization only managed environmental criteria in final and agreed contracts. MPI stimulated debate in its online discussion groups around a number of topics in this field including 100% Forum on Labor Issues CSR and labor practices. September 2011 | Page 9 Environment Operations % Implemented Equality MPI Actions MPI demonstrated leadership by integrating environmental practices into its meetings/events in eight areas: accommodations, communications, destination selection, exhibitions, food and beverage, onsite Environmentally 100% operations, transportation and venues. MPI updated its sustainable meetings tool to create wider access Sustainable Meetings and further disseminate a common global disclosure platform for collecting, benchmarking and reporting sustainability data, thereby increasing CSR reporting and carbon disclosure. MPI has implemented its sustainable events policy. • We recognize the immense potential impact our actions have on the communities in which we do business and make a deliberate commitment to the transformational power of meetings and events to support environmental, economic and social sustainability. • We establish leadership and demonstrate commitment in the area of sustainable meetings by includ100% Policy ing environmental, economic and social factors in all decisions we make on behalf of our members and by making the best use of resources for maximum impact and alignment with our objectives. • We educate and inform our members about our actions. We commit to building our brand, supporting our mission and vision and connecting our community in a sustainable way. • MPI also defined the term “sustainable event” as an event that incorporates economic, environmental and societal considerations and supports the host organization’s prosperity, minimizes its environmental footprint and has a positive and lasting human impact on its stakeholders and host community. The MPI 2008 European Meetings and Events Conference became the first event in the world to be thirdparty certified under sustainable event standard BS 8901. MPI repeated this certification in 2009 and 2010 and continues to implement this sustainable management system, ensuring stakeholder feedback 100% Codes and Standards and aggressive sustainability targets. MPI promotes the adoption of this standard to its membership through case studies and workshops. MPI joined the ISO 20121 Project Committee for the Sustainable Event Management Standard and the advisory group for the GRI Event Sector Supplement. MPI employees can present job-related concerns to management for resolution. Examples of complaints that may be resolved include: • Policies, practices, procedures, regulations or rules that are discriminatory or unfair • Coercion, harassment, intimidation or reprisal 100% Problem Resolution • Discrimination based on age, color, disability, marital status, national origin, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status or any other characteristic protected by law or other protected group status; and • Improper or discriminatory administration of employee benefits or conditions of employment, such as compensation, fringe benefits, holidays, performance reviews, promotions or scheduling of vacations MPI integrated environmental considerations into its supply chain by creating requests for proposal to destinations, venues and other suppliers that include environmental requirements. It also includes 80% Influence environmental requests in the sourcing of materials for its magazine, One+, which uses paper printed on Forest Stewardship Council-certified 30 percent post-consumer waste recycled paper. MPI employs a policy of comprehensive education on environmentally sustainable meetings at all conferences, and this year, enhanced its education to include a wider CSR agenda offering, particularly at the 2011 World Education Congress, with new sessions on cutting-edge subjects such as the psychology of 100% Education & Training sustainability. MPI launched its groundbreaking three-year CSR research with complementary education planned for the coming year. Through its industry blogs, chapter events, content portals, electronic communications, magazines, online discussion groups, research documents, trade shows and webinars, MPI delivers CSR education and training. MPI proves its industry leadership through its communication channels. It issues case studies around 100% Communication its live events, and the CSR Content Portal shares relevant environmental sustainability knowledge with members and the industry community at large. MPI engages suppliers and all stakeholders at its live events through the application of the BS 8901 100% Supplier Engagement Sustainable Event Management System, which has provided the organization with a process to ensure adequate engagement across the board. September 2011 | Page 10 Environment Operations % Implemented Equality MPI Actions Measurement & ReducMPI has launched its Sustainable Event Measurement Tool and continues to set aggressive targets 80% tion of Environmental around sustainability at events, though incremental reductions per event are dependent on a number of Footprint factors beyond its control, often specific to the sustainable infrastructure of the destination. The MPI internal sustainability team identifies further improvements in headquarters office procure80% Environmental Sourcing ment. The environment is considered in the majority of sourcing, but due to financial implications and restraints with the building management the most sustainable option is not always possible. Anti-Corruption % Implemented Equality MPI Actions MPI issued, communicated and educated staff on new policies including an Employee Protection and Employee Protection and Whistle Blowing Policy to affirm the organziation’s expected standards of conduct, identify the mecha100% Whistle Blowing nism for employees to report on financial and other wrong-doings and guarantee protection against retaliation to employees who make good-faith complaints under the policy. Environment Operations % Implemented Equality MPI Actions Providing a medium that enables its global community to connect is a strategic imperative for MPI. The integration of social networking technology into a once-static website allows this global and cultural interchange to happen. The site offers blogs and community groups, among other platforms. One of 100% Stakeholder Dialogue the largest groups is the CSR GroupSpace, with more than 300 engaged, global members. The Web page www.mpiweb.org promotes environmentally, economically and socially sustainable meetings and events. MPI renewed its CSR Advisory Council, featuring both members and non-members, to provide high-level 100% Advisory Committees strategy. MPI also continued its membership in an industry taskforce headed by the Convention Industry Council to discuss sustainability and responsibility in the industry. In 2011, MPI launched a unique research study alongside its annual FutureWatch survey to track the 100% CSR Survey advancement of CSR principles and implementation in the community. The MPI Day of Kinship program allowed MPI staff to take one day of paid leave to assist in a community 100% Day of Kinship project in addition to the two sponsored events at the all-team summit. MPI works with the Global Reporting Initiative to develop an event-sector supplement as part of the Sustainable 100% Advisory Council and plans to take advantage of this opportunity to influence sustainability reporting in Development its global community. The ECOS toolkit provides Canadian chapters with guidance on how to create environmental and comCo-creation with munity projects, and the MPI CSR director worked with these chapters to make the events as success100% Chapters ful as possible. MPI engaged the community at live events by identifying sustainability issues in the stakeholder feedback process. MPI continues to conduct training on a need-to-know basis, including the ongoing education of its Internal Education on 100% global events team and management updates on CSR. MPI allotted time at its all team summit to discuss Sustainability further action in this area. September 2011 | Page 11 Goals 2011-2012 Human Rights Environment 1. MPI will continue to comply with government regulations 1. MPI will continue to promote a balanced approach to the relating to safe and healthy working conditions, non-discrimitriple-bottom line through its CSR research initiative. nation and non-harassment, child labor laws and the employment of minors. It will continue its “Open Door Policy” so that 2. MPI will promote its newly launched tool for the measureemployees can discuss issues and concerns with their managers ment of the environmental and social impact of the meeting without fear of retribution. MPI will also continue to communiindustry. cate and educate employees on its policies. 3. MPI will educate its community on environmentally sustain2. MPI pledges to continue engaging with the Dallas headquarable strategies. ters community in support of Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. (Everyone has the right to a standard of 4. MPI will measure and reduce its environmental footprint at living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of its headquarters office and continue to do so for events. his family, including food, clothing, housing, medical care and necessary social services.) 5. MPI will continue to evolve its contracting and sourcing to include environmental considerations, both internally and for Labor events. 1. MPI will continue to provide an employment environment free from discrimination and harassment and provide equal Anti-corruption employment opportunities for all employees and applicants. MPI 1. MPI will continue to promote its recently updated MPI staff will continue to enforce its policy prohibiting harassment by copolicies, including an Employee Protection and Whistle Blowing workers, customers or vendors. Policy to affirm that its standards of conduct identify a mechanism for employees to report on financial and other wrong do2. MPI will add comprehensive statements on child workers, ings and guarantee protection against retaliation for employees fair wages for outsourced workers (comparable to market averwho make good-faith complaints. ages) and work relationships in its contracts with suppliers. MPI will continue to enforce employee protection and support whistle blowing policies. September 2011 | Page 12 The MPI Board of Directors governs MPI. In 2010-2011, that group included: CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD TERMS EXPIRING 2011 TERMS EXPIRING 2013 Eric Rozenberg, CMP, CMM Jordan Clark Michael Dominguez President of Swantegy Vice president of sales for Las Vegas Vice président of global sales for Brussels, Belgium Meetings by Caesars Entertainment Loews Hotels & Resorts Las Vegas, Nevada New York, New York CHAIRMAN-ELECT Sebastien Tondeur Kevin Hinton Ricardo Ferreira CEO of the corporate division for MCI Executive vice president for AssociSenior vice president of GRUPO Group Holding SA ated Luxury Hotels International ALATUR Geneva, Switzerland Chicago, Illinois São Paulo, Brazil VICE CHAIRMAN OF FINANCE Ruud Janssen Carol Muldoon, CMM Carl Winston Managing director of ©TNOC | The Executive director of events and Program director for the Hospitality New Objective Collective meetings for KPMG LLP and Tourism Management Program for Arlesheim, Switzerland Montvale, New Jersey San Diego State University San Diego, California Patty Reger, CMM Erin Tench, CMP, CMM Manager of meetings and conventions Associate director of special events VICE CHAIRWOMAN for DePuy/Johnson & Johnson and donor relations for Penn State Cindy D’Aoust Skillman, New Jersey University Vice president of strategic meetings University Park, Pennsylvania for Maxvantage David Scypinski Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Senior vice president for ConferenceDirect MPI FOUNDATION BOARD VICE CHAIRMAN North Potomac, Maryland REPRESENTATIVE Kevin Kirby Ken Sanders Senior sales director for President of Freeman Audio Visual Hard Rock International TERMS EXPIRING 2012 Solutions Orlando, Florida Chuck Bowling Dallas, Texas President and COO for Mandalay IMMEDIATE PAST CHAIRWOMAN Bay Hotel & Casino OF THE BOARD Las Vegas, Nevada Ann Godi, CMP President of Benchmarc 360 Inc. Paul Cunningham Duluth, Georgia President and CEO for the International Information Management Corporation Dublin, Ireland Chris Gasbarro Chief creative officer for Creative Community Connections LLC Hampton, New Hampshire September 2011 | Page 13
