Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Enriching Life Through Communication About This Report Scope Data collection This report is the third annual CSR report released by Huawei To effectively collect the economic, environmental and social Technologies Co., Ltd. It aims to strengthen the mutual efforts and achievements of Huawei's organizations in 2010, understanding and communication between stakeholders the data collection process was performed through onsite and Huawei. It provides information about Huawei’s socially surveys at subsidiaries within the scope of the report. The responsible initiatives and activities regarding bridging the report and data were researched and developed through digital divide, environmental protection, supply chain, our onsite visits, employee interviews, information consulting, employees, and community support. and onsite observations. Collection channels and computing methods were further optimized. Huawei , The Company , Company , or We are used in this report to refer to Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. Financial data is based on the Huawei 2010 Annual Report. The financial statement is in accordance with International Unless otherwise stated, this report includes activities Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”), and is audited by third undertaken during the period of January 1, 2010 to party accounting firm, KPMG. Unless otherwise stated, the December 31, 2010. The report provides information on financial data in this report is in Chinese yuan (CNY). the economic, environmental and social activities of Huawei headquarters and its subsidiaries. Report assurance method As Huawei’s commitment to CSR evolves, we will continuously optimize the level of disclosure in each annual CSR report. Major core indicators and additional indicators of GRI G3 guidelines and supplementary indicators of the telecom industry were used when compiling this report. The Disclosure principles application level is B+. The principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), such To ensure that the report is reliable, fair, and transparent, the as materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness and sustainability company asked the third party, Det Norske Veritas (DNV), to context, were used in compiling this report. These principles verify it. The verification statement is included in the appendix. are considered when analyzing the key issues that relate to sustained development in business operations and identifying major stakeholders. The company collects reasonable expectations and information requirements from different stakeholders by hiring a third party to survey stakeholders. The key items and indicators disclosed in this report have been researched, assessed and selected by the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee at Huawei. External Assurance The performance indicators in this report cover all entities which the company has control of or significant impact upon, This report is available online and in print. The online report such as financial and operation policies and measures, and are can be obtained at: consistent with the scope of the company's annual financial http://www.huawei.com/csr2010. report. The management policies of all entities on which the company has significant impact are disclosed. We value your comments and suggestions on our CSR performance and reporting. Please feedback at: Telephone: 0086-755-28780808 Email: CSR@huawei.com Contents 01 Message from the Chairwoman 03 Corporate Overview 06 CSR Highlights in 2010 09 CSR Strategy and Management 11 Stakeholder Engagements 14 Fair Operation 17 Bridging the Digital Divide 22 Environmental Protection 30 Supply Chain 33 People 41 Community Support Appendix I: Key Performance Index Appendix II：GRI Index Appendix III：Terms and Abbreviations Appendix IV：Assurance Statement Message from the Chairwoman Message from the Chairwoman 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 1 In the past year, the global economy continued to strengthen, ever more challenging. I believe an enterprise can survive, but many factors cast a shadow over the recovery. sustain its growth, and contribute to society only if that International financial markets continued to be turbulent business consistently aligns its core values and operational with major problems related to debts, currencies, and banks. responsibilities with its social responsibilities, rather than Trade protectionism gained ground and inflationary pressure seeking merely short-term achievements. As a member of increased. Other problems such as increasingly severe climate the United Nations Global Compact, Huawei advocates change, environmental pollution, and resource depletion “commitment to customer-centricity and dedication” and continue to threaten sustainable development worldwide. applies itself to creating a win-win industry ecosystem that promotes sustainable development of the economy, society, All of these uncertainties make the task of properly and environment. understanding and fulfilling corporate social responsibilities In 2010, Huawei defined its CSR strategy to include: fair operations, bridging the digital divide, environmental protection, enhancing supply chain CSR management, “ An enterprise can survive, sustain its growth, and contribute to society caring for employees, and community support. Huawei also strengthened its CSR management and established dedicated departments with specialized personnel to ensure closed-loop only if that business consistently management starting from strategic planning and continuing aligns its core values and operational through to execution. Huawei has taken the following measures to implement this strategy: responsibilities with its social responsibilities, rather than seeking I. Huawei promotes fair operations, conducts business ethically, strictly implements transparent procurement and ” merely short-term achievements. transparent sales processes, and proactively contributes to a harmonious business environment. Message from the Chairwoman 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2 II. By leveraging its technical telecom expertise, Huawei to work closely with its suppliers to improve their supply chain enables people in different regions to enjoy the same CSR management and facilitate the sustainable development conveniences of the digital world, facilitates the development of the industry chain. and application of broadband technologies, and promotes balanced socioeconomic development across different VI. Huawei believes in giving back to society, advocates countries. localized operations, and contributes significantly to the socioeconomic development, education, and disaster relief III. Huawei attaches great importance to energy conservation efforts in the communities and countries where it operates. and environmental protection. By providing green communications solutions, Huawei helps telecom operators Huawei will continue to live its core values to achieve and companies in other industries conserve energy and sustainable development while enthusiastically fulfilling its reduce CO2 emissions, thus contributing to the building of a social responsibilities. All Huawei employees look forward green world. to working with customers, suppliers and industry partners to enable the ICT industry to more effectively contribute to IV. Huawei advocates a corporate culture of dedication , the sustainable development of the economy, society, and rewards dedicated employees according to their performance environment while enriching life through communication. and contributions, and provides them with learning platforms and development opportunities. V. Huawei always takes practical actions to make good on its commitment as a responsible corporate citizen. While proactively fulfilling its own social responsibilities, Huawei is also serious about improving the CSR of its suppliers and partners. The supply chain CSR management program is an Sun Yafang important part of Huawei's CSR efforts. Huawei will continue Chairwoman of the Board Corporate Overview Company Profile Huawei is a leading telecom solutions provider. Through ■ Network: FTTx, DSL, WDM/OTN, MSTP/Hybrid MSTP, continuous customer-centric innovation, we have established Microwave, Router, MSP, PTN and cyber security end-to-end advantages in Telecom Networks, Global Services ■ Applications and Software: NGBSS, Digital Home, SDP, and Devices. With comprehensive strengths in wireline, eCity, Mobile Office Corporate Overview wireless and IP technologies, Huawei has gained a leading ■ Sites Solutions: Hybrid power supply, Primary power, position in the All-IP convergence age. Our products and Antenna & RF, Site & Shelter, Fiber & Copper Infrastructure solutions have been deployed in over 140 countries and have served 45 of the world's top 50 telecom operators, as well as Global Services one third of the world's population. End-to-end services solutions, including: ■ System Integration Solution: Mobile Network Integration, 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report In 2010, Huawei's revenue reached CNY 185.2 billion, a Fixed Network Integration, Data Center Solution, Site year-on-year increase of 24.2%. By the end of 2010, the Solution company has a dedicated staff of over 110,000 individuals ■ Assurance Solution: Managed Services, Experience working in over 140 countries around the world and over Enhancement, Network Safety 51,000 Huawei employees are engaged in the R&D of ■ Learning Solution: Knowledge Transfer, Huawei products and solutions. Huawei has filed a total of 31,869 Certification, Competency Consulting Chinese patents, 8,892 international patents under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT), and 8,279 overseas patents. In Devices total, 17,765 patents were authorized, among which 3,060 were authorized abroad. Huawei is a global leader in terms of ■ Mobile broadband devices: USB sticks, wireless modems, LTE/EPC essential/core patents. The company has joined 123 embedded modules, WiMAX devices global standards organizations, and holds over 180 leadership ■ Handsets: UMTS, GSM, CDMA, TD-SCDMA positions, filed over 23,000 proposals, and actively promoted ■ Convergence devices: fixed/wireless terminals, wireless industry development. gateways, digital photo frames, set-top boxes 3 ■ Video solutions: Telepresence, video conferencing devices To learn more information about Huawei’s products and services, please read Huawei 2010 Annual Report. Major Products and Services Huawei offers a broad range of end-to-end product portfolios, including: Telecom Networks ■ Radio Access Network: SingleRAN, LTE, GSM, WCDMA, CDMA, TD-SCDMA, WiMAX ■ Core Network: IMS, Mobile Softswitch, NGN, Packet Core, SDM, PCRF, Cloud, CDN, Signaling Network Five-Year Financial Highlights (Unit: CNY Million) $BTIGMPXGSPN 3FWFOVF 0QFSBUJOHQSPGJU PQFSBUJOHBDUJWJUJFT CAGR: 29% CAGR: 57% CAGR: 49% 200,000 185,176 35,000 35,000 180,000 29,271 30,000 30,000 28,458 160,000 149,059 140,000 125,217 25,000 25,000 21,052 21,741 120,000 20,000 20,000 100,000 93,792 16,197 80,000 15,000 15,000 66,365 60,000 10,000 9,115 10,000 7,628 40,000 5,801 6,455 5,000 4,846 5,000 20,000 0 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Corporate Vision, Mission, and Core Values Corporate Governance Vision Shareholders Huawei is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Shenzhen Huawei To enrich life through communication. Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. (“Huawei Holding”). Huawei Corporate Overview Holding is solely owned by employees of the Company, without any third parties, including the government bodies, holding any of its shares. Huawei Holding implements an Employee Shareholding Scheme (the “Scheme”) through the Union, which involves Mission 65,179 employees as of 31 December 2010. They are 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report represented by and exercise their rights through the To focus on our customers' market challenges and needs elected representatives. The Scheme effectively aligns the by providing excellent ICT solutions and services in order to personal goals of employees with the Company’s long-term consistently create maximum value for our customers. development, fostering the continuing success of Huawei. Board of Directors and Committees The Board guides and oversees the overall business operations, and makes decisions on significant issues in strategic and operational areas. The Board of Directors has Huawei Core Values established the Human Resources Committee, the Finance Committee and the Audit Committee to assist the Board in overseeing the Company’s operations. Supervisory Board 4 Customers First Pursuant to the requirements of the Company Law of the People's Republic of China, Huawei has established a Supervisory Board, which consists of five members who are elected by the shareholders. The key roles and responsibilities Te on ati am of the Supervisory Board include overseeing the Company’s wo dic financial and operational results, monitoring the performance rk De of the Directors, Chief Executive Officer and other senior Core management, as well as attending Board meetings as observers. Values Independent Auditor C Im ontin Independent auditor is responsible for auditing the Company’s y rit pro uo financial statements in accordance with applicable accounting eg ve us Int me standards and audit procedures, and expresses an opinion as nt to whether the financial statements are true and fair. Openness & Initiative Key Awards in 2010 Received The Economist magazine's Corporate Use of Winner of Solution Excellence Award at TM Forum Innovation Award 2010 (TMF) The authoritative UK magazine, The Economist awarded Huawei Next Generation Business Support System (NGBSS) Corporate Overview Huawei the Corporate Use of Innovation Award. solution won the Solution Excellence Award at the 2010 TeleManagement Forum World event in Nice, France.. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Ranked as the fifth Most Innovative Companies Winner of Messaging Application: Consumer Award Leading U.S. business magazine, Fast Company, ranked Huawei received the Messaging Application: Consumer Huawei the fifth most innovative company in the world, after Award for its Mobile Newspaper Service (MNS) at the 2010 only Facebook, Amazon, Apple, and Google. Global Messaging award ceremony, hosted by Informa Telecom. Winner of GSMA Best SDP Award Huawei's SingleRAN@Broad solution wins top award Huawei’s Service Delivery Platform (SDP) was awarded the in the global broadband field GMS Association (GSMA) Best SDP Award. Huawei's industry-leading SingleRAN@Broad solution won 5 the InfoVision Award in the category of Broadband Access Network Technologies and Services at the Broadband World Forum 2010. Winner of two top awards in the LTE industry Winner of Three Honors at the Global Telecom Huawei won the LTE Commercialization Award and Best Business Innovations Awards Contribution to R&D for LTE at the LTE Global Summit. These Huawei received three honors at the Global Telecom awards demonstrate that Huawei has reached the pinnacle of Business Innovation Awards including Green base station key technologies and markets of the LTE industry chain. innovation , Wholesale network innovation and Consumer voting innovation awards with Vodafone, BT and TalkTalk, respectively. Received The Economist magazine's Corporate Use of Innovation Award 2010 CSR Highlights in 2010 Established the Global Network Security Committee Held the second CSR training conference for global (GNSC) Huawei suppliers CSR Highlights in 2010 The GNSC plans, manages and supervises Huawei Huawei held the second CSR training conference for global departments, such as R&D, Supply Chain, Marketing, Sales, Huawei suppliers. The CEOs/VPs of over 170 global suppliers Engineering Delivery and Technical Service. By establishing and partners attended the conference. Senior management the committee, we ensure that the cyber security assurance and CSR experts from world renowned operators, such as system is implemented in every system, every region, and British Telecom, Deutsche Telekom, Vodafone and France throughout the whole process of the company. Telecom also attended the conference. Joined the U.N. Broadband Commission for Digital Focused on the growth of female employees 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Development Huawei's R&D held the first female development conference Huawei joined the U.N. Broadband Commission for Digital on growth, progress, and excellence . In 2011, Huawei will Development, collaborating with leading global companies, continue to focus on career growth and development of and actively contributing to global social and economic female employees, ensuring equal opportunities for all staff. development through broadband development. Improved employee welfare Promoted the transmission of knowledge and skills In 2010, our employee welfare security system continued In 2010, Huawei continued to grow the Telecom Seeds for to improve. An additional CNY 1.97 billion was spent on the Future Program, enhancing communications skills in employee welfare. Malaysia, the Philippines, Australia, Indonesia and Bolivia by donating datacom equipment, establishing training centers Contribution, disaster relief, and community support and providing internship opportunities – initiatives that were Huawei contributed USD1.055 million in cash and material strongly supported and well-received by these countries. to flood-stricken countries, such as Venezuela, Columbia, 6 Mexico, and Vietnam, to help local residents with disaster Established supply centers in Mexico and India relief. Huawei also encourages employees to lend a helping In addition to supply centers in Europe and Brazil, Huawei hand when disaster strikes. After the earthquake in Yushu, established supply centers in Mexico and India, which Qinghai, China, employees voluntarily contributed nearly CNY improved delivery efficiency and local operations, as well as 6 million in cash, as well as necessary materials, through the dramatically reduced the environmental impact caused by company’s Charity Association to help in the reconstruction of long distance transportation. Yushu. Actively promoting global sustainable development Joined in 2004 Joined in 2008 Joined in 2010 Overview of major CSR activities CSR Highlights in 2010 U.K. France Held a charity gala evening with the Contributed €250,000 to establish a Prince's Trust. permanent foundation with Institut des Hautes Etudes Scientifiques (IHES),which supports fundamental Germany math research. Participated in the local Dragon Boat Festival in Düsseldorf for two Croatia 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report consecutive years. Organized summer camp activities for university students. Canada U.S. Sponsored the Royal Canadian Sponsored important scientific Mounted Police (RCMP) Foundation research projects at North American 6th Annual Golden Spur Gala, and universities. Organized employees supported relief for local youngsters. to provide food for poverty-stricken Sponsored the Bell Celebrity Gala, homes through working with 7 and collected funds for the Center for Addiction and Mental Health in NGOs. Participated in Habitat for Humanity. Donated school supplies Canada. to underprivileged children at Sigler Elementary School in the U.S. Mexico Columbia Donated materials to the Mexican Donated to the foundation for Red Cross for disaster relief flood relief, organized employee and rebuilding efforts, after the volunteers to provide support to the earthquake in Haiti. local underprivileged children, and sponsored children in orphanages. Venezuela Donated vehicles to people living in Brazil Morocco the southern rain forest to facilitate Organized summer camp activities travel, and donated to the emergency Contributed to setting up primary for university and middle school schools. flood relief. students. Ghana Bolivia Contributed to a local NGO who Organized employee visits to provides financial support for medical orphanages. consultation, and contributed school supplies to provide financial support for high achieving students. Nigeria Sponsored the establishment of the Chinese Culture Center, and promoted cultural exchanges. Russia CSR Highlights in 2010 Contributed equipment to help in the reconstruction after the local forest fire. China Philippines Poland Contributed to the area of Yushu, Contributed to the IT-Star internship Contributed financial support for Qinghai, impacted by the earthquake, program. orphans of families impacted by the and the area of Zhouqu, Gansu, Presidential air crash. Sponsored the impacted by the landslide. Launched Beethoven Musical Festival. the Spring Dew program during Vietnam 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report the drought, and contributed water Employees voluntarily contributed Turkey and materials to Guiyang, Kunming, to Central Vietnamese provinces Organized summer camps for and Chengdu. struck by the devastating flood and university and middle school students contributed computers to Hanoi and the communications summer Japan primary schools. camp Youth Bridge . Sponsored the 5th Chinese Composition Competition hosted by Bangladesh the Sino-Chinese Exchange Research Donated winter clothes for poor Institute of the China Press in people. Japan. Sponsored the rural recycling project in Kyoto, and supported the initiative of the Kyoto government Malaysia of ensuring food safety in rural Founded a graduate employment areas and improving the regional training program. competitiveness of remote districts. 8 Yemen India Sponsored the Youth Employment Sponsored the visit and performance Laboratory program. of an arts troupe. Uganda Australia Pakistan Contributed to two charity Contributed to the Sanyu Babies Contributed to the foundation for Home orphanage. institutions which provide financial disaster relief during the devastating support for employment and flood. healthcare. Organized summer camps Kenya for university and middle school Continued support for the Lewa Indonesia students. Established a joint lab with marathon. Sponsored the visit and the Institute for a Broadband-Enabled Contributed the Datacom Society (IBES) of the University of performance of the Safaricom Authentication and Training Center to Melbourne and a joint training center classical music group and Sarakasi the Department of Communications with the Royal Melbourne Institute of charity group to China, and at ITB University. Technology (RMIT). supported sports, children education, and female health projects. Contributed microwave equipment to Moi University. Tanzania Contributed to a local foundation that provides financial support for the education of women and children. CSR Strategy and Management CSR Strategy CSR Strategy and Management To bridge the digital divide, and promote harmonious CSR vision and sustainable development of the economy, society, and environment. To build an excellent CSR management system, operate with integrity, promote a harmonious business ecosystem, CSR mission ensure sustainable development of the company, and provide benefits to our customers and society. Bridging the Environmental Enhancing supply chain Caring for Community CSR strategy Fair operation digital divide protection CSR management employees support 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report CSR strategy ■ Fair operation: Huawei abides by ethical business ■ Enhancing supply chain CSR management: Huawei practices, operates with integrity, and strictly observes improves CSR awareness and capabilities of the company Huawei Business Code of Conduct. Huawei promotes fair and its supply chain to achieve sustainable development. operations, strictly implements transparent procurement We have established close ties with our suppliers to and transparent sales , and opposes bribery, corrupt strengthen CSR management to gain our customers' activities, dumping, and monopolies so as to build a confidence, enable us to take appropriate actions to harmonious business environment. ensure CSR compliance, and improve the CSR risk control of suppliers. ■ Bridging the digital divide: Huawei provides customized 9 solutions to enable people in different regions to access ■ Caring for employees: Huawei attaches importance to information, takes the initiative to help underdeveloped employees’ growth and health and safety. Huawei values regions nurture talent, and form effective education employees’ contributions and makes every effort to ensure systems in the field of communications, and to improve that employees’ personal growth is realized alongside the regional technology to promote communications. company’s success. ■ Environmental protection: Huawei actively communicates ■ Community support: Huawei always believes in paying with customers on energy conservation and environmental back to society. We support countries and communities protection. Huawei closely collaborates with enterprises where we operate by paying taxes, insisting on local across the value chain to build environmentally-friendly operation and contributing to the local welfare, education, networks, and promotes sustainable development of and disaster relief efforts. the industry in order to achieve our objective: Green Communications, Green Huawei, and Green World . CSR Management Mechanism Huawei has established a good CSR management system. Huawei continuously strengthens and expands efforts and CSR Strategy and Management The Board of Directors and its subordinate Investment scope in CSR by consolidating the implementation of the Audit Committee, Finance Committee, and Human international CSR standard, ISO26000. We shall: Resources Committee are responsible for decision-making and management related to CSR strategies. The Executive ■ Focus on CSR risk management and establish a mechanism Management Team (EMT) and its subordinate management to manage CSR risks. teams are responsible for implementing decisions made by the Board of Directors, and leading daily CSR activities. ■ Establish the CSR baseline and implement a system The corporate CSR Committee, under the direction of the maturity evaluation. Investment Audit Committee, is the team that manages CSR, 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report drafts CSR strategies and policies based on the corporate ■ Optimize the internal audit mechanism of CSR and strategies and guidelines, builds, deploys and continuously perform the global CSR internal audit. improves the CSR management work, enhances the corporate branding, and achieves customer satisfaction to ensure the ■ Continuously strengthen the CSR management capability sustainable development of the company. of production and engineering procurement globally based on industry standard requirements, pay attention The corporate CSR Committee has set up the Corporate to CSR risks jointly with our customers, and actively CSR Management Department to consolidate the planning, influence related parties. In particular, strengthen the governance, system building, assessment, and supervision implementation of environmental protection, energy of CSR programs, coordinate special teams such as the saving and emissions reduction, health and safety, Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Committee, employee protection of labor rights, and requirements for ethical health and safety implementation team, Energy Saving & business practices. Emissions Reduction Management Department, Procurement Qualification CSR Committee, and Employee Relationship ■ Pay attention to midand long-term key global CSR social Department. Huawei ensures proper staffing for all key projects to promote the social theme activities of CSR. 10 management positions in related departments to implement CSR initiatives related to energy saving and environmental ■ Pay attention to environmental protection and employee protection, supply chain, occupational health and safety, and health and safety, and strengthen employee safety in employee development. Each year, the CSR management countries with high risks to continuously improve the system effectively identifies CSR risks based on the PDCA guarantee capabilities of the company globally. (Plan-Do-Check-Act) management model, develops the goal, index, and management program, implements processes, and finds opportunities for continuous improvement through internal audits. Corporate executives hold regular review meetings to discuss and make decisions on topics related to CSR. Stakeholder Engagements Huawei pays attention to the views and opinions of our stakeholders to better serve customers and benefit society. We are committed to actively communicating with shareholders to ensure that Huawei understands and responds Stakeholder Engagements to stakeholder requirements completely, accurately and in time. Huawei effectively identifies material CSR issues by identifying and systematically categorizing stakeholders and establishing communication systems for them. We coordinate and implement dynamic CSR management measures so as to meet stakeholder expectations and achieve Huawei's CSR strategic goals. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Identification, Communication Channels, and Responses from Stakeholder Groups Stakeholders are impacted differently by the company, and environment were surveyed. We plan to gradually increase have varying impacts on the company too. Huawei identifies the number of samples for future surveys of stakeholder and prioritizes stakeholders according to the AA1000 management to obtain more comprehensive information. Stakeholder Engagement Standard (2005), based on its Six Principles of Responsibility, Influence, Proximity, Dependency, Huawei has established different effective long-term Representation, and Policy & Strategic Intent. communication channels for different stakeholders (as listed below) based on systematic identification and analysis of In addition, Huawei appointed a third party in 2010 to survey stakeholder survey results to ensure that Huawei accurately the requirements of major stakeholders. Different types understands the requirements of different stakeholders, and of major stakeholders were identified through the survey responds to these requirements effectively. based on the AA1000SES standard, and major concerns of 11 typical stakeholders in terms of the economy, society and Stakeholder Categories Concerns Communication Channels and Response Group ■ Product quality ■ Building and operating the ■ Communicate with customers through customer and safety product quality management requirement surveys, satisfaction surveys, meetings ■ Ethical business system and workshops. Jointly attend and organize industry practices ■ Product LCA control exhibitions and forums, and create joint innovation ■ Supply chain ■ Equipment waste treatment and centers with customers. management recycling ■ Control product quality and safety (P26) ■ Climate change ■ Competition in business activities ■ Build the system to recycle products (P24-25) ■ Bridging the digital ■ Anti-corruption and anti-bribery ■ Build and operate the anti-corruption and anti-bribery Customers: divide system (P14) ■ Audit and assessment of Operators/ ■ Continuously improve the supply chain management Enterprise suppliers or contractors ■ Energy-efficient product design system (P31-32) Users ■ Solutions that utilize alternative ■ Develop green products and solutions (P22-25) energy sources ■ Develop low cost and flexible service solutions to help ■ Extension of communications in operators extend communications (P18-19) non-developed regions ■ Support countries in forming effective education ■ Education and training of systems and nurture talent in the field of talented communications communications (P19-21, P41) personnel in non-developed regions ■ Ethical business ■ Anti-bribery and anti-corruption ■ Continue to extensively collect ideas, opinions, practices ■ Working conditions and and suggestions from employees through internal ■ Employee health occupational health status communication channels, such as the employee and safety ■ Compensation and benefits satisfaction survey, BBS, CEO Mailbox, open day, Employees experts from the Employee Relationship Dept, and ■ Employee benefits ■ Training and competence rational proposal mailbox (P34) ■ Career improvement opportunities advancement ■ Respond to employee requirements through a series of measures such as OHSAS18001 qualification (P35-40) ■ Ethical business ■ Anti-bribery and anti-corruption ■ Build and operate the anti-corruption and anti-bribery practices in procurement system (P14) ■ Supply chain ■ Audit and assessment of ■ Hold supplier CSR training conferences. Audit and Suppliers/ management suppliers or contractors assess suppliers/contractors to ensure that Huawei Contractors communicates with and manages suppliers/contractors (P32) ■ Continuously improve through the CSR management system of the supply chain (P30-31) Stakeholder Categories Concerns Communication Channels and Response Group Stakeholder Engagements ■ Abiding by laws ■ Energy-efficient product design ■ Continue to communicate with government regarding our ■ Solutions that utilize alternative departments through regular meetings, workshops and operations, energy sources compliance self-checks. paying taxes, ■ Leader in energy saving, ■ Strengthen localized operations to promote local and promoting emission reduction and employment. (P33) employment technological progress of the ■ Develop green products and solutions (P22-25) ■ Climate change communications industry ■ Sign the Voluntary Green Agreement with the Ministry ■ Waste and ■ Working conditions and of Industry and Information Technology (P22) Governments emissions occupational health status ■ Manage compliance of production and office waste 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report ■ Employee health ■ Waste emission management (P25) and safety and compliance ■ Develop low cost and flexible service solutions to help ■ Bridging the digital ■ Extension of communications in operators extend communications (P18-19) divide non-developed regions ■ Support countries in forming effective education ■ Education and training of systems and nurture talent in the field of talented communications communications (P19-21, P41) personnel in non-developed regions ■ Climate change ■ Energy saving and emission ■ Continue to communicate with the industry/standards ■ Product quality reduction of products in the associations by joining industry organizations, and safety industry attending workshops and forums, releasing research ■ New trends in technology and achievements, joining the U.N. Broadband Commission technical innovations for Digital Development, and becoming an ICT member Industry/ of the Steering Committee of the Environmentally Standards Friendly Smart Grid (P18, P28) Associations ■ Develop green products and solutions (P22-25) 12 ■ Practice Green Communications, Green Huawei, and Green World strategy. (See Chapter “Environmental Protection” ) ■ Release cloud computing strategy, and launch cloud platform and services (P27) ■ Climate change ■ Energy-efficient product design ■ Attend and organize industry forums, and actively ■ Product quality ■ New trends in technology and participate in associations and standards organizations and safety technical innovations (P28-P29) ■ Develop green products and solutions (P22-25) ■ Practice Green Communications, Green Huawei, and Green World strategy. (See Chapter “Environmental Industry Peers Protection” ) ■ Support countries in forming effective education systems and nurture talent in the field of communications (P19-21) ■ Develop low cost and flexible service solutions to help operators extend communications (P18-19) ■ Employee health ■ Working conditions and ■ Continue to actively join NGOs like GeSI and industry and safety occupational health status associations, regularly release annual report and CSR ■ Employee benefits ■ Energy-efficient product design report, disclose related information to media, NGOs ■ Product quality ■ Product safety and the public, and pay attention to media opinions for Media and and safety the long-term. ■ Social contributions and Non■ Society and community relationships ■ Develop green products and solutions (P22-25) governmental community ■ Waste management and ■ Control product quality and safety (P26) Organizations ■ Climate change emissions control during ■ Implement multiple social projects and contributions; ■ Ecosystem and production establish and optimize the policy of building community natural resources ■ Protection of the ecosystem and relationships; organize and encourage employees biodiversity to participate in voluntary activities. (See Chapter ■ Waste and “Community Support”) emissions ■ Climate change ■ Energy-efficient design and ■ Develop green and low cost products (P23-24) ■ Product quality safety of devices ■ Control product health and safety (P26) Consumers and safety ■ Product noise and radiation ■ Establish a security evaluation center and ensure ■ Network security and reliability network information security (P15) Analysis of Material Issues and Major Responses After categorizing major stakeholder concerns, Huawei analyzed the 2010 feedback survey results from stakeholder groups, prioritized major stakeholder concerns, and generated the matrix for analyzing Huawei CSR material issues (as illustrated below) Stakeholder Engagements based on the significance of those issues to Huawei strategies and operations. High 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Climate change Ethical business practices Product quality and safety Level of stakeholder concerns Supply chain management Employee health Medium Waste and emissions and safety Employee benefits 13 Bridging the digital divide Ecosystem and natural resources Social contributions and investments Other environmental Career advancement and social problems Low Low Medium High Significance to Huawei strategies and operations In this report, the following issues are stated and responded to based on the initial analysis of the matrix above: 1. Ethical business practices: Network security guarantee and compliance with overseas export regulations. See Chapter “Fair Operation” . 2. Bridging the digital divide: Expand network coverage, popularize broadband, and popularize communications knowledge. See Chapter “Bridging the Digital Divide”. 3. Climate change (environmental protection) and safety quality of products: Green product certification, energy-efficient product design, and product health and safety control. See Chapter “Environmental Protection” 4. Supply chain management: Optimize supplier CSR management and hold CSR conferences. See Chapter “Supply Chain” . 5. Employee health and safety: Improve the health and safety system establishment. See Chapter “People”. 6. Social contributions and investments: Continuously bring benefits to communities through community involvement. See Chapter “Community Support” . Fair Operation Huawei advocates fair operations and strictly implements “transparent procurement” and “transparent sales”. As one of the company’s core values, integrity is our most valuable asset. Huawei is an ethical corporate citizen that strictly observes the laws in countries where it operates. Huawei opposes price dumping and monopolies, and aims to create and actively promote a harmonious business environment. Fair Operation Anti-corruption and Anti-bribery 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Huawei observes international and national anti-corruption Each year, the company arranges for all employees to learn and anti-bribery laws and regulations. It has a fair and and discuss the BCG based on their specific roles. 98% of our honest business and working environment where operational employees have signed a commitment to the BCG. At the integrity is encouraged. The company developed guidelines end of each year, employees are required to do a self-check for operating with integrity, including its integrity declaration, on their BCG compliance. In addition, the company performs basic operational principles, related responsibilities, and the financial processes based on local accounting laws and ensures that all employees maintain high standards of standards in different countries to regularly supervise business professional and ethical conduct. conduct by means of finances. The company establishes a system to deter and independently supervise conduct that Adherence to laws and ethics by each employee of Huawei violates the BCG, and clearly defines the person responsible provides a solid foundation that ensures Huawei's sound longfor supervising, investigating, holding accountable, managing, term development. After robust discussions, the company and improving economic problems. Huawei analyzes global formulated the Huawei Employee Business Conduct Guidelines fraud risks, and promotes self reporting and the publication of (BCG), which serves as a guide for complying with laws and cases in areas prone to fraud. Huawei has set up internal BCG 14 ethical standards. These guidelines require employees to channels for employees to raise a complaint and established be honest and self-disciplined, both in their business and external complaint channels on the company's official website personal life, and specify the conduct to be adopted regarding to facilitate the provision of feedback or complaints from laws and customs of gifts and amenities, business amenities, suppliers. Huawei formed an Allegation Review Board (ARB) to restrictions on receiving gifts and gift offering, referral manage the complaint channels and handle the complaints, fees, and any commission or compensation. The company carrying out professional investigations in compliance with requires that employees observe laws, regulations, and pre-defined procedures. For verified cases, violators are held customs relating to gifts and amenities in different countries. accountable based on the Regulations on Accountability Employees must not take bribes or participate in any activities of Economic Problems in BCG Compliance (Provisional), or that may be considered bribery. Employees should not give we cooperate with the Legal Affairs Department to follow or accept gifts and business amenities that exceed normal appropriate legal procedures. In addition, we assign people value (gifts include not only material goods, but also services, responsible to optimize the process design or strengthen promotional premiums, and discounts). Employees cannot control relating to the exposed problems. Analysis of accept gifts that could influence the company's business fraudulent methods for each project is sent to managers at all relationships. Employees are prohibited from receiving referral levels for reference. fees, or any commission. Cyber Security Assurance The rapid growth of the telecom industry has provided ■ In terms of personnel management, all Huawei employees, unparalleled convenience to communications and lives. At the partners and consultants must strictly observe Huawei's same time, with the continuous evolution and development security policies and attend security training sessions. In of telecom networks and services, threats and challenges for this way, the concept of security is instilled into the whole network security will become increasingly severe. organization. Huawei rewards employees who actively Fair Operation participate in the assurance of telecom network security, As a global leader in providing telecom solutions, Huawei fully and includes in performance appraisals conducts that recognizes the importance of cyber security, and understands violate such policies. Employees who violate relevant laws why this continues to be a significant concern for customers will be legally liable. and governments. Huawei attaches great importance to this 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report issue, and is dedicated to taking effective measures to help Huawei also actively participates in creating the security operators avoid and reduce security risks to win stakeholders' standards of international standards organizations like ITU-T, trust. Huawei believes that building an open, transparent 3GPP and IETF. Additionally, Huawei has joined security and visible framework to solve security issues will facilitate organizations, such as Forum of Incident Response and continuous and sound development of the entire industry Security Teams (FIRST), to share dynamic information about chain, and will promote innovations in both technology and the security industry. By working closely with mainstream human communication. security vendors, we are striving to guarantee cyber security for our customers worldwide. To truly fulfill our commitments to cyber security, Huawei will build and fully implement an end-to-end telecom Huawei is willing to communicate and cooperate with network security assurance system and make it one of governments of various countries, operators and industry the important development strategies of the company. partners on security issues through different platforms, Huawei builds and optimizes a sustainable and trustworthy organizations and channels in an open and transparent security assurance system with respect to the following: manner, and to jointly address the security threats and 15 policies, organizations, business processes, management, challenges of global telecom networks. Huawei will establish technologies and regulations on the basis of compliance with regional cyber security evaluation centers as required. These all applicable security laws and regulations of countries and evaluation centers shall be highly accessible and open to local regions, international telecom standards and industry best governments and operators. Organizations and personnel practices. Huawei addresses the security challenges with recognized by local governments assess relevant products in relevant governments, operators and industry partners in an the area of security to ensure secure delivery by Huawei to open and transparent manner to meet security requirements local operators. for telecom networks and services from operators. Huawei attaches more importance to guaranteeing the security of its In 2010, Huawei established the Cyber Security Evaluation telecom networks and services than to its business returns. Center in the U.K. This Center is a key part of Huawei's endto-end global security assurance system. This Center is open, readily accessible and transparent to the U.K. government. All ■ In terms of organization, the GNSC, as the top network security evaluation personnel of the Center have gained the security management organization of Huawei, is approval of the Communications-Electronics Security Group responsible for planning, managing and supervising the (CESG), U.K.. The Center's personnel are responsible for organizations and businesses of all departments involved, reviewing Huawei product security, including source code for such as R&D, Supply Chain, Marketing, Sales, Engineering software and hardware, and supply sources, to ensure that Delivery and Technical Service. By doing this, we ensure products delivered by Huawei to its U.K. customers are secure. the implementation of the cyber security assurance system in every system, every region, and throughout the entire process, and we actively promote communication with stakeholders such as governments, customers, partners and employees. The GNSC directly reports to the top management of the company. ■ In terms of business processes, security assurance shall be integrated into all business processes relating to R&D, Supply Chain, Sales and Marketing, Delivery and Technical Services. Through regulations and technical specifications, we ensure that these activities are effectively conducted. Huawei supervises and improves our business processes through internal and governmental security audits, security evaluations, and audits by independent third party organizations. Huawei's security management system has passed the ISO27001 certification. Compliance with Export Control Regulations Strictly implementing national and international laws and of the Legal Affairs Department. The Trade Compliance regulations, including those of the U.S. on export control, Committee has the right to veto transactions that have is one of Huawei's basic policies. Huawei has made the problems. With regard to corporate policies, Huawei following commitments: Huawei observes laws and has developed corporate regulations for export control, regulations on export control regarding corporate operations established a standard process for export reviews, retained Fair Operation issued by the Chinese government, and international laws information on related documents, conducted publicity and and regulations on export control, including those of the U.S. training sessions on export control laws and regulations, It also supports international commitments of the Chinese enhanced audits inside the company, and implemented government, including global obligations and implementing departmental responsibilities concerning export control. The related resolutions of the United Nations Security Council. company plans to set up a database containing sensitive 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report In addition, as an international company, Huawei adopts product information and customer details according to responsible attitudes and measures regarding export control, international practices. The database will be modeled on attaches a high importance to related operation globalization the existing information management system and will help requirements, and fulfills its corporate responsibilities. manage the daily work of the corporate export control in a quantitative manner. To ensure that this self-disciplined system is effectively implemented, Huawei has established the Trade Compliance Committee and Trade Compliance Advisor Office on an organizational level. Both organizations are led by supervisors 16 Bridging the Digital Divide With the improvement of the voice service coverage and the steady progress of telecom technologies, the current digital divide exists not only in voice service penetration but also in broadband services.. The broadband network Bridging the Digital Divide has become an important enabling platform for diverse social services including health, education, business, trade and government, and a key engine of economic development. The IT level of the broadband network becomes an important index for measuring national competitiveness. Many far-sighted countries make it a national strategy to improve the index. However, from a global perspective, the information technology gap of broadband networks between regions and countries becomes increasingly wide, forming a new digital divide. Therefore, it will have more far-reaching effects on the social and economic development of the world. Huawei anticipates that bridging 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report the digital divide will be a challenging task. With to enrich life through communication as its vision, Huawei applies its professional ICT experience to help bridge the digital divide so that people can enjoy indiscriminate communication services and experiences anytime, anywhere, through any terminal. On one hand, Huawei makes constant innovations centered on customer requirements to provide advanced, efficient and low-ARPU solutions for customers. As a result, the information society is accessible to more people. On the other hand, Huawei is committed to universal broadband convenience by deploying broadband networks and helping construct national broadband networks. The purpose is to enable people from different regions to enjoy the conveniences that broadband services can bring. This will also drive local social and economic development. Moreover, Huawei provides extensive support for local educational undertakings and develops communications talent to boost the technological level and skills of the telecom industry. 17 Narrowing the Digital Divide Through Continuous Dedication It can be a challenge to build and deploy communications equipment in remote areas due to harsh natural conditions, resulting in local residents being unable to connect to communication networks. To address this issue, Huawei is dedicated to expanding the coverage of communication services through partnerships with worldwide operators, and has enabled more people in remote and undeveloped areas to experience these services. Ensuring network coverage in such areas requires hard work from our employees. For example, in the arctic region, our In order to maintain a base station on a remote mountain in Albania, a employees have to endure the freezing cold and endless Huawei employee had to trudge along the muddy road for several hours. darkness of the polar night, to install communications bridge for local people; in Vanuatu, an island nation located in the South Pacific, Huawei employees blazed trails through rain forests using machetes and overcame many hardships. Only after the trails were in place could optical cables be laid to link the 80 islands. In countries such as Afghanistan and Ecuador, Huawei employees remained at their posts during wars to ensure that local communication systems ran properly. Thanks to their efforts, Huawei made great contributions to expanding network coverage and enriching the lives of local people through communication. An ice covered Huawei base station in the Arctic Circle area of Finland. Driving Broadband Development to Expand Network Coverage Through the concerted efforts of global operators and its In terms of networks, in the next ten years, total network partners, Huawei customized low-cost, efficient system traffic will increase 75 times, while mobile broadband Bridging the Digital Divide equipment and terminal products in the international market. traffic will increase over 2,000 times, undoubtedly posing By providing cost-effective intelligent terminals for emerging challenges to wireless networks. To date, the challenges markets in Asia, Africa and South America, Huawei helped brought about by the network traffic increase have been popularize digital technologies, thus playing an important role well-managed. The impact of traffic bursts on networks is in bridging the digital divide and constructing a simple world alleviated by adopting new technologies that improve the in the digital era. frequency efficiency, obtaining new frequency resources, and constructing new hotspots. Huawei's Single network strategy will enable operators to cope with network traffic 100 times Member of the Broadband Commission for Digital 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report the current volume within the next ten years, thus meeting Development the requirements for future networks, namely larger capacity, In 2010, Huawei was invited by the ITU to become a telecom better performance and lower cost. provider representative for the Broadband Commission for Digital Development within the United Nations. Huawei is In terms of terminals, new generation smartphones have therefore able to discuss and formulate policies, guidelines, elevated the user experience to an unprecedented level, concepts and promotional measures for the development thereby stimulating consumption of mobile broadband of the broadband industry along with other leading global services. However, the high price of smartphones is the enterprises. biggest bottleneck obstructing the development of mobile broadband. To this point, past data shows that pricing the Two keys in unlocking the potential of mobile handset at USD175 brought about the explosion in mobile broadband phone users. In the mobile broadband era, the key to removing the bottleneck is to offer smartphones priced at It is estimated that mobile broadband users will grow ten USD150 and that deliver a quality user experience. Only good times – to nearly 3 billion – in the next five years. In the long user experience can stimulate consumption, and only a low 18 term, however, there are bottlenecks obstructing further price can guarantee sales. Huawei is committed to providing development of mobile broadband and a close partnership is affordable, entry-level smartphones with a good user needed across the ecosystem including services, networks and experience. In 2010, the shipment of Huawei smartphones devices. In terms of services and applications, mature internet reached 3 million units. applications and smartphones, which deliver a good user experience have dramatically increased demand. In September 2010, Huawei launched IDEOS, the world's first affordable smartphone with Google. The IDEOS, with Android As Mr. Guo Ping, Chief Strategy Officer of Huawei 2.2 (the most advanced platform at the time of launch) Technologies Co., Ltd. and Chairman of Huawei Device Co., pre-installed, is not only fast, but also supports functions Ltd., vividly depicted at the Mobile World Congress 2010 in such as voice dialing, voice navigation and the ability to Barcelona, Huawei's SingleRAN strategy and cost-effective run applications from a SD card. With more than 70,000 smartphones that deliver good user experience are two keys applications available in the Android market, the IDEOS to unlock the potential in the spring of mobile broadband . provides a wide range of communication, entertainment, office and financial management applications, presenting users with a wider and more colorful world. The IDEOS will be released in countries across Europe, Asia-Pacific and Americas and is priced between USD100 and USD200, enabling SingleRAN@Broad Solution more users to enjoy the convenience of a smartphone at an In 2008, Huawei addressed multi-mode convergence at the affordable price. equipment level by introducing the next generation base station platform. In 2009, this was expanded to address network convergence with Huawei’s SingleRAN solution which enabled Huawei IDEOS smart phones operators to achieve full convergence from equipment and sites to O&M systems, and significantly reduce network TCO and improve O&M efficiency. Huawei's SingleRAN@Broad solution, unveiled in 2010, further enables operators to cope with the rapid increase in mobile broadband traffic, reduce per bit cost, improve the user experience and promote the robust growth of the mobile broadband industry. Bangladesh: Deploying the national mobile network In 2010, Grameenphone, the largest mobile operator in Bridging the Digital Divide Bangladesh and a subsidiary of Telenor, chose Huawei's SingleRAN and SingleCore solutions to deploy, upgrade and expand the capacity of its mobile network on a large scale. As part of the third-year cooperation agreement, Huawei will deploy the world-class SingleRAN solution for Grameemphone, including the installation of thousands of next-generation base stations across the country. This will greatly help the country in its efforts to bridge the digital divide and enable 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Grameenphone users to experience excellent voice and enhanced data services, including mobile internet access and mobile streaming media. Continuing the Roll Out of the “Telecom Seeds for the Peru: Deploying ATCA-based CDMA Mobile Softswitch Solution Future” Project In 2010, Huawei partnered with Movistar Peru to announce Since its launch in 2008, the “Telecom Seeds for the Future” the successful deployment of the Advanced Telecom project has served as a platform for students from countries Computing Architecture (ATCA-based) CDMA mobile in Africa, Asia, the Middle East and Latin America to acquire softswitch solution in Peru. This deployment represents an telecom knowledge and master telecom skills. In 2010, important milestone in Movistar's strategy to develop a highHuawei continued its “Telecom Seeds for the Future” Project quality All-IP network. It significantly simplifies the network in Malaysia, the Philippines, Australia, Indonesia and Bolivia. 19 architecture and reduces operating expenditure (OPEX). As The activities organized by Huawei included donations of data part of Huawei's SingleCore strategy, the ATCA-based mobile communications equipment, the founding of training centers, softswitch solution features optimal capabilities for service and provision of hands-on training. These activities were expansion and smooth network evolution. It lays a solid supported and recognized by local governments. foundation for Movistar Peru's subsequent development of the convergence business and effectively protects the operator's current investments. Popularizing Communications Knowledge to Elevate Local Communications Expertise Huawei has established 36 training centers and over 20 R&D centers worldwide to develop and boost telecom talent in local communities. In addition, Huawei launched the Telecom Seeds for the Future program in an effort to bridge the digital divide in emerging markets. Nigeria: Sponsoring CITMC-3 In August 2010, Huawei was a major sponsor of the third African Thailand: “Telecom Seeds for the Future” Project Union Conference of Ministers in Charge of Communication and to Develop Telecom Talent Information Technologies (CITMC-3). The conference focused on the function of ICT in driving the African economy and the development In Thailand, Huawei's the “Telecom Seeds for the Future” project of ICT in Africa to bridge the digital divide. At the conference, Huawei for telecom majors at Chulalongkorn University, Kasetsart University, also set up a booth to showcase e-government solutions and terminal Mahidol University and Thammasat University provides the products and demonstrated the latest communications technologies opportunity to study cutting-edge telecom technologies, such as 3G so as to share knowledge and expertise with conference attendees. and LTE, thus preparing the students for the future work. Since the launch of the project in 2008, Huawei has delivered about 3,000 hours of training to local university students. Bridging the Digital Divide 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Australia: Establishing the Joint Training Center Indonesia: Funding the construction of Datacom with the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology Training Centers for the Ministry of Communication (RMIT) and Information and Bandung Institute of In 2010, Huawei helped the Australian government train talent for the Technology national broadband project. Huawei founded a joint training center in In 2010, Huawei invested considerable efforts in developing telecom collaboration with the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT) talent in Indonesia. Under the agreements signed with the Ministry to cultivate the backbone of Australia’s telecom industry and to of Communication and Information (MCI) of Indonesia and Bandung develop expertise in next-generation network technologies. The first Institute of Technology (ITB), Huawei founded two datacom training group of RMIT teachers arrived at Huawei headquarters in Shenzhen, centers. Approved by the MCI, Huawei datacom certification was China for training in December 2010. Huawei will eventually offer training to local engineers in Australia. In addition, Huawei also included in the certification system ratified by the government. Certified trainees now obtain certificates jointly issued by the MCI 20 collaborated with the Institute for a Broadband-Enabled Society (IBES) and Huawei, with the ITB including Huawei certification training in of the University of Melbourne to jointly set up a GPON lab. its curriculum. Huawei reimburses the examination fee for students who pass the certification exam to encourage students to participate in the certification training. Those who pass the exam are offered preferential employment opportunities as teachers so as to impart their knowledge to others. Huawei also provides training facilities and programs for teachers at the training centers. In addition, our staff offer assistance in operating the training centers by sharing their experience. The operating model of this successful program will be introduced in other Asia-Pacific countries in 2011 as a main pillar of Huawei's education program. The Philippines: IT-STAR Internship Program The IT-STAR Internship Program was jointly launched by delivers weekly technical lectures and invites training Huawei and Mapua Institute of Technology, a prestigious subcontractors to coach interns on specific projects. A communications university in the Philippines. The program mentoring system, where each mentor is assigned three is aimed at familiarizing students with state-of-the-art to four interns, provides the interns with the opportunity communication technologies and solutions so as to enable to learn from and interact with customers as they follow them to put theory into practice. Since 2009, nine training their mentors to meetings and engagements. sessions have been carried out. Huawei enrolled some 80 interns under this program in 2010, providing them with In 2011, Huawei will continue the IT-STAR Internship two to three months of training, during which Huawei Program and introduce it in other universities. Donating Communications Equipment to Expand Communications Network Coverage Huawei improved communications in local communities by providing the hardware necessary for the development Bridging the Digital Divide of telecom talent and elevation of communications skills in undeveloped areas. By narrowing the digital divide between poverty-stricken rural and urban areas, Huawei aims to enrich the lives of more people through communication. Huawei donated 100 computers to 11 primary and secondary schools in poverty-stricken areas near Hanoi, Vietnam, and 40 computers to Jianshan Farm Secondary School in Heilongjiang 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Province in China. Partnering with Safaricom, Huawei donated microwave equipment to Moi University (in Eldoret, 310 kilometers northwest of Nairobi, in Kenya) to facilitate understanding and knowledge, and promote technical transfer to electronic engineering students. Malaysia: Training Recent Graduates in Partnership with the Ministry of Science, Technology and In Kendrapara, Orissa, the most undeveloped and remote Innovations (MOSTI) area in India, Huawei provided free equipment and services, Huawei cooperated with the MOSTI of Malaysia and a third party including computers, backup power supply systems, network organization to train recent university graduates, by providing connections and IT training, to open a window to the world teaching resources, training courses and scholarships. In 2010, 87 graduates of ICT universities were offered such training. for school-age children through the internet. The hardware and infrastructure also provide the foundation for Huawei’s delivery of e-learning programs in the future. 21 Huawei also donated telecom lab equipment worth USD1 million to three national universities in Ghana, providing opportunities for the students to apply what they learn in the classroom to practical situations. In Uzbekistan, Huawei donated 50 computers, 400 CDMA fixed wireless terminals and 100 CDMA data cards to rural schools, providing underprivileged teenagers with access to knowledge and the outside world through the internet. Ms. Sun Yafang, Chairwoman of Huawei, shakes hands with Mr. Pierre Huawei donated 100 computers worth USD30,000 to 11 primary and secondary Simon, President of CCIP, at the signing ceremony schools in poverty-stricken areas near Hanoi, Vietnam. France: Cooperating with the Chambre de Commerce et d'Industrie de Paris Huawei signed a cooperation agreement with the Chambre de Commerce et d'Industrie de Paris (CCIP) to provide training opportunities in China for students selected by the CCIP. This agreement reinforces Huawei’s successful collaborations with the French telecom industry. Environmental Protection Environmental deterioration and accelerated global warming are posing great challenges to the sustainable development of the world economy. The telecom industry consumes significant amounts of energy, and this Environmental Protection consumption is on an upward trend. In such a context, energy saving and emission reduction measures become imperative. With environmental protection being one of the fundamental strategies for corporate development, Huawei actively communicates with customers about energy saving and environmental protection measures and closely collaborates with enterprises across the industry chain to build energy-efficient telecom networks. We actively 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report promote the sustainable development of the industry and thereby realize our Green Communications, Green Huawei, and Green World vision. Green Communications FTTH. In addition, Huawei analyzed the carbon efficiency (CO2 emission per unit bandwidth) in each of the preceding To help the telecom industry realize the goal of energy saving modes (FTTB, FTTC, and FTTH), providing a reference for the and emission reduction and to drive the development of a product usage in different scenarios. In addition, Huawei green telecom industry, Huawei exerts end-to-end control collaborated with TI to complete LCA analysis on solar sites over its products, promotes assessment of carbon emissions and conducted a comparative analysis of the environmental throughout the product lifecycle, and carries out technological impact of alternative energy-powered sites and sites adopting 22 innovations in energy saving and emission reduction. Huawei the traditional diesel-electric hybrid solution. is committed to developing green communications solutions that feature green sites, green equipment rooms, green Green Certification transmission and green energy. Huawei regards reducing the impact of products on the environment as one of the most important indices for evaluating product quality during product design and manufacturing. In addition, Huawei developed certification Signing the Voluntary Green Agreement standards for green products to evaluate the environmental In November 2010, Huawei signed the Voluntary Green Agreement performance of products in each phase of the lifecycle, such with the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT) of as raw material procurement, manufacturing, transportation, China in Beijing, promising to reduce the average energy consumption usage and waste treatment. The certification standards (AEC) per unit business volume of shipments by 35 percent of the – which cover all regulations, directives, standards and consumption level in 2009, by the end of 2012. requirements on energy efficiency, weight, packaging, harmful substance, recycling, noise and electromagnetic performance of products – have been adopted in Huawei's integrated product development (IPD) process. From September 28, Developing and using the Quick Lifecycle 2010, all newly-developed Huawei products are required to Assessment tool obtain this green certification, with nine products having been certificated as green products to date. By assessing products throughout the lifecycle, from raw material procurement to part and component manufacturing, Raw Material Management product processing, transportation and usage, and finally waste treatment and recycling, Huawei can determine the As a global corporate citizen with a high sense of social impact of each phase on the climate and environment and responsibility, Huawei adheres to environmental protection identify key influencing factors. This allows Huawei to pursue laws and regulations to restrict the use of hazardous corresponding activities that can alleviate the environmental substances in products. Huawei has created the Huawei impact of our business. Substance List to provide guidance and control the use of raw materials and components in the process of product In 2010, Huawei built a product environment database and manufacturing. In addition, Huawei is actively seeking developed a quick lifecycle assessment (Quick-LCA) tool based alternatives to reduce the use of hazardous chemical on this database, which effectively supports the LCA and materials. continuous improvement of products. In partnership with Telecom Italia (TI), Huawei completed the first LCA analysis Huawei closely monitors changes in environmental report on FTTx network deployment, and reduced product protection statutes and policies, such as the release of REACH energy consumption and CO2 emissions for FTTB, FTTC and (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and restriction of Chemicals) and SVHC (Substances of Very High Concern), ■ Green Base Station and responds promptly to any changes. Since 2005, the Huawei has made continued commitments to optimize energy Environmental Protection categories of hazardous substances on the Huawei Substance saving technologies. The company continues to improve List have increased from six to 25. In addition, 29 categories core technologies and application technologies for power of reportable substances were added. amplifiers, power supply, software and algorithms through self-developed Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) to In 2010, Huawei developed a suite of halogen-free radio reduce the power consumption of base stations. In addition, communication products that are free of polyvinyl chloride Huawei has developed multiple software features, such as (PVC), brominated flame retardants (BFRs) and chlorinated power control, discontinuous transmission (DTX), intelligent flame retardants (CFRs), and will begin mass production of carrier shutdown, intelligent time slot shutdown and 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report these halogen-free radio communication products in 2011. intelligent voltage regulating, to reduce the operating power required by base stations. Frequent technical advancements In addition to reducing toxic and hazardous substances in its continue to reduce the power consumption of base stations, products, Huawei continues to improve its use of ordinary which saves large quantities of power and greatly reduces materials by enhancing the utilization of raw materials, CO2 emissions. reducing the unit consumption of natural resources, and seeking environmentally friendly alternative materials and processes. 190 170 Power consumption From 2010, as a result of measures adopted to reduce the 150 weight of equipment, the annual consumption of steel and 130 copper by Huawei will be reduced by 3,000 tons and 800 110 per carrier (W) tons respectively. Through enhancements in design, high 90 strength steel is now used in our equipment, thus minimizing 70 23 welding operations. 50 2007 2008 2009 2010 In addition, Huawei urges its suppliers to adopt efficient GSM WCDMA CDMA laser welding, phosphate-free surface treatments and recyclable packaging technologies. All these mean that power consumption trend of radio access equipment consumption during manufacturing by Huawei’s suppliers can be reduced by 30 million kWh, water consumption reduced ■ Broadband Access by 44,250 tons, fuel oil consumption reduced by 600 tons, With a three-fold green design, featuring low heat emissions, packaging materials reduced by 500 tons and CO2 emissions thermal dissipation and heat resistance, a Huawei millionreduced by 42,000 tons annually. node green broadband network can save more than 200 million kWh of power per year – the annual power Energy Saving and Emission Reduction Design and consumption of roughly 250,000 households in China. Over Application the next three years, the average energy consumption of Huawei is committed to developing energy-efficient user ports of Huawei access networks will be reduced by and environmentally-friendly products. We continue to 30 percent1, which is equivalent to saving 700 million kWh enhance the energy efficiency of products and develop from newly-added equipment or 5.9 million tons of carbon and utilize alternative energy through constant innovation emissions and improvements. The company has developed diverse technological measures and put these into practice to help telecom operators reduce their energy consumption and 3 carbon emissions. 2.5 Energy-efficient Design 2 1.5 Through lifecycle assessment of our equipment, Huawei has discovered that the carbon emissions of communications 1 products are mainly generated by base stations used for 0.5 mobile networks and broadband access devices used for 0 fixed networks. Wireless sites and broadband/narrowband 2007 2008 2009 2010 access sites generate a large proportion of carbon emissions. ADSL VDSL According to data analysis of a number of customers’ networks, Huawei has found that the power consumption of Power consumption trend of broadband access equipment wireless sites accounts for more than 70 percent of a mobile operator’s total network power consumption. In comparison, 1 As of 2010, the power used by each ADSL user port is 0.97 W and that by each VDSL user the access section of fixed networks consumes less power, at port is 1.28 W. 40 percent or higher of total consumption. Alternative Energy Solutions With the promotion and application of these green Huawei's alternative energy solutions include harnessing solar packaging solutions and continuous improvement in related Environmental Protection power, solar and diesel hybrid power, wind and solar hybrid technologies, Huawei’s total shipment of products in green power, and wind, solar, and diesel hybrid solution. Given that packaging exceeded 40,000 pieces in 2010, resulting in a these solutions can be tailored to meet customers' diversified reduction of annual timber usage by 6,100 cubic meters and demands and local climates, they can reduce the TCO as well carbon emissions by 12,000 tons. as meet energy saving and emission reduction requirements. In 2010, a total of 8,000 hybrid-energy powered stations 100% (including those running on diesel-electricity and recyclable 80000 75000 100.0% 100% 90% 84.5% resources) were deployed. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 70000 80.0% 80% 60000 65% 61% 50000 60.0% 60% 40138 Packaging and Logistics 40000 42.3% 48.0% 29834 40.0% 40% Green Packaging 30000 20000 Huawei has formulated a 6Rs1D strategy, comprising 10000 20.0% 20% 280 0.4% Right (a reasonable design which centers on correct and 0 0.0% 0% appropriately-sized packaging), Reduce, Returnable, Reuse, 2008 2009 2010 2011* 2008 2009 2010 2011* 2008 2009 2010 2011* Recycle, Recovery and Degradable. In addition, in line with Shipments Recycle rate Shipment proportion green packaging standards, Huawei implements systematic development, application and promotion of two core green packaging solutions that feature returnable frames and 25000 returnable pallets. By reducing weight and size, Huawei reduces the use of packaging materials and the overall cost of packaging and transportation through efficient packaging 20000 24 designs. We also improved and extended the lifecycle of materials, including recycling and reuse of energy, by 15000 promoting environmentally-friendly and recyclable packaging as well as building and optimizing an effective recycle system. 10000 In 2008, Huawei in partnership with China Mobile developed a metal returnable frame and visualized packaging solution. 5000 Essentially a reusable packaging unit, the solution is made from recyclable wood substitute materials and leverages visualized packaging technology in the way it is assembled, 0 2008 2009 2010 2011* standardized and designed. The solution when used on a universal logistics platform, reduces the consumption of Timber consumption (m ) 3 CO2 emissions reduced (t) natural resources in the packaging and logistics phases. Positive results from green packaging Huawei has also developed two additional green packaging solutions featuring metal returnable pallets and plastic Note: Figures for 2011 are forecast values. returnable boxes. The contributions of Huawei's green packaging solutions to energy saving and emission reduction efforts, and the company’s promotion of resource-efficient industry chains have been recognized by the industry. Huawei received the Silver Award of PackStar by China Packaging Federation in 2009, the WorldStar Award for Packaging Excellence by the World Packaging Organization (WPO) in 2009, the WPO Warehousing Transportation WorldStar Sustainability Award 2009 Gold, and the China Green Technology Innovation in Telecom Award in 2009– 2010 by the China Energy Conservation Innovation Forum on ccidcom.com. Huawei will continue to implement green packaging solutions to save materials and reduce power consumption across a broader scope and in more regions to generate greater Recycling Dismantling economic and social benefits. 10000 100 8021.6 8000 6850.8 80 75 68.2 Environmental Protection 64.4 6000 60 Tons % 4000 40 2000 20 0 0 2009 2010 2009 2010 Total shipment of overseas Container space Logistics model supply centers utilization rate optimization rate 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report In 2011, Huawei will continue to promote the end-to-end Green Logistics model optimization project in other countries across South Given Huawei’s continued growth internationally, the Pacific, Southeast Asia, Latin America and CIS, aiming to company has attached increasing importance to direct cover 90 percent of shipment regions worldwide. In addition, shipment of goods, with the aim of shortening the logistics Huawei will continue to optimize its business model and cycle and reducing transportation distance. By 2010, Huawei strategy, as well as build on our experience to expand the established four supply centers in Europe, Brazil, India and application of green logistics solutions. Mexico and 116 national spare parts centers. Goods shipped from overseas supply centers reached over 8,020 tons, Treatment, Recycling, and Reuse of Electronic Waste an increase of 17 percent from 2009. We anticipate that As a leading telecom solutions provider, Huawei takes our shipments from these supply centers will increase further as responsibility for electronic waste treatment seriously. Huawei they are utilized to full capacity in future. strictly complies with the EU Waste Electrical and Electronic 25 Equipment Directive (WEEE Directive) and electronic waste Huawei’s global supply network not only improves delivery management regulations enacted by different countries and operational efficiency but also significantly reduces worldwide. In addition, the company has established a system the impact of line haul on the environment. For example, for electronic waste recycling and reuse. In 2010, Huawei it previously took about seven days to ship goods from our disposed of about 5,000 tons of electronic waste worldwide. headquarters in Shenzhen, China to Northeast Europe by air, By dismantling waste electronic equipment and extracting or about 38 days by sea. Now, it takes only four days to ship useful materials from these wastes, we were able to circulate goods from Huawei’s European Supply Center to the same 96 percent of raw materials for reuse, with the remainder destination, thus greatly reducing supply and transportation being incinerated or sent to landfills. costs, as well as energy consumption. Huawei adopts a systematic approach to manage the disposal Huawei has optimized each step of the end-to-end logistics of electronic waste. Huawei has a scrap disposal center at its model in 129 countries across Europe, Africa, Asia-Pacific headquarters in Shenzhen, and has also jointly established (including China), South America, Middle East and North regional scrap disposal platforms worldwide with waste Africa, North America and Central America. The logistics service providers in Latin America, Europe, Africa, Asia-Pacific quantity in these regions accounts for 75 percent of Huawei’s and China. In 2010, by integrating waste treatment resources global total. By optimizing the model, the logistics cycle was in Latin America, Europe and Asia-Pacific, Huawei reduced shortened by 17 percent, resulting in a 16 percent reduction the number of waste service providers that it works with by in end-to-end logistics costs against the previous year. half. By optimizing the use of waste treatment platforms and Furthermore, by optimizing the logistics network, fully loading selecting qualified service providers, Huawei is able to dispose containers, and reducing the number of half-filled containers of wastes generated worldwide, especially hazardous wastes and the quantity of goods shipped on an LCL (less than such as batteries, in a secure and eco-friendly manner. container load) basis, the company succeeded in reducing the number of warehouses by 17 percent – from 95 to 79 – in In line with our vision of “green communications” and countries where the end-to-end logistics model was adopted. through our collaboration with service providers, Huawei As a result, the warehouse area was reduced by 38 percent ensures that electronic waste goes through proper and secure and the global container space utilization rate increased from treatment channels. An example of Huawei's commitment 64 percent to 68 percent, generating cost savings of USD4.3 to waste treatment can be seen in the Asia-Pacific region million. where a regional waste treatment model was put in place in 2008. Huawei has developed and implemented a waste Huawei has adopted low-cost transportation solutions, such disposal IT system for scrap delivery, handover, dismantling as sea-air and air-truck transportation, in multiple countries and extraction of useful materials from scrap, and account including Ghana, Nigeria, Cambodia, Peru and U.K. These settlement for the region to ensure that scrap reaches secure low-cost transportation solutions have replaced airfreight, and environmentally-friendly waste treatment channels in a lowered transportation costs and reduced CO2 emissions. safe and efficient manner. Product Health and Safety centrifugal fans, Huawei developed the NRM module, which Electromagnetic Radiation Safety has been patented and rolled out in the market. In addition, Environmental Protection the soon to be launched zero noise network box and Huawei is aware of and concerned about potential health active noise cancellation module will expand the applicable problems that may be caused by electromagnetic radiation. As scope of the NRM module, enhancing noise cancellation such, we have established rigorous internal control procedures capability and making way for the technology required to for product design, testing and installation to ensure that develop high-power noise reduction cabinets. For products all wireless communications products meet the safety used in residential areas and building corridors, Huawei requirements of national and international electromagnetic conducted research on application scenarios and devised radiation regulations. evaluation methods for noise muffling and reverberation 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report field amplification. Based on research findings, the company Huawei has adopted strict measures to ensure that when used developed a site selection guide so as to minimize the impact properly, wireless terminals designed, manufactured and sold of product noise on people’s lives and health. by Huawei meet local, regional and international radiation safety statutes. The company has set up a professional specific absorption rate (SAR) test lab to guarantee that products meet the requirements of SAR regulations during design and manufacturing phases. Huawei’s user manuals for wireless terminals indicate the specific electromagnetic radiation of products and provide corresponding radiation Man-machine Engineering Design in Huawei protection measures. In addition, some Huawei handsets are Products subjected to the hearing aid compatibility (HAC) test required Huawei considers it our responsibility and obligation to make by international statutes to ensure that these handsets do not products safe before they reach end users. To this end, Huawei interfere with hearing aids. This safeguards the physical safety set up a man-machine engineering design team to deliver on our and personal interests of hearing impaired people when using concept of scenario-specific designs and product safety. This concept 26 is considered throughout the R&D process from product planning to our handsets. design, as well as development and testing. Usage scenarios including the environment where products are used and user skill levels, habits, When constructing wireless base stations, Huawei strictly and behaviors when they use the product are analyzed and collated adheres to the electromagnetic radiation standards and to inform product design. Currently, Huawei has collected data on usage scenarios from major operators in 12 countries across North environment impact evaluation specifications set forth in all America, Europe, Africa and Asia. From these scenarios, Huawei countries and regions. The company also actively supports has gained a comprehensive understanding of local engineering telecom operators and governments in Asia and Latin conditions and user habits. America in optimizing their electromagnetic radiation safety supervision systems, thus ensuring that customers enjoy safe Innovative scenario-specific designs ensure that Huawei products are easy to use and install. In addition, based on in-depth understanding mobile communications services. In addition, the company gained from various scenarios, Huawei is able to adapt designs and cooperates with our customers in instilling the concept of tailor products to cater to local engineering requirements and skill green and safe communications. levels. These measures effectively support product design and project Huawei also invests in global research on electromagnetic delivery, and are the reasons why Huawei’s products enjoy an radiation safety, actively participating in fundamental studies excellent record in health and security, and are recognized by leading in this field and the formulation of national and international operator customers worldwide. They are also why Huawei is the electromagnetic radiation standards. Standardization leader in health and security product design, and fares better on organizations that Huawei has joined or is involved in related customer satisfaction indexes than our peers. studies with include the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) and China Communications Standards Association (CCSA). Noise Control In response to low noise requirements from its customers, Huawei has built a world-class noise control center to provide Huawei’s user-friendly design the most competitive and advanced noise reduction solutions. minimizes psychological burden on residents living near With an advanced noise testing and analysis system and the base station testing environment as well as professional noise experts, Huawei is able to deliver equipment that meets or exceeds national and international noise standards and statutes for telecom equipment. For high-power outdoor equipment using Green Huawei: Production and Operation Legal Compliance: Environment Management System Huawei controls energy consumption in production and Huawei establishes, implements and maintains the operations through the implementation of energy saving Environmental Protection environment, health and security (EHS) system worldwide, projects, effective management and measures aimed at saving in line with the ISO14001 standard, and has set up an EHS energy and reducing emissions. In 2010, Huawei introduced Committee and various teams across the company to manage a series of measures to reduce power consumption on our EHS system. By doing so, Huawei has systematically our premises, including 11 energy saving projects such as identified and controlled potential environmental hazards to temperature and lighting system controls for offices, running prevent environmental deterioration and pollution. As part of mode regulation for cooling tower fans and coolers, exhaust our efforts to reduce energy consumption and promote green fan optimization, and fume hood and pump room frequency communications, Huawei continues to develop technologies conversion. Huawei was able to save 820,000 kWh of 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report for cleaner and more efficient production. Huawei’s EHS electrical power, which amounted to a saving of CNY 620,000 system has been certified by third-party industry associations in energy expenses. in key regions. At our R&D labs and administration offices, Huawei harnesses Green Production and Operation various energy saving measures, such as cloud office, iTools and powering down idle equipment in labs and in-service Huawei attaches great importance to environmental equipment, to reduce consumption and in turn reduce the protection, energy savings and emission reductions, and has impact of our operations on the environment. implemented measures to reduce energy consumption during production and operation. In addition, Huawei promotes Waste Management environmental protection measures within the company so that energy efficiency and environmental protection are integrated into our operations and actions. By implementing energy saving and consumption reduction programs, Huawei Cloud Office 27 saved CNY7.93 million – or 9.75 million kWh in terms of In 2010, Huawei introduced pilot projects on cloud computing and power and close to 9,300 tons in CO2 emissions – in the agile development for business handling in the Shanghai Research production phase last year. Center and the Nanjing Research Center. Cloud offices offer fast and convenient access, secure and reliable data storage, green business handling, and energy savings and carbon emission reductions. Energy Consumption The thin clients (TCs) in a cloud office generate no noise and low The main types of energy consumed by Huawei include radiation, providing a comfortable and healthy work environment. In addition, the power consumption of a TC is less than 20 W, which electricity, gas and diesel oil. Electrical energy consumption means it radiates low heat and generates a 71 percent reduction in accounts for over 90 percent of the total energy consumption power consumption. Currently, virtual machines (VMs) have been (based on standard coal conversion from various types of assigned to 8,100 employees. Similar projects will be subsequently energy). In 2010, Huawei’s total CO2 emissions in China was implemented at the Beijing Research Center and the USA Research center, with 1,200 additional VMs to be assigned in 2011. about 532,600 tons, representing a 9.4 percent reduction in CO2 emission per unit sales revenue over that in 2009. Energy Saving Measures Energy Unit of CO2 Emission 2009 2010 Source Measure Coefficient Natural gas Ton 2592.5 2777.6 2.184/ton Gasoline Ton 520 556 2.985/ton Diesel oil Ton 40 60 3.159/ton KWh in 10 48945 55000 9.54/ton Electricity thousands Total CO2 Ton 474275.9 532615.5 --Cloud office emission Note: CO2 emission coefficients are based on the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (China Statistics Press, 2008) Green World: Supporting a Sustainable Economy Waste generated by Huawei includes recyclable solid wastes Huawei is committed to developing and promoting more ICT (paper, scrap metal, plastic and scrap assets), dangerous applications to the transportation, construction, electrical Environmental Protection wastes (scrap PCBs, used solvent bottles, used mineral oil and power generation and energy industries by providing solvent-laden rags), and general wastes (household refuse and network solutions to reduce activities that generate intensive production waste). greenhouse gas emissions or improve efficiency of such activities. These solutions reduce the energy demands of the Huawei has garbage rooms and dangerous waste depots industries and enable them to meet energy saving and carbon in each office building and production base. In office and emission reduction requirements, thus contributing to an production areas, dustbins and used battery recycle bins are energy-efficient and environmentally–friendly economy and available. Recyclable waste such as paper, scrap assets and society. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report furniture is placed in recyclable resource collection stations or shipped back to manufacturers for treatment. Used batteries Active Participation in Industry Associations and and dangerous waste generated in facility maintenance and Relevant Researches production are turned over to qualified service providers for Leading international organizations, such as the United professional treatment and disposal. Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and World Economic Forum (WEF), are exploring In 2010, Huawei's Shenzhen and Dongguan production ways to lower carbon emissions and to leverage ICT in bases generated a total of 780 tons of recyclable waste and developing society in a low carbon manner. As a member 175 tons of dangerous waste. These wastes were treated by of many of these global organizations, Huawei has been qualified waste management service providers according to working with our partners to realize the common goal of requirements by the Chinese government, thereby alleviating a green world and to deliver on the promise of a green negative impact on the environment. communications industry. Smart Grid Steering Board Member 28 In early 2010, Huawei was recommended by the WEF to become a member and ICT representative of the Smart Grid Steering Board. Our membership allows Huawei to partner with other leading enterprises in urging the global power industry to implement energy saving and carbon emission reduction measures. Host of the China Green Economic Growth Forum In October 2010, Huawei jointly hosted the China Green Economic Growth Forum with the French-based China Institute. More than 360 leaders from the National Assembly, the Senate, large industrial and commercial enterprises, mainstream media, and prestigious universities in France were invited to the forum. At the forum, Huawei shared its best practices and efforts in green communications and environmental protection and conducted in-depth exchanges on new models of cooperation for eco-friendly and sustainable development, with other participants. The China Green Economic Growth Forum held in the Hugo Meeting Hall of National Assembly Building of France Participation in the Asian Climate Leaders Symposium Another important function of the smart grid is to facilitate In December 2010, Japan Climate Leaders' Partnership (Japanthe introduction of new or alternative energy, which can Environmental Protection CLP) organized the Asian Climate Leaders Symposium. Huawei potentially reduce carbon emissions of the power grid to attended the symposium with other enterprises from Japan, almost zero. Huawei provides green energy solutions for South Korea and Hong Kong where representatives actively communications networks, including solar energy and wind contributed to discussions on the role that private enterprises energy base stations that have been deployed worldwide. should play towards a low carbon society. Under the Energy 2.0 framework, the power grid can, through intelligent means, connect recyclable energy sources Promotion of Industry Solutions generated by consumers. By deploying the smart grid, we meet the energy requirements of communications equipment, 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Among all high energy consuming industries, the electrical and transfer the remaining power to the public grid, thereby power and transportation industries, due to their heavy serving the public and realizing the green energy goal. dependency on traditional energy sources and low energy utilization efficiency, are especially encumbered with high Intelligent Transportation and Logistics power consumption. However, by effectively leveraging ICT, even the electrical power and transportation industries can Transportation and logistics is another industry that consumes consume less energy. a great amount of power, particularly petroleum. To help the industry reduce energy consumption, telecom solution Smart Grid providers can provide more intelligent scheduling and logistics solutions, such as railway communications, intelligent Given that the electric power industry is usually the biggest expressway scheduling network, and GPS-based positioning consumer of primary energy, it should assume responsibility and scheduling. Over the years, Huawei and its subsidiaries for power conservation and promoting best practices across have developed various integrated solutions for multiple industries. Therefore, the smart grid has become a national transportation sectors. In 2005, Huawei worked on intelligent 29 strategy in many countries even though it is currently logistics and intelligent expressway system monitoring projects deployed on a trial basis only. in Zhejiang and Jiangsu, China. Since then, Huawei has deployed various smart city solutions incorporating intelligent At present, Huawei has conducted significant experimental logistics and intelligent traffic surveillance in dozens of cities work in China, Asia-Pacific and North America in the area of at home and abroad. smart grids. In China, Huawei worked with the China Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) to optimize communications The rapid expansion of mobile subscriber bases in developing standards for power generation facilities and explore countries, the construction of FTTx broadband networks in solutions, including wireless and wired power distribution developed countries, and the constant improvement of mobile automation (DA). For example, in Dalian, Huawei deployed bandwidth will continue to result in new requirements for a wired access (optical network) and radio access (WiMAX) network construction. Furthermore, the addition of in-service solution, to help Liaoning Electric Power Co. Ltd. develop equipment will lead to more carbon emissions and higher innovations in DA. Huawei, in collaboration with EPRI, built an financial pressure. As such, operators, equipment vendors and experimental platform that integrated xPON and the power other relevant parties will need to develop new solutions to consumption information collection function. generate reductions in emissions and costs. Huawei also participates in pilot programs for smart grid Huawei is committed to the following: projects at home and abroad, with emphasis placed on areas such as advanced metering infrastructure (AMI) and DA. 1. Improve the energy efficiency of products, thus helping Huawei continues to optimize its products and solutions by operators to reduce TCO while reducing carbon emissions. applying advanced communications methods and approaches to the power generation business and adapting these to meet 2. Conduct closed-loop management in the supply chain the special requirements of the electric power industry. to control the environmental impact of equipment during manufacturing and transportation. Thanks to the peak load shifting function, the smart grid can significantly reduce power consumption in construction 3. Cooperate with operators to launch more convenient and and production, which in turn reduces carbon emissions. In practical ICT applications so as to reduce unnecessary business Shenzhen, Huawei conducted a test with experts from the trips and material turnover, as well as to actively promote the electric power sector which proved that the implementation use of clean energies to reduce carbon emissions of society.2 of a smart grid can reduce the capital expenditure (CAPEX) by CNY 600 million, operating expenditure (OPEX) by 10 percent, and carbon emissions by about 5 percent annually. In the past two years, Huawei has helped the State Grid Corporation of China implement 30 smart grid pilot projects. Huawei was also involved in similar projects in Canada. 2 Huawei White Paper on Energy Saving and Emission Reduction Supply Chain Supply Chain CSR Management Policy and Strategic Goals Huawei has implemented ethical and green sourcing methods 2. Formulating a Supplier CSR Agreement and improved CSR management in the supply chain to ensure that product procurement meets CSR requirements: In 2010, Huawei formulated a Supplier CSR Agreement that includes labor standards, occupational safety and 1. Improve CSR awareness and management capability health standards, environmental standards, business ethics, Supply Chain of suppliers to encourage sustainable development of the CSR management system requirements, and sub-supplier industry chain. management requirements. In 2011, the company will urge global suppliers to sign Supplier CSR Agreements to 2. Urge suppliers to establish a CSR management system and strengthen the CSR management of suppliers. assist them in improving critical CSR fields so as to reduce risks 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report to suppliers, Huawei and our customers, and bring benefits to 3. Establishing the Supplier CSR Management Department stakeholders including the employees of suppliers. In 2010, Huawei established the Supplier CSR Management 3. Urge suppliers to comply with CSR standards and Department and employed international renowned CSR encourage them to require the same from their suppliers. experts to share expertise and boost capabilities of our CSR team. The Supplier CSR Management Department is responsible for the management of global suppliers and reports directly to the Chief Procurement Officer (CPO). Some 240 full-time and part-time CSR officers are responsible for Huawei’s procurement globally, with a CSR officer appointed to each procurement functional team and regional procurement branch. 4. Optimizing Processes and Policies 30 Huawei optimized the CSR Emergency Handling Process and revised the Supplier CSR Certification Standard and Report Template, the Supplier CSR Audit and Improvement Tracking Template, the Scoring Criteria on Supplier Environment and Supply Chain CSR Management System CSR, and the Guide to Supplier CSR Audit. In 2010, Huawei optimized the supply chain CSR management 5. CSR Training and Skill Enhancement system by establishing the Supplier CSR Management Department and inviting CSR experts to define organizational Huawei developed and trained over 110 SQE and TQC on responsibilities, improve processes and policies, develop CSR Basic Knowledge (V3.0). The company also optimized Supplier CSR Agreements, and enhance the professionalism of the Supplier CSR Auditing Methods and Skills, and trained 24 the qualification team. CEG and TQC. To date, 140 engineers have achieved the CSR internal auditor qualification, close to 110 have received the Supplier CSR New Supplier Performance Quarterly Appraisal Strategy CSR Certification OHSAS18001 internal auditor certificates, 110 have received Organization the ISO14001 internal auditor certificates, over 100 have SA8000 Supplier CSR R T-Technology ISO14001 Managementt Q-Quality received the SA8000 internal auditor certificates, and 16 have Implementation Procedure R-Response OHSAS18001 Business Ethics C-Cost achieved the senior CSR auditor qualification. Skills E-Environment ISO26000 S-Social responsibility Huawei also invited external training organizations to provide EHS training to engineers who manage sub-contractors. To date, more than 60 engineers have obtained EHS 1. Strengthening CSR Management management certificates. In 2010, Huawei made CSR a prerequisite for new suppliers. 6. CSR Data Management Suppliers unable to meet CSR requirements are rejected, regardless of other conditions they are able to offer. In In 2010, Huawei continued optimizing the Supplier CSR Risk addition, Huawei conducts an annual CSR risk assessment Assessment Tools to assess and record supplier CSR risk levels. and random CSR inspections of all our suppliers. Huawei Under the Supplier Corrective Action Request tracking and has reduced order values or even ceased cooperation with management system, Huawei classified the CSR problems of suppliers who have serious CSR issues. suppliers and urged them to correct and mitigate any risks to ensure that suppliers meet CSR requirements. Supplier CSR Management Summary Highlights 1. Supplier CSR Risk Assessment 3. Green Procurement In 2010, Huawei used the CSR Risk Assessment Tools to assess Huawei signed the Green Procurement Agreement with the CSR risks of 670 key suppliers worldwide and found the Shenzhen Municipal Administration for Environmental that 2.1 percent were high-risk suppliers, 11.2 percent were Protection (SMAEP), promising that the company will optimize medium-risk, and 86.7 percent were low-risk. Based on these the management of green supply chain and implement Supply Chain results, Huawei adopted various measures to successfully green procurement. According to the agreement, SMAEP manage supplier CSR risks. will provide Huawei with lists of heavily polluting enterprises, enterprises with good environmental performance, and those with poor environmental performance on a regular basis. Supplier CSR Risk level Number of Suppliers Percentage Huawei will purchase products or services preferentially from 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report High risk 14 2.1 enterprises with good environmental performance and stop Medium risk 75 11.2 purchasing products or services from enterprises violating environmental protection regulations. In addition, Huawei Low risk 581 86.7 will establish a green procurement qualification system to Total 670 100 promote supply of green products or services by enterprises upstream of the supply chain. 1000 4. Huawei Green Partner Program Environmental protection continues to be Huawei's focus in supplier CSR management. In 2010, Huawei continued the implementation of the Huawei Green Partner (HW GP) program. The program's certification standards cover all regulations, directives, standards, and requirements related to 0 environmental protection. Its goal is to ensure that all product 31 High risk Medium risk Low risk parts and materials meet environmental protection laws, Number of suppliers regulations, and customer requirements. In 2010, 31 suppliers passed the certification and became 2. Supplier CSR Certification, Audit, and Improvement Huawei's green partners. The HW GP program encourages Tracking innovations in energy saving and carbon emission reduction to In 2010, Huawei focused its CSR audit and improvement build green supply chains and reduce adverse environmental tracking on 178 suppliers, including the CSR certification impact of the entire production chain. for 18 new suppliers, on-spot CSR audits for 42 suppliers in cooperation with Huawei, and CSR problem tracking and resolution for 136 suppliers. Under the Supplier Corrective Action Request tracking and management system, 60 suppliers resolved their CSR problems and dramatically reduced their CSR risks. Accordingly, Huawei increased the order values of 26 suppliers who had good CRS performance by 16 to 30 percent, reduced the order values of 16 supplies that had CSR problems by 10 to 40 percent, and ceased cooperation with eight suppliers who failed to resolve CSR problems within a pre-defined period. Huawei also encouraged 270 suppliers to complete their CSR annual report in 2010. Award ceremony for Huawei Green Partners at the Huawei Supplier CSR Conference held on July 2, 2010 Supplier CSR Audit Scores Number of Suppliers 91–100 10 5. Subcontractor Management 81–90 21 In 2010, Huawei established and signed the subcontractor 71–80 19 EHS agreement with 123 subcontractors, and conducted 61–70 10 over 5,200 audits on subcontractors' CSR/EHS systems and engineering sites. In addition, the company trained and Total 60 tested EHS officers on major projects for major accounts Appendix 2: 2010 Supplier CSR Certification Scores such as Vodafone and Telenor. More than 60 officers received EHS management certificates. At the end of 2010, Huawei’s operations in 22 countries passed the OHSAS18001 certification. 6. 2010 Supplier CSR Conference 7. Customers and CSR Cooperation Huawei’s annual Key Supplier CSR Training Conference in Huawei held CSR seminars with British Telecom, Vodafone, 2010 emphasized the need for environmental protection, France Telecom, and Norway’s Telenor to share experiences energy saving and emission reduction, health and safety, and and discuss measures to improve cooperation and address social responsibility. In addition to 170 CEOs and leaders from CSR challenges. The agenda for the 2010 CSR seminars Supply Chain 170 key suppliers and partners, senior management and CSR included: experts from operators such as British Telecom, Deutsche Telekom, Vodafone and France Telecom, attended the ■ Supplier CSR agreement conference. ■ Supplier CSR risk management and control ■ Sub-supplier CSR management 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report In his speech at the conference, Mr. Xu Zhijun, Executive ■ ISO26000 standards Vice President of Huawei, stated: Huawei attaches great ■ Joint CSR review importance to CSR, and has integrated it into the corporate ■ Quarterly communication organization, its processes, and its marketing. In fact, CSR is the DNA for Huawei's sustainable development. Additionally, Huawei actively conducted joint assessments with customers (JAC). Huawei conducted 18 JACs with our Emphasizing the importance of supplier CSR management, Mr. suppliers, through which the company gained a deeper Peng Zhiping, Senior Vice President of Huawei and President understanding of customer CSR requirements. of the Huawei Procurement Qualification Management Department, said: Huawei will continue to dedicate itself to The CPO of Huawei was also invited by Vodafone to attend the fulfillment of our global social responsibilities and stand the Project H&S Conference in Luxembourg as a special firm by the policy of sourcing with social accountability. representative. Additionally, we will reinforce our CSR building to guide and encourage supply chain CSR management and promote the In April, David Mu, one of Huawei’s supply chain CSR experts, sustainable development of the industry's supply chain. attended the Switch-Asia Program meeting held in Qingdao. 32 Mr. Mu delivered a speech entitled Green Huawei and Green Mr. Yin Xuquan, Senior Vice President of Huawei, stated in Supply Chain , which was highly regarded by attendees. his closing speech: Huawei will continue to encourage CSR The Switch-Asia Program was launched by the European strategies and CSR industrial standards and urge all suppliers Union in 2009 to promote sustainable consumption and to understand the importance of CSR and comply with CSR production, and enhance sustainable growth and alleviate requirements in their daily operation. Furthermore, we will poverty. As a member of GeSI, Huawei participates in the develop annual CSR plans and goals and intensify our efforts Switch-Asia Program, and partnered with Deutsche Telekom to improve CSR management and reduce CSR risks. to offer support for this program. As part of the company’s commitment to the program, Huawei has also invited some of our suppliers to participate. People Huawei deems dedicated employees as the foundation for the company’s sustained development and ensures that the hard work of its employees is rewarded in accordance with their performance and contributions. We provide a complete health and safety assurance system, as well as a comprehensive training and development program for our employees. Huawei also attaches high importance to the psychological health and well-being of its employees by providing support for employee issues through multiple internal communication channels and by offering a wide range of activities to enrich their leisure life. People Employee Overview and Management System 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report As of the end of December 2010, Huawei has over 110,000 14% individuals from 150 countries. About 46 percent of our employees are engaged in R&D and 31 percent are in sales 8% and services. Some 69 percent of employees working in our Products and Solutions overseas offices and operations are locals. More information 1% Sales about our employees, please refer to Appendix I “Key Service 46% Strategy & Marketing Performance Index” Manufacturing & Delivery Others Diversity 0% % 20% Currently, Huawei has branch offices in over 140 countries around the world. While Huawei globalizes its business, 11 1% 11% the company is also committed to the localization of its 33 operations. Huawei's employees come from 150 countries Professional Fields of Employees and regions (including China), and the number of foreign employees reached over 21,700 (as of December 31, 2010), accounting for 19.4 percent of the total workforce. 67% 65% 69% In 2010, Huawei enhanced its localization efforts. The localization rate of employees in our overseas offices increased from 65 percent in 2009 to 69 percent in 2010. Managerial positions are also available to foreign employees, enhancing 21.18% 23% 21.8% the diversity of the management team. Non-Discrimination 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Huawei’s equal opportunity policy is reflected in our recruitment process. Huawei will not tolerate discrimination on Localization rate of employees Percentage of female employees the grounds of race, gender, geographical origin, nationality, working overseas age, pregnancy or disability in recruiting employees. We have also adopted an anti-discrimination policy and will meet local labor laws and regulations. Assistance for the Physically Disadvantaged We take into consideration the special needs of physically disadvantaged employees and provide necessary facilities, including specially designed corridors and washing rooms. Child Labor Huawei strictly abides by laws and regulations and explicitly bans the use of child labor. We have established rigorous labor recruitment and employment procedures to ensure there is no child labor throughout our business operation. Compensation and Benefits Employee Participation in Company Management Huawei not only adheres to the local minimum wage laws In December 2010, 61,359 Huawei employees, accounting for and regulations but also implements a very competitive 95.5 percent of employees who participated in the Employee compensation system. To boost Huawei’s position as an shareholding scheme, elected 51 shareholding employee employer of choice, Huawei's Human Resource Department representatives and 9 alternates. These representatives then has established long-term partnerships with consulting firms elected the members of Huawei’s Board of Directors and such as Hay Group and Mercer to conduct regular salary Supervisory Board. surveys as well as adjust employee compensation based on People survey results and the company’s business growth. Open Communication Channels 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report A wide range of formal and informal communication channels Huawei has put in place a social insurance and welfare system exist between Huawei and our employees. Employees can for all employees. The system complies with or exceeds local raise opinions and provide recommendations to their direct policy requirements and includes mandatory social insurance supervisors or to leaders at higher levels in accordance with and additional benefits. the company’s policy of open communications. In addition, Huawei's employee bonus program is closely Huawei has established a hierarchical employee complaint linked to employee performance. Employee bonuses are reporting channel, where employees can be heard in a timely given out based on a quarterly assessment of an employee’s manner. Mechanisms are also in place to facilitate quick performance on responsibilities assigned and the completion response to and fair and reasonable resolution of complaints. of major projects by the employee. The total compensation package is also considered. In addition, Huawei continues to keep and maintain multiple regular and casual internal communication channels, as Huawei reviews and revises our remuneration and shown in the following figure: compensation program annually in accordance with the 34 company’s compensation policy to ensure that the program reflects market conditions. Huawei Community Bulletin Board Workout System (BBS) ■ A communication platform guided by ■ An anonymous online interaction platform for external experts. employees to post comments and suggestions, ■ Explore and seek solutions to work and submit enquires and seek assistance, and share team management issues. their leisure activities. ■ Facilitate understanding of corporate policies. Democratic Life Meeting ■ A platform to discuss a variety of issues, such as department policies, day-to-day work President Mailbox management, as well as personal issues. ■ A channel for direct communication between ■ Each department holds one to two employees and the company’s presidents. Open democratic life meetings each year. ■ Allows the top management of each Communication department to receive employee feedback Channels Family Day and communicate the company's values and ■ A communication channel between Huawei policies. and the family members of employees. ■ This activity has been extended to overseas research centers and representative offices. Publications ■ Huawei regularly distributes internal publications such as Huawei People and Improvement. Open Day ■ Publications are sent to over 140 representative offices worldwide, with a circulation of over ■ An opportunity for employees to report 110,000. issues directly to the senior directors. Employee Health and Safety Employee health and safety is a priority in Huawei. The company has set up the Employee Health and Safety Leadership Team, led by a member of Huawei’s executive management team. Huawei also developed and implemented a comprehensive set of policies and programs to protect employee health and safety. These cover the following areas: People ■ Occupational health and safety management system ■ Working environment and safety ■ Operational site management 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report ■ Employee catering and vehicle safety assurance ■ Health check and disease prevention ■ Emergency handling and critical illness treatment ■ Psychological consultation and counseling ■ Employee insurance and welfare system ■ Leisure life Occupational Health and Safety Management System Huawei has set up a corporate Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Committee and EHS teams across different levels to establish, implement and maintain our occupational safety management system worldwide, in accordance with the OHSAS18001 standard. The teams systemically identify and 35 control sources of potential hazards, and prevent occupational diseases and work-related injuries. Our occupational safety management system has passed various third-party certification in key regions. An unannounced fire drill Working Environment and Safety Huawei is dedicated to providing a conducive and healthy to actively eliminate fire risks. We strengthened the publicity working environment for employees. of cases online and on site, conducted activities as part of the 119 Fire Safety Week, and conducted a total of 47 fire drills in The company appoints industry leaders in facility and 2010. property management to provide health and safety assurance to employees. The entry-exit of personnel, vehicles and Operational Site Management property, and security of Huawei campuses are managed Huawei relies on the reliability of its sound EHS system to by property companies. Elevators, air conditioning, heating guarantee the occupational health and safety of employees. and ventilation, power supply and distribution system, and In 2010, we developed a series of EHS management firefighting facilities in the workplace are maintained and processes and regulations on reducing microwave radiation, repaired regularly by facility management companies to ensure laser radiation and chemical cleaning agents to deal with that air quality, lighting, noise and radiation in the working the scenarios at operational sites, and also updated relevant environment meet requirements. Huawei also provides bottled regulations on managing production safety accidents. water that meets drinking standards. Secondary water supply facilities are cleaned, disinfected and checked twice a year. We developed measurable EHS and process management Daily cleaning, regular disinfection and cleaning of external metrics to encourage production business departments walls are also done at the offices. to change their approach to EHS initiatives from passive management to active management, and gradually reached Huawei attaches high importance to fire safety management. the management objective of I need EHS and I understand In 2010, the corporate fire safety accountability team EHS . To implement the EHS accountability program, all comprised a total of 578 people, of whom 34 were staff from the production business departments of the department heads and 544 were management staff and Supply Chain Management Department signed the EHS safety specialists. The fire safety accountability team effectively Letter of Commitment to ensure that EHS responsibilities in prevented fire risks and accidents through communication, the production process were fully implemented. In 2010, training sessions, fire inspections, and rectification of fire production business departments conducted self-assessments hazards. It also conducted unannounced fire drills. In regarding safety performance, and reduced the injury rate per 2010, besides the quarterly general fire inspection, we also one million work-hours to 0.41 in 2010 (the average level of conducted special inspections on firefighting equipment and the electronic industry is between 0.5 and 0.75), and the total facilities, electric appliances, construction sites, and canteens number of safety accidents was also far below the industry average. To eliminate safety hazards, we applied EHS to assess and manage newly-developed and newly-introduced equipment, products, and raw materials in accordance with applicable state regulations concerning safe production, and ensured the safe and smooth operation of the production process. We conducted two initiatives on removing safety risks throughout the end-to-end process, audited special equipment, power facilities and plant infrastructure of factories and conspicuous People sources of safety risks, and corrected the issues identified. We optimized PPE site management tailored to the site features 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of the production base, and ensured that there are sufficient PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) and employees use PPE correctly. Our management of special equipment and the qualifications of employees performing the operations Engineering personnel follow protective measures strictly meet state regulations on safety management for special operations. In EHS publicity and skills improvement, production departments especially conducted EHS awareness and skills training for over 4,800 new production employees, enabling them to quickly familiarize themselves with and apply Huawei's production safety management system at work. We provided regular comprehensive training sessions on EHS awareness and skills review to all on-the-job production employees. Over 280 employees who required the state 36 certificate for special operations participated in skills training and received certificates from the relevant authorities. To motivate EHS management teams, the EHS management teams of the production departments selected and publicized the performance of over 220 outstanding EHS operations A microwave radiation check in the workplace teams and individuals, and monthly EHS stars. In the engineering delivery field, we conducted all-round EHS ■ Testing laboratories: We set up full-time testing laboratory management, conducted health and safety assessments of teams who were responsible for the environment key products, released the Regulations on Personal Protective planning, design, construction and improvement of testing Equipment and Safety Identifiers, incorporated the regulations laboratories. into our SOP, and provided guidance to the employees performing operations. We continuously optimized the ■ R & D l a b o ra t o r i e s : We i m p ro v e d t h e l a b o ra t o r y EHS management technologies and documentation system environments based on the 8S (Seiri, Seiton, Seiso, relating to delivery, and printed and distributed the Site Seiketsu, Shitsuke, Safety, Saving, and Service) Construction Safety Guide in multiple languages to encourage improvement, conducted daily patrols and optimization safe site construction. Huawei also provided training, b a s e d o n f u n c t i o n a l a re a d i v i s i o n s , re g u l a t i o n publicity, and first aid drills on EHS awareness and knowledge development, operational guidance, and inspection to improve employee awareness and mitigate accidents. We recording, and managed development laboratories in a provided employees with a whole set of personal protective structured and consistent manner. These efforts were put equipment, and strengthened safety patrols on construction in place at over 800 R&D laboratories. sites to ensure the safety of site construction. We took proactive measures to reduce construction noise, clean up ■ Special reconstruction: In 2010, Huawei invested CNY 1 construction sites, protect vegetation, and avoid destroying million in a reconstruction fund for examining acoustics, the environment. The company actively responded to lighting, electricity, heat, and magnetism in laboratories customer requirements, communicated the EHS management and key location reconstruction sites. A total of seven status of delivery projects, and participated in customer EHS special reconstruction projects were completed. communication meetings. We encouraged our partners to implement EHS strategies, and guided them in conducting Employee Catering and Vehicle Safety Assurance EHS management and improving performance. Huawei campuses in China adopt a social operational model to meet the catering and transportation needs of its In R&D laboratory management, products and solutions employees, and provide high-quality and efficient services to focused on improving EHS management in the following its employees while ensuring safety. three areas: Huawei's 20 catering suppliers in China have all obtained regions, and most of the vehicles were in good condition. For food sanitation licenses and their employees have received the 144 vehicles that have been used for more than 8 years health certificates. Additionally, they abide by food sanitation or have clocked mileage of over 200,000 km, the relevant and safety requirements of the HACCP system, which include representative offices will maintain greater oversight in the providing certificates for food ingredients, providing a sanitary day-to-day management of these vehicles and replace them environment, separating raw food from cooked food, and in time to ensure safety. cleaning and disinfection. They keep a complete record of People food samples, conduct acceptance on food ingredients, To improve the traffic safety awareness of employees, we ensure food temperature control, and maintain site sanitation organized the 3rd Traffic Safety Week across the company in inspection records. Four canteens at Huawei's headquarters May 2010. The activities held during the Traffic Safety Week 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report in Shenzhen were selected as a Level-A Organization on attracted over 170,000 person-times' participation, and Food Sanitation by the Health Bureau of Shenzhen. In the over 20,000 brochures were distributed. Our 25 overseas 2010 reporting period, there were no food poisoning cases. representative offices also organized other activities to To improve our capabilities for handling food poisoning communicate the importance of traffic safety. emergencies and verifying the viability of the emergency handling process, Huawei arranged for our Chinese branches Health Check and Disease Prevention to conduct food poisoning drills, and simulated activities that Huawei monitors the health and safety of its employees in occur after food poisoning, including reporting the accidents, three ways: (1) health checks for new employees, (2) annual organizing rescues, issuing alerts, recalling the food, sealing health checks, and (3) occupational on-boarding, on-the-job, and retaining samples, and sending samples for assessment. and exit health checks. We hire professional organizations to These drills were successful and achieved their intended interpret the physical health check reports for the employees, purposes. and track and provide health guidance to employees who are identified with health problems. Huawei attaches high importance to vehicle safety 37 management in overseas regions. In 2010, overseas In 2010, Huawei provided physical check-ups to 15,000 representative offices focused on strengthening the new hires, and 1,200 specific check-ups. It also provided implementation of the Regulations on the Safe Use of annual health checks to all full-time employees, and provided Corporate Vehicles (Corp. Doc. No. [2009] 115), and the occupational health checks to about 3,200 on-the-job safety of overseas vehicles improved significantly. By 2010Q3, employees who are exposed to occupational health risks. a total of 4,894 vehicles were applied for use in overseas Huawei has business operations around the world, and we personal emergencies that occur to employees. They are invest to protect the health of our employees, regardless of supported by the Employee Insurance Management Execution where they are located. Health care for employees working Team, which investigates and handles personal emergencies overseas is provided mainly by the local administration that occur to employees, recommends solutions, and submits departments. Huawei provides support to overseas health them to the Employee Insurance Management Leadership care efforts by developing health policies, sharing knowledge Team for review and approval. on preventing infectious diseases, and distributing healthrelated materials. Huawei provides 24/7 emergency aid services globally through People the partnerships we have established with commercial In 2010, Huawei provided guidance on infectious diseases and insurance companies and international aid organizations, 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report emergency handling for regions with high risks of infectious including transnational medical transport providers on the diseases, developed the Manuals for Preventing Malaria, use of chartered medical flights. Huawei has also introduced Typhoid and Dengue and Mosquito Prevention, publicized medical service suppliers in our Shenzhen campus to provide them in our overseas offices, provided small medicine kits for day-to-day medical services to employees. In addition, employees, first aid medicine kits for offices, and medicine Huawei purchased commercial critical illness insurance for kits for vehicles in high risk countries, and distributed our employees to ensure they receive quality care and timely and encouraged employees to take preventive measures financial support during their recovery period. such as using protective articles like mosquito nets, door screens, window screens and lights, as well as medication or Psychological Consultation and Counseling vaccination against mosquito-borne diseases. To ensure that To safeguard the psychological well-being of employees, employees who work in challenging environments where safe the company provides training courses on topics such as drinking water may be an issue, Huawei provides guidance psychological health and stress management. These courses on drinking water safety, inspects water quality, and requests are available in various forms, such as videos and case studies. that regions where tap water does not meet drinking water safety standards use bottled water or install water purification Many departments also have their own psychological health 38 communication channels (such as Psychology Online and devices. the Psychological Health Workshop), which are engaging, informative and popular among employees. Emergency Handling and Critical Illness Treatment Huawei follows state laws and regulations and relevant Professional psychological consultants are available at the corporate policies when handling an emergency. Should corporate Health Service Center to provide consultation personal emergencies occur to employees, we carry out a services to employees. These services include face-to-face series of activities aimed at reducing the losses incurred by the consultations, consultations through phone calls, and home employees and their family, as well as by the company and visits by psychologists. society. These activities include site handling, reporting and extending condolences to family members, post-emergency Employee Insurance and Welfare System handling, internal employee communication, and external Huawei has implemented a comprehensive employee media reporting. We follow the principles of legal compliance, insurance and welfare system, which encompasses mandatory fairness, justness and confidentiality, and request relevant coverage and commercial insurance including personal departments and personnel to focus on timely reporting, accident insurance, critical illness insurance, life insurance appropriate handling and prevention. and business travel insurance. For critical circumstances, the company also has a corporate rescue plan. The personal When responding to and managing emergencies, Huawei accident insurance covers all global employees; the critical actively promotes the proactive and simply-termed illness insurance and life insurance cover all employees hired management concept – I want safety . In 2010, we held in mainland China; and the business travel insurance covers all more than ten emergency drills in different emergency Chinese expatriates. In 2010, Huawei spent a total of CNY 1.97 scenarios on production sites to improve how employees billion on employee insurance and welfare. handle emergencies and increase collaboration among departments. To improve personal safety, we organized In 2010, Huawei also further optimized the employee the Personal Safety Week to promote personal safety insurance and welfare system in the following areas: awareness, encouraged employees to participate in activities under the theme of I have a say on safety , designed and ■ Fully deployed the overseas employee insurance printed 100,000 safety emergency cards for all employees, optimization project and developed location-based and revised and distributed a total of 30,000 copies of the insurance policies to enhance the corporate global Safety Manual for Huawei Employees. employee insurance and welfare system. Presidents of key departments are held responsible by the ■ Improved the standards of commercial life insurance. company for work-related injuries to employees. Huawei has also established the Employee Insurance Management ■ Collaborated with insurance suppliers to establish the IT Leadership Team to review and decide on solutions to platform for the management and operation of global Career Path and Growth employee insurance. In 2010, we started the development The growth and development of our employees are priorities of the employee safety information platform, and at Huawei. The company provides various channels for strengthened efforts in educating staff on and managing learning, training and development of employees: employee travel safety. ■ Competency and qualifications (C&Q) are a managerial ■ Further promoted and optimized our program to facilitate innovation of Huawei and serve as a talent quality the families of employees in purchasing commercial guarantee system. Professional C&Q provides a clearlyPeople insurance, and established a platform to enhance defined career path for employees, and specifies direction insurance for employees' families. for growth and role requirements. The alignment of C&Q standards with job responsibilities provides clear guidance 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report and reference for employees, and serves as the unified Leisure Life basis for the capability assessment of managers and We are fully aware of the importance of the physical and employees. Additionally, a unified C&Q assessment system mental well-being of employees, and as such attach high creates a fair and open work climate, and enables the fair importance to the quality of life of employees outside of assessment of employee capabilities and recognition of work. their contributions. Currently, Huawei has a large number of employee ■ Huawei has implemented a sound employee learning associations that focus on enriching and improving employee system. By designing a detailed learning path for key quality of life. These associations organize a wide range positions, we enable employees to specify gaps in their of activities, such as picnics, dance parties, sports events, performance and suggest learning methods, so that they photography sessions and singing activities. take greater initiative and ownership of self-learning and development. The company provides learning These employee associations maintain various internal opportunities, rich learning resources and convenient 39 and external communications channels and provide all learning methods according to job requirements at types of information to employees, including health, life, different positions, so that employees are able to hone transportation, children, education, travel tips and even dance their skills and receive guidance to help them achieve training. outstanding performance and positive contributions. In addition, Huawei also organizes Family Day so that ■ Huawei's learning programs cover a wide range of areas, employee family members can get to know Huawei better including culture and orientation training for new hires, and experience the environment that their loved ones work product and technical training, position and business skills in. learning, and management and leadership development programs for key positions. These programs fully meet employee learning requirements to become a technical expert or manager. We actively deploy various forms of learning, such as the Huawei iLearning (e-Learning) project, and various informal learning channels, such as a knowledge management system and the BBS, forums, blogs, and teams. These channels ensure that Huawei employees in every corner of the world have access to online learning materials and performance support. In 2010, every employee received an average of 42 hours of training, bringing the total participation number for learning activities to 1,468,000 person-times On average, over 100,000 employees/times access the Huawei iLearning platform each month, and over 61.7 percent of the learning efforts were completed online. ■ Huawei emphasizes practical learning and growth through on-the-job experience. We adopt methods, including situational drills and case studies-based workshops, to help employees understand and grasp basic ideas, skills and tools required in business scenarios and processes, such as the delivery and sales of large projects. Huawei continuously encourages its employees to share their experiences and develop business case studies. As of 2010, the Huawei case library had 9,280 cases, with over 2,500,000 views. Organizational Climate Building Organizational climate building involves all Huawei employees. Each year, we conduct the plan-do-check-action (PDCA) cycle Growth, Progress, and Excellence through assessments, analysis, interviews and improvements, To promote the diversity of managers and employees and create a where we listen to employees, identify strengths and work climate advocating the fair employment and development of weaknesses in team management and manager styles, learn female managers and employees, Huawei established the Steel Rose Club in 2009. and make improvements, and jointly build a highly-dedicated and high-performing team. We analyze the measurement data In March 2010, Huawei held our first female development in terms of the average score of the team (employees' overall People conference. The theme of the conference was Growth, Progress, feelings about the organizational climate), data from specific and Excellence . Fifty outstanding female managers and employees questions (these questions reflect different management 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report from the Products & Solutions department gathered to discuss how the strengths of female employees can be better harnessed in focuses), data from the four dimensions (basic requirements, R&D positions, as well as how female employees can continue to value reflection, team belonging, and common growth), develop their skill sets. In 2011, Huawei will continue to enhance the and historic comparison. The measurement data results are occupational training and promotion of our female employees, so then reported to team members. All team members discuss that they receive fair recognition and opportunities at the work place. the results and develop an improvement plan, with HR staff tracking the implementation of these improvement plans. 4.2556 4.05 4.02 3.98 40 2007 2008 2009 2010 Average Score: Organizational Climate Building Community Support Huawei actively contributes to society and the development of the communities we operate in. As a responsible corporate citizen, we are committed to efforts and actions that enable us to make positive contributions to the welfare, education, disaster relief and environmental protection of our local communities. Community Support Overview In 2010, Huawei successfully organized charity projects for Huawei also attaches special importance to educating 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report various causes. In China, we contributed mainly through the primary school students in poverty-stricken areas. In 2010, Charity Association – an organization guided by its motto we donated CNY 1.075 million to underprivileged regions make charity our way of life and dedicated to disaster relief, in Guizhou, Sichuan, Gansu, and Guangdong for building helping disabled and underprivileged children, caring for primary schools and purchasing school supplies and living senior citizens and education support. In Central, South and necessities, significantly improving educational facilities of the Southeast Asia, we focused on bridging the digital divide, primary schools in these regions. We donated DH 150,000 equipping local communities with tools and knowledge (about USD 18,000) to a local foundation in Morocco for to improve their communications skills. (Refer to Chapter building primary schools, and also donated school supplies “Bridging the Digital Divide” for more information.) In less to underprivileged children at Sigler Elementary School in the developed countries and regions in Africa and South America, U.S.. we focused on projects that provide assistance to women and children. In Europe, we worked to promote the cultural Huawei is committed to providing education opportunities exchange between China and Europe. for outstanding students and girls. For two consecutive years, we donated school supplies worth GHC 20,000 (about 41 USD 13,000) to schools in Ghana, benefiting over 300 high-performing students, and provided financial support Education to underprivileged Ghanaian university students studying in China. We donated KES 1 million (about USD 12,500) Huawei became a member of the UN Global Compact in to an all-girl school in Kenya, and made donations to local 2004, and has integrated the basic principles advocated by foundations in Tanzania to support local charity efforts, such the Global Compact into our corporate culture and business as the education of women and children. activities. By providing training and education opportunities, improving the communications skills of local people, concentrating on the primary education of children and young people, and supporting the education of people in povertystricken areas, we are making every effort to contribute to the Millennium Development Goals of the UN. In China, Huawei has established scholarship funds to support the development of education and encourage students and teachers who have made outstanding achievements in teaching and scientific development. In 2009, Huawei disbursed scholarships worth a total of CNY 2.09 million at 33 domestic universities, and increased this funding to CNY 2.47 million for students in 40 domestic universities in 2010. Disaster Relief Disaster relief has always been a priority in Huawei's corporate social responsibility and philanthropy programs. When disasters strike, Huawei stands shoulder to shoulder with people all around the world, doing what we can to help those affected by the disasters, and making contributions to disaster rescue and relief operations. As a communications equipment supplier, Huawei Community Support not only donates cash and materials to help people in disaster areas, but also assumes the responsibility of helping to repair and restore communications so as to facilitate rescue and relief operations. Donations for Disaster Relief 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report In 2010, Huawei donated cash and materials amounting to In the aftermath of a forest fire in the Russian village of Nizhni USD 1.055 million for flood victims in Venezuela, Columbia, Novgorod, Huawei’s regional office immediately donated and Mexico, through local foundations who purchased telecom equipment worth USD 500,000 to the people in the emergency materials and helped the local community recover affected area and reconstructed the equipment room that from the flood. had been severely damaged by the fire. Huawei employees also actively support and make voluntary donations to people living in poverty-stricken areas. Employees of Huawei’s subsidiary in Vietnam made personal donations of VND 2.5 million (about USD 4,300) to provinces in central Vietnam impacted by a heavy flood. 42 Earthquake Relief for Haitians Donations for the Flood in Pakistan In January 2010, an earthquake measuring 7.3 on the Richter scale In July 2010, the flood impacting Northwestern Pakistan expanded struck Haiti, causing devastating damage. Huawei’s representative rapidly in just a few weeks, and eventually became the worst flood office in Mexico took prompt action, encouraging employees to make in the country in 80 years. Huawei’s subsidiary in Pakistan donated donations and sending materials urgently needed by the affected INR 8.5 million (about USD 100,000), and employees made voluntary areas such as food, medicine and drinking water to the local Red cash donations of INR 500,000 (USD 5,900). Huawei also donated Cross. CNY 100,000 to the Prime Minister Disaster Relief Fund through the Pakistan Embassy in Beijing, China. In addition, the office donated over USD 220,000 through various channels and organizations, to assist with rescue and reconstruction efforts. Huawei also donated 5,000 cell phones to support the restoration of communications in the area and to enable the Haitians to re-establish contact with their loved ones and friends. Community Support 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Communications Assurance for Disaster Relief Charity Association: Making Charity Our Way of Life W h e n c o m m u n i c a t i o n s a re d i s r u p t e d b y disasters, Huawei encourages its employees to participate in community communications recovery in the stricken areas becomes charity activities, and has established a dedicated Charity extremely important. After a major disaster occurs, Huawei Association to facilitate employee participation in community organizes employees to arrive at the site quickly, so as to service and donations to important causes. assist telecom operators in repairing the sites and recovering communications as soon as possible. After an earthquake struck Yushu, Qinghai Province, the 43 Charity Association immediately organized employees to In the wake of disasters, such as the earthquake in Yushu, donate to the area’s reconstruction. By May 20, some 10,370 the landslide in Zhouqu, China, and the rare heavy snow and employees donated over CNY 5.88 million to the victims and rainstorm in Albania, Huawei employees were at the frontline recovery efforts in Yushu through the Red Cross in Qinghai. of disaster relief operations in repairing communications The association also donated CNY 1 million to Zhouqu, Gansu equipment. Province to aid disaster relief after a severe landslide disaster struck the region in August. During the drought in Southwest China in the beginning of 2010, the Charity Association launched a Spring Dew Program to encourage employees to show their love through donations. Employees responded actively, raising almost CNY Communications Assurance after the Earthquake 700,000 in donations to the five drought-stricken provinces in in Chile the Southwest. Staff from Huawei’s five representative offices On February 27, 2010, an earthquake measuring 8.8 on the Richter in Southwest China also showed their care for the people scale struck Chile. After the earthquake, the communications services of some local operators were disrupted due to equipment being in the drought-afflicted areas, making donations such as damaged or destroyed. As soon as Huawei was informed of the mineral water, rice and other endowments of daily necessities situation, we sent engineers to the affected cities to repair sites and including school supplies, shoes and clothing to schools in equipment, even though there was still a high risk of aftershocks, and remote areas affected by the drought. water and power supplies were cut off. After three days of inspection and repair work, the engineers successfully restored services at the damaged sites. Other Charity Efforts As a global leader in the telecom industry, Huawei has operations in over 140 countries worldwide. Huawei is committed to building positive relationships with our Community Support communities, especially with those in overseas regions. To bring to life our philosophy of achieving win-win situations for Huawei and the local communities, the company organizes and sponsors a large number of charity activities in the countries where it operates. Through these activities, Huawei has made significant contributions to society – by promoting cultural exchange between China and other countries, 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report enhancing healthcare and education for children and women, fighting against poverty and hunger, encouraging arts, culture and sports development, and protecting the environment. Cultural Exchange Between China and Other Countries We sponsored Sarakasi, a charity group in Kenya, to attend Huawei actively contributes to cultural exchange between the Shanghai International Arts Festival in China. In Nigeria, China and other countries through its offices globally. Huawei was the only official sponsor for Nigeria National Pavilion Day at the Shanghai Expo 2010 and the NigeriaChina Investment Forum, which promotes bilateral cultural and economic exchange. Huawei also established a Chinese Culture Center in Abuja, Nigeria to promote and increase understanding of Chinese culture among students and the local community. 44 In 2010, Huawei rolled out a host of Shanghai Expo 2010 Tour activities, organized summer camps for middle school and university students in countries such as India, Turkey, Australia, Vietnam, Brazil and Croatia, sponsored visits to Huawei’s headquarters in Shenzhen and the Shanghai Expo 2010 for outstanding middle school and university students, and cooperated with the Confucius Institute of the Bogazici University of Turkey to host the Experiencing Chinese Summer Camp in Istanbul for Turkish youngsters. These activities enable youth from other countries to get to know and appreciate the Chinese culture. Healthcare Large-Scale Charity Party Hosted by Huawei and Huawei provides support for the healthcare of individuals in the Prince's Trust the countries and regions where we operate. For example, Community Support the company donated prosthetic legs and corrective medical In 1976, Prince Charles of the U.K. founded the Prince's Trust, a charitable organization that aims to train young people, equip devices to Venezuela's Ministry of Health, sponsored the them with key skills, and enhance their confidence and motivation. Susan G. Komen Tournament in North America to fight After becoming a member of the organization in 2007, Huawei has breast cancer, and donated USD 10,000 in cash and materials provided donations to the trust every year, and sponsored many of to a local NGO in Ghana to support cancer treatment and its activities. On December 17, 2010, Huawei hosted a fund-raising Christmas Charity Concert with the Trust in London. prevention. Huawei also continues to sponsor the Nelune Foundation in Australia to assist those battling cancer. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report The Bell Celebrity Gala Huawei sponsored the Bell Celebrity Gala in 2010.This gala raises funds for the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health in Canada. 45 Performance by China Disabled People's Arts Troupe in India In 2005, “The Lady Buddha with a Thousand Hands”, a performance by the China Disabled People's Arts Troupe during the Spring Festival Gala touched the hearts of Chinese. Five years later, Huawei invited the troupe to visit India and demonstrate the beauty and spirit of the Chinese culture to Indians from all walks of life. The audience was overwhelmed by the performance of the troupe, and greatly touched by the enduring spirit of the performers who are deaf and mute. Women and Juvenile Assistance In 2010, Huawei's charitable efforts also focused on the Care for women and children and the education of our future employment of our future generations. We donated USD generations are universal goals common to countries across 55,000 to the Job Foundation in Australia and sponsored the Community Support the world, and are critical to sustainable global development. Yemen Youth Employment Laboratory Program. Huawei recognizes this and has made the development and protection of children and women, and youth education, key priorities in our CSR program. In 2010, Huawei provided financial aid to various women's assistance projects. For example, we donated USD 6,250 to 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report women who are recovering from violence-related injuries in Visiting Orphanages Nairobi, Kenya, so that they can receive free medical service Huawei's employees have been providing financial support to and psychological support. We sponsored a local NGO in orphanages in Columbia for many years. Employees regularly visit Ghana to organize the Saving Mama charity event aimed at the orphans, bringing them food and clothes. For Christmas in 2010, Huawei employees showed their care for these underprivileged providing assistance to pregnant women in rural areas. children by donating blankets, children's shoes, children's tableware, towels, toilet articles, and other necessities. Huawei also cares for children, especially children and orphans in poverty-stricken areas. We donated USD 50,000 to the Smolensk Oblast Air Crash Fund in Poland to assist orphans of the plane crash, visited sick children at the Korle Bu Hospital in Ghana on Christmas Day and gave them toys and candy to cheer them, organized visits to orphanages for employees in Bolivia, made donations to Sanyu Babies Home, an orphanage in Uganda, and sponsored a run for education marathon 46 to raise funds for childhood education in Africa. In addition, Huawei also launched the Rainbow Initiative in China to encourage our employees to help disabled children. The RCMP Foundation Annual Golden Spur Gala Huawei sponsored the 6th Annual Golden Spur Gala held by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) Foundation in Canada. The gala raised a total of USD 125,000 to aid juveniles and youths-atrisk. The RCMP Foundation was founded in 1994 and is dedicated to helping local communities address juvenile issues. Visiting Sanyu Babies Home, an orphanage in Uganda The Fight Against Poverty and Hunger Miscellaneous Alleviating poverty is a key pillar in Huawei's charitable Huawei also contributes to arts, culture and sports efforts. In 2010, Huawei conducted a wide range of charity development, and environmental protection in countries Community Support programs around the world to help communities fight poverty around the world. We sponsored KES 3 million (about USD and hunger. We donated 10 tons of corn to the Kenyan Red 37,500) for Safaricom Classical Concert in Kenya which Cross for families in the poor areas of the Laikipia district, showcases and encourages local musical talent. We provided donated four boats to people living in the tropical rain forest USD 3,750 for the Annual Sports Star Award in Kenya, and in Southern Venezuela, and participated in volunteer activities over the last two years, have been participating in the local in North America organized by the Habitat for Humanity, an Dragon Boat Festival in Düsseldorf, Germany to promote NGO dedicated to providing shelters for those in need. interaction and cultural exchange between local community 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report and the Huawei team. In the Philippines, we planted over 200 trees with local operator, Globe. Charity Event to Fight Hunger The Marathon Tournament in Lewa, Kenya Huawei organized over 80 employees in the U.S. to participate in an Huawei has sponsored the annual event for five consecutive years event organized by a local NGO aimed at soliciting food donations for to raise awareness for education of children in remote areas and for needy families. Our employees donated USD 20,000 and helped in protection of wild animals. In 2010, Huawei was presented with the the packing and distribution of food to families suffering from hunger. Highest Enterprise Donation Award by tournament organizers. 47 The Opening of the Beethoven Musical Festival, Part of the Opening Ceremony of the 200th Birthday of F.F. Chopin In March 2010, Huawei partnered with other companies to sponsor the Opening Ceremony of the Beethoven Musical Festival, which is a part of the Opening Ceremony of the 200th Birthday of F.F. Chopin. This event was held in the National Grand Theatre in Warsaw, Poland. Many well-known artists participated in this event and presented a wonderful musical celebration to all in attendance. Appendix I: Key Performance Index Type Key Metrics Performance in 2010 Finance Sales revenue (CNY million) 185,176 Operating profit (CNY million) 29,271 Operating cash flow (CNY million) 28,458 Other financial metrics Refer to Huawei 2010 Annual Report Environmental Protection Number of products that passed green certification 9 Number of types of banned substances 25 Annual CO2 emissions reduction due to savings in steel 4.2 consumption (unit: 10,000 tons) Total number of hybrid-energy powered stations deployed (sets) 8,000 Appendix Shipment of green packages (unit: 10,000 pieces) 4 Amount of wood saved due to green packaging (m3) 6,100 CO2 emissions reduction due to green packaging (unit: 10,000 1.2 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report tons) Shipment of overseas supply centers (unit: ton) 8,021 Drop rate of the logistics period 17% Container space utilization rate 68.2% Optimization rate of the end-to-end logistics model 75% Amount of wasted electronic products recycled and processed 5,000 (unit: ton) Percentage of wasted electronic products reutilized 96% Total power consumed (unit: 1 ton standard coal) ﹡ 73,429 Total water consumed (unit: 1,000 tons) ﹡ 3,130 Supply Chain Number of key suppliers that accept CSR risk assessments 670 Employee Rights and Total workforce Over 110,000 Interests (Including Wherein: Percentage of R&D staff 46% 48 Employee Occupational Percentage of sales & services staff 31% Health) Others 23% Child labor 0 Employee training man-times (unit: 10,000 man/times) 146.8 1 Total number of foreign employees Over 21,000 Localization rate of employees working overseas 69% Number of full-time employees under the age of 35 Over 98,000 Number of full-time employees between the ages of 35 and 50 Over 19,000 Number of full-time employees over the age of 50 1311 Average age of employees 30.6 Percentage of female employees 21.8% 2 Number of midand senior-level managers Over 2,600 Wherein: Number of midand senior-level female employees Over 200 Employee turnover rate 9.56% Work-related injury rate# 0.415 3 Number of work-related deaths 1 Number of people with occupational diseases 0 Number of annual lost hours# Around 4,405 1 Refers to the total number of non-Chinese employees of the Company. 2 Defined as Huawei managerial roles at level 18 or above. 3 Caused by an elevator accident that occurred outside Huawei facilities. # Only covers injuries happened in China to employees recruited in the China region. ﹡Consumption data in the China region. Appendix II: GRI Index No. G3 standard disclosures Index 1.Strategy and 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the Message from the Analysis relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. Chairwoman; CSR Strategy and Management 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Message from the Chairwoman 2. Organizational 2.1 Name of the organization. About this Report Profile 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Corporate Overview 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating Corporate Overview companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Corporate Overview Appendix 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries Corporate Overview with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Corporate Overview 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2.7 Markets served. Corporate Overview 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Corporate Overview 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or Corporate Overview ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Corporate Overview; Environmental Protection; Community Support 3. Report 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. About this Report Parameters 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. About this Report 3.3 Reporting cycle About this Report 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. About this Report 3.5 Process for defining report content. About this Report; Stakeholder 49 Engagements 3.6 Boundary of the report. About this Report 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see About this Report completeness principle for explanation of scope). I 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced N/A operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. About this Report 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in N/A earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or N/A measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Appendix II 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the About this Report report. No. G3 standard disclosures Index 4. Governance, 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the Corporate Overview Commitments, highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or and Engagement organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive Huawei 2010 Annual Report officer. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of Huawei 2010 Annual Report members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or nonexecutive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or People direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, N/A Appendix senior managers, and executives, and the organization's performance. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of Huawei 2010 Annual Report interest are avoided. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of N/A the highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and Corporate Overview principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's CSR Strategy and Management identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, N/A particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is Green Communications, Green addressed by the organization. Huawei; Supply Chain 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Green Communications, Green Huawei; Supply Chain; 50 Community Support 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ CSR Highlights in 2010; Green international advocacy organizations World; Bridging the Digital Divide 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Stakeholder Engagements 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Stakeholder Engagements 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement Stakeholder Engagements by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Stakeholder Engagements engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators Disclosure on Economic/Environmental/Society N/A Management Approach Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating Corporate Overview; Huawei Performance costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, 2010 Annual Report Indicators retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's Environmental Protection activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. People EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Huawei 2010 Annual Report EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage People at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at Supply Chain significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from N/A the local community at significant locations of operation. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided Community Support primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including Huawei 2010 Annual Report the extent of impacts. No. G3 standard disclosures Index Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. N/A Performance EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Green Communications Indicators EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Green Huawei EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Green Huawei EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Green Communications; Green Huawei EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and Green Communications; Green services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Huawei EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Green Huawei Appendix EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Green Huawei EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. N/A EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. N/A 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, N/A protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on N/A biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. N/A EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on N/A biodiversity. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with N/A habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Green Huawei EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Green Communications, Green Huawei 51 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Green Communications, Green Huawei EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. N/A EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. N/A EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. N/A EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Green Huawei EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. N/A EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed N/A hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and N/A related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and Green Communications extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed Green Communications by category. EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary N/A sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods Green Communications and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. N/A Social Performance Indicators No. G3 standard disclosures Index Labor Practices LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. People and Decent Work LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. People LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or N/A part-time employees, by major operations. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. N/A LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including N/A whether it is specified in collective agreements. LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker N/A health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Appendix LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number People of work-related fatalities by region. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place People to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. N/A LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. People LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the People continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career People development reviews. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per People category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. N/A Human Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include N/A human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone Supply Chain 52 screening on human rights and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning People aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. People HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and N/A collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and People measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or N/A compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or N/A procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people N/A and actions taken. Society SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and Community Engagement manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to N/A corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and Anti-corruption and Antiprocedures. bribery SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Anti-corruption and Antibribery SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Green World lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, N/A and related institutions by country. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and N/A monopoly practices and their outcomes. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary N/A sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. No. G3 standard disclosures Index Product PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services Green Communications Responsibility are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary N/A codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and Green Communications percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary N/A codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of Appendix outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring N/A customer satisfaction. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to Green Communications; Green 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Huawei PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary N/A codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer N/A privacy and losses of customer data. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and N/A regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 6. Telecommunication Sector Specific Indicators Internal IO1 Capital investment in telecommunication network infrastructure broken down N/A Operations by country/region. IO2 Net costs for service providers under the Universal Service Obligation when Green World extending service to geographic locations and low-income groups, which are not 53 profitable. Describe relevant legislative and regulatory mechanisms. IO3 Practices to ensure health and safety of field personnel involved in the People installation, operation and maintenance of masts, base stations, laying cables and other outside plant. Related health and safety issues include working at heights, electric shock, exposure to EMF and radio frequency fields, and exposure to hazardous chemicals. IO4 Compliance with ICNIRP (International Commission on Non-Ionising Radiation Green Communications Protection) standards on exposure to radiofrequency (RF) emissions from handsets IO5 Compliance with ICNIRP (International Commission on Non-Ionising Radiation Green Communications Protection) guidelines on exposure to radiofrequency (RF) emissions from base stations. IO6 Policies and practices with respect to Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) of Green Communications handsets. IO7 Policies and practices on the siting of masts and transmission sites including Green Communications stakeholder consultation, site sharing, and initiatives to reduce visual impacts. Describe approach to evaluate consultations and quantify where possible. IO8 Number and percentage of stand-alone sites, shared sites, and sites on existing N/A structures. No. G3 standard disclosures Index Providing Access PA1 Polices and practices to enable the deployment of telecommunications Bridging the Digital Divide infrastructure and access to telecommunications products and services in remote and low population density areas. Include an explanation of business models applied. PA2 Policies and practices to overcome barriers for access and use of Bridging the Digital Divide telecommunication products and services including: language, culture,illiteracy, and lack of education, income, disabilities, and age. Include an explanation of business models applied. PA3 Policies and practices to ensure availability and reliability of telecommunications Green Communications products and services and quantify, where possible, for specified time periods and locations of down time. Appendix PA4 Quantify the level of availability of telecommunications products and services N/A in areas where the organisation operates. Examples include: customer numbers/ market share, addressable market, percentage of population covered,percentage of land covered. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report PA5 Number and types of telecommunication products and services provided to Bridging the Digital Divide and used by low and no income sectors of the population. Provide definitions selected. Include explanation of approach to pricing, illustrated with examples such as price per minute of dialogue/bit of data transfer in various remote,poor or low population density areas. PA6 Programmes to provide and maintain telecommunication products and services Community Support in emergency situations and for disaster relief. PA7 Polices and practices to manage human rights issues relating to access and Cyber Security Assurance use of telecommunications products and services. Explain how such policies and practices are adapted and applied in different countries. PA8 Policies and practices to publicly communicate on EMF related issues. Include Green Communications information provides at points of sales material. PA9 Total amount invested in programmes and activities in electromagnetic field Green Communications research. Include description of programmes currently contributed to and funded by the reporting organisation. PA10 Initiatives to ensure clarity of charges and tariffs. N/A 54 PA11 Initiatives to inform customers about product features and applications that Green Communications will promote responsible, efficient, cost effective, and environmentally preferable use. Technology TA1 Provide examples of the resource efficiency of telecommunication products and Green Communications Applications services delivered. TA2 Provide examples of telecommunication products, services and applications Green World that have the potential to replace physical objects TA3 Disclose any measures of transport and/or resource changes of customer use of N/A the telecommunication products and services listed above. Provide some indication of scale, market size, or potential savings. TA4 Disclose any estimates of the rebound effect (indirect consequences) of N/A customer use of the products and services listed above, and lessons learned for future development. This may include social consequences as well as environmental. TA5 Description of practices relating to intellectual property rights and open source Green Communications; technologies. Huawei 2010 Annual Report Appendix III: Terms and Abbreviations Abbreviation Full Name 3G Third Generation Mobile Telephony 3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project AA1000 AccountAbility 1000 ADSL Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line ARPU Average Revenue Per User CCIP Paris Chamber of Commerce and Industry CCSA China Communications Standards Association CDMA Code Division Multiple Access CEG Commodity experts group Appendix CEO Chief Executive Officer CSR Corporate Social Responsibility EHS Environment, Health and Safety 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report EPC Electronic Product Code GeSI Global e-Sustainability Initiative GPS Global Positioning System GRI Global Reporting Initiative GSMA GSM Association HACCP Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point ICT Information and Communications Technology IEC International Engineering Consortium IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IETF Internet Engineering Task Force IP Internet Protocol 55 ISO International Standardization Organizations ITU International Telecommunication Union ITU-T ITU Telecommunication Standardization Sector LCA Life Cycle Assessment LTE Long Term Evolution NGBSS Next Generation Business Support System NGO Non-government organization OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series PCT Patent Cooperation Treaty SA8000 Social Accountability 8000 SDP Service Delivery Platform SOP Standard Operation Procedure SQE Supplier Quality Engineer TCO Total Cost of Ownership TMF TeleManagement Forum TQC Total Quality Control UNESCO United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization VDSL Very-high-bit-rate Digital Subscriber loop WEEE Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WiMAX Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WPO World Packaging Organization Appendix IV: Assurance Statement 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Appendix 56 Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. 2011. All rights reserved. General Disclaimer The information in this document may contain predictive statements including, without limitation, statements regarding the future financial and operating results, future product portfolio, new technology, etc. There are a number of factors that could cause actual results and HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES CO., LTD. developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the predictive statements. Therefore, such information is provided for reference purpose only and constitutes neither an Huawei Industrial Base offer nor an acceptance. Huawei may change the information at any time without notice. Bantian Longgang Shenzhen 518129, P.R. China Tel: +86-755-28780808 Printed on environmentally friendly paper. Windpower manufactured, 100% post-consumer content, acid-free & chlorine free paper. www.huawei.com
