Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 The Global Compact // Communication on Progress report 2nd edition One small step for business, one giant leap for mankind We promote corporate social responsibility, as every sustainable step for businesses around the world sow the seeds of one giant leap for the health of mankind. TABLE OF CONTENTS PREFACE page 5 About AART architects page 7 Corporate social responsibility page 9 values page 11 stakeholder dialogue page 13 The 10 principles page 15 people page 17 EnvironmenT page 21 Economy page 23 For the public good page 25 Our latest projects page 27 AART architects A/S Architects MAA / Member of Danske Ark CVR-nr. 20 33 53 00 Aaboulevarden 22, 5th floor DK-8000 Aarhus C T: +45 8730 3286 F: +45 8730 3296 aart@aart.dk www.aart.dk Credits / photos: Adam Mørk Helene Høyer Mikkelsen Thomas Mølvig ” We believe in the necessity of promoting a new approach to architecture based on transparency and responsibility. PREFACE Social, economic and environmental challenges affect the building industry more than ever before. At AART architects, we thus recognise the need to collaborate with research institutes, knowledge-based companies and transnational organisations, as sustainable development can only be achieved by encouraging knowledge sharing between various sectors. This understanding is reflected in our continuing support for the United Nations Global Compact that is the largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative in the world and provides a practical framework for the development, implementation and disclosure of sustainability policies and practices. Torben Skovbjerg Larsen We joined the initiative in 2008, as we believe in the necessity of promoting a new approach to Architect MAA architecture based on transparency and responsibility, making sustainable thinking a vital part Partner CEO of our business strategy and day-to-day operations. As a member of the Global Compact, we are committed to aligning our strategies and operations with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this way, we contribute to enhancing human well-being and the health of the global environment by promoting the principles within our sphere of influence. Therefore, we are proud to hand in our second Communication on Progress report, expressing our commitment to ensuring that the building industry advances in ways that benefit the everyday life, the economy and the environment. The idea of this book is thus to give our stakeholders an insight into how we promote corporate social responsibility and have integrated corporate social responsibility into our business foundation. Torben Skovbjerg Larsen CEO AART architects 4 THE GLOBAL COMPACT // AART architects // Communication on Progress report 2nd edition 5 ” Our mission is to give meaning and intimacy to everyday life by creating vibrant spaces for social communities. About AART Architects AART architects is a high-performance team of 58 architects and constructing architects that works with the community as a value-creating element. With offices in Denmark and Norway and several first prize projects in international architecture competitions, we are one of the trend-setting architectural offices in Scandinavia. Our mission is to give meaning and intimacy to everyday life by creating vibrant spaces for social communities and achieving the highest architectural quality. In order to lead the development of a sensuous and innovative architecture, we have engaged in several research and development projects over the years. In this way, we have built up extensive knowledge of materials, technology and user requirements, which, combined with our organisational strength in financial and project management, provides us with a strong platform for developing the architecture of tomorrow. By extension, we have organised the office into the four research teams: Integrated Design, Green Design, Health Design and Value Design. The four research teams form a common thread in our professional development and give added value to each project by developing new methods in the fields of project engineering, energy and resource optimisation, health-promoting architecture and user experience. As architects, we make our living from the human factor in the form of creativity, innovation and collaboration. Our most important resource is thus dedicated employees, who, by combining evidence-based studies with a nuanced empathy, develop beautiful, empathetic and functional solutions. 6 THE GLOBAL COMPACT // AART architects // Communication on Progress report 2nd edition 7 RESEA RCH TEA M/ / IN TEG RA TE DD N TEAM LE E ADER ALU // T GN SI ” ED hom as ES The four research teams encapsulate our professional profile Hj IG m or tlu ol RESE h nt nd ARC and embrace the principles of the Global Compact. Fli Sv H TE na en d an AM // N // V ER ESPONSIBLE / LEAD R/R /A NE nd RT TEAM strup PA yrre AART BOARD sT er Torben Skovbjerg (CEO) Anders Tyrrestrup Anders Strange rtsen n Ge arti REE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY TE n e // M N DE SIGN AM s CO E rik ER OR m AD DIN rtrø ATO R / / J e s p e r H a l l s LE TE M AM // G With innovative architecture comes great responsibility. This TE A LE AD TE is the basic principle at AART architects, as we strive to create ER AM // K lau SE vibrant spaces for social communities and achieve the highest sM AR architectural quality based on a sympathetic insight into each S i k ke l CH RE EA sen RC RE project’s potential. HT EA M // H EAL Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is thus a keynote of our comTH D pany. This applies to our innovation work, where we promote CSR ESIG N through knowledge sharing and interdisciplinary collaboration, and to the finished building, where the architecture expresses a social cohesion and integrates a wide range of eco-friendly solutions. In other words, we believe in a holistic approach to architecture. In order to promote the social, economic and environmental Nanna Flintholm Thomas Hjortlund Svendsen Architect MAA Architect MAA aspect of CSR and embed CSR in our business strategy and day-toTeam leader of Value Design Team leader of Integrated Design day operations, we have organised the office into four crossnfl@aart.dk ths@aart.dk disciplinary research teams: • Integrated Design As head of Value Design, Nanna As head of Integrated Design, • Green Design SOCIAL Flintholm ensures a focused Thomas Hjortlund Svendsen ensures • Health Design SUSTAINABILITY development work thanks to her a professional focus based on • Value Design analytical approach to optimising his long-standing experience as a and rethinking the conceptual workproject manager of several major The four research teams encapsulate our professional profile ing method. construction projects. and embrace the principles of the Global Compact by developing innovative methods in the fields of project engineering (the economic aspect), energy and resource optimisation (the environmental aspect) and health-promoting architecture and user Klaus Mikkelsen Martin Gertsen Architect MAA Building technician BTH experience (the social aspect). Team leader of Health Design kmi@aart.dk Team leader of Green Design mge@aart.dk In this way, the organisational structure supports our continuing ENV L AL support for the Global Compact by promoting a holistic approach ICA ENT to architecture. Besides, the research teams ensure a high level ITY As head of Health Design, Klaus As head of Green Design, Martin of transparency, as our professionalism is made accessible for all OM BIL NM ILITY INA Mikkelsen ensures a targeted Gertsen ensures a thorough of our employees and business partners. IRSUOSTAINAB innovation work based on his development work thanks to his ON STA SU long-standing experience with vast knowledge of the many asEC a number of major healthcare pects of environmentally friendly construction projects. architecture. 8 THE GLOBAL COMPACT // AART architects // Communication on Progress report 2nd edition 9 ” We search for the adventurous pathways with a view to creating synergy between different fields.” VALUES The explorer Driven by the spirit of adventure, we challenge the usual way of thinking in order to explore the unknown and create the not yet created. In other words, we search for the adventurous pathways with a view to creating synergy between different fields. Accordingly, our strongest rival is the easy-going, who is saturated with experiences and turns the blind eye to the constant changes in the industry. The caring Driven by the desire to promote a socially responsible architecture, we work with the community as a value-creating element. We identify ourselves with each project’s unique potential in order to create vibrant and empathetic spaces for social communities. Accordingly, our strongest rival is the ironic, who is seduced by the form and ignores the social dimension of architecture. The competent Driven by the ambition to offer competent consultancy, we systematically develop and document our knowledge. Based on state-of-the-art knowledge from an interdisciplinary field, we constantly develop our professionalism in order to convey the essential overview and open for hidden opportunities. Accordingly, our strongest rival is the careless, who is stuck in old dogmas and don’t strive to develop new know-how. 10 THE GLOBAL COMPACT // AART architects // Communication on Progress report 2nd edition 11 ” We strive to provide the best experience for our clients, from the preliminary consultancy through the design phase to the handover of the finished project. STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE Our most important stakeholders are our employees and our clients. Employee dialog Our success as an architectural office depends on committed employees. Therefore, we place great importance on an employee-driven corporate culture characterised by an open communication between the management and the employees. In addition, we continually incentivise the employees to engage themselves in the important decisions regarding our strategic development. In order to incentivise our employees, we have established four cross-disciplinary research teams that promote our internal communication and knowledge sharing. The research teams ensure a close contact between the management and the employees, as each employee is included in one of the research teams and has a continually dialogue with the respective team leader. As part of this, each employee has a staff development interview with the team leader every three month. Client dialogue Our success as an architectural office depends on committed employees. Therefore, we place great importance on an employee-driven corporate culture characterised by an open communication between the management and the employees. In addition, we continually incentivise the employees to engage themselves in the important decisions regarding our strategic development. In order to incentivise our employees, we have established four cross-disciplinary research teams that promote our internal communication and knowledge sharing. The research teams ensure a close contact between the management and the employees, as each employee is included in one of the research teams and has a continually dialogue with the respective team leader. As part of this, each employee has a staff development interview with the team leader every three month. 12 THE GLOBAL COMPACT // AART architects // Communication on Progress report 2nd edition 13 THE 10 PRINCIPLES The principles 10 of social responsibility are divided into four categories: Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Human Rights Environment Principle 1: Principle 7: Businesses should support and respect the protection of interBusinesses should support a precautionary approach to environnationally proclaimed human rights. mental challenges. Principle 2: Principle 8: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in huBusinesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater man rights abuses. environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Labour Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of Principle 3: environmentally friendly technologies. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Anti-Corruption Principle 4: Principle 10: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, includand compulsory labour. ing extortion and bribery. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 14 THE GLOBAL COMPACT // AART architects // Communication on Progress report 2nd edition 15 PARTNERS ” We have established the research team Value Design with a view to developing research-based methods for social analysis 3 and user driven innovation. CO-WORKERS 55 PEOPLE At AART architects, we support and respect the Universal Declarapartnership with the Alexandra Institute, which is a research-based tion of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s institute that creates services with a view to generating social value. Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (cf. The aim of this partnership is to develop a generic method for studyprinciple 1-6 of the Global Compact). ing the social impact of our finished buildings. How do the users experience and interact with the buildings? And how do the buildings We commit ourselves to: generate social value? The answers to such questions is very valuable, as they provide insight into the real impact of our work and can PERCENTAGE OF • abiding by the rules of the Universal Declaration of Human serve as guiding principles for our future projects. FEMALES/MEN Rights in all of our activities. We ensure this by continually 36/64 developing and improving our capacity to perform this task proactively. By developing a generic method for studying the social impact of our work, we strive to fuse commercial relevance, research and user involvement. In this way, the partnership with the Alexan• identifying fields where our service and competencies can dra Institute responds to issues of social relevance, primarily contribute positively to a socially sustainable development. the needs of the building industry to get access to cutting-edge AVERAGE AGE research results with the aim of promoting research-based user 39 • sustaining an open dialogue with our stakeholders and annudriven innovation. ally report our social responsibility. Our working environment Value Design Our human resources make us unique and competitive. Only The first two principles of the Global Compact deal with human through our employees’ dedication and commitment, we are able rights and the opportunity to improve the social qualities of to sustain and develop a successful business that continuously everyday life. As architects, we create the physical framework of creates cutting-edge solutions. Therefore, we believe it is essential everyday life, thus affecting the life of many people. Therefore, we to select, develop and manage our employees with great care. have a great responsible to show social awareness and study the social context of each project. In order to fulfil this responsibility, Research teams we have established the research team Value Design with a view In order to create an engaging working environment, we have to developing research-based methods for social analysis and organised the office into four cross-disciplinary research teams user driven innovation. (cf. the paragraphs “Social Responsibility” and “Stakeholder dialogue”). In this way, all of our employees supplement their basic AVERAGE Based on a sympathetic insight into each project’s potential, skills by specialising in one of the four fields, where they acquire SICKNESS Value Design strives to achieve the highest architectural quality the latest knowledge through monthly meetings, seminars, study ABSENCE and develop vibrant spaces for social communities. In this way, trips and further training. 3,7 DAY/YEAR the research team has specialised in identifying the innova¬tive potential of the concept phase and thus represents the creative basis of the company – a creative basis where the context In continuation hereof, each employee has a staff development interview with the management every three month (cf. the paraprecedes the form, as every project stems from a varied study of graph “Stakeholder dialogue”). In addition, we have a joint office the context in order to create a sense of community. meeting on the first Monday in every month. At the joint meetings, we communicate our business strategies, create an overview of The social impact of our work our on-going projects and give every employee an opportunity to In 2012, we plan to intensify our social effort, as we have initiated a take an active share in the internal decisions. 16 THE GLOBAL COMPACT // AART architects // Communication on Progress report 2nd edition 17 Fringe benefits We strive to provide the best conditions for our employees. This is achieved through our fruit, coffee and lunch scheme. Every Friday we also serve breakfast, where all employees meet in the canteen and hobnob with the colleagues. We also strive to promote a good health among our employees. As part of this, we offer each employee a free health insurance and pay for joint sport activities such as runs and experience races. In addition, the joint sport activities have a positive side effect, as they promote an engaging team spirit among our employees. Work life balance As an architectural office, we often have tight deadlines when it comes to competition projects and planning projects. Therefore, long working hours will occur from time to time, as our effectiveness is crucial for our clients’ business. However, we believe that work life and private life must go hand in hand. Just as we attach importance to our employees’ flexibility, we also have to be flexible as employer. We thus value the work life balance and in the forthcoming years we plan to intensify our focus in order to increase the mutual flexibility. Examples of existing initiatives that support a good working environment: • Research teams • Flexible working hours • Fruit, coffee and lunch scheme • Breakfast every Friday • Free health insurance • Free iPhone • Good maternity leave conditions • Joint sport activities 18 THE GLOBAL COMPACT // AART architects // Communication on Progress report 2nd edition 19 ” In order to lead the development of an environmentally friendly architecture, we have established the research team Green Design. environment At AART architects, we support and respect the Rio Declaration Sustainable materials and technologies on Environment and Development (cf. principle 7-9 of the Global Sustainable materials and technologies do not have to be Compact). as¬sociated with compromises. On the contrary, they can enrich the architecture by creating healthy and dynamic buildings. That We commit ourselves to: is the theory behind our development work, as we challenge traditional approaches by studying, refining and integrating new • abiding by the rules of the Rio Declaration on Environment and materials and technologies into our many projects. Development in all of our activities. We ensure this by continually developing and improving our capacity to perform this task On the basis of continuous training, case studies and crossproactively. disciplinary collaboration, we work in the field of tension between research and practice. Our aim is thus to demonstrate that sustain• identifying fields where our practice and competencies able materials and technologies have a legitimate and necessary can contribute positively to an environmentally sustainable potential within architecture. development. Life-cycle perspective • sustaining an open dialogue with our stakeholders and annuFocusing on the sustainable architecture of the future, we strive ally report our environmental responsibility. to investigate the possibilities inherent in the paradigm shift from operating to process energy. This is a professional focus that stems Green Design from the fact that the increasingly stringent framework for energy We are aware of how the economic and industrial development in efficient construction means that energy consumption during the its wake has brought numerous environmental challenges, which building phase will, in a few years, be equal to the energy consumprequire an internation¬ally coordinated effort to overcome. As tion during the operating phase. architects, we play a crucial role in this effort, as statistics show that buildings account for 40 percent of all energy consumption in From a lifecycle perspective, we study the possibility to develop the EU, making energy efficient architecture one of the predomithe next generation of sustainable architecture, which not only nant concerns if we as a global society strive to reduce our energy reduces the operating energy, but also the process energy in the consumption and CO2 emission. form of raw material extraction, production, assembly, renovations, demolition and disposal. In order to lead the development of an environmentally friendly architecture, we have established the research team Green Design that carries out targeted development work with a view to raising the environmental standard of the building industry. By combining the latest technology and knowledge with innovative architecture, Green Design strives not only to comply with the existing building regulations for energy rating, but to go a step further in order to raise the strategic horizon. 20 THE GLOBAL COMPACT // AART architects // Communication on Progress report 2nd edition 21 ” We have established the research team Integrated Design with a view to developing cutting-edge project engineering solutions. economy At AART architects, we support and respect the United Nations Quality assurance Convention Against Corruption (cf. principle 10 of the Global As part of our economically sustainable focus, we continuously Compact). develop our quality assur¬ance procedures, which cover all of the project’s core phases, from the competition and concept project We commit ourselves to: to the main design and advisory services in connection with implementation and project follow-up. • abiding by the rules of the United Nations Convention Against Corruption in all of our activities. We ensure this by continually Through dialogue with our clients and business partners, we define developing and improving our capacity to perform this task the appropriate quality levels. At the same time and on the basis proactively. of project reviews and planning meetings, we incorporate these quality levels in the service’s programming and in the design, as • identifying fields where our practice and competencies can a holistic approach to architecture and satisfied clients are the contribute positively to an economically sustainable developpredominant goal of our quality assurance. ment. Ethical responsibility • sustaining an open dialogue with our stakeholders and annuAs architects, we must respond actively to our ethical responsibilally report our economic responsibility. ity, as thrust and credibility form the basis of our public relations. Therefore, we use substantial resources to ensure a high ethical Integrated Design standard in our business strategy and day-to-day operations. As economic challenges affect the building industry more than ever before, we have recognised the need to undertake the All of our employees are thus subjected to the rules and regulation responsibility of leading the development of a more efficient, of the Danish Architects’ Association, including paragraph eight transparent and economically sustainable building culture. Therethat states an architect must respect the duty of confidentiality fore, we have established the research team Integrated Design regarding any confidential facts the architect gains insight into as that works at the intersection between research and practice with part of the daily work. a view to developing cutting-edge project engineering solutions. Project engineering is the most expensive phase in the development of a new building. Through continuous development work and close collaboration with engineers and researchers, Integrated Design thus promotes innovation and optimises our planning procedures, as economically sustainable development can only be achieved by encouraging knowledge sharing between various sectors. 22 THE GLOBAL COMPACT // AART architects // Communication on Progress report 2nd edition 23 ” We strive to make a positive impact on society. for the public good As an architectural office, we strive to make a positive impact on society. Besides our commitment to support the 10 principles of the Global Compact, we have thus initiated partnerships for the public good. In this way, our social commitment is not only manifested in our projects, but also in our general social commitment, as we support the Danish Cancer Society, is a member of the Danish Defibrillator Network and sponsor various events at the Aarhus School of Architecture. The Danish Cancer Society The Danish Defibrillator Network • Prevent the development of cancer • Ensure life-saving first aid • Improve patients’ chances of successful recovery • Gather information about the location of defibrilla• Limit the physical, psychological and social side-effects tors in Denmark of cancer • Corporate with the National Police’s emergency dispatch centre 24 THE GLOBAL COMPACT // AART architects // Communication on Progress report 2nd edition 25 our latest projects 2011 The Global Compact // Communication on Progress report 2nd edition INSPIRIA Science Center // Sarpsborg, Østfold, NO // Project: Center for science and innovation in Graalum, Sarpsborg, Norway // Address: Graalum, Sarpsborg, Norway // Client: Borg Næring og Eiendom AS // Contact: Bjørn Winther Johansen bjorn.w.johansen@borginnovasjon.no // Size: 7.000 m2 (350 m2 student-lab.) // Budget: NOK 225 mio. / DKK 213 m / € 28,57 m // Status: Under construction moving in August 2011 // Proposal Architect: AART architechts A/S // Architect landscape: AART architechts A/S // Interior design: AART architechts A/S // Experience-design: Expolgy 7 // Engineer: Cowi, Norge // Electro Engineer: Yit a/s, Norge // HWS Engineer: Multiconsult // Award: First prize in international competition 2007 // Service: Architects consultancy // INSPIRIA Science Center is part of a long term strategy to make The science centre is expected to attract more than 100.000 visiknowledge the chief asset in the region. This is not only reflected tors every year, mainly school trips, families and tourists who can in the activities of the science centre, but also in the architectural acquire knowledge through “play” by means of interactive exhibits, ambitions, since the architecture is conceived and designed as a public workshops, a planetarium and an outdoor science park that communications platform to create regional interest in the natural is connected to the building’s two exhibition levels. sciences and national interest in the region. By rethinking the framework for future learning environments, INSPIRIA Science Centre combines communication and architecture into an inspiring and eventful whole, which forms new spaces for learning and supports the idea of sustainability as a window of opportunity to increase the quality of life for both people and the environment. The science centre is therefore designed as a passive house with a close contact to nature, by which the architecture and the science centre’s focus on energy, the environment and health merge into a single narrative. The narrative permeates the building’s basic form, where nature’s cycle, cyclical repetitions and spiral forms blend with the technol“It is absolutely unique that 18 municipalities have joined forces so ogy cycle, expressed through the universal power of the circular distinctively and engaged in the project, while industry has also contribasic form. The goal has thus been to create a striking building, buted far more than is usual for normal construction projects.” which in itself constitutes an identity-laden branding of INSPIRIA Trond Griske, Minister for Trade and Industry in Norway Science Centre by uniting the activities of the science centre into INSPIRIA Science Centre uses the architecture for fundraising a single concept. 28 29 wind generator for wind energy oflocal productionfor local generator mechanical production of energy mechanical with heat ventilation recovery with heat recovery ventilation natural ventilation natural ventilation automatic glass sections withglass sections ﬂexible andwith automatic sun shading and ﬂexible sun shading south facing rooﬂights south facing rooﬂights solar panels for hotsolar waterpanels heating for hot water heating north-facing facadenorth-facing with open glazed facade with open glazed mechanical ventilation mechanical with heatventilation recovery with heat recovery and shading and shading solar cells / solar screening solar cells / solar screening roof for Sedum roof / greenSedum rooflocal drainage / green roof -of forrainwater local drainage of rainwater south facing facade south with facing facadeand solar panels withsolar solarscreening panels and solar screening natural ventilation natural ventilation NORTH NORTH SOUTH SOUTH thermo active deckthermo for heating and active deck for heating and cooling cooling ﬂoor heating ﬂoor heating 30 31 Culture Yard in Elsinore // Elsinore, DK // Project: Building for culture including a public library, conference rooms, café, concert hall etc. // Address: Allégade, Elsinore // Client: The municipality of Elsinore // Contact: Claus Bo Frederiksen, cfr52@helsinor.dk // Size: 13.000 m2 // Budget: DKK 300 m / € 40,23 m // Completed: 2010 // Proposal Architect: AART architechts A/S // Engineer: Søren Jensen A/S // Landscape Architect: AART architechts A/S // Interior design / Fixture design: AART architechts A/S // Photo: Adam Mørk // Prize: 1st prize in international architecture competition. // Service: lead consultancy services // The Culture Yard is designed as a cultural crucible and social the field of tension between old and new, making the notion of meeting point which symbolizes Elsinore’s transformation from past versus present, the industrial society versus the information industrial town to cultural center. AART Architects aim has been society, constantly present. to design a hinge between the past and present which reinforces the identity of the local community, but at the same time has an Particularly striking, when viewed from the waterfront and international format, reinforcing the relation between the local Kronborg Castle, is the multifaceted façade. Like a fragmented, yet and global sphere. In other words, the local becomes global and strongly coherent structure, the enormous glass façade challenges global becomes local, whereby the architecture articulates, what the historic site and stares unflinchingly across the Sound – the you might call, the glocal community. strait that separates Denmark and Sweden. The transparent façade also reinforces the relation between inside and outside, since you The contrast between past and present has been elementary for can peak in from street level and enjoy the magnificent sea view AART Architects. Among other things, the studio has reinforced and view of Kronborg Castle from every floor of the building – esthe original concrete skeleton with armored steel, but has left the pecially from the glass cave which in a dramatic gesture protrudes concrete exposed as a reference to the site’s industrial past. The out of the building above the main entrance. historic context has thus been the main structural idea in the design process, ensuring the keen observer will discover a chapter of history in every corner of the yard and every peeling of the wall. In other words, if you want to understand what Elsinore really is, what the intangible blur between past and present feels like, this is the place to visit. “It is a house with a view to insight. With high ceilings and broadly Thanks to architectural features such as wrought iron stairs and based between sky and sea. Both in jest and in earnest. As a glint, a concrete elements, interacting with modern glass structures and brave reflex in the eye of Elsinore that reflects the whole world.” interior designs, the contrast between the days of yore and the Michael Fock, head of the Culture Yard present becomes evident. It is AART Architects way of playing with The inauguration of the Culture Yard in 2010 32 33 34 35 The Water House – the new headquarters for DANVA //Skanderborg, DK // Project: New headquarter for DANVA // Address: Godthåbsvej 83, Skanderborg // Client: Danva (Dansk Vandog Spildevandsforening) // Size: 2.600 m2 // Budget: DKK 38 m / € 5,1 m // Status: Completed // Proposal Architect: AART architechts A/S // Engineer: Cowi A/S // Contractor: A. Enggaard A/S // Landscape Architect: AART architects A/S // Photo: Thomas Mølvig and Helene Høyer Mikkelsen // Award: Sustainable Concrete Design 2011 (Bæredygtig Beton Prisen 2011); Best project in turnkey contract competition 2009 // Service: Shared advice // By means of its aesthetical and technical solutions, the Waterhouse a distance appear to form water motifs that stimulate the senses identifies DANVA as a socially engaged interest group focused on and give the building a contemporary, exciting and technological water and wastewater supply. The building, which is constructed in expression that reinforces DANVA’s knowledge basis. energy class 1 according the Danish building standard with a focus on a healthy indoor environment, has been developed in close diaThe light but distinctive idiom also permeates the building’s intelogue with DANVA in order to create an architectural whole, which rior, which is organised as a square volume around a light-emitting reflects the association’s sustainable ethos and daily work with atrium where the water motifs are repeated in the form of the water and wastewater engineering solutions. teardrop-shaped ceiling lamps and where employees gather and the organisation is anchored in the building. The atrium creates The headquarters is not only constructed in energy class 1, it also visual contact between the three floors and expresses a socially viexpands the concept of sustainability by taking advantage of LAR able message by appearing as the democratic heart of the building. (local drainage of rain water). In other words, the building not only minimises energy consumption but also diverts rainwater locally and thereby relieves the sewer systems, increases groundwater resources and contributes to biodiversity. This was a sustainable architectural concept that secured the building the Danish Sustainable Concrete Award 2011. The headquarters is located in the outskirts of Skanderborg and is designed so that its bright, reflective exterior softens the sur“The Waterhouse places emphasis on sustainability through an rounding urban landscape, which appears more dark and intense. attractive, future-proofed and rationally designed construction. In In this way, the building brightens up the urban landscape, and a spectacular way, the building demonstrates how concrete can in addition to horizontal glass sections and wooden strips, its contribute to interesting and exciting solutions to the significant exterior consists of perforated metal plates. The pixelated perforachallenge of diverting rainwater locally.” tions appear at close range as abstract patterns, while they from Julian Weyer, chairman of the jury committee Sustainable Concrete Award 2011 36 37 YET ANOTHER STEP IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION The more we concentrate on corporate social responsibility, the more insight we gain and the more we become aware of how many steps we still have to take in the ongoing process to promote a more sustainable development. With this report, we have taken yet another step in the right direction by expanding our social engagement. We experience the continually Global Compact reporting as a positive obligation, as it increases our awareness AART architects A/S Architects MAA / Member of Danske Ark of the many aspects of corporate social responsibility CVR-nr. 20 33 53 00 and the actions we have to take in the future. Aaboulevarden 22, 5th floor DK-8000 Aarhus C In our next report, we will focus even more on our research teams’ development work, including the reT: +45 8730 3286 F: +45 8730 3296 sults of our partnership with the Alexandra Institute. aart@aart.dk Generally seen, we will strive to become even better www.aart.dk to outline measurable objectives in order to evaluate the actual sustainable development and promote the Credits / photos: universal principles of the Global Compact. Adam Mørk Helene Høyer Mikkelsen Thomas Mølvig
