Conﬁden4al COP Copyright © 2011 World Exchange Group, LLC (WEG) All rights reserved. The contents of this COP report are conﬁden4al and are not to be reproduced or distributed without express wri:en consent of World Exchange Group, LLC . October 10, 2011 Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 1 COP Statement To: Whom it May Concern From: World Exchange Group, LLC Subject: WEG PlaIorm United Needs; Technology to the UN Global Compact Ten Principles and the UN Millennium Goals” Date: October 10, 2011 This paper concerns the subject of how World Exchange Group (WEG) is using technology to align itself with the UN Global Compact Ten Principles as well as the UN Millennium Development Goals. The WEG plaIorm called UNWEB therefore intents to provide the necessary informa4on technology infrastructure (United Needs) to enable it’s partnership with the UN Global Compact and the en4re UN to much more eﬃciently apply its principles and goals to resolve the world’s needs in all categories through human collabora4on in the United Needs framework. World Exchange Group will con4nue to support and commit the United Na4ons Global Compact on going ini4a4ves and its 10 principles for many years to come. It is our corporate mission and ongoing objec4ves to do so. Sincerely, Jason Blair Founder & Chairman World Exchange Group, LLC Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 2 COP Statement Prac%cal applica%ons and approach to the WEG BRP pla6orm to the UN and UN Global Compact The UN calls for be:er solu4ons to handle interna4onal crisis situa4ons and urges its member countries to incorporate its Millennium Development Goals in its own policies and ini4a4ves, thereby contribu4ng to the UN’s mission. The same applies to the members of the UN Global Compact, as they have all pledged to apply the Ten Principles to their organisa4on and develop their own ini4a4ves and strategies to fulﬁll the UN Global Compact mission as such. WEG is aligned fully with both the Millennium Development Goals as well as the UN Global Compact Ten Principles. Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 3 About WEG Today’s global trade systems are broken or horribly ineﬃcient. Both Version 1, 2: crisis and non-­‐crisis needs around the world, or around the corner go United Needs will ini4ally focus on cura4ng business needs with unfulﬁlled, but not for want of a solu4on. Tons of grain sit ro^ng on solu4ons providers for the fulﬁllment of those needs. United docks; equipment, clothing and supplies considered an4quated or Needs will also focus ﬁrst on needs between experienced “expired” by Western criteria sit impotent in warehouses; storage closets individual facilitators. at homes and enterprises full of useful items remain dormant and The ﬁrst-­‐phase plaIorm will comprise a transmedia plaIorm useless. Large and small, there is a solu4on for every need, they simply (mul4ple consumer devices) that assist people worldwide who are need to be connected. expert in a need, but have li:le access to the process of There is a gaping hole of commercial and social-­‐good opportunity in interna4onal trade, leveling the playing ﬁeld for en44es large and small, and individuals to Version 3: match their solu4on(s) with a need somewhere in the world. The vast majority of the word’s assets are owned by a very small minority of The network will eventually facilitate economic and social people. Barriers of entry make it diﬃcult, and oaen 4mes impossible, for exchanges of goods and services to corpora4ons, global traders, most to engage in global opportuni4es and have their needs fulﬁlled in a nonproﬁts, UN delegates, philanthropists, government 4mely and eﬃcient manner simply because there is no infrastructure in agencies and everyday people to do business at a lower cost, while place. helping improve the world. United Needs is building a global exchange pla6orm that will facilitate transac%ons at every level of society and become a trusted source for anyone with a need or solu%on to connect. United Needs will serve as a global exchange and solu4ons plaIorm for individuals, nonproﬁts, micro ﬁnanciers, private corpora4ons, academic ins4tu4ons, media outlets, professional associa4ons, and government en44es. Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 4 About WEG New business opportuni4es are oaen started based upon the interpreta4on that The MDGs focus on three major areas of human development (humanity): an entrepreneur's idea is needed and will be used by their audience. For-­‐proﬁt bolstering human capital, improving infrastructure, and increasing social, economic entrepreneurs oaen fail in their endeavors because the need for their business poli4cal rights, with the majority of the focus going towards increasing basic and model has not been validated by others. No single idea can succeed without standards of living. careful planning and outside inﬂuences. WEG’s primary focus is on Goal 8: Develop a global partnership for WEG was established not from the founders’ personal interpreta4on of what they development believed was needed to be:er global economic and social exchanges , but instead, from the inﬂuences prescribed by the United Na4ons, 192 na4ons and 23 -­‐ Target: 1. Develop further an open, rule-­‐based, predictable, non-­‐ interna4onal organiza4ons. A global call has been issued to the private sector to discriminatory trading and ﬁnancial system. 2. Address the Special Needs of the Least Developed Countries (LDC). 3. Address the special needs of help make available technologies that introduce a higher level of transparency, landlocked developing countries and small island developing countries. 4. In accountability, and valida4ons for economic and social needs. (45 Minute co-­‐opera4on with the private sector, make available the beneﬁts of new Educa/onal Resource: h7p://www.zoopy.com/video/551f/world-­‐debate-­‐on-­‐the-­‐ technologies, especially informa4on and communica4ons. mdgs) The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) are eight interna4onal development goals that all 192 United Na4ons member states and at least 23 interna4onal WEG’s enthusias4c and educated team has begun construc4ng the ﬁrst and only organiza4ons have agreed to achieve. They include eradica4ng extreme poverty, world needs plaIorm called UnitedNeeds, which caters to anyone interested in ﬁnding solu4ons to certain economic (for-­‐proﬁt) and social (non-­‐proﬁt) needs. reducing child mortality rates, ﬁgh4ng disease epidemics such as AIDS, and developing a global partnership for development. The MDG’s originated from the Millennium Declara4on produced by the United Na4ons. The Declara4on asserts that EVERY INDIVIDUAL has the right to dignity, freedom, equality, a basic standard of living that includes freedom from hunger and violence, and encourages tolerance and solidarity. The MDGs were made to opera4onalize these ideas by se^ng targets and indicators for poverty reduc4on in order to achieve the rights set forth in the Declara4on on a set ﬁaeen-­‐year 4meline. Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 5 About WEG UnitedNeeds S trategy Connect | Collaborate | Proﬁt | Enhance Our World UnitedNeeds pla:orm is being constructed to be a trusted online network, ac@va@on engine, and trading exchange for anyone with a need or situa@on to connect, collaborate, fulﬁll, and create a tangible impact in our world. The pla:orm will broaden its services to Corpora@ons, Global Traders, Non-­‐proﬁts, UN Delegates, Philanthropists, NGO’s, Government Agencies and everyday people to do business at a lower cost, while helping improve the world's economy and opportuni@es. The pla:orm will enable anyone to globally collaborate and create exchange at a lower cost to do business while solving needs, fulﬁlling solu@ons, and making a diﬀerence, by providing a market to trade commodi@es, tools, medicine, fuels, crops, ideas, advice, and more. Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 6 About WEG In 2010 nurses who were headed to the earthquake disaster in Hai4, were stuck in Chicago O'Hare airport because they could not get ﬂights to Port au Prince. A logis4cs and coordina4on nightmare. If only someone had donated money or airline miles to charter planes to ﬂy those nurses to Hai4 to save lives. Imagine UnitedNeeds ability to allow millions of customers to donate and coordinate Airline Miles or Credit Card rewards to the fulﬁllment of real NEEDS. Lives would have been saved! Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 7 About WEG During the immense humanitarian disaster, following the devasta4ng earthquake on the island of Hai4, the world tried to come together and provide money, products and services to fulﬁll the incredible immediate need for humanitarian aid. One of the biggest frustra4ons, as reported by journalists, was not so much the lack of good inten4ons and eﬀort, but instead the massive ineﬃciency involved in the logis4cs (coordina4on). There was an immediate need for 10,000 jack hammers in ﬁve diﬀerent places to help free trapped vic4ms. A call to ac4on was issued by the United Na4ons and the world donated 20,000 jack hammers (too many). In addi4on, the jack hammers were all delivered to the same place, resul4ng in four diﬀerent places not having any jackhammers, and one loca4on being completely oversupplied. The transporta4on then had to be re-­‐planned. Days later the jack hammers showed up where they were needed, but it was too late and lives were lost. At the same 4me, the total oversupply of jackhammers was a waste and it would have been be:er if the oversupply was instead directed toward other needs, such as clean water, food, medicine and logis4cs services. Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 8 About WEG Last year in Denmark a surplus of 250 tons of crops, enough to feed thousands of people sat and ro:ed in warehouses while 16,000 children die every day in our world from hunger. That Is One Child Every Five Seconds Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 9 About WEG In Europe crop farmers are now star4ng a large scale campaign to destroy food. Milk is being poured down the drain (literally) and thousands of live-­‐stock are being been killed to maintain higher market prices for the farmers. Experts say calcula4ons show that market prices can be maintained if we removed 10 percent of potatoes in the market. Meanwhile, People Are Starving & Economic Unbalance Con4nues To Exist Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 10 About WEG UNITED NEEDS (real needs not being met -­‐ video) h:p://dl.dropbox.com/u/3917805/WEG%2C%20LLC%20%282011%29/Marke4ng/One%20less%20need%20video.mov Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 11 About WEG Global Hunger Child Hunger -­‐ 925 million people do not have enough to eat -­‐ more than the -­‐ More than seventy (70) percent of the world's 146 million underweight popula4ons of USA, Canada and the European Union combined. children under age ﬁve years live in just 10 countries, with more than ﬁay (50) percent located in South Asia alone; -­‐ Ninety-­‐Eight (98) percent of the world's hungry live in developing countries; -­‐ 10.9 million children under ﬁve die in developing countries each year. Malnutri4on and hunger-­‐related diseases cause sixty (60) percent of the -­‐ Asia and the Paciﬁc region is home to over half the world’s popula4on deaths; and nearly two thirds of the world’s hungry people; -­‐ The cost of under-­‐nutri4on to na4onal economic development is es4mated -­‐ Women make up a li:le over half of the world's popula4on, but they at US$20-­‐30 billion per annum; account for over sixty (60) percent of the world’s hungry. -­‐ One out of four children -­‐ roughly 146 million -­‐ in developing countries are -­‐ Sixty-­‐ﬁve (65) percent of the world's hungry live in only seven countries: underweight; India, China, the Democra4c Republic of Congo, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Pakistan and Ethiopia. -­‐ Every year WFP feeds more than 20 million children in school feeding programs in some seventy (70) countries. In 2008 the WFP fed a record twenty three (23) million children. Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 12 About WEG MalnutriHon Food & HIV/Aids -­‐ It is es4mated that 684,000 child deaths worldwide could be prevented by -­‐ In the countries most heavily aﬀected, HIV has reduced life expectancy by increasing access to vitamin A and zinc. Lack of Vitamin A kills a million infants a more than twenty (20) years, slowed economic growth, and increased year. household poverty. -­‐ Under nutri4on contributes to ﬁay-­‐three (53) percent of the 9.7 million deaths -­‐ In sub-­‐Saharan Africa alone, the epidemic has orphaned nearly 12 million of children under ﬁve each year in developing countries. children aged under the age of eighteen (18) years. -­‐ Iron deﬁciency is the most prevalent form of malnutri4on worldwide, aﬀec4ng -­‐ WFP and UNAIDS project that it will cost on average US $0.70 cents per day an es4mated 2 billion people. Eradica4ng iron deﬁciency can improve the to nutri4onally support an AIDS pa4ent and his/her family. na4onal produc4vity levels by as much as twenty (20) percent. -­‐ Assistance for orphans and vulnerable children is es4mated at US$0.31 per -­‐ Iron deﬁciency is impairing the mental development of 40-­‐60 percent children day. in developing countries -­‐ Vitamin A deﬁciency aﬀects approximately twenty-­‐ﬁve (25) percent of the developing world’s pre-­‐schoolers. It is associated with blindness, suscep4bility to disease and higher mortality rates. It leads to the death of approximately 1-­‐3 million children each year. -­‐ Iodine deﬁciency is the greatest single cause of mental retarda4on and brain damage. Worldwide, 1.9 billion people are at risk of iodine deﬁciency, which can easily be prevented by adding iodine to salt. Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 13 About WEG RealisHcally, No One Can Say That, “Our World Needs Are Being Met!” -­‐ More than 80 percent of the world’s popula4on lives in countries -­‐ 6.9 Billion people live on our Earth. where income diﬀeren4als are widening. Limited global balance. -­‐ 3.5 Billion, over 1/2 of the earth, live on less than $2 per day. -­‐ Global unemployment has reached a staggering 30% -­‐ Close to 1/2 of all people in developing countries suﬀer at any given 4me from a health problem caused by water and sanita4on deﬁcits. -­‐ The most recent data also does not reﬂect the recent global food crisis and rising cost of energy, which is feared will bring another 100 -­‐ Nearly 20% of adults entered the 21st century unable to read a book or million into poverty sign their names. -­‐ Some 1.1 billion people in developing countries have inadequate access to water, and 2.6 billion lack basic sanita4on. -­‐ Imagine the horror of the world if a major earthquake were to occur and people stood by and watched without assis4ng the survivors! Yet every day, the equivalent of a major earthquake killing over 30,000 young children occurs to a disturbingly muted response. Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 14 About WEG One of the deﬁned GOALS of the United Na4ons is to a:ain interna4onal UnitedNeeds intends to do just that. It will enable people in need to eﬀec4vely coopera4on in solving interna4onal problems. coordinate resources, all focused on fulﬁlling needs, exactly where those needs are, and react in a much more 4mely fashion. Eﬀec4ve coordina4on and The United Na4ons organiza4on is apart from the poli4cs and veto rights for collabora4on across the world and instant reac4on to needs, could enable the ﬁve permanent members, basically responsible for monitoring and coordina4ng United Na4ons and their organiza4ons to be:er deliver real solu4ons to the eﬀorts to maintain sa4sfactory economic development worldwide and to world’s problems. maintain peace. A long list of organiza4ons exist in this sec4on of the UN: FAO, WB, ILO, IMF, WTO, UNDCP, UNWTO, UNDP, WMO, WIPO, WHO, WFP, UPU, We believe it starts with providing the world's ﬁrst globally accessible, free, UNIDO, UNESCO, ITU, IMO, IFAD, ICAO, IAEA. unbiased, non-­‐poli4cal plaIorm, which shall enable anyone, anywhere to cry out for help and, correspondingly, anyone to respond to those needs. It seems that the the grassroots organiza4ons (NGO's), the United Na4ons, its internal departments, 192 countries and their various departments, the private and public sector and individuals do not have eﬀec4ve mechanisms (infrastructure) in place to tackle these big problems. Or at least, the problems have grown so big, that something new and radical is needed to do a much be:er job. Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 15 About WEG UNITED NEEDS (vision -­‐ video) h:p://dl.dropbox.com/u/3917805/WEG%2C%20LLC%20%282011%29/Marke4ng/UnitedNeeds%20Macro%20Video.mov Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 16 UNGC Principles -­‐ WEG Alignment Very speciﬁcally, WEG’s United Needs technology pla6orm approach applies directly to each of the Ten Principles of Global Compact as follows: Human Rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protec4on of interna4onally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. WEG’s alignment: Full compliance can only be assured by real-­‐4me in-­‐process capture of all ac4vi4es and its context. This is precisely what WEG’s BRP solu4on oﬀers. The inherent accountability and transparency greatly promotes users to act with a high level of ethics and therefore also with respect and in support of the protec4on of human rights. Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 17 UNGC Principles -­‐ WEG Alignment Very speciﬁcally, United Needs Pla6orm Will Apply Directly To The Ten Principles of Global Compact as follows: Human Rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protec4on of interna4onally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. WEG’s alignment: Full compliance can only be assured by real-­‐4me in-­‐process capture of all ac4vi4es and its context. This is precisely what WEG’s United Needs solu4on oﬀers. The inherent accountability and transparency greatly promotes users to act with a high level of ethics and therefore also with respect and in support of the protec4on of human rights. Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 18 UNGC Principles -­‐ WEG Alignment Labour: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of associa4on and the eﬀec4ve recogni4on of the right to collec4ve bargaining; Principle 4: The elimina4on of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The eﬀec4ve aboli4on of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimina4on of discrimina4on in respect of employment and occupa4on. WEG’s alignment: The ability for businesses to essen4ally organise as they ﬁnd suitable to do business, associate themselves with other businesses and people around the world in order to establish eﬃcient trades and bargain within a “safe harbour” is all key to WEG’s United Needs solu4on. The inherent trust, transparency and accountability forces the users to behave within acceptable ethical guidelines, including not using forced and compulsory labour as well as child labour, with respect for human rights, including non-­‐discrimina4ve rela4onships with employees and their occupa4on. Only within such a framework will it be possible to eliminate all of those unwanted behaviors, and therefore allow businesses and individuals to safely do business with anyone around the world, simply since it is by deﬁni4on a “safe harbour” to do so. Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 19 UNGC Principles -­‐ WEG Alignment Environment: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precau4onary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake ini4a4ves to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. WEG’s alignment: Businesses support a precau4onary approach to environmental challenges and more importantly, pu^ng strategies into ac4on, falls well within the inherent high level of ethical standards, which WEG’s United Needs approach provides as discussed previously in this document. Ac4ng in a responsible manner in general, and regarding the environment speciﬁcally, is a ma:er of ethics and therefore it is possible to do business on WEG’s United Needs plaIorm with business partners and individuals, who actually do business while promo4ng greater environmental responsibility. As such, the necessary tool to develop and diﬀuse environmentally friendly technologies is readily available from WEG. Full environmental compliance therefore can only be assured by real-­‐4me in-­‐process capture of all ac4vi4es and its context. This is precisely what WEG’s United Needs solu4on oﬀers. Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 20 UNGC Principles -­‐ WEG Alignment An%-­‐Corrup%on: Principle 10: Businesses should work against corrup4on in all its forms, including extor4on and bribery. WEG’s alignment: Corrup4on is most likely to happen when there is no process in place, which captures everything within the process itself, stores it forever and holds everyone accountable for everything that is happening in the process itself. Lack of transparency and accountability, in fact, promotes wrongful behavior, including corrup4on, or reﬂected in modern economic theory, greatly increases the risk of moral hazard and the costs associated herewith. In other words: Full capture of all on-­‐going processes and transac4ons and the inability to alter the facts captured in-­‐process will in eﬀect eliminate corrup4on. This would, of course, require that all ac4vi4es are handled by a process based system like WEG’s United Needs solu4on. Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 21 WEG & UN MDG’s End Poverty and Hunger The unbalanced world in which the majority of the world’s resources and assets are owned by a very small percentage of the world’s popula4on is one of the major contributors to poverty and hunger. Typically, market errors exist in those countries, since there is an obvious consumer demand for products (food, clean water, basic consumer goods, educa4on, etc) but a grotesque undersupply to fulﬁll the demand. In this case United Needs will provide a plaIorm, which provides direct and immediate insight in needs related to poverty and hunger and those needs can be fulﬁlled through United Needs by individuals, organiza4ons such as corpora4ons and NGO’s etc, , governments, the UN. Universal Educa%on The lack of sharing of knowledge and lack of educa4on in poorer countries result in signiﬁcant disadvantage in individual, organiza4onal and country speciﬁc par4cipa4on in the global economy and opportuni4es to increase the wealth. Educa4on is necessary to accelerate a country’s ability to grasp those opportuni4es and become a real player in the global economy, thereby u4lizing natural resources, produc4on capabili4es, innova4on, trade, etc. to increase the wealth. United Needs is a plaIorm, which also provides the ability to post a need for knowledge/educa4on and those needs can then be fulﬁlled by individuals, organiza4ons, governments, the UN, etc. in order to help the undereducated to become more educated and be:er their lives. Gender Equality United Needs does not discriminate gender, sexuality, religious belief, race, or anything else. In fact, our philosophy is that each individual on planet Earth by herself or himself is a tremendous resource, which deserves to have opportuni4es to provide a good life for herself or himself, the family, the local community, the country and ul4mately, the world. United Needs is therefore completely “neutral” and available to anybody, anywhere in the world, for free, and with equal rights and opportunity, regardless of gender. Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 22 WEG & UN MDG’s Child Health It is our opinion that in a world as rich as developed as is the case today, at least the world should be able to come together and solve all problems related to child health. A child is innocent and only deserves the best possible care and opportunity in life. Fundamentally, child health is crucial to a child’s ability to have a chance in life. United Needs is a contributor to the promo4on of child health and will work diligently to unite the world and use the United Needs plaIorm to fulﬁll needs related to child health issues. Maternal Health As is the case with child health, maternal health should be a natural right for women, so that all issues related to maternity shall be eradicated and suﬃciently taken care of. The United Needs plaIorm enables the world to unite and par4cipate in the contribu4ons to fulﬁll all needs related to maternal health. It is possible through United Needs to directly help women having speciﬁc needs, organiza4ons who work and contribute in this par4cular focus area, etc. Combat HIV/AIDS Although United Needs itself cannot combat HIV and AIDS, the United Needs s4ll is a plaIorm, which shall enable the world to come together and fulﬁll needs related to comba^ng HIV and AIDS. As with educa4on in general, HIV and AIDS is about informa4on, but also about fulﬁlling medical needs in areas of the world, where the market economy itself fails: It is obvious that there is an unfortunate huge market demand for HIV/AIDS medicine in certain countries, yet there is a tremendous undersupply of those medicines, simply because those countries and individuals are too poor to pay the market price (in the western world) for the medicine. United Needs will make it a goal by itself to provide fulﬁllment of needs related to comba^ng HIV and AIDS through the United Needs plaIorm. Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 23 WEG & UN MDG’s Environmental Sustainability Economic development and growth is paramount to developing countries ability to increase the wealth for their na4on and people, however, this shall not be at the cost of the environment. Many opportuni4es exist for developing countries to not make the same mistakes as the developed world have done throughout the industrializa4on and beyond, but rather base their economic growth on smarter thinking and care for the environment, while enabling themselves to provide products and services which are compe44ve in the global economy. United Needs shall also be an enabling factor the development of environmentally sustainable economic growth, which is all about transparency, accountability and trust in rela4onships and the ability to share knowledge and build new economic opportuni4es in a smarter and more sophis4cated manner. Global Partnership United Needs is all about crea4ng global partnerships in between individuals of any background, heritage, religion, race, gender, etc., in between organiza4ons, corpora4ons, NGO’s, non-­‐proﬁts, governments, the UN, and across all of these groupings of rela4onships. United Needs provides a plaIorm, which makes it possible to forge such partnerships and alliances based on inherent trust, accountability, removing corrup4on from the equa4on and all based on a plaIorm, which enables anyone to par4cipate in the global economy and thereby create new opportuni4es and ul4mately growth in wealth for everyone across the planet through more global trade, and through the implementa4on of all of the UN Millenium Goals. Connect -­‐ Contribute -­‐ Proﬁt -­‐ Enhance Our World 24
