“Exceptional performance in 2010 a affirms our leadership position in primary silver and growing profile sterling in gold.” performance Who we are Fresnillo plc is the world’s leading primary silver Inside this Report Group Overview producer and Mexico’s second largest gold producer. Fresnillo plc at a Glance F 2010 Highlights 1 Headquartered in Mexico City, our shares trade on the Chairman’s Statement 2 London and Mexican Stock Exchanges. Strategy What we do Market Review 6 Business Model 10 Our business spans the full mining value chain: Strategy and KPIs 12 exploration, development and mining operations. We Strategic Resources 20 focus on high potential silver and gold projects that Risk Management Framework 22 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 23 can be developed into low-cost, world-class mines. We currently operate four mines, have two advanced Performance development projects and an extensive portfolio of Chief Executive’s Report 28 high-quality exploration projects and prospects, along Review of Operations 32 Sustainable Development Report 56 with the largest precious metals land reserve in Mexico. Financial Review 70 How we operate Governance Board of Directors 84 Our license to operate is dependent upon Executive Management 87 the safety and health of our employees, good Corporate Governance Report 88 environmental stewardship, the well-being of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 100 communities where we operate, and adherence to Directors’ Report 106 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 111 best governance practices. Therefore responsible and sustainable business practices are core to the Financial Statements business strategy of the Group and integrated into Independent Auditor’s Report 113 every aspect of our operations. Consolidated Financial Statements 114 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 119 Parent Company Financial Statements 160 Our goal Notes to the Parent Company Accounts 164 We seek to create value for our stakeholders across Operating Statistics 182 precious metals cycles. Our goal is to produce 65 Reserves and Resources 184 million ounces of silver per year and over 400,000 UN Global Compact Index 186 ounces of gold per year by 2018. Glossary 187 The Directors’ Report of Fresnillo plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 is set out on pages 106 to 110 in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, and includes the Business Review. The Directors’ Report also incorporates the Management Report required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules. The Business Review and other sections of this Annual Report contain forward looking statements. The extent to which the Company’s shareholders or anyone may rely on these forward looking statements is set out inside the back cover of this Fresnillo plc 2010 ANNUAL REPORT Annual Report. Fresnillo plc at a Glance Our business model Operating mines Strategy See pages 10-11 See pages 34-47 See pages 12-17 Operations are supported by extensive investment in technology that enhances productivity and efficiency. When coupled with high-quality The Fresnillo Group seeks to create value for stakeholders across precious metals cycles assets selectively added in the exploration and through ongoing investment in exploration and mine development, operational excellence, development phase, we remain competitively positioned in cash cost performance. and a strong commitment to disciplined and sustainable growth. The four components of our strategy are: 1. Fresnillo Underground silver mine, world’s largest primary silver mine, in operation since 1554 1 Maximise the potential of existing operations 2. Ciénega Underground gold mine, in operation since 1992 3. Herradura Open pit gold mine, in operation since 1997 4. Soledad-Dipolos Open pit gold mine, in operation since 2010 Development projects See pages 48-49 Projects must meet stringent criteria regarding the 2 Deliver growth through development projects volume of silver/gold contained and embedded cost. Because of our focus on district consolidation, 3 Extend the growth pipeline we evaluate potential growth in geographic regions that may create synergies for new future mines. 5. Saucito Underground silver mine, 361.5 million ounces of silver resources 4 Reinforce the sustainability of the Group Start-up expected in 1H 2011 6. Noche Buena Open pit gold mine, 481,000 ounces of gold reserves Construction begins in 2011 4 3 11 Exploration prospects 6 See pages 50-55 Exploration is the key driver of growth for the 10 8 Group. Our portfolio includes projects that extend across the multiple stages of exploration (detec2 tion, discovery and definition), resulting in a strong 9 pipeline of growth. 12 1 7 5 Advanced exploration prospects: 7. Juanicipio 8. San Julián 9. San Ramón 10. Orisyvo 11. Centauro Deep 12. Las Casas 2010 adjusted revenues by mine 2010 adjusted revenues by metal Target definition exploration prospects: fresnillo 53% silver 51% San Juan, San Nicolás del Oro, Otzumatlán, Jaralillo, herradura 25% gold 44% MEXICO Tajitos, Cairo, Manzanillas, Lucerito, Leones, Guanajuato, ciÉNEGA 13% zinc 3% Tocayos SOLEDAD-DIPOLOS 9% lead 2% 1 2010 HIGHLIGHTS GRO U P O VE RVIE W Operational highlights • Record attributable production of silver (38.6 million ounces) and gold (368,995 ounces) • First year of commercial operations at Soledad-Dipolos exceeded production budget • Ciénega expansion and Saucito development on track for start up in 1H 2011 • Pre-feasibility study at Noche Buena concluded, construction commencing in 2011 • Positive drilling results obtained at several exploration projects and prospects, including sizeable new ore shoot at Saucito S T RAT E GY • Total resources base increased by more than 15%, with the aggregate reserves replenished at existing mines Financial highlights • Adjusted revenue1 up 56.1% to US$1,473.9 million • EBITDA2 up 90.3% to US$945.0 million • EBITDA margin increases to 67.0%, from 58.4% in 2009 • Cost controls and efficiency measures maintain the Group’s competitive position among global peers • Robust balance sheet carries no debt and strong cash position PE R F O RM A N CE • Operating profit3 up 94.4% to US$833.4 million • Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company, excluding the Silverstream revaluation effects up 72.3% to US$530.8 million (post-tax Silverstream revaluation effects: US$134.3 million) • Adjusted EPS4 up 72.1% to US$0.740 per share, EPS up 106.5% to US$0.927 per share • Final dividend of 35.6 US cents per ordinary share 46.8% 58.4% 67.0% 34.8 37.9 38.6 263.6 276.6 369.0 337.4 496.6 945.0 405.8 548.8 983.6 GO VER N AN C E 08 09 10 08 09 10 08 09 10 08 09 10 attributable silver attributable gold EBITDA AND CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES production production EBITDA MARGIN BEFORE CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL (millions of ounces) (thousands of ounces) (in millions of US$) (in millions of US$) F IN AN CIA LS 1 Adjusted revenue is revenue as disclosed in the income statement adjusted to exclude hedging effects and treatment and refining charges. 2 Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) is calculated as gross profit plus depreciation less administrative and exploration expenses. 3 Profit from continuing operations before net finance costs and income tax. 4 Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations, prior to the revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 2 Chairman’s Statement Dear Shareholders, The Fresnillo Board regards the Group’s performance in health, safety, environmental and comI am pleased to report a year of solid performance munity issues as integral to its operational perforfor Fresnillo plc. Record levels of silver and gold promance. This year we engaged in discussions about duction, the start-up of a new mine, and substantial the strategic framework for corporate social reprogress at development and exploration sites attest sponsibility, the impact of the Group’s social investto the Group’s operational execution and robust rements, and broader industry benchmarks in this source base. Combined with high silver and gold pricregard. Our focus remains squarely on prioritising es, Fresnillo plc delivered the best year in its history. the health and safety of employees above all else, minimising the Group’s environmental impact, and This performance comes in the context of a comengaging constructively with communities to create plex global economic recovery, ongoing market lasting economic and social value. volatility, debt crisis in Europe, large fiscal deficits in several developed countries, loose monetary policy It is thus with great sadness that I report the death in the USA and the continued ascendancy of China, of two employees this year. We hold ourselves to factors that contributed to the exceptional rise in the highest standard in which no fatality is ever acprecious metal prices. ceptable. Additional training and monitoring across the organisation are being implemented to enforce Notwithstanding the important benefit of favouradherence to safety measures. able prices, the Group´s production and cost profile, growth platform and mining expertise contributed to Furthermore, and as part of the Company’s adoption the positive performance. With an average cash cost of the Principles of the UK Corporate Governance of US$3.3 per ounce of silver and US$309.1 per ounce Code, the Board has initiated a process to explicitly of gold, the Fresnillo Group should be able to prodefine the nature and extent of the risks we are willduce profitably well below current prices, and do so ing to take to achieve our strategic objectives. We for years to come given the 1.47 billion silver ounces believe the Company already has a comprehensive and 20.08 million gold ounces in resources. Furtherapproach to managing risks, and this process will more, Fresnillo plc has the know-how to identify high enhance our framework and ensure full alignment potential resources and develop them economically, of Board-and executive-level practices. establishing a good pipeline for growth. Like all of my board colleagues, I am firmly comAs such, I believe we are on course to meet the ammitted to ensuring that we collectively oversee bitious target set out at the time of our initial public Fresnillo plc with transparency and in the interest offering in 2008: that by 2018, Fresnillo plc will be of all shareholders. We are fully committed to the able to produce 65 million ounces of silver and over best possible practices in corporate governance, 400,000 ounces of gold annually. Furthermore, the and take our adherence to the principles and proGroup should be in a position to maintain that level visions of the new UK Code on Corporate Governof production for the subsequent 10 years at least, ance very seriously. In particular we recognise that based on the project delivery schedule that has the shareholding structure of Fresnillo plc requires been set out in our Review of Operations. us to ensure, as we have done, that the interests of all shareholders are well represented in the proInvesting across metal price cycles to extend the ceedings of the Board. In our reporting this year, we growth pipeline will continue to be a hallmark of have sought to demonstrate the steps put in place our value-creation strategy. We also seek to deliver to achieve this. growth through development projects and maximise the potential of existing operations. Underlying Based on the Group’s 2010 performance, the Directhis strategy are two fundamental pillars: prudent tors have recommended a final dividend of 35.6 US financial discipline to ensure sufficient investment cents per Ordinary Share, which will be paid on 20 capital even under unfavourable price scenarios; May 2011 to shareholders on the register on 3 May and most importantly, a profound and unwavering 2011. The dividend will be paid in UK pounds sterling commitment to long-term sustainable development. unless shareholders elect to be paid in US dollars. 3 GRO U P O VE RVIE W The Company´s dividend policy takes into account Investing across metal price the profitability of the business and underlying cycles, delivering growth growth in earnings of the Company, as well as its through development projects capital requirements and cashflows, whilst maintaining an appropriate level of dividend cover. and maximising the potential of existing operations will continue For 2011, despite the uncertain outlook for economto be a hallmark of our valueic and metal price performance, we expect that our creation strategy. high quality resource base and low-cost production S T RAT E GY profile will enable Fresnillo plc to deliver growth. Silver and gold production volumes will reflect the start-up of commercial operations at Saucito, a significant property with 361.5 million ounces of silver resources. Gold production will benefit from expanded milling capacity at Ciénega and the expansion of Soledad-Dipolos. The Board has authorised a 151.1% increase in the 2011 exploration budget, to US$251.4 million. The favourable exploration results obtained in 2010, inPE R F O RM A N CE cluding significant new resources identified at existing projects that will warrant mine expansion in the near term, reinforce our confidence that such expenditures are vital to the long-term growth of the Group. The focus will remain on consolidating mining districts in Mexico and Peru. I would like to thank my fellow Board members for their service and contributions in the year. It is a pleasure to work together towards a common mission, and Fresnillo plc benefits from the wealth of experience and perspectives that our outstanding GO VER N AN C E Board members bring. I would also like to commend the Group’s executives and employees for delivering great performance that affirms Fresnillo plc’s leadership position in primary silver and our growing profile in gold. Alberto Baillères Non-executive Chairman F IN AN CIA LS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 4 Fresnillo plc team of geologists 5 Strategy IN THIS SECTION Market Review 6 Business Model 10 Strategy and KPIs 12 Strategic Resources 20 Risk Management Framework 22 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 23 Fresnillo plc plc Fresnillo 20102010 Annual Report Annual Report 6 Market review part I: The silver and gold industry Jaime Lomelín, Chief Executive Officer of Fresnillo plc shares some thoughts on the silver and gold market. What are the prospects for the sector in the near future? I am fairly positive about the market. Fears of inflation and geopolitical tensions tend to encourage investment in precious metals as a safe haven. Expectations for economic growth are improving, particularly in Asia, but the US and Europe remain weak. Silver actually has a dual role in which its value can be driven both by investment as a safe haven and by industrial applications, so it benefits from both scenarios. Industrial usage of silver has been growing quickly. Because of its properties, it is a versatile metal. It is the material of choice for a wide range of applications and its future does not depend on one industry as was the case in the past, when the photographic industry was the dominant consumer. Tell us a bit more about those alternative applications. Silver has unique properties such as electrical and thermal conductivity, strength, reflectivity, its use as a catalyst, and of course in photography. There are few alternative metals in most of the applications where it’s being used today. Given the number of patents submitted for products and applications requiring silver, you might even say it is a “miracle metal.” For example, silver is being used in cell phones, and a range of consumer electronics. The usage of silver zinc rechargeable batteries is growing rapidly because of fewer contamination risks compared to other types of batteries. Silver is also employed as a bactericide and algaecide in an ever increasing number of applications including water purification, silver impregnated clothing and paints for hospitals. The ornamental uses of silver remain strong, such as jewellery, silverware and in mirrors. That’s to say nothing of its investment properties as small bars, coins, medals and ETFs. 7 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Isn’t the latter more applicable to gold? World Silver Supply and Demand, 2010E Yes, absolutely – the gold market has benefited Million ounces from being a safe haven investment for centuries. 2010E This has been the driving force for the gold market SUPPLY – which has obviously helped Fresnillo. The silver Mine production 738.9 market has benefited in a similar fashion but it is Net Government Sales 19.3 balanced by the wider applications I touched on. Net producer hedging 29.5 Gold’s other principal use is in jewellery, although it Scrap 180.1 also has many of the same properties as silver, but Implied net disinvestment S T RAT E GY consumption in these areas falls as the price rises. Total Supply 967.9 In fact, the broader silver market has benefited as the cost of gold becomes prohibitive for jewellery DEMAND and industrial applications. Fabrication Industrial 442.5 What about activity in the mining sector? Photographic 72.1 How is that likely to impact the market and Jewellery 165.9 Fresnillo’s prospects? Silverware 53.6 There are three sources of silver; mining, recycling Coins & Medals 98.8 of scrap and government sales, although the latTotal Fabrication 832.8 ter is insignificant at the moment. The high price is Net producer de-hedging PE R F O RM A N CE bringing more scrap to market but the main growth Implied net investment 135.0 in supply is mining. Most silver comes as a by-prodTotal Demand 967.9 uct of copper, lead, zinc and gold mining, but pro© GFMS Limited 2011 duction from this route depends on demand for the primary metal. This is where the pure silver mines like Fresnillo become important, and this is where silver etf holdings substantial growth in silver supply will come from. Million ounces Tonnes However, the great majority of exploration invest700 ment worldwide is going to two other commodi600 ties: copper and gold. There are a lot of small new gold mines coming into production globally. Many of 500 GO VER N AN C E these are not efficient, and are low grade and high 400 cost, but are easy to mine. With the high price of 300 gold, they can still make their margins. Silver explo200 ration and mining is more expensive so the junior 100 exploration companies are more focused on gold or 0 on small and medium size silver mines. When the 07 08 09 10 11 prices for these metals go down then margins will © GFMS Limited 2011 decrease and some of these companies and operations will have to close. That is why the strategy for Fresnillo plc is to maintain a strong pipeline of high quality exploration projects, to have an efficient operation, low cost mines and to consolidate districts. F IN AN CIA LS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 8 Market review continued part II: Mexico, The mining industry a country overview Mexico has a mining history extending almost 500 Fresnillo plc is headquartered in Mexico, as are the years and is among the world’s largest metal proGroup’s operating assets and the majority of its exducers. Although best known for its production of ploration properties. silver-over 10 billion ounces have been produced to date, and it was the second largest silver producer Government and economy in the world in 2010-the country also mines signifiMexico is a federal republic with a stable democratcant quantities of copper, gold, lead and zinc. ic political environment. National elections will next take place in July 2012. The geological potential remains strong. The country’s terrain is one of the most tectonically active The country has a free market economy with a and complex in the world. Orogenesis has pushed trade regime built upon agreements with the United up mountain chains all across Mexico, including States, Canada, the European Union, and 44 other the Sierra Madre Oriental, Sierra Madre Occidencountries. Mexico’s sovereign debt carries investtal and Sierra Madre del Sur. These three regions ment grade ratings and a stable outlook. have formed some of the key metallogenic areas. Gold and silver mineralisation is commonly linked Security to the two belts of hydrothermal veins and gaps President Felipe Calderon has made combating organthat stretch out underneath both sides of the Sierra ised crime a priority of his administration and has deMadre Occidental. ployed the Mexican military to several Mexican states where Fresnillo plc has operations, including Zacatecas, That potential has attracted more than 250 private Durango and Sonora, to assist or replace local and state exploration companies to Mexico, with operations police. Military and police have been increasingly succoncentrated in the northern states of Sonora, Zacessful in carrying out operations to remove top cartel catecas and Chihuahua. leaders. Nonetheless, the Group has enhanced security measures at all facilities and is taking additional precauBecause mining is an important contributor to the tions to safeguard its personnel, who are the top priority. country’s economy – according to recent government figures 1.6% of GDP, 4.2% of exports and 283,000 direct Infrastructure jobs – the industry benefits from a well-structured and Mexico’s land transport network is one of the most supportive regulatory framework. extensive in Latin America with approximately 365,000 kilometres of paved roads and 27,000 kiloThe concession system metres of railroads. Mexico has seven major comUnder the Mexican constitution, minerals are part of mercial container maritime ports and numerous the national patrimony. Exploration, exploitation and international airlines serve the country. beneficiation of minerals have preference over any World Gold Investment Tonnes 07.Q1 07.Q2 07.Q3 07.Q4 08.Q1 08.Q2 08.Q3 08.Q4 09.Q1 09.Q2 09.Q3 09.Q4 10.Q1 10.Q2 10.Q3 10.Q4e Official Coins 37.3 38.2 37.4 21.7 28.4 36.0 60.4 62.4 68.9 55.6 49.5 54.9 43.6 68.2 50.4 42.5 Medals & Imitation Coins 20.4 25.6 18.3 8.4 10.7 14.5 25.0 19.4 3.9 13.9 17.8 21.3 21.4 13.0 17.3 25.5 Bar Hoarding 66.6 80.7 60.7 31.4 49.4 92.2 126.4 117.8 (23.1) 74.8 93.7 70.7 115.5 96.8 141.9 127.5 Implied Investment (14.4) (174.8) 79.1 276.0 187.4 51.6 (123.4) 216.8 781.6 287.0 101.9 228.4 63.3 363.4 119.6 319.1 World Investment 109.9 -30.4 195.4 337.5 275.9 194.4 88.4 416.3 831.3 431.3 262.8 375.2 243.8 541.4 329.2 514.6 © GFMS Limited 2011 9 Mexico provides a favourable environment for mining: flexible and well-structured mining and environmental legislation; political support; strong mining tradition and expertise; a skilled workforce; and ample GRO U P O VE RVIE W access to good infrastructure. Mexico was the second largest silver producer in the world in 2010. other use of the land. The law permits up to 100% cluding water extraction, wastewater discharge and private ownership in exploration, development and tailings disposal. production of mineral substances. The fiscal regime Concessions are required to explore for and exploit There are no taxes or levies imposed specifically mineral potential. Concession holders are required on the mining industry. Companies are subject to to negotiate with the surface land owner to access standard corporate income tax rates, which are the land under which the concession is located. determined by the federal government. The rate for 2010 was 30%. Based on the Tax Reform Bill apS T RAT E GY Exploration concessions are granted for six years proved in December 2009, this rate will decrease to and are not renewable. There are no limits for mining 29% in 2013 and 28% in 2014 and beyond. The 2010 concessions. Production concessions are awarded Fraser Institute of Canada report places Mexico fifth for 50 years and are renewable for a similar period. among 72 countries as a mining destination due to All concessions may specify required levels of capiits favourable fiscal and regulatory regime. tal expenditure and minimum environmental, health and safety standards. Workforce Mexico’s long history of mining and an extensive Regulation for the mining sector is overseen by the natural resources sector provide a skilled workforce, Secretaría de Economía, while environmental peralthough the growth of the mining industry in recent mitting responsibility resides with the Secretaría de years has led to some scarcity of trained workers. PE R F O RM A N CE Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales (SEMARNAT). Under Mexican law, it is permissible for unionised employees to engage in work stoppages and other Environmental laws industrial actions for disputes with their own emMexican environmental regulations have become ployers or in sympathy with unionised employees increasingly stringent over the last decade as a reof other companies who are engaged in a dispute, sult of international agreements that Mexico has despite the absence of any dispute with their own ratified, including the North American Agreement on employer. Fresnillo Group workers did not support Environmental Cooperation (parallel to NAFTA), the any such actions in 2010. United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Convention on Biological Diversity. i Information for this section was compiled from a number of sources, including Mexico’s Secretariat of Economy Mining companies must obtain environmental imand Secretariat of Communications and Transportation, GO VER N AN C E pact permits from SEMARNAT prior to any mining Global InfoMine, Pro Mexico, U.S. Department of State. and exploration activities, and such activities are subsequently subject to several environmental permits from different offices within SEMARNAT, inWorld Gold Mine Production Tonnes 2,700 2,500 F IN AN CIA LS 2,300 2,100 1,900 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 © GFMS Limited 2011 Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 10 Business model Fresnillo plc is a silver and gold mining company that seeks to create value for stakeholders throughout price cycles. What differentiates us is how we execute our strategy across our value chain of exploration, mine development and operations. MANAGEMENT Operational excellence Low cost production Mine life maintenance through Operate STRO N G GRO WT H P I P E L I NE ASSETS resource replenishment SK FR RI Disciplined execution to AM H I GH Q UALITY PROYECTS Develop EW evaluate, design, develop and build new mines OR Balanced pipeline K across multiple stages PROSPECTS of exploration Explore Investment in exploration through price cycles District consolidation Early stage aquisitions and partnerships Value Chain Strategic Financial Sustainability relationships strength & control Technology Our people Strategic Resources 11 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Our business model is comprised of the followWe are committed to replenishing reserves every year. ing components: The exploration team identifies new resources along with the operating team, who then convert those reThe value chain sources into reserves by narrowing the drilling pattern Explore: The key growth driver for the Group is and mining works. It is the combination of both efforts locating mineral deposits that extend our resource that enables the Group to achieve this goal. base, with a focus on consolidating mining districts Experience in Mexico and Latin America. We do this through + continuous investment in exploration irrespective Skills S T RAT E GY of price cycles, and ongoing acquisition of mining + Optimal mining methods concessions and surface land. Our geologists have + significant technical expertise and a proven track Technology record of new discoveries. We also look for oppor+ High quality assets tunities to acquire early-stage projects with strong = growth potential or to partner with other groups Operational value through agreements that allow us to share the inherent benefits and risks of prospect exploration. Strategic resources Sustainability: Initiatives are implemented from This comprehensive approach results in a pipeline the earliest stages of exploration until mine closure of projects that extend across the multiple stages of that seek to develop and benefit local economies PE R F O RM A N CE exploration (detection, discovery and definition) and and achieve exemplary results in environmental, ensure long-term organic growth. safety and health performance. Develop: Projects must meet stringent criteria Strategic relationships: Sound and mutually benregarding the volume of silver/gold contained and eficial relationships with federal, state and municipal embedded cost. Economic viability is determined authorities, regulatory and governmental agencies, by evaluating factors such as optimal mine design, suppliers, labour unions, customers, communities, investment requirements, sustaining capital expenpartners and shareholders. ditures and rates of return. Furthermore, because of our focus on district consolidation, we evaluate Financial strength and control: Careful manpotential growth in the same geographic region that agement of all assets and cash while maintaining a may create synergies for new future mines. During range of capital funding options. GO VER N AN C E development and construction stages, we maintain tight discipline to ensure adherence to approved Technology: Use of tools and processes that supschedules and budget. Additionally, engineering and port exploration, increase productivity, reinforce construction teams work closely with the team that sustainability, and enhance accountability, decisionwill operate the mine, ensuring smooth transition making and financial planning processes. from construction to commissioning. Our people: The most fundamental resource upon Operate: Our formula to extract value from operawhich the successful execution of our strategy relies. tions reflects the experience and skills of our people who seek and apply optimal mining methods in Risk management framework accordance with the changing characteristics of As with any company, our strategy and business each mine, and develop initiatives to increase remodel are subject to a range of risks. Fresnillo plc’s F IN AN CIA LS coveries, operational efficiencies and reduce costs. Board assesses and evaluates the principle risks Operations are supported by extensive investment that could affect the Company’s ability to execute in technology that enhances productivity and effiits strategy and deliver on its commitments. A rigorciency. When coupled with high-quality assets seous risk management framework is an integral part lectively added in the exploration and development of our model to effectively manage and mitigate phase, we remain competitively positioned in cash these risks. We are working toward integrating this cost performance among industry peers. framework into the day-to-day operations. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 12 strategy The Fresnillo Group seeks to create value for stakeand a top Mexican producer of gold, producing 65 holders across precious metals cycles through million ounces of silver per year and over 400,000 ongoing investment in exploration and mine develounces of gold per year by 2018, and supporting and kpis opment, operational excellence, and a strong commitment to disciplined and sustainable growth. that level of production for at least 10 years. The four components of our strategy are outlined Our goal is to consolidate and maintain the Group’s herein, along with the key performance indicators that 1 position as the world’s leading producer of silver monitor the effectiveness of each strategy over time. Maximise the potential of existing operations How we do it By aiming to run operations at full capacity, replacing reserves, generating continuous improvements in productivity and cost controls, utilising technology and leveraging expansion opportunities. operate 2010 progress Record silver and gold production. Successful implementation of Six Sigma, a statistics-driven methodology for improving operational performance by eliminating variability and waste, resulted in improved recovery rates and/or increased milling capacity at all operating mines. 2011 priorities • Conclude construction of the San Carlos shaft at Fresnillo to reduce haulage costs • Evaluate a future expansion at Fresnillo to compensate for the expected lower ore grades in order to maintain stable silver production • Commission the shaft at Ciénega to gain access to deeper ore reserves • Complete expansion of milling capacity from 755,000 to 930,000 tonnes per year at Ciénega to maintain stable gold production • Expansion to produce 130,000 total ounces of gold per year at Soledad-Dipolos Key performance indicators Attributable production 34.8 37.9 38.6 263.6 276.6 369.0 Sum of ounces produced multiplied by ownership interest at each mine. Monitors total production levels at our mines and contributions from advance development projects. Comment Increased ore volumes milled at Fresnillo and silver extracted from development works at Saucito 08 09 10 08 09 10 resulted in record silver production. Record gold silver gold production was achieved mainly due to the start(millions of ounces) (thousands of ounces) up of Soledad-Dipolos, and to a lesser extent, to the good performances at Herradura and Ciénega. 13 19.5 20.6 20.3 Productivity Ounces of silver produced at operating mines, plus ounces of gold produced at operating mines GRO U P O VE RVIE W multiplied by 61, which is the 2010 spot ratio of the gold price to silver price (US$1,224.7 per ounce of gold / US$20.2 per ounce of silver), divided by the total number of union and non-union employees and contractors. Figures for 2008 and 2009 were adjusted using the same ratio for comparative purposes. 08 09 10 EQUIVALENT SILVER OUNCES PER PERSON Comment (thousands of ounces) Equivalent ounces of silver decreased slightly, by 1.3%, due to new employees hired and trained at Herradura, some of whom were sent to SoledadDipolos and others who will be transferred to Noche Buena. These non-operating trainees S T RAT E GY shadow current employees for the first few months of their employment. Cost per tonne 41.8 37.2 41.7 64.3 61.4 65.9 Adjusted production costs (total production costs5 less depreciation, profit sharing and exchange rate hedging effects) divided by total volume of tonnes milled or deposited at the leaching pads. Monitors variations of costs directly related to the production process; the analysis of such variations improves management’s decision-making. PE R F O RM A N CE 08 09 10 08 09 10 FRESNILLO CIÉNEGA Comment cost per tonne cost per tonne Adjusted production costs were negatively (US$/tonne milled) (US$/tonne milled) impacted by the strengthening of the peso 5.6 5.2 5.6 5.7 against the dollar, higher electricity and diesel prices, increased development, and rock bolting and shotcreting activities to improve safety. At Herradura, the increase in volume deposited offset the increase in those costs. 08 09 10 08 09 10 5 Freight costs related to sales G O VE RN A N C E HERRADURA SOLEDAD DIPOLOS were reclassified to adjusted cost per tonne cost per tonne production costs, with previous (US$/tonne deposited) (US$/tonne deposited) year figures adjusted accordingly Proven and probable reserves (attributable) 410.0 374.0 441.6 4.1 4.3 4.5 A measure of the quality of the Group’s operating assets and our ability to extend the life of operating mines. Comment In the context of record 2010 silver production, the Group was able to replenish and significantly increase silver reserves by 18.1%, reflecting the conversion of resources at Fresnillo and Ciénega. Total gold 08 09 10 08 09 10 F INA N CIA LS reserves increased 5.9% as a result of new reserves attributable proven attributable proven and probable reserves silver and probable reserves gold at Noche Buena and Saucito and an increase at (millions of ounces) (millions of ounces) Fresnillo and Herradura, offsetting a decrease at Ciénega and natural depletion at Soledad-Dipolos. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 14 Strategy and KPIs continued 2 Deliver growth through development projects How we do it Through disciplined advancement of our exploration projects towards mine development, start-up and production. 2010 progress DEVELOP Successful start-up in January 2010 of commercial production at Soledad-Dipolos, with first year production that exceeded full capacity estimates. Construction of Saucito advanced ahead of schedule and below budget. 2011 priorities • Start-up of Saucito as a new mine in 1H 2011 • Initiate construction at Noche Buena • Conclude expansion of Soledad-Dipolos Key performance indicators Project delivery SOLEDAD-DIPOLOS Ability to adhere to forecasted schedules and budgets. Timeline: early completion This measures management’s forecasting capabilities of construction; on target for commercial production and execution strength. Budget: on target SAUCITO Timeline: construction on target Budget: more than 10% below budget 15 GRO U P O VE RVIE W 3 Extend the growth pipeline How we do it S T RAT E GY By deploying personnel with significant expertise and allocating a healthy investment budget for exploration and technology, and continuously securing mining concessions and accompanying surface land rights when results warrant. This ensures an exploration pipeline of organic growth projects. We also EXPLORE pursue early stage joint ventures and make selective acquisitions in Mexico and potentially elsewhere in Latin America. 2010 progress Replenished reserves and generated a double-digit increase in gold and silPE R F O RM A N CE ver resources. Concluded pre-feasibility study at Noche Buena. Conducted underground development at Saucito, Juanicipio and San Julián. Completed scoping studies at San Julián and Orisyvo. Conducted early stage drilling at 11 exploration prospects and continued regional exploration efforts to identify new prospects with high potential. Signed option agreements at Candameña, Cebadillas and Yesca properties. 2011 priorities • Conclude pre-feasibility study at Juanicipio in January • Conduct pre-feasibility study at San Julián and San Ramón • Complete exploration adit, update scoping study and conduct metallurgical GO VER N AN C E tests at Orisyvo Key performance indicators Total resources (attributable) 1,115.9 1,289.0 1,472.7 12.0 13.9 20.1 Quantifies measured, indicated and inferred resources at projects and prospects; an indicator of the Group’s growth potential and our ability to discover and develop new ore bodies. Comment Silver resources rose mainly due to increases F IN AN CIA LS at Fresnillo and Saucito. Gold resources rose 08 09 10 08 09 10 primarily due to increases at Orisyvo, Centauro attributable attributable resources silver resources gold Deep, Saucito and Herradura. (millions of ounces) (millions of ounces) Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 16 Strategy and KPIs continued 4 Reinforce the sustainability of the Group How we do it By putting our people first in terms of health and safety, training, development and long-term opportunities; implementing strong environmental management practices; partnering with the communities where we operate; and adhering to a broad range of sustainability guidelines. strategic resources 2010 progress While the accident rate decreased due to ongoing safety training and management efforts, two fatal accidents prevented us from maintaining our Zero Fatalities target. Strict action plans were taken to prevent further fatal accidents. Unit consumption of water and energy declined. ISO 14001:2004 and Clean Industry certifications from PROFEPA (Mexican Federal Environmental Protection Agency) were maintained at all mine units. Cyanide certification audit process was completed at Herradura and continued at Ciénega. 2011 priorities • Zero fatalities and continued improvements in other safety indicators • Obtain OHSAS 18001:2008 certification at Fresnillo and 50% advance in remaining mines • Complete Cyanide Code certification process at Ciénega, become a signatory at Soledad-Dipolos • Obtain first level of the Safe Enterprise Certificate from STPS (Secretariat of Labour and Social Welfare) at Fresnillo, Herradura and Ciénega, and integrate Soledad-Dipolos into the programme 17 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Key performance indicators A wide range of indicators is used to measure sustainability performance. The health, safety, environment and community relations (HSECR) framework includes specific metrics for each aspect of the programme. i S T RAT E GY See the Sustainable Development Report for full details. Fatalities 0 0 2 Loss of life of any of the Group’s employees – full or part-time, direct or subcontracted, union or non-union – during any work related activities. Comment After two years with no fatalities, we suffered two fatal accidents in 2010: in August, a carbon monoxide poisoning at Ciénega; in November a 08 09 10 PE R F O RM A N CE scoop tram accident at Fresnillo. fatalities Lost work days rate 1.58 1.20 1.64 Total number of days lost due to disabling and nondisabling accidents divided by the total number of union and non-union employees and contractors. Comment While certain safety indicators such as the accident rate decreased, the increase in lost work days mainly reflects the two fatal accidents in the year. 08 09 10 i See the Sustainable Development Report pages 60-61. LOST WORK DAYS RATE G O VE RN A N C E F INA N CIA LS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 18 Strategy and KPIs continued FINANCIAL KPIs 21.39 Cash cost per ounce Total cash cost (cost of sales plus treatment 15.27 14.71 strategic resources and refining charges, less depreciation) less revenues from by-products divided by ounces of margin 18.05 silver or gold sold. Used to compare operational 84.4% 11.90 10.94 performance among peers as well as gross profit 74.4% 77.9% margin performance. 3.77 3.37 3.34 Comment 08 09 10 Cash costs benefited from higher by-product FRESNILLO CASH COST SILVER credits and increased sales volume of silver (US$ per ounce) and gold, fully offsetting the adverse effect of higher production cost per tonne at Fresnillo and 1,252.05 Herradura, and partially offsetting that effect at 988.94 Ciénega. The continued upward trend of silver and 879.39 gold prices has led to higher gross profit margins (represented in the graphs by the double arrows) at margin all our operating mines. 798.33 264.98 1,058.19 614.42 190.61 193.86 80.7% 84.5% 69.9% 08 09 10 CIÉNEGA CASH COST GOLD (US$ per ounce) 1,252.05 988.94 879.39 margin 928.22 382.45 646.04 342.90 323.83 496.94 65.3% 74.1% 56.5% 6 2008 and 2009 figures were modified to reflect an 08 09 10 intercompany elimination HERRADURA related to equipment CASH COST6 GOLD leased by Minera El (US$ per ounce) Bermejal to Herradura 1,252.05 margin 868.90 383.15 69.4% 08 09 10 SOLEDAD-DIPOLOS CASH COST GOLD (US$ per ounce) 19 GRO U P O VE RVIE W 46.8% 58.4% 67.0% EBITDA, EBITDA margin and Cash flow 337.4 496.6 945.0 405.8 548.8 983.6 from operating activities before changes in working capital EBITDA is gross profit plus depreciation included within cost of sales less administrative expenses and exploration expenses. EBITDA margin is EBITDA divided by total revenue. Both EBITDA and cash flow S T RAT E GY from operating activities before changes in working capital measures the Group’s ability to generate cash 08 09 10 08 09 10 from its core business. EBITDA AND EBITDA margin CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES (in millions of US$) BEFORE CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL (in millions of US$) Comment Strong operating performance combined with higher average realised prices resulted in a significant increase in the gross profit. This was partially offset by higher exploration expenses. PE R F O RM A N CE Earnings per share excluding post-tax 0.186 0.430 0.740 Silverstream revaluation effects Attributable profit available to equity shareholders, excluding the revaluation effects of the Silverstream Contract divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period. Monitors net profit levels generated for equity shareholders. GO VER N AN C E 08 09 10 Comment Earnings per share excluding post-tax EPS increased with higher net profit levels divided Silverstream revaluation effects across an unchanged number of issued shares. (US$) F IN AN CIA LS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 20 Strategic resources Sustainability We contract Servicios Administrativos Peñoles, The Group’s sustainability requires a balance beS.A. de C.V. (SAPSA), a Peñoles subsidiary, for adtween economic development and the social liministrative services. The relationship is regulated cence to operate, which reflects corporate responsiby a Services Agreement (NSA, or New Services bility in the areas of health, safety, environment and Agreement), ensuring that all services are delivcommunity relations. To ensure that the needs of all ered on arm’s length and on normal commercial stakeholders are met, the Group relies on Boardterms as per the Relationship Agreement with the level HSECR oversight, sustainability measures emPeñoles Group. bedded in management compensation schemes, i Full details of the Relationship Agreement are provided an organisational chart that includes health, safety, in the Directors’ Report page 107. environment and community relations programme managers in each business unit, and clearly defined Partners: Under an agreement with Newmont USA strategic and operational policies and procedures Limited, we hold 56% of Minera Penmont S. de R.L. across the full value chain. de C.V. (Minera Penmont). The Herradura and Solei Further details on our sustainability programme are indad-Dipolos mines and the Noche Buena project cluded in the Sustainable Development Report pages are held within Minera Penmont. The Group has a 56-69. 56% interest in the Juanicipio project, while MAG Silver Corporation (MAG Silver) has a 44% interest. The Strategic relationships agreement with MAG Silver was entered into for the The Group maintains a number of relationships that development of the Juanicipio concession. We also may directly or indirectly influence the performance partner with a number of junior exploration compastrategic resources of the business and its value. nies to conduct early stage prospecting. Government / regulators: We are required to seIn December 2007 the Fresnillo Group entered into cure mining concessions from the federal governlong-term arrangements with the Peñoles Group ment to explore for and exploit mineral deposits, in relation to the by-product silver output from the and to comply with the statutes and regulations Peñoles-owned Sabinas polymetallic mine in Zathat govern all companies, and those for natural catecas, Mexico. Under the Silverstream Contract, resources and mining companies in particular, that we are entitled to all of the proceeds (before deducare promulgated by various branches of the govtion of treatment and refining charges) in respect of ernment. We are also subject to state and municithe payable silver produced by Sabinas during its pal laws and ordinances in the specific localities mine life. The Silverstream Contract is accounted for where we operate. As a publicly traded company, as a derivative financial instrument (asset). we are also subject to financial and regulatory i Further information can be found in note 15 of the Finanoversight from securities bodies and the stock excial Statements page 141. changes in London and Mexico where Fresnillo plc shares are traded. Customers: In 2010 substantially all of the primary products from our mines were sold to Met-Mex Suppliers: We maintain close relations with our Penõles, S.A. de C.V. (Met-Mex), a refining and smeltsuppliers and contractors, whom we consider ing facility at Torreón, under a series of supply agreestrategic partners, and seek to secure high qualments (the Met-Mex Arrangements) that enable the ity products and services at a fair price. As such Group to benefit from relatively low transport costs we consider them strategic partners. To align their associated with the proximity of their operations. practices and performance with our strategic obThe terms of the supply agreements with Met-Mex jectives, we provide them with training on Group are set on an arm’s length basis based on internasafety policies and procedures. We sign purchase tional benchmarks, with revenue being determined agreements with a number of suppliers in order to by the amount of metal contents and the average secure better pricing and ensure timely availability market prices over a defined reference period net of of key equipment and materials. Contractors are treatment and refining charges. However, the Group integrated into the Group’s employee managehas sold to other refiners and smelters in the past ment systems and training programmes. and may do so in the future if conditions warrant. 21 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Communities: Healthy community relations reOur people quire a deep knowledge of, and respect for, cusOur ability to find, select, train and retain personnel toms, cultures, needs and expectations. Our comwith the requisite knowledge, skills and experience munity engagement efforts begin in parallel with is fundamental to the Group’s success. To ensure the earliest phases of the exploration process, and that our people are trained and committed, we proextend throughout the life of a concession, from vide extensive personal and professional developthe advanced prospect phase, to development, to ment opportunities, competitive wages and comoperating mine, to closure. Every year we invest pensation packages and a workplace culture that directly and through multi-stakeholder partnerfosters teamwork. We are committed to providing S T RAT E GY ships in a range of initiatives that aim to enhance a safe, equitable and fair work environment, with a the quality of life and long-term sustainability of Board-level commitment to HSECR. the communities where we operate. Focus areas include environmental culture, education, health We strive to maintain mutually respectful relations and social integration, self-sustaining capacity, and with the local labour unions through continuous social infrastructure. dialogue and collaboration, including yearly coni Further information is included in the Sustainable Develtract negotiations with that part of the workforce opment Report pages 66-69. that is unionised. Fresnillo plc has never experienced a work stoppage or industrial action as a Financial strength consequence of labour disputes with the Company. and control PE R F O RM A N CE While it is permissible under Mexican law for union We have a strong balance sheet that ensures sufmembers to strike in sympathy with unionised emficient flexibility with US$559.5 million in cash at 31 ployees of other companies who are engaged in a December 2010 and no debt. The Group maintains dispute with their employer, despite the absence of strict control of cash, management of assets, and any dispute with their own, Fresnillo Group workers containment of costs and expenses in order to maxdid not support any such actions in 2010. imise value creation and retain our competitive posii Further information on our employees can be found in tion as a low cash-cost producer in the industry. We the Sustainable Development Report pages 58-59. maintain a range of capital funding options should our growth strategy require additional financing. In accordance with our investors’ expectations, it continues to be the Group’s policy not to hedge price exposure on silver and gold realisations. GO VER N AN C E Technology We continuously invest in new and current technology. At the operational level we utilise the most advanced tools to identify ore bodies, analyse mineralisation and conduct metallurgical tests. Mine development and operations benefit from equipment and automated systems that increase productivity and efficiency. At the corporate level, IT infrastructure including enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems have enhanced transparency and improved the quality of our internal audit, accountability, and F IN AN CIA LS financial planning processes, enabling the Group to make more rapid and informed decisions. In our sustainability efforts, technology has supported our activities to measure and control emissions, reinforce safety, and monitor the progress of a range of initiatives. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 22 Risk Management Framework The Fresnillo plc Board of Directors has overall reWith higher metal prices, profit margins in the minsponsibility for the Group’s system of internal coning industry have also expanded, increasing the liketrol, which includes risk management. Responsibility lihood of a new mining royalty or tax. for reviewing the effectiveness of this control has been delegated to the Audit Committee, which reSecurity risk also increased as a result of escalating views these systems on an ongoing basis. Internal violence, including robbery and kidnapping in the risk management Audit supports the Audit Committee through regular central and northern states of the country where framework reviews of internal controls. Operational responsibilthe Group has operations. This risk has simultaneity for managing risk and maintaining the Group’s ously affected the controls associated with the use, system of internal control is assumed by executive transportation and storage of explosives, which are management, and carried out at the corporate and overseen very closely by the defence authorities. operations level by the risk owners. To support the expansion of the exploration programme The Group has established a process for identifyand new mining projects under construction, the Group ing, evaluating and managing the significant risks has added additional contractors, some of whom do faced by the Group in accordance with the Turnbull not have experience with the Group’s operations. This Guidance. Because of the limitations inherent in any raises the risk of safety and environmental issues due to system of internal control, this system is designed insufficient training or adherence to Group procedures. to meet the Group’s particular needs and the risks to which we are exposed. It is designed to manage Conversely, the risk associated with internal union and mitigate risk. Consequently it can only provide conflicts decreased following elections held in Dereasonable and not absolute assurance against macember 2010 which allowed workers for the first terial misstatement or loss. time to select the union of their choice. Our risk assessment process is dynamic and ongoAmong the remaining risks in the full risk universe, ing: as the macro environment changes and councertain rankings and assessments were also modified tryand industry-specific circumstances evolve, new due to changes in the business environment and/or risks may arise and others recede. Similarly, the rankthe implementation of controls and mitigation. ing of these risks, based on probability and severity, may fluctuate. For the 2010 assessment, the CompaIn anticipation of reporting requirements for 2011 ny’s executives and operations managers identified (UK Corporate Governance Code), the Board has a universe of 115 risks through a survey. From these, initiated a process to quantify its risk tolerance we narrowed down the top 15 risks across a number and risk appetite in pursuit of the Group’s strateof categories based on likelihood and impact. gic objectives. Furthermore, in advance of Bribery Act compliance requirements, the Group identified While the top risks did not change in 2010, some of those risks directly related to bribery and corruption; their rankings did. while they is not among the top 15 risks described below, specific control and mitigation measures are Specifically, gold and silver prices have trended upin the process of development and implementation. wards for nine years and in 2010 reached their highest level in 30 years. Given the cyclical nature of preWhile the nature of the risks and uncertainties the cious metal prices we believe that the associated risk Group faces is likely to remain similar from year of downward pricing pressure has increased. This is to year, mitigation and control measures will be particularly relevant given the Group’s policy not to mapped against the Board’s risk statement to enhedge price exposure on silver and gold realisations. sure full alignment at the operations level. RISK MANAGEMENT OPERATIONAL DAY-TO-DAY OVERSIGHT STRATEGY RESPONSIBILITY EXECUTION BOARD OF AUDIT INTERNAL EXECUTIVE RISK DIRECTORS COMMITTEE AUDIT MANAGEMENT OWNERS 23 Principal Risks and Uncertainties GRO U P O VE RVIE W Strategic RISK MITIGATION / CONTROL Depletion of reserves at existing mines, • Highly trained and experienced exploration team combined with no new mineral deposits • Investment in the Group’s exploration identified, which would impact the Group’s growth programme almost doubled in 2010 and will projections and production capabilities continue to increase for regional properties and areas of influence • Use of technology to enhance probability of S T RAT E GY finding resources • Pipeline of projects across multiple stages of exploration Delays in securing land access for performing • Engagement with government agencies exploration/mining activities, caused by complex or and communities unsuccessful negotiations with ejidos (cooperative • Retaining specialised negotiators landowners) that could delay or interrupt the • Purchases of surface land at and near our exploration activities projects at an early stage Security related risks such as cartel activity, • Enhanced security and surveillance measures PE R F O RM A N CE kidnapping and theft, which continued to increase • Greater prudence regarding ground in Mexico over the past year, could cause business transportation arrangements for people interruptions resulting from their impact on and goods personnel and property; while the Group, its employees, contractors and facilities are not necessarily specific targets, security issues have become pervasive in many parts of the country Finding and/or retaining personnel with the • Benchmarking information on compensation and requisite knowledge, skills and experiences for key employment supplied annually by external advisors positions, particularly when competition for such • Competitive remuneration structure sought personnel increases during periods of expansion in against domestic and international peer group GO VER N AN C E the mining industry • Talent identification plan deployed; training linked to a succession plan and career development • Ongoing recruitment strategy Internal union conflicts at the national level may • Close communication with union leaders at both cause temporary stoppages or disrupt operations, the local and national level even when the source of those conflicts is not • Efforts to broaden the base of support among related to local labour contracts and/or working unionised workers, including outreach to key conditions at the Company influencers • Annual contract negotiations approached in cooperative manner with aim of retaining mutually beneficial contract terms F IN AN CIA LS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 24 Principal RiskS and Uncertainties continued Operational RISK MITIGATION / CONTROL Lower ore grade associated with the natural life • Expand capacity so that production volumes of the mines could impact production programmes offset lower grades, for example by adding flotation areas, optimising milling capacity and constructing new leaching pads • Implement efficiency measure that enhance production volume, such as optimising recoveries at plants and dilution control efforts • Increase in-mine exploration Difficulty in obtaining permits from Mexico’s • Engagement with the military, close communication Secretariat of National Defence for the use of with authorities and training of fire brigades explosives, due to the aforementioned security • Compliance with procedures for reception, storage, risks that have increased the military’s control and transportation, delivery and use of explosives; management of explosives, which could impact enhanced inventory audits operational continuity • Rigorous onsite discipline to comply with regulations Sourcing critical equipment and strategic • Strategic stocking programme maintains key spare parts to meet operational needs, due to parts in inventory long production and delivery timeframes, as well • Long term contracts with key equipment as shortages caused by competition for such parts suppliers, including efforts in 2010 to negotiate could affect operational continuity three-year agreements • Maintenance planning Price escalation of key operating materials due • Ongoing focus on productivity and efficiency to competitive demand and reliance on third party (lower per unit consumption) suppliers could impact cash costs and profitability • Long term procurement contracts with key operating materials suppliers Expensive or insufficient energy supplied • Ongoing focus on energy efficiency by CFE, the state-run electric utility, to meet • Close communication with CFE demands of mining operations, which could impact • Directly or indirectly participating in energy selfoperational continuity, cash costs and profitability supply programs Accidents or unintended events caused by • Systems, equipment and procedures to enforce the Company that may disrupt operations from controls for the Group’s HSECR System, backed a civil or legal perspective or have negative by Internal Audit reviews reputational effects • Live training drills for emergencies and contingencies, including annual participation in the national Mine Rescue Team Competition organised by CAMIMEX (Mexican Mining Chamber) and fire brigade training in the United States. • Liability insurance 25 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Financial RISK MITIGATION / CONTROL Volatility in silver and gold prices that could • The Group has commited to a policy of not impact the realised prices of the Group’s hedging exposure to silver and gold realisations production output, and in exchange rates that to allow investors full exposure to prices could impact peso-denominated production costs • Selective hedging in MXN/US$ exchange rates when converted into dollars S T RAT E GY Changes in tax law and/or mining royalty • Leveraging our leadership position within schemes, at the state and federal level, that CAMIMEX to promote a fair balance between could impact the Group’s financial performance; fiscal obligations and investments in growth in 2010 there was increased interest in such measures due to record metal prices and governmental budget constraints Compliance RISK MITIGATION / CONTROL PE R F O RM A N CE Failure to comply with environmental, health • Systems, equipment and procedures to enforce and safety regulations that could disrupt controls for the Group’s HSECR System operations, lead to financial and legal penalties • In 2010 enhanced infrastructure for the storage and/or terminate the Group’s mining licences and signage of hazardous materials was developed • Zero tolerance programme for dangerous conditions • Ongoing training and investment, including specialised onsite workshops following the 2010 fatalities External pressure (from NGOs, political groups • Leveraging our leadership position within and others) for more regulation to the mining CAMIMEX to promote fair regulations GO VER N AN C E industry in Mexico, which could increase our • Promote pro-mining NGOs regulatory burden F IN AN CIA LS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 26 Mining works at Ciénega 27 PERFORMANCE IN THIS SECTION Chief Executive’s Report 28 Review of Operations 32 Sustainable Development Report 56 Financial Review 70 Fresnillo plc plc Fresnillo 20102010 Annual Report Annual Report 28 Chief Executive’s Report Dear Shareholders, mercial production at Soledad-Dipolos in January, as well as greater volumes deposited at Herradura and I am pleased to report a year of exceptional perforore milled at Ciénega. mance. Silver and gold production reached record levels; Soledad-Dipolos started operations as our The Group’s precious metals production profile confourth operating mine and contributed importantly solidates our global leadership position in primary to the results; significant progress was made at the silver and highlights the growing importance of gold Saucito development project, and the Ciénega and in our portfolio. Soledad-Dipolos expansions are on track; and exploration efforts increased mineralisation at all maProduction of zinc and lead, which are by-products jor prospects and led to a substantial increase in the of the Group’s operations at Fresnillo and Ciénega, total resource base. increased by 15.1% and 9.9% respectively, mainly as a result of higher volumes of ore milled and better Our operational performance was enhanced by the ore grades. considerable increase in metal prices over the period, which enabled us to deliver record financial reOur Group, along with much of the precious metals sults to Fresnillo shareholders. We begin 2011 with industry, benefited from the rise in prices this year. a robust operational profile, extensive growth pipeContinued uncertainty about the global economic line, strong cash position and zero debt. recovery, market volatility and weakness of the US dollar contributed to sustained investor interest in A sterling performance gold, while higher silver prices reflected both invesTotal attributable silver production slightly exceeded tor interest and recovering demand for silver as an inour forecasts, rising 1.7% over 2009 to 38.6 million dustrial metal. Average realised gold and silver prices ounces. This reflected stable production at Fresnillo, for the Group increased by 26.6% and 40.0% respechigher ore throughput from development works at tively, helping drive the significant growth in earnings. Saucito, and higher ore grades and ore deposited at Herradura. In addition, we accrued 3.4 million ouncAdjusted revenues, which exclude treatment and es of silver under the Silverstream Contract, above refining charges and hedging results, rose 56.1% the amount received in 2009. in the year. Total revenues increased to US$1,409.6 million, 65.8% higher than at 31 December 2009. Attributable gold production increased by 33.4% EBITDA rose to US$945.0 million, with a significant to a record 368,995 ounces with the start of comincrease in the EBITDA margin from 58.4% in 2009 to INVESTING IN PRODUCTIVITY Operating mines Ciénega Us$65.1 million Sinking of shaft to gain access to deeper ore reserves. Expansion of milling capacity to stabilise annual production. Fresnillo Us$60.7 million Construction of new shaft to extract mineral from the western zone of the San Carlos vein and reduce haulage costs. Ramp at San Julián project. herradura Us$54.4 million Conclusion of eighth leaching pad, construction of ninth. Purchase of Noche Buena’s concessions. Soledad-Dipolos Us$36.8 million Construction of second leaching pad. Engineering for third, fourth and fifth leaching pads as part of expansion plan. Projects and prospects Saucito Us$118.7 million 2010 capex: Mine construction including beneficiation plant, shaft, mining works, etc. US$340.3 million other Us$4.6 million 29 GRO U P O VE RVIE W 67.0% in 2010. Net profit attributable to shareholdimising current assets, and on delivering long-term ers, prior to Silverstream revaluation effects, was growth through reserve replacement and expansion US$530.8 million, 72.3% higher than in 2009. into new projects. There were a number of variables that led to an inWhile we consider ourselves conservative in that crease in production costs this year, including the we maintain strict and consistent investment parevaluation effect of the Mexican peso-US dollar exrameters, we have a broad portfolio of high quality change rate and higher electricity and diesel prices. exploration projects and prospects. Our strategy is Further contributing to the rise in production costs to consolidate mining districts with world-class poS T RAT E GY were increased mine development and rock bolting tential, and prospects must meet our tonnage, ore and shotcreting activities to enhance safety. grade and low-cost extraction criteria. We advance projects towards start-up through a disciplined deNonetheless, higher volumes, strict cost controls, velopment process. ongoing efficiency efforts and higher by-product credits resulted in lower cash costs and enabled us Results from exploration activities in 2010 were very 62.5 56.5 100.1 to remain in the lowest quartile of the cost curve encouraging. We undertook an extensive drilling relative to our peers. Our low cost production profile programme employing 75 exploration rigs at our is a key competitive advantage because it provides mines, advanced projects and prospects. Total atdownside protection in a cyclical environment. tributable resources rose from 1.3 billion ounces of silver at 31 December 2009 to 1.5 billion ounces, and PE R F O RM A N CE Fresnillo plc carries no bank debt, and as of 31 De13.9 million ounces of gold to 20.1 million ounces. cember 2010 had a cash position of US$559.5 million, 79.2% above the 2009 figure. Our policy is to Of particular note is the discovery of a new ore invest in the future growth of the business. Capital shoot at Saucito that added over 76 million ounces expenditures totalled US$340.3 million in 2010, and of silver and 300,000 ounces of gold to resources. total exploration investment, including capitalised Resources at Orisyvo rose significantly. At Noche 08 09 10 expenses was US$100.1 million. Buena, we confirmed the resource estimate, comEXPLORATION INVESTMENT pleted the pre-feasibility study and secured all land 2008-2010 An exceptional growth profile requirements to initiate construction of a new mine (US$ million) These results are the outcome of a strategy dein 2011. Scoping studies were completed at San Jusigned to create value across precious metals cylián and Orisyvo, as was the pre-feasibility study at cles: a focus both on operational excellence in maxJuanicipio in January 2011. G O VE RN A N C E What we expected to achieve in last year’s How we annual report performed Silver production in line with 2009 Achieved record production Gold production up 20% 33.4% rise due to the successful start-up of Soledad-Dipolos Completion of expansion at Ciénega and plant infrastructure Ciénega leaching circuit completed, milling capacity at Saucito advanced on schedule; Saucito on schedule for 1H 2011 commissioning Exploration budget up 58% to Exploration expenses totalled US$82.1 million, a 67.4% F INA N CIA LS US$77.6 million increase over 2009 Decision on conducting pre-feasibility Positive decision made, pre-feasibility study concluded in at Noche Buena 2010 and mine development to begin in 2011 Stable ore grades Stable gold ore grades at Ciénega and Herradura, controlled silver ore grade at Fresnillo Improvement in safety indices Two fatalities set back our targets Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 30 Chief Executive’s Report continued The Group maintains the largest land position for procedures. We have a responsibility to improve precious metals exploration and mining in Mexico our employees’ and contractors’ decision-making and we continued to acquire surface rights in 2010. capabilities when it comes to workplace safety, and We signed exploration option agreements to exas such we are reinforcing the rigorous procedures plore the gold properties Candameña in Chihuahua, and programmes already in place with supplemental and Cebadillas and Yesca in Nayarit, with drilling training and spot drills, and have enhanced the moniplanned for 2011. We are also expanding our distoring procedures across the Group to ensure that trict exploration efforts in Guerrero, Durango, Guaour policies are adhered to. A zero fatality tolerance is najuato and Zacatecas, as well as in Peru, where we the only acceptable standard, and I am joined by the acquired concessions this year. Board and management team in extending our deep condolences to the families and colleagues. We are on track to meet our goal of producing 65 million ounces of silver per year and over 400,000 Sustainable development ounces of gold per year by 2018. Our business model is dependent upon sound environmental management practices and community By mid-2011, the expanded capacity at Ciénega is and labour relations. Sustainable development is thus expected to become operational, which will stabideeply integrated into every aspect of our operations. lise gold production at 110,000 ounces per year and maintain mine life at over 10 years. By the end of Along with ISO 14001 certifications at all mines and 2011, we expect to commission the shaft, giving us exploration offices, we are signatories to the Interaccess to deeper ore reserves and reduce costs. national Cyanide Management Code. Herradura completed the audit process to obtain certification We are also on track in expanding capacity at Solein 2010, and the process is underway at Ciénega, dad-Dipolos from 100,000 ounces of gold per year where we expect to obtain certification in 2011. to 130,000 by increasing the number of leaching Soledad-Dipolos will begin the process in the compads and mobile equipment at the mine. ing year. The new world-class Saucito mine is also on track to Employees received a greater number of trainstart commercial operations in 1H 2011. First year ing hours on average in 2010, and we continued production levels are expected to reach 4.7 million to invest in a range of professional development ounces of silver and 22,500 ounces of gold, then initiatives and workplace enhancements, including ramping up to more than 9.0 million ounces of silver housing and recreational facilities. Annual labour and 45,000 ounces of gold per year by 2013. In 2010, negotiations concluded with the agreement of a we advanced the development of the mine and con6.5% wage increase and a 1% bonus on base salary. struction of the beneficiation plant. During the year 1.2 million ounces of silver and 6,323 ounces of gold Our community relations were strengthened this were obtained from the development works at Sauyear with the first full year of operations at the sewcito, which were processed at the Fresnillo mill. In age water treatment plant at Fresnillo. In a region of addition, 91,043 tonnes of ore from Saucito were water scarcity, the plant has contributed to preservstockpiled in preparation for the commissioning of ing aquifers and reducing a potential source of conthe Saucito mill. tamination for the city, while lowering our production costs and fresh water consumption. At Ciénega Renewed focus on safety we worked with the municipality to pave the main While we are proud of our operational and financial streets of the town, improving the community’s success this year, I regret to report we have not pertransportation and air quality. We are pleased that formed as well on safety. We suffered two fatalities in our development projects are promoting job crea2010 as a result of failure to follow company safety tion in the Herradura and Fresnillo districts, as we 31 GRO U P O VE RVIE W have a preference to utilise the services and products of local contractors and vendors. In every community where we operate we continued to actively participate in education, healthcare and infrastructure projects. i A full description of our sustainability programmes, objectives and performance may be found in the Sustainable Development Report on pages 56-69. S T RAT E GY This annual report comprises our second Communication on Progress (CoP) in compliance with the Global Compact of the United Nations. Outlook Continued market volatility and uncertainty regarding the pace of the economic recovery will undoubtedly be reflected in metal prices. I am confident that our focus on increasing productivity, containing costs, expanding the resource and reserve base, and strengthening our growth pipeline will create ongoing PE R F O RM A N CE and sustainable value to all our stakeholders. Looking ahead at 2011, we expect: • Improved safety performance • Commissioning of Saucito • Commissioning of expanded milling capacity and deeper shaft at Ciénega • Completion of Soledad-Dipolos expansion • Construction at Noche Buena under way • Pre-feasibility study at San Julián • Determination of next steps for development G O VE RN A N C E of Juanicipio • Silver production to rise 5% • Gold production to rise 5-6% • Exploration budget to increase to US$251.4 million On behalf of the Company’s personnel and the management team, I would like to extend my appreciation to our Chairman and members of the Board for their valuable support and guidance during 2010. I would also like to thank my fellow executives and employees for their enduring commitment to quality and sustainable growth. F INA N CIA LS Jaime Lomelín Chief Executive Officer Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 32 Review of Operations The year in review Production and sales Operational performance reflected positive results Fresnillo plc attributable production across the entire value chain. Operating mines in 2010 2009 % change total delivered record attributable production in the Silver production (Koz) 38,571 37,916 1.7 year. Attributable silver production in the year inSilverstream production (Koz) 3,542 3,359 5.4 creased 1.7% to 38.6 million ounces. In addition, 3.5 Total silver production (Koz) 42,113 41,275 2.0 million ounces of silver were produced at Peñoles’ Gold production (Oz) 368,995 276,584 33.4 Sabinas mine under the Silverstream Contract beLead production (t) 18,977 17,264 9.9 tween Fresnillo and Peñoles. Attributable gold proZinc production (t) 22,472 19,526 15.1 duction for 2010 reached a new record of 368,995 ounces, surpassing our expectations. The 33.4% Sales volume increase resulted from the start-up of commercial (Year ended 31 December) 2010 2009 % change production at Soledad-Dipolos and strong perforFresnillo 33,387 32,921 1.4 mance at Herradura and Ciénega achieved through Ciénega 1,064 1,453 (26.7) the implementation of several efficiency initiatives, Herradura 381 302 26.2 including the Six Sigma methodology. Soledad-Dipolos 51 N/A Silver (Koz) 34,883 34,676 0.6 Saucito is on track to start commercial production in the first half of 2011. The Noche Buena gold project Fresnillo 19,801 20,688 (4.3) entered the development phase and construction Ciénega 106,071 96,821 9.6 has begun in 2011. Herradura 288,142 245,696 17.3 Soledad-Dipolos 107,766 N/A At the earliest stages of the pipeline, our land poGold (Oz) 521,780 363,205 43.6 sition increased by 8.6%, and measured, indicated and inferred resources expanded by 14.2% for silFresnillo 10,227 9,156 11.7 ver and 44.4% for gold. Intensive exploration efforts Ciénega 5,830 5,409 7.8 resulted in three projects progressing towards the Lead (t) 16,057 14,565 10.2 advanced exploration phase. Fresnillo 10,194 9,521 7.1 Ciénega 8,439 6,613 27.6 Zinc (t) 18,633 16,134 15.5 Economic impact To measure the economic contribution we make at the local level, we sum total wages and salaries, payments to local contractors and suppliers, and payment of municipal and state taxes. We also evaluate the number of jobs supported by our operations. Economic impact Economic contribution Direct jobs Indirect jobs Federal taxes 4 1 Includes US$13.8 million related 2010 by Business Unit (monthly average) (US$) (average) (average) (monthly average) to employee profit sharing (“PTU”) 1 payments. Minera Fresnillo 8.1 million 897 635 $6.6 million 2 Includes US$6.5 million related to PTU Minera Saucito 3.4 million 15 543 payments 3 Includes US$2.7 million related to PTU Minera Penmont 2 14.9 million 942 227 $3.8 million payments 4 Minera Mexicana La Ciénega 3 4.5 million 440 329 $1.1 million Includes taxable income expense, flat business expense, social security Exploraciones Mineras Parreña 2.5 million 96 238 expenses, employee housing contribution and water and mineral right payments. Others (SAFSA and Juanicipio) 5 874,300 59 0 228,673 5 Includes US$0.4 million related to PTU Total 34.3 million 2,449 1,972 $11.7 million payments 33 GRO U P O VE RVIE W The Fresnillo plc value chain Fresnillo1 S T RAT E GY Herradura2 MINE OPERATIONS Ciénega3 Soledad Dipolos2 Saucito4 DEVELOPMENT Noche Buena2 PROYECTS ADVANCED EXPLORATION PE R F O RM A N CE Juanicipio5 San Julián1 PROSPECTS Orisyvo1 San Ramón3 Centauro Deep2 Las Casas3 Tajitos2 Jaralillo6 Guanajuato6 Otzumatlán6 Tocayos6 TARGET DEFINITION Cairo6 San Nicolás del Oro6 Lucerito6 Manzanillas3 Leones6 EXPLORATION PROSPECTS San Juan6 Candameña6 Cebadillas6 La Yesca6 Guachichil6 Atotonilco6 Urite6 EARLY EXPLORATION Rosario6 Huacravilca7 Amata7 El Carmen6 San Javier6 La Choya6 PROSPECTS G O VE RN A N C E SYSTEMATIC PROJECT GENERATION 1 Minera Fresnillo S.A. de C.V. 2 Minera Penmont S. de R.L. de C.V. 3 Minera Mexicana La Ciénega, S.A. de C.V. 4 Minera Saucito, S.A. de C.V. F INA N CIA LS 5 Minera Juanicipio, S.A. de C.V. 6 Exploraciones Mineras Parreña, S.A. de C.V. 7 Fresnillo Perú, S.A.C Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 34 Review of Operations continued Mines in operation Fresnillo Ownership: 100% Fresnillo plc Location: Zacatecas Facilities: Underground mine, flotation plant 2010 milling capacity: 8,000 tpd In operation since: 1554 operate Workforce: 896 employees, 635 contractors Avg ore grade in reserves: 324 g/t of silver Total reserves: 365.4 million ounces of silver 746,000 ounces of gold Mine life: 13.7 years Fresnillo mine production 2010 2009 % change Silver (Koz) 35,906 35,420 1.4 Gold (Oz) 24,979 24,684 1.2 Lead (t) 12,236 11,058 10.7 Zinc (t) 12,212 11,510 6.1 Panoramic view of the Fresnillo mine 35 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Fresnillo is the world’s largest primary silver mine. Over the course of the year, reserves at the Fresnillo It is located 60 kilometres northwest of Zacatecas, mine increased 11.2% to 35.1 million tonnes at 324 the capital of the state, which has a long tradition g/t with silver content up 6.8% to 365.4 million ouncof silver mining. The local municipality of Fresnillo es. Based on proven and probable reserves, the exis an established city with a population of 213,145 pected life of the mine is 13.7 years, compared to (2010 census). 12.8 years in 2009. Total annual silver production at Fresnillo reached In 2010, resources at Fresnillo increased by 12.3% a record 35.9 million ounces as a result of a 3.3% from 52.7 million tonnes at 374 g/t in 2009 to 59.2 S T RAT E GY increase in ore milled, which partially offset a 2.5% million tonnes at 383 g/t, whilst silver contained in decrease in silver ore grade from 486.6 g/t in 2009 these resources increased by 14.9% to 728 million to 474.4 g/t in 2010, the result of natural mine life ounces. These results were obtained through an exchanges. Given the age of this mine, a further 4.7% ploration programme comprising 89,229 metres of decrease in silver ore grade, to an average of 452 diamond drilling and 36,582 metres of development. g/t, is expected for 2011; we will evaluate an expansion of milling capacity due to the large availability Financial highlights – Fresnillo mine of lower grade resources, and in order to maintain 2010 2009 % change production levels. Adjusted revenues (US$m) 783.5 557.3 40.6 Gross profit (US$m) 627.0 407.7 53.8 As silver ore grades decline at Fresnillo over time, Capital expenditure (US$m) 60.7 34.6 75.4 PE R F O RM A N CE lead and zinc ore grades are increasing. Production of these by-product metals in 2010 rose by 10.7% Adjusted revenues rose 40.6% to US$783.5 million and 6.1% respectively as a result of this trend. in 2010, primarily as a result of higher silver prices. Production figures for Fresnillo do not include ore Adjusted production cost increased 15.8% over from the development works at Saucito which are 2009 to US$106.6 million. We evaluate performance processed at the Fresnillo mill. on a cost per tonne basis as it excludes the effects of changes in absolute values related to changes Saucito development production in production volumes. In 2010 this indicator rose 2010 2009 % change 12.0%, to US$41.7 per tonne milled. The main facSilver (Koz) 1,222 736 66.0 tors contributing to the increase were: Gold (Oz) 6,323 2,880 119.5 G O VE RN A N C E Lead (t) 273 88 210.2 Zinc (t) 147 65 126.1 F INA N CIA LS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 36 Review of Operations continued • the 6.5% strengthening of the MXN/US$ ex557 metres, while the construction of ramps and change rate, which affected costs denominated drifts remained on track. A second stage of the proin Mexican pesos when converted to US dollars; ject will be developed within seven years after the • higher energy costs reflecting an increase in elecshaft is operational in order to access ore resources tricity and diesel prices, and higher consumption at deeper levels. of electricity due to the expansion of the San Carlos vein that required more power for ventilation At the beneficiation plant, milling capacity was inand pumping systems; creased to 8,000 tpd through the implementation • higher contractor and operating materials costs of Six Sigma quality control methodology and the from increased rock bolting and shotcreting acinstallation of a new expert grinding system to optivities to improve safety conditions, and road timise the size of the ore fed to the mill. These inimaintenance work; and tiatives helped achieve 2.5 million tonnes milled in • additional costs related to instalment or repair of 2010, a 3.3% increase over last year. The work teams equipment, and increased consumption of rearesponsible for leading these projects were recoggents due to different characteristics of the minnised for their contributions to enhancing productiveral processed; and locomotive maintenance. ity and efficiency. The above factors were mitigated by the 3.3% in2011 priorities crease in ore milled. Gross profit totalled US$627.0, • Complete construction of the San Carlos shaft a 53.8% increase compared to 2009, while gross • Initiate evaluation for a future expansion of milling margin increased from 81.5% to 85.5%. capacity to process lower ore grade and maintain silver production Productivity and cost reduction initiatives Capital expenditures at this mine reached US$60.7 million in 2010, a 75.4% increase over 2009. Funds were allocated to the preparation of new stopes, mining works at the San Julián project, construction of the San Carlos shaft, acquisition of surface land, and acquisition of in-mine equipment, spare parts and technology tools to ensure continuity of operations, such as ventilation equipment, pumping systems, instrumentation and control systems. We also remodelled employee facilities and administrative offices. In its first full year of operation, the water treatment plant operated by the Group, which processes sewage from the city of Fresnillo and provides treated water for use in Fresnillo’s milling process, helped lower production costs by US$1.0 million and eliminated fresh water usage in a region where it is a scarce resource. Construction of the San Carlos shaft remained on track to become operational in 2H 2011. This US$19.1 million project will facilitate extraction of mineral from the highly productive western zone of the San Carlos vein, thus reducing haulage distance and cost. The installation of the hoist and civil works of the concrete head frame were completed. The sinking of the shaft reached 470 metres of a planned GRO U P O VE RVIE W S T RAT E GY PE R F O RM A N CE G O VE RN A N C E F INA N CIA LS 37 2010 Fresnillo plc Annual Report In-mine equipment (alpine) 38 Review of Operations continued Ciénega Ownership: 100% Fresnillo plc Location: Durango Facilities: Underground mine, flotation and leaching plant 2010 milling capacity: 2,500 tpd In operation since: 1992 operate Workforce: 439 employees, 329 contractors Avg ore grade in reserves: 2.51 g/t of gold, 128 g/t of silver Total reserves: 840,000 ounces of gold 43.3 million ounces of silver Mine life: 11.3 years Ciénega production 2010 2009 % change Silver (Koz) 1,198 1,589 (24.6) Gold (Oz) 113,351 103,510 9.5 Lead (t) 6,468 6,118 5.7 Zinc (t) 10,112 7,950 27.2 Tailings dam at Ciénega 39 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Ciénega is located near the small community of The exploration programme at this mine included Nuestra Señora de la Ciénega, population 2,700. The 56,119 metres of diamond drilling. Resources denearest town of Santiago Papasquiaro, population creased from 2.3 million ounces of gold in 2009 to 45,000 (2010 census), is 153 kilometres away, which 1.7 million in 2010 as a result of the lower average itself is 172 kilometres from Durango, the capital of ore grade, while reserves decreased from 1.2 million the state. Because the community is entirely deounces of gold in 2009 to 840,000 in 2010. The dependent on the mine, community engagement efcrease in proven and probable reserves, combined forts include access to basic services. with expanded milling capacity, puts mine life at 11.3 years, compared to 13.5 years in 2009. S T RAT E GY Total annual gold production increased by 9.5% compared to 2009 primarily as a result of higher In line with our strategy to consolidate mining disvolumes of ore milled. Gold recovery increased tricts, exploration at areas of influence was conthrough the commissioning of the gravimetric conducted at San Ramón and Las Casas. centrator, producing 197 tonnes from which 24,548 i Further information on these projects is included on ounces of gold were recovered. The average gold pages 52-53. grade in 2010 remained steady at 4.3 g/t, however we expect a 12% decrease for 2011 as a result of Financial highlights Ciénega mine natural mine trends. 2010 2009 % change Adjusted revenues (US$m) 186.4 140.2 32.9 Annual silver production significantly decreased as Gross profit (US$m) 116.6 80.5 44.8 PE R F O RM A N CE a result of lower ore grade, while lead production Capital expenditure (US$m) 65.1 41.7 56.1 increased due to the higher volumes of ore milled. Zinc production rose as a result of higher ore milled Adjusted revenues increased from US$140.2 miland better ore grades and recovery rates. lion in 2009 to US$186.4 million in 2010, reflecting increased volumes and higher prices of gold, lead The expansion of milling capacity from 755,000 tpy and zinc. to 930,000 tpy continued to progress and is expected to be completed in 1H 2011. Initial investment Adjusted production costs increased by 18.1% to for the project is US$24.9 million, while sustaining US$56.7 million, while cost per tonne7 rose by 7.2% capital expenditures of US$0.5 million per annum to US$65.9. In addition to the exchange rate effects, will be incurred from 2012 to 2019. This expansion, the main factors impacting cost per tonne were: along with dilution control through the use of minG O VE RN A N C E ing methods for narrow veins and improved recovery rates, will contribute to stabilising production at 110,000 ounces of gold per year. 7 2010 Cost per tonne methodology considers market expenses as part of the freight. F INA N CIA LS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 40 Review of Operations continued • higher contractor costs as a result of the apturnaround times, this resulted in 860,500 tonnes of proximate 6,000 metres increase in developore milled in the year, a 10.2% increase year on year. ment works; • higher unit costs of electricity and diesel, alFollowing the optimisation of the leaching circuit exthough energy efficiency ratios remained stable; pansion in 2009, Six Sigma methodology was also • higher consumption of explosives for developapplied at the leaching process to further increase ment activities which increased the cost of operrecovery rates. Utilisation of several reagents was ating materials; and optimised through this methodology and action • increase in wages and bonuses paid to workers plans were established to maintain these variables for reaching efficiency goals. within an optimal level. The above effects were partially offset by a 10.2% The work-teams responsible for leading these proincrease in volume of ore milled, lower maintenance jects received a one-time bonus as recognition for costs due to supplier discounts, and optimised contheir contributions to enhancing productivity and sumption of certain operating materials such as efficiency. steel balls. This reflected improved control of the size of mineral fed to the mill resulting from the Six 2011 priorities Sigma project. In addition, costs benefited from low• Complete expansion of milling capacity to er consumption of tyres due to their higher quality. 930,000 tonnes per year • Commission the deeper shaft Gross profit at Ciénega increased from US$80.5 million in 2009 to US$116.6 million in 2010, while the gross margin increased from 62.6% to 67.3%. Productivity and cost reduction initiatives Capital expenditures rose by 56.1% from US$41.7 million in 2009 to US$65.1 million in 2010. Resources were allocated to the sinking of the shaft, expansion of milling capacity, development and mining works, acquisition of mining concessions and surface land, replacement of in-mine equipment and construction of additional employee housing. The project to sink the shaft a further 300 metres, to a total depth of 720 metres in order to gain access to deeper ore reserves remains on track. The sinking was completed at year-end and additional mining works, crusher installation and a change of hoist cables in early 2011 will allow the commissioning of the shaft to take place in 2H 2011 as expected. This US$13.3 million project will increase hoisting capacity from 2,400 to 3,000 tonnes per day once it is fully integrated with the existing shaft. We concluded the implementation of the Six Sigma quality control methodology with the support of an interdisciplinary team comprised of mine-planning professionals and maintenance personnel. This methodology optimises drilling patterns and the utilisation of explosives, resulting in smaller-size material for the mill. Combined with better maintenance GRO U P O VE RVIE W S T RAT E GY PE R F O RM A N CE G O VE RN A N C E F INA N CIA LS 41 2010 Fresnillo plc Annual Report Long-hole drilling mining method at Ciénega 42 Review of Operations continued Herradura Ownership: Minera Penmont JV (56% Fresnillo plc, 44% Newmont USA Limited) Location: Sonora In operation since: 1997 Facilities: Open pit mine, Merrill-Crowe plant operate Workforce: 619 employees, 128 contractors Avg ore grade in reserves: 0.83 g/t of gold Total reserves: 1.9 million ounces of gold Mine life: 10.0 years Herradura attributable production 2010 2009 % change Silver (Koz) 216 171 26.3 Gold (Oz) 162,984 145,510 12.0 Panoramic view of the Centauro pit at Herradura 43 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Herradura is located 125 kilometres northwest from Exploration at the Centauro Deep target continued the nearest large town of Caborca in the State of with 63 diamond drill holes totalling 27,379 metres. Sonora, with a population of 81,000 (2010 census). As a result, resources at this project located below Workers from area villages are provided daily transthe main pit at the Herradura mine reached 1.3 milportation to the mine site. lion ounces of gold. Construction of the ramp to conduct additional exploration and to extract maAttributable gold production at Herradura achieved terial for metallurgical tests began with 460 metres record levels in 2010, rising 12.0% as a result of indeveloped in 2010, out of a planned 2,000 metres. creased ore volumes deposited at the leaching pads Further analysis will be carried out to define a posS T RAT E GY with the benefit of additional trucks and loaders. sible underground mine with a dynamic cyanidation Higher ore grade and higher average recovery rates plant that will initially process high grade ore from also contributed to the increase in production. Silthe pit. ver production rose 26.3% due to higher ore grades and ore deposited. Gold ore grade at this mine is Financial highlights – Herradura mine expected to be maintained at 0.70-0.80 g/t well be2010 2009 % change yond 2011. Adjusted revenues (US$m) 366.8 246.5 48.8 Gross profit (US$m) 268.9 159.9 68.2 The eighth leaching pad was completed in the third Capital expenditure (US$m) 54.4 64.8 (16.0) quarter of 2010. Construction of the ninth leaching pad began immediately thereafter. This project, The Herradura mine achieved adjusted revenues PE R F O RM A N CE which will ensure stable production at the mine, will of US$366.8 million, a 48.8% increase over 2009 rerequire a US$16.7 million investment in two phases; flecting record gold prices and production. the first will be completed in 2H 2011 and the second in 1Q 2012. Adjusted production costs totalled US$93.6 million, a 34.4% increase compared to 20098. Cost per tonne Exploration at Herradura included 96,065 metres of rose by 9.1% compared to 2009 to US$5.6 per tonne reverse circulation and diamond drilling. Resources deposited; in addition to the negative exchange rate rose by 49.5% to 3.8 million ounces of gold. Proven effects, this was mainly driven by: and probable reserves were replenished in 2010, and based on higher production volumes and audited figures the expected life of the mine is 10 years, 8 2008 and 2009 figures were modified to reflect an intercompany elimination related compared to 11.9 years in 2009. G O VE RN A N C E to equipment leased by Minera El Bermejal to Herradura. F INA N CIA LS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 44 Review of Operations continued • the fact that we are no longer capitalising certain Caterpillar awarded Operators Certification to Herstripping costs, including diesel consumption, at radura truck operators in recognition of their skills the Valles pit, as the lower stripping ratio of 2010 and technical expertise. Those certified in 2010 had requires that such costs now be charged to the provided training to other employees in accident income statement; prevention and fostered proper use of the trucks, • higher diesel and electricity prices, and greater thereby reducing maintenance and increasing prodiesel consumption as a result of longer haulage ductivity. In 2011 we will pursue certification for distances and deeper pits; shovels operators. • greater consumption of explosives, as the average size of the ore deposited at the pads has been re2011 priorities duced to optimise the leaching process; and • Continue exploration at Centauro Deep and areas • increase in wages and bonuses paid to workers of influence for reaching efficiency goals. • Conduct pre-feasibility study for a dynamic cyanidation plant to treat higher grade ore from the pit The 23.2% increase in ore deposited mitigated these factors. Gross profit reached a record US$268.9 million, 68.2% higher than in 2009, and with a 73.5% gross margin. Productivity and cost reduction initiatives Capital expenditures totalled US$54.4 million, decreasing 16.0% from 2009. Funds were allocated to the acquisition of Noche Buena’s mineral rights and royalties, construction of leaching pads, purchase of equipment, efficiency projects, and process equipment related to obtaining certification under the Cyanide Management Code. Construction of an automated diesel dispatch centre began in 2H 2010 to optimise equipment utilisation rates and ensure continuity of operations. This facility will comprise two large fuel storage tanks and is expected to become fully operational in 1H 2011. Technology investment included the implementation of Mine Star software that enhances productivity by optimising the utilisation of trucks and loaders. At the laboratory, in parallel with the automated sampler system, US$2.4 million was invested to automate the assay process, which will be concluded by 3Q 2011 and is expected to increase the volume of samples analysed per day from Herradura and Soledad-Dipolos. A new system was installed to add lime evenly to the ore before depositing it in the pads, part of an initiative to optimise sodium cyanide consumption in the leaching process that will ultimately improve gold recovery and reduce costs. GRO U P O VE RVIE W S T RAT E GY PE R F O RM A N CE G O VE RN A N C E F INA N CIA LS 45 2010 Fresnillo plc Annual Report New equipment and leaching pads at Herradura 46 Review of Operations continued Soledad -Dipolos Ownership: Minera Penmont JV (56% Fresnillo plc, 44% Newmont USA Limited) Location: Sonora In operation since: 2010 Facilities: Open pit mine, Merrill-Crowe plant Workforce: 323 employees, 99 contractors operate Avg ore grade in reserves: 0.62 g/t of gold Total reserves: 590,000 ounces of gold Mine life: 6.3 years Soledad-Dipolos attributable production 2010 2009 % change Silver (Koz) 29 N/A Gold (Oz) 61,358 N/A Panoramic view of Soledad-Dipolos 47 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Located nine kilometres northwest of the Herradura gan in the 2H 2010 with advanced purchase orders mine, Soledad-Dipolos relies on the same villages as placed for liners and pumping systems; the US$18.0 Herradura for workers, for whom daily transportamillion investment is part of the Soledad-Dipolos tion is provided to the mine site. expansion and is expected to be completed by the end of 2011. Commercial production at Soledad-Dipolos commenced in 2010 following construction and develFinancial highlights Soledad-Dipolos mine opment work completed in December 2009. As a 2010 2009 % change result of the increase in resources reported in 2009, Adjusted revenues (US$m) 137.2 N/A S T RAT E GY an expansion project was approved by the ExecuGross Profit (US$m) 97.7 N/A tive Committee in early 2010 to produce 130,000 Capital expenditure (US$m) 36.8 57.7 (36.2) total ounces of gold per annum during the life of the mine. The total additional investment for this expanIn its first year of commercial operation, Soledad-Dision is US$34.0 million, of which US$22.0 million was polos recorded adjusted revenues of US$137.2 milinvested in 2010, US$6.0 million budgeted for 2012 lion. Adjusted production cost was US$55.1 million, and the remaining US$6.0 million for 2013. in line with the Company’s budget, while cost per tonne was US$5.71. Gross profit at this mine was Attributable gold production for the full year surUS$97.7 million with a gross margin of 71.4%. passed our expectations, totalling 61,358 ounces. This was the result of increased stripping and the Capital expenditures totalled US$36.8 million and inPE R F O RM A N CE acquisition of additional equipment in anticipation cluded stripping activities, construction of leaching of the expansion. Gold ore grade at this mine was pads and acquisition of equipment. 0.61 g/t and is expected to be maintained throughout the life of the mine. 2011 priorities • Conclude expansion to produce 130,000 total Exploration continued with 49,208 metres drilled, ounces of gold per year resulting in 770,000 ounces of gold resources and 590,000 million ounces of gold reserves. Construction of the second leaching pad was concluded in 1H 2010 in line with the budget. Construction of the third, fourth and fifth leaching pads beG O VE RN A N C E F INA N CIA LS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 48 Review of Operations continued Mines in development Saucito ment works reached 33,695 metres. Construction Ownership: 100% Fresnillo plc of the beneficiation plant progressed according to Location: Zacatecas, 8 km SW of the schedule, with commissioning of the mill in 1Q 2011. Fresnillo mine Facilities: Underground mine, flotation plant Total investment at Saucito was originally budgeted Commercial start-up: 1H 2011 at US$309.0 million, of which US$118.4 million was inDEVELOP Anticipated production: 4.7 million ounces of curred in 2010 for equipment, beneficiation plant and silver and 22,500 ounces of gold gradually ramping tailings dam construction, and mining works. Given up to approximately 9.0 million ounces of silver progress in the year, we now expect to complete the and 45,000 ounces of gold from the third year of development of Saucito under the original budget. operations onwards Proceeds of US$25.6 million realised from the sale Saucito is 8km southwest of the Fresnillo mine. The of metal content in ore extracted as part of developGroup is developing basic infrastructure for the loment works were credited to the capitalised costs cal ejido of Saucito, population of 317 (2010 census). of the project. Over the course of the year, 1.2 million ounces of silver and 6,323 ounces of gold were The Saucito project comprises a system of epitherrecovered from the development works at Saucito mal veins containing silver, gold, lead and zinc. The and processed at the Fresnillo mill. Since November first stage of the mining plan includes the develop2010, 91,043 tonnes of ore were stockpiled in prepament of the Saucito, Jarillas and Mezquite veins, the ration for the start-up of the Saucito mill. latter added to this stage based on positive results in 2010. The Santa Natalia and Jarillas West veins will continue to be explored and integrated in the second stage of the project. The Saucito shaft was commissioned in 1Q 2010 and began operations successfully. The Jarillas shaft advanced to a depth of 365 metres, out of the total 645 metres planned, and remained on schedule for startup in late 2012. Construction of ramps and developPanoramic view of Saucito, the Group’s most advanced develpment project 49 The Fresnillo Group delivers growth through the disciplined advancement GRO U P O VE RVIE W of development projects towards start up and commercial production. noche buena The expected total production at this mine will be Ownership: Minera Penmont JV (56% Fresnillo plc, 376,000 ounces of gold over the initial five year mine 44% Newmont USA Limited) life. The average ore grade will be 0.5 g/t. An indeLocation: Sonora, 23 km from Herradura pendent mining consultancy confirmed reserves of Facilities: Open pit mine, Merrill-Crowe plant 481,000 ounces of gold. S T RAT E GY Commercial start-up: 2012 Anticipated production: Annual average Engineering for the project was completed and all production of 42,000 attributable ounces permits have been filed to commence pre-stripping of gold activities in 2Q 2011. The future Noche Buena mine will be supported by The Noche Buena purchase agreement included a the same communities as Herradura and Soledad-DiUS$5 million payment on commencement of propolos, with training for new workers to begin in 2011. duction and a 1.5% royalty fee. In December 2010, Minera Penmont bought out the royalty and cash Noche Buena is a disseminated gold deposit acpayment for a total consideration of US$10.12 milquired from Seabridge Gold Inc. in 2008. In early lion in cash. PE R F O RM A N CE 2010, 58,612 metres of diamond and reverse circulation drilling (210 holes) was completed to upgrade the mineral resource and to select sites for construction of the leaching pads and mine facilities. Low grade mineralisation was extended to the east of the ore body and included in the preliminary mine plan. Construction of the mine was approved in 2H 2010, following the results obtained from the pre-feasibility study. The mine will be an open pit heap leach operation similar to the existing Herradura and Soledad-DipoG O VE RN A N C E los mines with a Merrill-Crowe plant and will require estimated pre-operative capex of US$63.0 million. F INA N CIA LS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 50 Review of Operations continued Exploration Exploration is the key driver of growth for the Group, and we maintain a policy of continuous investment across price cycles. Our exploration portfolio includes projects that extend across the multiple stages of exploration (detection, discovery and definition), resulting in a strong pipeline of growth. EXPLORE The Group’s exploration programme is carefully designed and executed with continued focus on consolidating our presence in the principal silver and gold districts of Mexico, and in selected properties acquired in Peru where work has been initiated. In 2010 our team of exploration geologists and engineers was increased from 55 to 70 professionals, and the land position increased from 1.7 to 1.9 million hectares, including the Candameña (Chihuahua), and Cebadillas and La Yesca (Nayarit) properties optioned from third parties. The Group has four Exploration Offices – in Zacatecas, Toluca, Chihuahua and Hermosillo. Each has an HSECR programme focused on health, safety, environmental management systems and community engagement initiatives that allow us to build positive relationships from the earliest interactions. In 2010, the Group’s exploration programme comprised 341,265 metres of drilling, mapping, geochemical sampling, and geophysical surveys. Approximately half of the budget was invested in drilling which resulted in a substantial increase to the resource base. These pages: Exploration at Noche Buena 51 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Underground Minera Saucito expansion Minera Juanicipio Ownership: 100% Fresnillo plc Ownership: 56% Fresnillo plc, 44% MAG Silver Location: Zacatecas, 8 km SW of the Location: Zacatecas, 8 km SW of the Fresnillo mine Fresnillo mine Indicated & inferred resources: 361.5 million Indicated & inferred resources S T RAT E GY ounces of silver (attributable): 90.9 million ounces of silver 1.5 million ounces of gold 332,000 ounces of gold Diamond drilling (23,066 metres) was carried out 40 holes totalling 28,402 metres of infill drilling on from the surface on the Santa Natalia and Jarillas the Valdecañas vein converted approximately 57% West veins, and underground drilling carried out of the resources to the indicated category, and a on the Jarillas, Mezquite, and Saucito veins. A new pre-feasibility study was concluded in January ore-shoot was discovered west of the Jarillas shaft, 2011. Silver-gold values were also intercepted on adding over 76 million ounces of silver and 300,000 the east segment of the Juanicipio vein where drillounces of gold to the resources. ing continues. PE R F O RM A N CE G O VE RN A N C E F INA N CIA LS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 52 Review of Operations continued Underground San Julián San Ramón Ownership: Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. (100% Ownership: Minera La Ciénega, S.A. de C.V. (100% Fresnillo plc) Fresnillo plc) Location: Chihuahua/Durango border Location: Durango Indicated & inferred resources: 143.8 million Indicated & inferred resources: 21.8 million ounces of silver ounces of silver EXPLORE 487,500 ounces of gold 132,000 ounces of gold We conducted 61,163 metres of drilling in 181 holes. Infill Exploration at this project in the Ciénega district drilling on the JM disseminated ore body with silver-leadincluded 23,681 metres of drilling, which converted zinc values converted 101 million ounces of silver to the 46% of resources to the indicated category. Howindicated category in a wide ore body amenable to low ever decreasing grade and block reclassification cost bulk underground mining. Silver-gold resources led to a 67% reduction in total resources. Explorawere also added to the San Julián and San Atanasio veins. tion continues along the San Ramón vein where an The San Julián and San Roberto ramps were extended to additional 2 million tonnes of ore has been recently 5,826 and 805 metres respectively, and underground exdelineated, and along the neighbouring Candelarploration has been initiated from both workings. ia, Republicana, and Pereña veins. The San Ramón adit has now reached 805 metres along the main Results of the scoping study completed at year end vein. Preparation of a pre-feasibility study will berecommend first developing the disseminated ore gin in 2011. body and then the gold vein system. This sequential development plan is expected to maximise the preOre extracted at San Ramón will be trucked and sent value of the project. Additional exploration acmilled at Ciénega. tivities and metallurgical tests are being conducted to develop a definitive mine plan. The positive exploration results and scoping study led to an increase in the exploration budget for both 2010 and 2011, which will allow for ramp construction and development of mining works that will enable the Company to further validate the economic viability of the project. Investment in San Julián comprises apMetallurgical testing at San Ramón proximately 40% of the total 2011 exploration budget. 53 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Las Casas Centauro Deep Ownership: Minera La Ciénega, S.A. de C.V. Ownership: Minera Penmont JV (56% Fresnillo plc, (100% Fresnillo plc) 44% Newmont USA Limited) Location: Durango Location: Sonora, below the Centauro main pit at Indicated & inferred resources: 33.8 million Herradura S T RAT E GY ounces of silver 308,000 ounces of gold Indicated & inferred resources (attributable): 1.3 million ounces of gold We conducted 34,541 metres of drilling in 2010 exploring the wide silver-lead-zinc veins in the Las At Centauro Deep, 63 holes totalling 27,379 metres Casas area, also in the Ciénega district. The vein has were drilled, delineating six gold mineralised shear been recognised along a 1.2 km strike. A scoping zones along a 1.5km strike; gold grades could supstudy will be carried out in 2011 to evaluate the ecoport an underground operation. Potential from this nomic potential of this resource. zone is estimated at 6 million ounces of gold, and the structures remain open at depth. The potential size of Las Casas would warrant construction of a new mill at Ciénega. PE R F O RM A N CE G O VE RN A N C E Ramp construction at Centauro Deep F INA N CIA LS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 54 Review of Operations continued Open pit Orisyvo Exploraciones MineraS Ownership: Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. (100% Parreña – Other prospects Fresnillo plc) Ownership: 100% Fresnillo plc Location: Chihuahua Indicated & inferred resources: 2.72 million Drilling is in progress at 11 early stage prospects: ounces of gold in oxides • Guanajuato (Guanajuato) EXPLORE 6.51 million ounces of gold in sulphides • Leones (Chihuahua) • Lucerito, El Cairo, Manzanillas, San Juan (Durango) This large gold-bearing porphyry system is situated • Otzumatlán (Michoacán) in a remote area of the Sierra Madre, where the ter• San Nicolás del Oro (Guerrero) rain is rugged and a challenge for operations. Dis• Tocayos, Jaralillo (Zacatecas) seminated gold values have been delineated over a 1 by 1.5 km area, and through 400 metres vertiDrilling on these properties is delivering promising cal extent, with grades ranging from 0.5 to 2.5 g/t results. Ten additional properties were evaluated in gold. The site for an exploration adit was selected the year and merit drill testing in 2011: Candameand permitting is in process to initiate underground ña (Chihuahua); Cebadillas and La Yesca (Nayarit); exploration in 1H 2011. Metallurgical testing on core Guachichil, Atotonilco, Urite (Zacatecas); La Choya samples is in progress and pilot plant testing of gold (Sonora); Rosario (Sinaloa); and Huacravilca and bearing material from the adit will be undertaken Amata (Peru). during 2011. Because of the additional resources identified, the scoping study will also be updated in Prospecting teams are evaluating areas of potential the year. in the north Pacific, Sierra Madre, and Mesa Central silver and gold belts of Mexico and in the southern Andes region of Peru. Exploration activities at the Orisyvo gold project 55 GRO U P O VE RVIE W In 2H 2010, options were taken out on three greenfield projects: Candameña, in the Orisyvo district in the state of Chihuahua, covers 5,185 hectares and contains the Nuevo Dolores disseminated gold prospect; and Cebadillas and Yesca in Nayarit, S T RAT E GY which host epithermal vein systems over 9,100 hectares with a combined exploration potential of three million ounces of gold. The Group has the option to acquire 100% of these three concessions. 2011 priorities • Conclude pre-feasibility study at Juanicipio in January • Continue exploration at San Julián and San Ramón to prepare pre-feasibility study • Complete exploration adit and update scoping PE R F O RM A N CE study at Orisyvo, conduct exploration and metallurgical studies • Continue exploration activities at Las Casas to conduct scoping study • Acquire land at targeted prospects and projects • Intensify exploration activities to increase the total resource base and upgrade its category G O VE RN A N C E Juanicipio exploration site in Zacatecas F INA N CIA LS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 56 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT report Sustainability is core to Fresnillo plc’s philosophy, The HSECR team met three times in 2010, including strategy and operations, underpinning our social lia session to integrate 59 key contractors in our supcense to operate. Our policies are focused on health ply chain into the HSECR System. An average of 27 and safety in the workplace, environmental prohours per person of HSECR training was provided tection, and sound relations with the communities to employees and contractors during the year and where we operate. we rolled out a six-month campaign and provided a Module on Sustainable Development to ensure that We seek to ensure that our operations are fully in all personnel across the organisation understand the compliance with government regulations and inGroup’s sustainability guidelines and procedures in dustry best practices, and to foster a culture of susplace to fight corruption and promote human rights. tainable development, teamwork and continuous improvement. An important aspect of this culture is International, national and industry ongoing outreach and dialogue with our stakeholdguidelines and certifications ers through a variety of channels. A core responsibility of the HSECR System is compliance with regulations issued by governmental authorities such Our sustainability as the Mexican Secretariat of Labour (STPS) and the Mexframework ican Secretariat of the Environment and Natural ResourcHealth, Safety, Environment and Community es (SEMARNAT). We also seek to adhere to guidelines Relations System on workplace policies and programmes established by The Group’s sustainability efforts are managed international institutions such as the OECD, International through its Health, Safety, Environment and ComLabour Organisation and World Health Organisation. munity Relations (HSECR) System. For best practices in our industry, we follow the At the Board level, an HSECR Committee that inframework and recommendations of the Internacludes the Chief Executive is responsible for fortional Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and the mulating HSECR policies, reviewing investigations Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). We also participate of any accidents, and evaluating independent perin various global and national environmental initiaformance audits and action plans. Key sustainability tives such as the Corporate Commitment on Wilderissues are identified through the risk management ness and the Mexican Greenhouse Gas Programme. process, which includes an analysis of likelihood and impact. The certifications we seek to obtain and maintain are: i Further details are included in the Risk Management • OHSAS 18001:2008, an international occupational Framework and Principal Risks and Uncertainties on health and safety management system specification pages 22-25. • Safe Enterprise Certificate from the STPS • ISO 14001:2004 for Environmental ManageAt the operations level, each business unit has ment Systems separate programme managers specifically re• Clean Industry Certificate from the Mexican Envisponsible for aspects of health, safety, environronmental Authority (PROFEPA) ment and community relations who report to the • Cyanide Management Certificate from the Interbusiness unit manager and to an HSECR corporate national Cyanide Management Institute coordinator. Each mine also has a Comisión de Seguridad e Higiene – Hygiene and Safety CommisWe are signatories to the United Nations Global Comsion – comprised of representatives from the union pact and track awards and distinctions such as the and non-union employees, as well as contractors, Socially Responsible Company Award from the Mexiwho monitor and review performance on an ongocan Centre of Philanthropy (CEMEFI) and the Ethics ing basis. The HSECR team reports to the Execuand Values in the Industry Award from the Mexican tive Committee every three months. In 2010 the Confederation of Industrial Chambers (CONCAMIN). Sustainable Development Manager position was We sent our second Communication on Progress created to advise on global best practices in cor(CoP) in 2010 and participated for the first time in the porate social responsibility and coordinate BoardCarbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an initiative aimed at and operations-level initiatives. quantifying and mitigating greenhouse gas emissions. 57 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Memberships, partnerships and awards We understand the importance of participating in international and domestic industry groups and organisations related to sustainability and corporate social responsibility, as well as in seeking partnerships with non-profit and public sector organisations. Relationship type NAME OUR ROLE Membership CAMIMEX (Mexican Mining Chamber) Active member or participation CESPEDES (Sustainable Development Active member of the Directive Council S T RAT E GY Studies Commission, Private Coordinator Council, CCE) CONCAMIN (Confederation of Industrial Representation through CAMIMEX and recipient of Chambers) the Ethics and Values Award CEMEFI (Mexican Centre for Recipient of the Socially Responsible Company Philanthropy) (ESR) Award United Nations Global Compact Subscriber to the 10 Principles; annual submission of Communication on Progress PE R F O RM A N CE Partnership INIFAP (National Institute for Forestry, Partnership for reforestation and research at or project Agriculture and Livestock Research) Ciénega and Fresnillo The Carbon Disclosure Project Participant in the FTSE 350 category through disclosure on climate change risks and mitigation efforts The Wild Foundation Subscriber to the Corporate Commitment on Wilderness to promote biodiversity conservation STPS (Mexican Secretariat of Labour) Participant in the Safety Self-Management Programme G O VE RN A N C E SEMARNAT (Mexican Secretariat of the Participant in the Mexican Greenhouse Gas Environment) /CESPEDES Programme, a public-private partnership CEDES (Ecology and Sustainable Partnership to protect the Sonoran Pronghorn Development Commission of Sonora State) PROFEPA (Mexican Environmental Participant in the Clean Industry Programme Authority) International Cyanide Management Participant in the Cyanide Management Institute Programme F INA N CIA LS UK Prince of Wales & Cambridge Subscriber to the Copenhagen and Cancun University Communiqués to promote international commitments to climate change Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 58 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT continued Strategic priorities Employees Objective Provide professional development opportunities and workplace satisfaction for our personnel. Performance indicator 2010 2009 2008 COMMENT Professional 95 92 92 Focus on leadership, development training teamwork, process Average hours / person improvement, productivity and management skills HSECR training 27 23 18 Increased training on Health, Average hours / person Safety, Environment and Community Relations issues. Incorporated a Module on Sustainable Development Turnover rate 4.61 5.56 8.90 Reflects improved employee Number of union and non-union profit sharing and efforts to employees who left the company improve quality of life divided by the total number of employees Employee satisfaction survey 6.8 N/A 4.9 The study is conducted every two Survey of union and non-union years by an independent third workers and contractors party; higher satisfaction reflects actions taken on comments from previous surveys Labour relations 0 0 0 All collective and contract Total number of days in which negotiations were successfully operations were compromised due to conducted disagreements with local unions and/ or contract negotiations Engineers at Centauro Deep 59 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Priorities, policies and programmes Planning during the year, which aligns employees’ The wellbeing of our people directly correlates to performance with the Company’s strategic objectives. the wellbeing of the Group. The quality of life of our personnel and their families can be a competitive Total 2010 wages and salaries were $20.7 million, differentiator, thus we place significant emphasis on a 16.9% increase from 2009. Collective labour nefair labour agreements with both union and non-ungotiations with unions concluded successfully in all ion workers and competitive wages and benefits for units, with a 6.5% wage increase and a 1.0% bonus all. In the areas where we operate, and particularly on base salary. in geographically isolated regions, we provide basic S T RAT E GY services such as housing, medical services, educa2011 priorities tion and transportation, as well as other benefits • Launch the Technical Mining School at Fresnillo like access to communications and recreational and to improve operational skills and train new operasport facilities. tors for several projects in the pipeline • Develop the Institutional Training Programme for This year we invested US$1.2 million in professional Skills Development development training programmes. These primarily • Monitor and strengthen personnel security measfocus on creating a result-oriented culture through ures as needed in light of drug-related violence leadership, process improvement, innovation, proin Mexico ductivity and management skills. To ensure personnel alignment with our health, safety, environmenPE R F O RM A N CE tal and community relations standards, more than 2010 workforce overview US$215,000 was allocated specifically to HSECR train• 2,449 employees and 1,972 contractors ing. Personnel recruitment efforts included internship (annual average), 57 geological technicians at the programmes for engineers to ensure a next generaExploration division (monthly average) tion of skilled mining and exploration professionals. • 93.0% men and 7.0% women (including 48 women as heavy equipment operators) Contractors are seen as strategic partners and we • 80.0% unionised and 20.0% non-unionised continue to integrate them into our management • 16.0% between 18-25 years, 67.0% between systems and training programmes. Development 26-45, 17.0% over 46 of mines and new projects in 2010 required us to • 52.0% between 0-5 years at Company, 16.0% hire a significant number of new contractors. While between 6-10, 32.0% more than 11 HSECR issues are covered within our contractual ar• 2.0% at executive level G O VE RN A N C E rangements, we intend to strengthen training and • 269 new hires supervision in this particular area. • 30 engineers in training (annual average); accepted 77 trainees plus 20 in the Fresnillo mine Labour environment The Fresnillo Group fully complies with Mexican legislation regarding respect for human rights. Through its Code of Conduct and Fresnillo Plays Fair programme, the Group also promotes gender equality, and freedom of thought and association, and prohibits slavery, compulsory labour, child labour, and actions that discriminate or violate other groups’ customs and culture. F INA N CIA LS i More information about the Code of Conduct and the Fresnillo Plays Fair programme may be found on page 96-97. Teamwork is central to the Fresnillo work culture. In 2010, for example, we recognised 12 working teams for developing specific efficiency improvement projects. We also implemented Performance Evaluation Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 60 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT continued Health and Safety Objective Health: Control occupational illnesses and improve general health through preventive care Safety: Zero fatal accidents through the elimination of dangerous workplace conditions and behaviours Performance indicator 2010 2009 2008 COMMENT Fatalities 2 0 0 We have a Zero Tolerance Policy in which no fatality is ever acceptable. After two years with no fatalities, we suffered two such accidents in 2010: in August, a carbon monoxide poisoning at Ciénega; in November a fall of a scoop tram at Fresnillo Accident rate 2.21 3.10 3.63 Accident rate was reduced as a Number of disabling accidents that result of our safety programmes require absence from work for more than three days, divided by the total number of union and non-union employees, as well as contractors, multiplied by 100 Lost work days rate 1.64 1.20 1.58 Increase is mainly explained by The number of days lost due to the two fatal accidents disabling and non-disabling accidents divided by the total number of union and non-union employees, as well as contractors Safety procedures for managing sodium cyanide 61 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Priorities, policies and programmes • Conducted 133 medical scans of employees Group policy is to put the life of our personnel above working in higher risk operational areas all else. We have zero tolerance rules that absolutely • Reduced absenteeism at Ciénega by 2.0% prohibit any deviation from the Group’s safety rules through periodic visits from medical specialists to and procedures. the mine • Reduced lost work days at the Fresnillo mine by In order to maintain the wellbeing of our personnel, 21.0% through a Health Integration Programme we provide a range of medical services for union implemented in partnership with the Mexican Inand non-union employees and contractors. Health stitute for Social Security (IMSS) in 2009 S T RAT E GY programmes include annual examinations, routine • Achieved 80.0% advance in OHSAS 18001:2008 cervaccinations, health seminars, and comprehensive tification at Fresnillo; initiated the process at Herramedical care for those in need. This enables us to dura, Soledad-Dipolos and Ciénega at year end monitor occupational illnesses, implement preven• For the Safe Enterprise Certificate (granted by the tion programmes and monitor the general health of Mexican Secretariat of Labour), certification is obour personnel to reduce common conditions such tained following completion of three levels of the as diabetes, hypertension and obesity. Safety Self-Management Programme; Herradura completed the First Level programme in 2010 Workplace safety measures are specific to the naand is awaiting the Secretariat’s report; Fresnillo ture of each mine unit: in underground mines we and Ciénega, due to the fatal accidents, were put install ventilation systems, provide refuge stations on stand-by until the recommended preventive PE R F O RM A N CE and reinforce mine works with a roof support sysmeasures are reviewed; Saucito is awaiting review tem based in anchor bolts and shotcrete. At open pit operations we maintain mobile equipment in op2011 priorities timal condition to ensure driver safety and promote • Zero fatal accidents and a 20.0% improvement in off-road trucks and shovels training to operators other safety indices through a simulator that virtually exposes workers • A 10.0% reduction in lost work days rate for gento harsh operational situations. eral illnesses • OHSAS 18001:2008 certification at Fresnillo and All hazardous materials are contained, stored and 50.0% progress at all other operating mines labelled properly at every worksite. • First level of the Safe Enterprise Certificate at all operating mines; integration of Soledad-Dipolos To encourage a culture of health and safety, we into the programme G O VE RN A N C E provide ongoing training through programmes such • Creation of an internal health team and ergonomas Occupational Illnesses Prevention Programme, ics committee at Herradura Safety Conduct Programme, Safety Programme for Facilitators, Hazardous Materials Management and First Aid. Two fatalities in 2010 We deeply regret the loss of two employees in un2010 highlights derground mines this year, the first at Ciénega by • US$6.0 million invested in health and safety infracarbon monoxide poisoning, and the second at structure, initiatives and training Fresnillo by a fall of a scoop tram. • Group safety advisors certified by the British Standards Institution as OHSAS 18001 Leader Auditors The HSECR Committee maintains its strict commit• Enrolled our medical doctors in a two-year occument to a Zero Fatality Rate, and following thorough F INA N CIA LS pational health master’s programme at Universiinvestigations of these incidents the Committee has dad Autónoma de Coahuila (UAC) requested additional training be provided to extend • Trained 15 rescue teams; the Fresnillo mine team awareness about the fatal consequences of disreplaced third in the Mining Rescue category at the garding safety procedures. 12th Mine Rescue Team Competition organised by CAMIMEX Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 62 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT continued Environment Objective Environmental performance: Minimise environmental impact of all operations and throughout the lifecycle of a mine Environmental management: Comply with legal and regulatory requirements and align our operations with international best practices Performance indicator 2010 2009 2008 COMMENT Energy consumption 0.124 0.188 0.157 Eco-efficiency projects Gigajoules per tonne of product Fresh water consumption 0.095 0.209 0.137 Eco-efficiency projects Cubic meters per tonne of product Greenhouse gas emission 0.011 0.017 0.015 Eco efficiency projects C02e tonnes per tonne of product Environmental incident lost 0 0 0 Environmental incidents refer to days rate tailing dam leakages, leaching Total number of days in which pad contamination, fires within operations were compromised due mines and facilities, and spillage to environmental incidents of hazardous materials Sustainable forest at Ciénega 63 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Environmental impact, policies 2011 priorities and programmes • Maintain all existing certifications Our operational philosophy is to manage environ• Obtain Cyanide Code Certificate at Ciénega, immental risk and mitigate our impact over the lifecyplement initial evaluation at Soledad-Dipolos cle of a mine. The Group’s environmental manage• Coach four contractors at the Fresnillo mine so ment systems extend from the exploration phase, they may participate in the Clean Industry Certifito mine development and operation, to closure cation process and restoration. This year, we invested US$2.6 million in environmental efforts, including infrastrucS T RAT E GY ture and programmes. Water treatment plant at Fresnillo The 150 litre/second facility started operations and Through our long-term experience in the mining is treating more than 35% of the city’s sewage for sector, we have identified five main environmental reuse in the mine’s processes. aspects on which our operations have an impact and therefore require control and mitigation (see Climate change following page for detailed information): We participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project for the first time in 2010, a non-profit organisation that • Water promotes climate change reporting for risk assess• Energy ment and mitigation efforts. We endorsed the Can• Dust and Greenhouse Gases cun Communiqué at the COP 16 seeking action by PE R F O RM A N CE • Waste and Hazardous Materials governments globally on climate change. • Land/Biodiversity Biodiversity conservation There were no reportable environmental incidents We are a founding member of The Corporate Comin 2010. mitment on Wilderness, a conservation partnership between the Mexican private sector and The 2010 certification highlights Wild Foundation. Our three main projects are the • ISO14001:2004 re-certification at all Group mines Sustainable Forest at Ciénega, which now covers and the Exploration Division close to 500 hectares of reforested land; the Sus• Clean Industry (PROFEPA) re-certification at all tainable Complex at Fresnillo, an animal care facility Group mines and ecological park that welcomed 35,665 visitors • International Cyanide Code Certification audit in 2010; and the Sonoran Pronghorn Conservation G O VE RN A N C E completed at Herradura, and implementation Programme at Herradura, designed to protect and process advanced by 62.0% at Ciénega monitor pronghorn populations. • Obtained Mexican Greenhouse Gas Programme (GHG) membership for self-reporting of GHG We participated in a project with the Comisión emissions at the corporate level Nacional de Áreas Naturales Protegidas (CONANP, • Registered in the Carbon Disclosure Project in the Mexican public entity that supports land conservaFTSE 350 category for self-reporting on Climate tion) to issue a catalogue of photos about the MexiChange risks and strategies can species under threat of extinction. F INA N CIA LS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 64 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT continued ASPECT Impact Objectives and 2010 Highlights 2011 Targets procedures Water High water consumer Reduce unit consumption Consumed a total of 2.8 million m3 Zero fresh water but most of the needed of fresh water through of fresh water, a 20.0% reduction consumption at Fresnillo water is reprocessed. recirculation; control residual from the previous year. The start-up and Saucito through the Fresh water is sourced water discharges. We limit of the water treatment plant at water treatment plant. from within the mines consumption of fresh water Fresnillo meant a reduction of 95.0% Evaluate the use of at Fresnillo and Ciénega to replacement of evaporated at the mine unit. seawater at Herradura and through wells at water from tailing dams; we have and Soledad-Dipolos to Herradura. Minimal no residual water discharges. wet down roads. water discharges. Energy High energy consumer, Reduce unit consumption of Consumed a total of 3.7 million of GJ Reduce energy mainly electricity for the energy. We implement energy (70.7% diesel, 26.2% electricity; 1.6% intensity through beneficiation plant and efficiency projects and seek gasoline; 1.5% LP gas); during the year eco-efficiency projects diesel to operate mobile renewable sources of energy to efficiency projects generated savings (motors and lighting). equipment. the extent possible. of 5,672 GJ compared to the prior year, equivalent to 2.8% of total consumption. Dust and Medium impact from air Contain fugitive dust; Tested a new product on dust Reduce GHG emissions Greenhouse emissions. The Company minimise unit CO2 emissions. control at Herradura, using less intensity through ecoGases is not a major emitter of We water down mine roads water. As per the Mexican GHG efficiency projects. CO2. Our main emissions and use extractors to ventilate Programme, we emitted 205,539 from operations are underground mines. tonnes of CO2 from direct sources fugitive emissions at in 2010 and 126,788 tonnes from open pit mines caused indirect sources. by vehicle traffic. Waste and High waste producer. Maximise the rate of reuse 92.0% of reusable material was sold Maintain the rate Hazardous The most significant of industrial and hazardous to third parties as input for other of reuse of spent Materials waste product waste; if needed, ensure their processes. At Herradura, 835,790 litres oil; launch a waste generated by our proper containment. of spent lube oil were used for blasting, management processes is tailings. We We have a range of recycling representing 47.0% of total waste programme at Ciénega. also handle hazardous and waste management generated by the mine unit; at Fresnillo, materials and waste. initiatives, such as the recycling 99,573 litres were sold for secondary of spent oil, tyres, copper, usage in agriculture. Although we paper and cardboard. Tailings are in compliance with regulations dams fully comply with national related to the use of hazardous and international standards and materials, we began to reinforce our we maintain strict controls over internal controls due to increasing hazardous materials used. risks, legal requirements by the Secretariat of National Defence, and recommendations by Internal Audit. Land/ High local impact on Minimise disruptions to All mines and the Exploration Division Plant 128,000 trees. Biodiversity ecosystems. Areas flora and fauna on land; have nurseries, with combined Continue building where we impact the mitigate any impact through annual capacity of 186,000 trees. nurseries in all our most are the tailing conservation efforts, Relocated plant specimens cover an expansion projects, dam terrains and relocation and reforestation. area of 375.6 acres, with an average Orisyvo being the next. frontier land where we We participate in conservation survival rate of 83.0%. At Fresnillo perform exploration and projects in partnership the Bicentennial Nursery was built prospecting. with public agencies and with a capacity of 80,000 trees. We communities. In exploration also built a nursery at Herradura and projects, we reforest previously have monitored 480 pronghorns as forested areas where drilling compared to 250 in 1993 when the has been performed. conservation programme began. At Ciénega 84,500 additional trees were planted in the Sustainable Forest and the nursery has 100,000 additional specimens. Nurseries built at Noche Buena and San Julián. GRO U P O VE RVIE W S T RAT E GY PE R F O RM A N CE G O VE RN A N C E F INA N CIA LS 65 2010 Fresnillo plc Annual Report Los Jales Ecological Park at Fresnillo 66 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT continued Community Relations Objective Enhance the perception of Fresnillo plc as a responsible mining company in the communities where we operate. Performance indicator 2010 2008 2006 COMMENT Community perception index 86 85 85 The study is conducted every Average perception of four two years by an independent components – labour, environmental, third party; thus far the index institutional and social – from three has shown the highest possible different sources – household ranking score, indicating a “very surveys, anthropological positive” perception from the observations and personal interviews community School at the Ciénega community 67 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Social impact management, The framework that guides our community relations policies and programmes efforts incorporates five areas of impact (see followWe recognise the high social impact of mining oping page for detailed information): erations at the local level. Given that our success • Environmental culture depends on the parallel success of surrounding • Education communities, we are committed to free, prior and • Health and social welfare informed consent, fair and open negotiations, re• Self-sustaining capacity spect for the customs and culture of local communi• Social infrastructure ties and cooperative landowner groups (ejidos), and S T RAT E GY to being a good neighbour. 2011 priorities • Reinforce the family visits programme and comCommunity citizenship begins at the exploration munications at all mine units phase of our work with outreach efforts and robust • Complete the impact analysis of our community baseline studies. Agreements with landowners ofinvestments to determine alignment with comten include guaranteed investments in the develmunities’ needs and expectations opment of basic infrastructure such as roads and water works. Efforts at operating mines depend upon the type of community and its specific needs, distance to the operation and available services and infrastructure. PE R F O RM A N CE Sustainability requires that our communities develop a level of self-sufficiency that will enable them to thrive for generations beyond the life of a given mine. Most of our engagement efforts rely on partnerships with local public agencies and NGOs and are implemented through Welfare and Community Centres. Agreements can provide a means of securing long-term access to resources, lowering transaction costs and uncertainty, and reducing exposure to disputes and legal action. G O VE RN A N C E In 2010 we invested US$6.1 million in our community outreach programme, including more than US$97,000 at development and expansion projects. We also encourage philanthropy on a personal level, and 682 employees contributed to the United Way, a non-profit social services organisation. We launched a comprehensive evaluation of the total impact of our community investments this year based on feedback from the biennial perception study conducted on our behalf by an independent third party. F INA N CIA LS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 68 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT continued SOCIAL ASPECT OBJECTIVES AND PROCEDURES 2010 HIGHLIGHTS Environmental Go beyond our environmental Investment: US$54,800. culture mitigation efforts and have Community celebrations of World Environment Day, World Water Day, Earth Day, World impact on a wider scale. Tree Day, and National Conservation Week, with total participation of 5,940 people. We sponsor environmental Donated and planted almost 117,500 trees for reforestation campaigns at all mine units. campaigns and promote activities Received close to 41,250 visitors at the Fresnillo Sustainability Complex, which was such as water conservation, awarded certification for quality in environment management. Supplied 700 trashcans recycling efforts, reforestation for garbage separation at Herradura. Organised monthly cleaning campaigns at the and clean public areas. Saucito project. Education Promote local development. Investment: US$926,200. We fund local schools, support Cultural and civic celebrations such as the Bicentennial festivities. Facilitated values cultural festivities and promote workshops for 120 teachers and 598 women. Donated teaching materials to various the study of sciences and educational centres. Executed children summer campaigns focusing on values respect for values and customs and confidence promotion. Implemented the INNOVEC programme at Fresnillo, through teacher training and benefiting 2,271 children in science innovation. At Ciénega, built a high school with student workshops. the Durango State Science & Technology Studies College (CECYTED). At Fresnillo, restored a kindergarten and built a dome at the González Ortega school established for employees’ families. Donated material to a library and a school at Saucito. Opened a dining room at the elementary school at Orisyvo. Health Promote health and positive Investment: US$2.5 million. and social interactions that bring together Celebration of Miners’, Mothers’, Children’s and Christmas Days. Offered vaccination integration employees, families and and health campaigns through partnerships with local health offices and the Mexican community members. We Secretariat of Health. Organised sports and recreational activities for 4,930 persons. extend wellness programmes Events included support for Health Weeks (through tests such as bone density and into the community such glucose); triathlon in Fresnillo with 300 athletes; Uruguayan football tournament in as nutrition counselling, Ciénega with 400 children; Baseball & Football Academy at Herradura for 70 children; and hygiene habits, athletics and two 5 km races at Saucito, among other activities. We provide major medical coverage for recreational activities. families at Fresnillo and Herradura, and at Ciénega ran an onsite clinic for all personnel and dependents. This year we completed construction of 35 houses for union workers at Ciénega, restored a public gym at Fresnillo, purchased 8.2 acres of land for a sport facility for workers, and supplied equipment for the fire rescue team at Herradura. Self-sustaining Ensure the community’s longInvestment: US$26,700. capacity term self-development. Through Offered 27 courses at our Welfare Centres with the participation of 1,297 people from volunteer activities of the Fresnillo surrounding communities. We offered a special course on Women’s Development at all Ladies Committee, chaired by the mine units. wives of the Company’s Chairman and CEO, and in Welfare Centres, training and development in alternative sources of income and promoting local enterprises. Social Satisfy the basic needs of Investment: US$2.6 million. infrastructure our communities. Through At Ciénega, completed the second stage of the main street paving through a partnership partnerships, support public with the Mexican Secretariat of Social Development (SEDESOL). Other projects underway: works and services such as construction of a gym, football yard, public library and fresh water well. At Fresnillo, electricity, sewage, housing, underwrote the paving of 3,700 metres of road. At Herradura, completed the second schools, clinics, roads and stage of the Costa Caborca Community Centre that benefits 14 communities and funded telecommunications. restoration of the community church. At Saucito, paved a path and built two meeting rooms for the ejidos. In Orisyvo, donated cisterns that will provide water to 30 families. 69 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Visitors at the Fresnillo Sustainability Complex S T RAT E GY PE R F O RM A N CE G O VE RN A N C E F INA N CIA LS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 70 Financial Review The Consolidated Financial Statements of Fresnillo plc are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). This Financial Review is intended to convey the main factors affecting performance and to provide a detailed analysis of the financial results in order to enhance understanding of the Group’s financial statements. i The full Financial Statements and their accompanying notes can be found on pages 114-158. Commentary on financial performance In 2010, the Fresnillo Group generated strong financial results driven by the rally in precious metal prices, the contribution of Soledad-Dipolos and the robust operational performance of the Group mines. These were somewhat mitigated by: i) higher exploration expenses and by higher depreciation expense resulting from recent capital investments, both in support of the Group’s organic growth strategy; and ii) higher adjusted production costs reflecting a stronger peso, rising electricity and diesel prices and an increase in activities to ensure continuous operations, as well as higher taxes and profit sharing. As a result, attributable profit in the year, excluding the effect of the Silverstream revaluation rose 72.3% from US$308.0 million in 2009 to US$530.8 million in 2010. Income Statement Key items of the Income Statement are shown below: INCOME STATEMENT KEY LINE ITEMS (US$ millions) 2010 2009 % Change Revenues 1,409.55 849.94 65.8 Cost of sales (435.08) (321.63) 35.3 Gross profit 974.48 528.31 84.4 Exploration expenses 82.11 49.06 67.4 EBITDA 945.00 496.62 90.3 Profit before income tax 1,022.37 457.42 123.5 Income tax expense 272.97 99.15 175.3 Profit for the year 749.40 358.27 109.2 Profit for the year, excluding post-tax Silverstream revaluation effects 615.11 344.30 78.7 Attributable profit 665.13 322.01 106.6 Attributable profit, excluding post-tax Silverstream revaluation effects 530.84 308.04 72.3 Basic and diluted earnings per share (US$/share) 1 0.927 0.449 106.5 Basic and diluted earnings per share excluding post-tax Silverstream revaluation effects (US$/share) 0.740 0.430 72.1 1 The weighted average number of ordinary shares for 2010 and 2009 was 717,160,159. Fresnillo plc’s financial performance is determined by the level of efficiency in executing the Group’s strategy and the impact of several external factors. The quality of our asset base, the ability to maximise its potential, and personnel and management’s skills are among the most important internal drivers underlying our financial results. The external variables with material impact on Group performance are dependent on market conditions and are thus outside of Fresnillo plc’s control. These include: Precious metal prices Volatility in the global economy and the sovereign debt crisis in Europe fostered safe-haven investment demand, resulting in gold and silver prices reaching record levels. In 2010 the average realised price of silver increased 40.0% to US$21.39 per ounce, while the average gold price reached US$1,252.05 per ounce, a 26.6% increase year-over-year. The Group’s Income Statement is considerably impacted by these variables, as 95% of our revenues come from these metals. In addition, the strengthening of forward silver prices in 2010 significantly impacted the valuation of the Silverstream contract, considered to be a derivative instrument under IFRS, which resulted in an unrealised pre-tax gain of US$191.8 million recognised in the income 71 GRO U P O VE RVIE W statement. Expectations of future silver price is one of the key assumptions underlying the valuation of this contract and analysis of the impact on the contract’s value of changes in the price of silver is provided in Note 32 to the Financial Statements. We maintain a policy not to hedge silver and gold price exposure and therefore provide shareholders with full exposure to fluctuations in silver and gold prices. Foreign exchange rates The average spot exchange rate of the Mexican peso to the US dollar was revalued from MXN13.52 per US dollar in 2009 to MXN12.64 per US dollar in 2010. This variable had an adverse effect on the Group’s production costs, as costs denominated in Mexican pesos (approximately 70% of total costs) increased when S T RAT E GY converted to US dollars. The negative impact of the 6.5% average revaluation within the costs was estimated at US$9.5 million. The spot exchange rate at 31 December 2010 was MXN12.36 per US dollar, representing a 5.4% revaluation when compared to the MXN13.06 per US dollar at the beginning of the year. The Group’s taxable profits are determined under Mexican GAAP in pesos and this revaluation had an adverse effect on the peso value of US dollar-denominated net monetary asset position, with the Silverstream Contract and cash and cash equivalents being the most important. As a result, a foreign exchange loss under Mexican GAAP was generated, lowering the Group’s taxable profits. Inflation of key operating materials PE R F O RM A N CE Year over year change Steel for drilling (0.1%) Explosives 4.8% Tyres (1.3%) Sodium cyanide (24.4%) Other reagents 11.3% Oils and other lubricants 10.4% Weighted Average 1.9% The net increase in the weighted average input cost over the year was 1.9%. The average unit price of several operating materials fluctuated in 2010, reflecting prevailing economic conditions. Reagents such as zinc and copper sulphates increased significantly over the course of the year reflecting the higher prices of G O VE RN A N C E those metals. Average prices for sodium cyanide however, an important reagent used in the gold leaching process, declined. Further increases in the unit prices of all inputs are expected for 2011, reflecting the increase in demand to support expansion plans within the broader mining industry. Electricity Fresnillo plc’s weighted average cost of electricity increased by 24.6% when compared to 2009. This followed the expected rate increase from the Comisión Federal de Electricidad (CFE), the national utility, with recovering economic conditions prompting the Mexican government to reverse its policy of reducing electricity prices to control inflation. The unit price of electricity for 2011 is expected to move in line with CFE’s average generating cost. F INA N CIA LS Diesel The weighted average cost of diesel in Mexican pesos increased by 19.6% year-on-year reflecting the Mexican government’s decision to align fuel and diesel prices with international rates. In accordance with this policy, a similar increase is anticipated for 2011. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 72 FINANCIAL REVIEW continued Treatment and refining charges Treatment and refining charges (TRCs), which are deducted from adjusted revenues for the purposes of revenues as disclosed in the income statement, are reviewed annually in accordance with international benchmarks. The treatment charge per tonne of lead concentrate, including the escalator, remained steady, while treatment charge per tonne of zinc concentrate increased by 3.2% when compared to 2009. However, this increase was completely offset by a 29.7% decrease in the refining charge per ounce of silver, which represented 42% of total treatment and refining charges. As a result, total TRC charges decreased by 6.9% year-on-year, despite the increase in volumes of product sold. The effects of the internal and external factors impacting each of the items of the Income Statement are further described below. Revenues CONSOLIDATED REVENUES (US$ millions) Change 2010 2009 Amount % Adjusted revenue 2 1,473.92 943.96 529.96 56.1 Treatment and refining charges (64.37) (69.23) 4.86 (7.0) Hedging losses (Pre-IPO) 3 (25.02) 25.02 (100) Hedging gains 0.23 (0.23) (100) Revenues 1,409.55 849.94 559.61 65.8 2 Adjusted Revenue is revenue as disclosed in the income statement adjusted to exclude hedging effects and treatment and refining charges. 3 Derivatives terminated prior to the IPO in 2008. Total revenues for the full year rose to a record US$1,409.5 million, a 65.8% increase when compared to 2009. The main contributor to this significant increase was adjusted revenue which rose 56.1% to US$1,473.9 million. Higher average realised metal prices accounted for 65.6% of the total US$530.0 million increase in adjusted revenues. The remaining 34.4% of the favourable effect reflected the additional volumes of gold ounces sold from Soledad-Dipolos, Ciénega and Herradura. The Fresnillo Group has not entered into any silver and gold hedging contracts since its Initial Public Offering (IPO) in 2008 and does not intend to do so, thus providing full exposure to fluctuations in silver and gold prices. In 2010, Fresnillo plc did not enter any new derivative contracts to hedge the price of lead and zinc by-products. However, prior to the IPO, the Group used derivatives to reduce commodity price risks arising from the volatility of silver and gold prices. In 2009, a final non-cash charge of US$25.0 million was reflected against adjusted revenues as a result of the hedging instruments that were terminated in 2007, but for which cumulative losses were recycled to the income statement at the time of the occurrence of the hedge transaction to which they related. ADJUSTED REVENUES4 BY METAL (Year ended 31 December, US$ millions) Volume Price 2010 2009 Variance Variance Total % Silver 746.18 51% 529.63 56% 3.6 212.9 216.5 40.9 Gold 653.29 44% 359.17 38% 171.2 122.9 294.1 81.9 Lead 34.38 2% 26.98 3% 2.9 4.5 7.4 27.4 Zinc 40.07 3% 28.18 3% 4.7 7.2 11.9 42.2 Total Adjusted Revenues 1,473.92 100% 943.96 100% 182.4 347.5 529.9 56.1 73 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Gold share of total adjusted revenues increased from 38% in 2009 to 44% in 2010 as a result of the start-up of commercial production at Soledad-Dipolos. Silver share thus declined to 51% in 2010. ADJUSTED REVENUE BY METAL ADJUSTED REVENUE BY MINE SILVER 51% FRESNILLO 52% GOLD 44% HERRADURA 25% ZINC 3% CIENEGA 14% S T RAT E GY LEAD 2% SOLEDAD-DIPOLOS 9% VOLUMES OF METAL SOLD (Year ended 31 December) 2010 2009 % Change Silver (Koz) 34,883 34,676 0.6 Gold (Oz) 521,780 363,205 43.7 Lead (t) 16,057 14,565 10.2 Zinc (t) 18,634 16,134 15.5 Cost of sales PE R F O RM A N CE Change 2010 2009 Amount % Adjusted production costs5 311.97 209.80 102.17 48.7 Depreciation 105.22 67.23 37.99 56.5 Change in work in progress (16.77) 12.94 (29.71) N/A Profit sharing 37.68 24.58 13.10 53.3 Hedging (of exchange rate) (3.02) 7.08 (10.10) N/A Cost of sales 435.08 321.63 113.45 35.3 5 Calculated as total production costs less depreciation, profit sharing and exchange rate hedging effects. The main factors affecting the increase in cost of sales were: G O VE RN A N C E • Adjusted production costs increased to US$312.0 million, a 48.7% increase when compared to 2009. Of the US$102.2 increase, US$55.1 million, or 53.9%, related to production costs incurred at the new Soledad-Dipolos mine in its first year of commercial production. In addition the revaluation of the average spot exchange rate resulted in a US$9.5 million adverse effect when converting peso-denominated costs to US dollars. The discussion below factors out the impact of foreign exchange movements in the peso denominated costs for each category in order to reflect the underlying operational unit cost changes: • Contractor costs rose by US$12.7 million as a result of: i) stripping cost of the Valles pit recorded in the income statement, while in 2009 these costs were capitalised; ii) the increase in development works to ensure continuous operations; iii) shotcreting and rock bolting activities carried out mainly at the Fresnillo mine to secure personnel safety; iv) increased mine services which are typically conducted by contractors such F INA N CIA LS as road maintenance and pumping; v) additional volumes of ore and waste material hauled over longer distances at all our mines; and vi) higher unit fees charged by contractors, which include the annual rise in labour costs, depreciation of the contractors’ equipment, operating materials and fuel and lubricants. • The cost of energy rose by US$10.7 million as a result of increases in electricity and diesel prices of 24.6% and 19.6% respectively. Additional consumption of energy was associated mainly with higher production volumes at our mines, and to a lesser extent, to the longer haulage distances affecting consumption of diesel. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 74 FINANCIAL REVIEW continued • Operating materials increased by US$6.0 million due to increased consumption of explosives, anchors, steel and lubricants related to the additional volumes of ore produced at the mines. These increases were mitigated by operating efficiencies achieved through the Six Sigma methodology and other cost control initiatives. • The cost of personnel increased by US$2.4 million as a result of: i) additional personnel hired at Herradura; ii) a 6.5% increase in wages plus a 1% bonus in base salary; iii) bonuses associated with the implementation of efficiency projects; and iv) training to improve safety indices. • The cost of maintenance rose by US$2.3 million due to: i) maintenance and repair of locomotives at the Fresnillo mine; and ii) intensified use of equipment to load and haul ore and waste at the mines. • Other costs increased by US$3.5 million as a result of additional equipment insured, surveillance, freight and IT expenses. • Depreciation increased by US$38.0 million mainly due to the larger asset base following the completion of Soledad-Dipolos, higher production volumes which affected the depletion factor, and the purchase of additional high-capacity trucks and loaders. • The current year increase in work in progress as compared to the decrease in 2009 benefited the movement in COS by US$29.7 million. In 2010, ore deposited at Soledad-Dipolos increased inventories of ore at this mine, while in 2009 a charge of US$12.9 million was recognised as a result of the decrease of mineral and concentrate inventories at Herradura. • Profit sharing rose by US$13.1 million due to higher profits at our operating mines. • The Fresnillo Group enters into certain exchange rate derivative instruments as part of a programme to mitigate its exposure to foreign exchange risk associated with costs incurred in Mexican pesos. The forward sales position that matured throughout 2010 was for US$77.5 million at an average rate of MXN13.17 per US dollar. Forward contracts which matured throughout the year resulted in a US$2.9 million gain recognised in the income statement. The outstanding net forward position as of 31 December 2010 was US$51.0 million with maturity dates throughout 2011. Additionally, the Group entered into a combination of put and call options structured at zero cost (collars). During the year, collars hedging US$14.5 million of costs denominated in Mexican pesos matured. Resulting in a US$0.2 million gain recognised in the income statement. Collars hedging costs denominated in Mexican pesos equivalent to US$36.0 million will mature in 2011 with an average floor exchange rate of MXN13.03 per US dollar and cap of MXN14.23 per US dollar. These instruments guarantee a minimum exchange rate should the market fall below the floor exchange rate. Between the floor and cap exchange rates the Group sells US dollars at the market rate, and when the Mexican peso per US dollar exchange rate goes above the cap rate, the Company is obliged to sell US dollars at the contract rate. 75 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Cost per tonne and cash cost per ounce Cost per tonne milled across our operating mines increased when compared to 2009 as shown in the table below. COST PER TONNE6 (Year ended 31 December) 2010 2009 % Change Fresnillo US$/tonne milled 41.73 37.24 12.1% Ciénega US$/tonne milled 65.86 61.45 7.2% Herradura US$/tonne deposited 5.64 5.17 9.1% S T RAT E GY Soledad-Dipolos US$/tonne deposited 5.71 N/A N/A 6 This indicator is calculated as total production costs less depreciation, profit sharing and exchange rate hedging effects. In 2010 however, freight costs associated with ore transported from Fresnillo plc’s mines to Met-Mex facilities, which are usually presented as a deduction to Adjusted Revenues, were reclassified and added to the cost of freight of inputs under production costs, thus illustrating the full impact of freight costs. Cost per tonne figures presented within the 2009 Annual Report excluded freight charges against revenues, thus those figures are shown with a pro forma reclassification in order to be comparable with 2010 calculations. The main variables explaining these increases on a mine by mine basis can be found in the Review of Operations on pages 32-55. CASH COST PER OUNCE7 (Year ended 31 December) PE R F O RM A N CE 2010 2009 % Change Fresnillo US$ per silver ounce 3.34 3.37 (0.9%) Ciénega US$ per gold ounce 193.86 190.61 1.7% Herradura US$ per gold ounce 323.83 342.90 (5.6%) Soledad-Dipolos US$ per gold ounce 383.15 N/A N/A 7 Cash cost per ounce is calculated as total cash cost (cost of sales plus treatment and refining charges less depreciation) less revenues from by-products divided by the silver or gold ounces sold. Cash cost per silver ounce at Fresnillo reflected a modest decrease (see table below) due to higher gold, lead and zinc by-product revenues (resulting from increased sales volumes and higher metal prices). In addition, the slight increase in volumes of silver produced and sold also mitigated the adverse effect of the higher adjusted production costs. G O VE RN A N C E Cash cost per gold ounce at Ciénega slightly increased reflecting the higher adjusted production costs associated with the development works at the mine and the 24.6% decrease in silver by-product production, partially offset by the higher zinc and lead by-product sales and the increased gold ounces sold. Cash cost per ounce at Herradura decreased by 5.5% as a result of the higher gold ounces produced and sold at this open pit mine. Cash cost per gold ounce at Soledad-Dipolos was US$383.15, higher than Herradura’s cash cost due to the natural lower ore grade impacting total gold ounces sold. F INA N CIA LS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 76 FINANCIAL REVIEW continued Gross profit Gross profit, before hedging gains and losses, is an important financial indicator to measure the profitability at each mine and at the Fresnillo Group as a whole. CONTRIBUTION BY MINE TO THE GROUP’S GROSS PROFIT EXCLUDING HEDGING GAINS AND LOSSES (US$ millions) Change 2010 2009 Amount % Fresnillo 574.80 59.2% 366.17 65.4% 208.63 50.8% 57.0 Ciénega 94.13 9.7% 65.30 11.7% 28.83 7.0% 44.1 Herradura 217.29 22.4% 128.38 22.9% 88.91 21.7% 69.2 Soledad-Dipolos 84.09 8.7% 84.09 20.5% N/A Total for operating mines 970.31 100.0% 559.85 100.0% 410.46 100.0% 73.3 Other subsidiaries 1.15 0.33 0.82 N/A Metal hedging (losses) and gains (24.79) 24.79 (100) MXP/USD exchange rate hedging (losses) and gains 3.02 (7.08) 10.10 N/A Total Fresnillo plc 974.48 528.31 446.17 84.4 In 2010, total gross profit for operating mines, adjusted to exclude hedging gains and losses, increased by US$410.5 million a 73.3% increase over 2009. This indicator considerably benefited from the higher precious metal prices, contributing US$327.9 million, of which 64.9% corresponded to the price of silver, 31.4% to the price of gold and the remaining 3.7% to the prices of lead and zinc by-products. Operating performance was also an important contributor to Gross Profit excluding hedging effects. The most important factor in the 2010 increase was the contribution of the new Soledad-Dipolos gold mine (US$84.1 million), with higher production volumes at Herradura, Fresnillo and Ciénega also benefiting gross profit. In total, the favourable effect generated by higher sales volumes at these three mines was US$64.9 million. Other favourable effects were lower treatment and refining charges and changes in work in progress due to the increase in Soledad-Dipolos inventories. The benefits described above were somewhat mitigated by: i) the adverse effect of the US$37.7 million increase in adjusted production cost; ii) the US$27.2 negative impact of the higher depreciation expense; iii) higher profit sharing; and iv) the adverse impact of the revaluation of the Mexican peso against the US dollar impacting peso-denominated costs. The contribution by mine to the Group’s Gross Profit, excluding hedging, changed this year due to the incorporation of Soledad-Dipolos which comprised 8.7% of the total, diluting the participation of the other three mines. Fresnillo continues to be the biggest contributor with 59.2%, followed by Herradura and Ciénega with 22.4% and 9.7% respectively. Administrative expenses Administrative expenses of US$52.6 million increased by 5.5% compared to 2009, and include administrative fees paid to Servicios Administrativos Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. (SAPSA) under the New Services Agreement (NSA), legal and advisory fees, and expenses associated with administrative personnel working at the Group’s corporate offices. The increase was mainly related to additional administrative services provided by SAPSA related to the new Soledad-Dipolos mine and to the construction of Saucito. 77 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Exploration expenses BUSINESS UNIT / PROJECT (US$ millions) Exploration expenses Capitalised expenses Herradura 8.3 0.0 Soledad–Dipolos 2.3 0.0 Fresnillo 8.8 0.0 Ciénega 5.4 0.0 Noche Buena 6.0 0.0 Herradura corridor 5.7 0.0 S T RAT E GY San Ramón 4.7 0.0 Saucito 0.0 4.2 Juanicipio 0.0 5.3 San Julián 7.5 8.5 Orisyvo 6.1 0.0 San Juan 1.8 0.0 Ciénega (area of influence) 6.4 0.0 Centauro Deep 2.1 0.0 Lucerito 1.4 0.0 Candameña 1.1 0.0 PE R F O RM A N CE San Nicolás 0.7 0.0 Guanajuato 0.9 0.0 Leones 0.8 0.0 Others 12.1 0.0 TOTAL 82.1 18.0 Exploration expenses for the year totalled US$82.1 million, a 67.4% increase over the previous year. An additional US$18.0 million related to the development of the Saucito mine and for the San Julián and Juanicipio advanced exploration projects was capitalised. These projects have sufficient geological and technical information that allows for a reasonable expectation of becoming operating mines in the future. Exploration expenses, including those capitalised, totalled US$100.1 million, representing a 77.2% increase over 2009. As anticipated, Fresnillo plc conducted an intensive programme of exploration and mining works over the G O VE RN A N C E course of the year aiming to expand the resource and reserve base and confirm resources estimates. This expenditure also included the Noche Buena pre-feasibility study, San Julián and Orisyvo scoping studies and the pre-feasibility study at Juanicipio. As part of our organic growth programme, the exploration budget for 2011 has been increased to US$251.4 million, of which US$100 million is expected to be capitalised. EBITDA EBITDA & EBITDA MARGIN (Year ended 31 December, US$ millions) 2010 2009 % Change Gross Profit 974.48 528.32 84.4% + Depreciation 105.22 67.23 56.5% Administrative Expenses (52.60) (49.87) 5.5% F INA N CIA LS Exploration Expenses (82.11) (49.06) 67.4% EBITDA 945.00 496.62 90.3% EBITDA Margin 67.0% 58.4% EBITDA, which is calculated as gross profit as reflected in the income statement plus depreciation less administrative and exploration expenses, achieved a new record level of US$945.0 million in 2010, a 90.3% increase year-on-year. This key financial indicator benefited from the higher gross profit levels, partially offset by the increase in exploration expenses. Similarly, EBITDA margin rose from 58.4% in 2009 to 67.0% in 2010. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 78 FINANCIAL REVIEW continued Silverstream revaluation effects The Silverstream Contract is accounted for as a derivative financial instrument carried at fair value. In 2010, the increase in fair value of the Silverstream asset was US$191.8 million, which represents a significant increase of 64.2% compared to the value as at 31 December 2009. As a result, a corresponding non-cash gain was recognised in the income statement. This unrealised gain comprised 18.8% of the Group’s profit before tax, highlighting the increased impact of this instrument in the income statement. Since the IPO, unrealised, non-cash profits associated with the Silverstream Contract have totalled US$211.2 million. As silver prices are likely to move cyclically, any unrealised future losses would also be recognised in the income statement. For example, the Group estimates that a 25% increase/decrease in the expected future prices of silver as used in the valuation at 31 December 2010, would result in an unrealised gain/loss respectively of US$120.2 million recognised in the income statement. i Further information related to the Silverstream Contract is provided in the Balance Sheet section below and notes 15, 31 and 32 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Foreign exchange The foreign exchange result is caused by the conversion of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies to US dollars. In 2010, a US$3.3 million foreign exchange loss arose mainly as a result of: i) the devaluation of the UK pound sterling against the US dollar on the dividends paid in pounds and the conversion of the pound sterling position held in treasury to US dollars; and ii) the revaluation of the MXN/ US dollar exchange rate which affected the value of peso-denominated net liabilities when converted to US dollars. This loss adversely compared with US$9.5 million foreign exchange gain recognised in the 2009 Income Statement, following the devaluation of the US dollar against the UK pound sterling, which affected the cash position denominated in sterling. Taxation Increased profit levels drove the income tax expense up to US$273.0 million, a 175.3% increase compared to the previous year. Nevertheless, the effective tax rate under IFRS was 26.7%, which is lower than the statutory 30% tax rate. The main factors in the differential were: a) the revaluation of the MXN/US dollar exchange rate which generated i) a foreign exchange loss registered under Mexican GAAP, lowering the Group’s taxable profits; and ii) movements in the US dollar equivalent tax value of assets that were originally valued in MXN and are not subsequently revalued for tax purposes with fluctuations in the Mexican peso/ US dollar exchange rate under Mexican GAAP; and b) certain inflation adjustments for Mexican tax purposes that have no accounting effect. Profit for the year Profit for the year increased by 109.2% from US$358.3 million in 2009 to US$749.4 million in 2010. Profits due to non-controlling interests (minority shareholders) rose to US$84.3 million in 2010, a 132.4% increase, as a result of the higher profits recorded at Herradura, profits generated by Soledad-Dipolos and the unrealised gain resulting from the Silverstream revaluation. Both mines belong to Penmont, a company jointly owned by Fresnillo plc (56%) and Newmont (44%). Despite the 132.4% increase in non-controlling interests, profit attributable to Group shareholders increased by 106.6% to US$665.1 million in 2010. Profit for the year, excluding the effects of the revaluation of the Silverstream Contract, increased by 78.7% from US$344.3 in 2009 to US$615.1 million in 2010. Similarly, profit attributable to Group shareholders, excluding the Silverstream effects, rose by 72.3% to US$530.8 million in 2010. 79 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Cash flow A summary of the key items impacting the Group’s cash flow is set out below: CASH FLOW KEY ITEMS Year ended 31 December, US$ millions) 2010 2009 % change Cash generated by operations before changes in working capital 983.6 548.8 79.2 (Increase) / decrease in working capital (166.0) (37.8) 339.2 Net cash from operating activities 700.7 390.7 79.3 Silverstream Contract 55.6 39.0 42.6 S T RAT E GY Proceeds from development works at Saucito 25.6 10.7 139.3 Purchase of property, plant & equipment (340.3) (261.2) 30.3 Dividends paid to shareholders of the Company (182.6) (93.6) 95.1 Dividends paid to non-controlling interest (8.5) N/A Net increase in cash during the year 250.1 92.6 170.0 Cash at 31 December 559.5 312.2 79.2 The 79.2% increase in cash generated by operations before changes in working capital was a result of record profits generated at the mines. However, this effect was mitigated by a US$166.0 million increase in working capital, which is mainly explained by: PE R F O RM A N CE • Trade and other receivables rose by US$116.7 million. The main factor underlying this was the US$99.1 million increase in accounts receivables due from Met-Mex, of which 55% is attributable to the higher metal prices, 27% to the higher volumes of ore sold to Met-Mex, and 18% by modifications in the payment conditions between Herradura and Met-Mex associated with the doré production. Loans granted to contractors for the purchase of equipment further increased other receivables. These loans are consistent with our strategy of supporting contractors. • Inventories increased as a result of the higher volumes of ore deposited at the Soledad-Dipolos pads and ore from development works at Saucito, which were stocked in preparation for commercial production in 1H 2011. In addition, the inventory of spare parts, including tyres, increased in accordance with our policy to secure critical inputs subject to scarcity. G O VE RN A N C E Despite the increase in working capital, cash flows from operating activities increased by 79.3% to US$700.7 million in 2010. Other important sources of funds were US$55.6 million received in proceeds under the Silverstream Contract and US$25.6 million in proceeds generated from the sales of ore from the development works at Saucito and processed at the Fresnillo mine; the latter was credited to the cost of the project. The Group invested US$340.3 million in the purchase of property, plant and equipment, a 30.3% increase when compared to spend in 2009. Investments in these items in 2010 are further described below: F INA N CIA LS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 80 FINANCIAL REVIEW continued PURCHASE OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (US$ millions) 2010 Fresnillo mine 60.7 Mine development and construction of the San Carlos shaft. Construction of ramps and mining works at San Julián project (US$22.9 million) Herradura mine 54.4 Purchase of high-volume trucks and loaders, construction of leaching pads and acquisition of surface land. Noche Buena’s payment for mineral rights and royalties acquisition (US$10.6 million) Ciénega mine 65.1 Mine development, mining works, expansion of milling capacity, sinking of the shaft and purchase of land Soledad & Dipolos 36.8 Stripping activities and construction of leaching pads Saucito project 118.4 Mining works and equipment for shafts and beneficiation plant Other 4.9 Juanicipio, Exploraciones Mineras Parreña and SAFSA Total purchase of property, plant and equipment 340.3 Dividends paid in 2010 totalled US$191.1 million, almost doubling those paid in 2009. The 2010 dividend payments reflected: i) the final 2009 dividend of US$116.2 million and the 2010 interim dividend of US$66.4 million paid to Fresnillo plc shareholders; and ii) US$8.5 million paid to Newmont, the minority shareholder in Penmont. The sources and uses of funds described above resulted in a net increase of US$250.1 million in cash and cash equivalents during the year. The combination of this increase with the US$312.2 million balance at the beginning of the year and the unfavourable effect of exchange rate movements on cash of US$2.7 million, resulted in a net cash position of US$559.5 million as at 31 December 2010. Balance sheet In 2010, the Group maintained a solid financial position with no bank debt. Cash and cash equivalents as of 31 December 2010 were US$559.5 million, a 79.2% increase compared to year-end 2009. The main factors driving the significant increase in cash and cash equivalents were described in the cash flow section. Trade and other receivables of US$225.0 million rose as a result of the increase in metal prices and higher volumes sold. Additionally, turnover of accounts receivables increased from 30 days in 2009 to 34 days in 2010 mainly as a result of extended payment terms on doré sold by Minera Penmont from 5 to 15 days after product delivery. In addition, other accounts receivables increased as a result of loans granted to contractors to purchase equipment. These increases were partially offset by the decrease in income tax refunds due, following the recovery of excess income tax paid in provisional payments during 2009 over the final income-tax return. In accordance with the Silverstream Contract, Fresnillo plc is entitled to receive all of the proceeds in respect of the payable silver produced at the Sabinas mine owned and operated by the Peñoles Group. This contract is accounted for as a derivative financial instrument, with all payments received being credited against the carrying value of the related asset. The change in the value of the Silverstream derivative from US$298.6 million at the beginning of the year to US$427.7 million at the year-end reflects proceeds of US$62.8 million (US$55.6 million in cash and US$7.2 million receivable) offset by a revaluation effect of $191.8 million which is a non-cash gain reflected in the Group income statement. Given the cyclical movements of silver prices, the value of the Silverstream asset could increase or decline in line with the movements of the silver price. 81 GRO U P O VE RVIE W The net book value of property, plant and equipment was US$895.8 million at 31 December 2010, an increase of 30.0% when compared to 2009, reflecting capital expenditure during the year on new development projects and ongoing investments to optimise our operations. The main additions underlying the US$207.1 million increase were the construction of the Saucito project, acquisition of new equipment mainly at Minera Penmont, construction of the San Carlos shaft at Fresnillo, purchase of land, and the sinking of the shaft and expansion of milling capacity at Ciénega. i A more detailed explanation regarding the Company’s investment can be found in the Review of Operations on pages 32-55. Fresnillo plc’s total equity was US$1,919.3 million as of 31 December 2010, a 47.3% increase when comS T RAT E GY pared to the balance at 31 December 2009. The total number of issued shares remained at 717,160,159 and their corresponding rights and obligations are set in the Group’s Articles of Association. The main factor increasing total equity was the higher profits achieved during the year. Equity attributable to minority shareholders rose from US$127.0 million to US$205.5 million as of 31 December 2010, reflecting the increased asset value attributable to the minority shareholders. Dividends of US$191.1 million were paid in the year, from retained earnings generated in previous years. Fresnillo plc’s dividend policy takes into account the profitability of the business, underlying growth in earnings and the capital and cash flow requirements to support future production and expansions. PE R F O RM A N CE Dividend In September 2010 an interim dividend of 9.2 US cents per Ordinary Share was declared and paid for a total of US$66.4 million. Based on the Group’s 2010 performance, the Directors have recommended a final dividend of 35.6 US cents per Ordinary Share, which will be paid on 20 May 2011 to shareholders on the register on 3 May 2011. The dividend will be paid in UK pounds sterling unless shareholders elect to be paid in US dollars. The Company´s dividend policy takes into account the profitability of the business and underlying growth in earnings of the Company, as well as its capital requirements and cashflows, whilst maintaining an appropriate level of dividend cover. G O VE RN A N C E F INA N CIA LS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 82 Fresnillo plc’s Executive Committee 83 GOVERNANCE IN THIS SECTION Board of Directors 84 Executive Management 87 Corporate Governance Report 88 Directors’ Remuneration Report 100 Directors’ Report 106 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 111 Fresnillo plc plc Fresnillo 20102010 Annual Report Annual Report 84 board of directors Alberto Baillères Jaime Lomelín, NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN, 79 years old CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, 76 years old Chairman, Nominations Committee HSECR Committee Remuneration Committee Mr Lomelín spent 36 years at Peñoles where he Mr Baillères has been on the board of Industrias served as Group Vice President of the metals and Peñoles since 1962 and has served as Chairman chemicals division for four years and subsequently since 1967. The Baillères family first acquired an inheld the position of CEO for 21 years. Upon the IPO terest in Peñoles in 1962 and Mr Baillères is currentof Fresnillo plc in May 2008, Mr Lomelín became its ly the controlling shareholder. In addition to Peñoles, Chief Executive Officer. Mr Lomelín holds a bachelor as part of the BAL group of companies, Mr Baillères of science degree in chemical engineering from the has interests in Grupo Palacio de Hierro, a chain of Universidad Nacional Autónoma de Mexico (UNAM) department stores mainly located in Mexico City, and undertook business administration studies at the Grupo Nacional Provincial, a leading Mexican insurUniversity of Wisconsin (1958-1959) as well as the ance company, Grupo Profuturo, a pensions and anAD2 program at the Instituto Panamericano de Alta nuities business, and other businesses relating to Dirección de Empresas (IPADE) in 1975 and also the financial services and agriculture. Stanford Executive Program at Stanford University (1984). Mr Lomelín is a member of the Board of TrusMr Baillères became non-independent Non-executees of ITAM and an alternate director of Palacio de tive Chairman on 15 April 2008. Mr Baillères holds Hierro, Grupo Nacional Provincial, Valores Mexicanos numerous other board appointments, being the Casa de Bolsa and is also Chairman of the Board of Chairman of the Board of Directors of Grupo NaTrustees of the Chemistry School at the Universidad cional Provincial, Grupo Profuturo, Valores MexiNacional Autónoma de México (UNAM) as well as a canos Casa de Bolsa, Crédito Afianzador, Grupo member of the Fundación UNAM. Palacio de Hierro, and a member of the Board of Fomento Económico Mexicano (FEMSA), a leading Lord Cairns international beverage producer and distributor, SENIOR INDEPENDENT Grupo Televisa, Grupo Kuo/Dine and BBVA BancomNON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 71 years old er. Mr. Baillères is also currently President of Grupo Chairman, Remuneration Committee BAL and President of the Board of Trustees of AsoLord Cairns was appointed to the Board on 15 April ciación Mexicana de Cultura, A.C. and Instituto Tec2008. He previously served as Chairman of the nológico Autónomo de México (ITAM). In addition, Charities Aid Foundation and is a board member of Mr Baillères is a member of the Consejo Mexicano the Mo Ibrahim Foundation. He also has previously de Hombres de Negocios and also of Fundación served as Chairman of Zain Africa B.V. (formerly para las Letras Mexicanas, A.C. Celtel International BV), Actis LLP, CDC Group, Allied Zurich and BAT Industries after a career with SG Warburg where he had been Deputy Chairman and CEO. He graduated from Trinity College, Cambridge. 85 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Fernando Ruiz Rafael MacGregor NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 67 years old NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 50 years old Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees Chairman, HSECR Committee Mr Ruiz was appointed to the Board on 15 April Mr MacGregor was appointed to the Board on 11 2008. He is a former managing partner of Chevez, January 2008. He has been a corporate director in Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia., S.C., tax advisers and consultTécnica Administrativa BAL since 1999. He is a memants. He is a member of the Asociación Mexicana ber of both the Board of Directors and the Executive de Contadores Públicos. He is currently Chairman Committee of Industrias Peñoles, Grupo Nacional of the tax committee of the Consejo Mexicano de Provincial, Grupo Palacio de Hierro, Grupo Profuturo, S T RAT E GY Hombres de Negocios. Mr Ruiz holds numerous Valores Mexicanos Casa de Bolsa, Crédito Afianzaboard appointments, including Kimberly Clark de dor, Profuturo GNP Afore, Profuturo GNP Pensiones, México, Mexichem, Grupo Cementos de Chihuahua, Médica Integral, Bal-Ondeo and a member of the Grupo México, Empresas ICA and the Mexican Stock Board of Trustees of ITAM. Previous positions held Exchange. Mr Ruiz graduated from the UNAM with a by Mr MacGregor include CEO of Valores Mexicanos degree in public accounting. Casa de Bolsa (1994-1999); various positions, including corporate director, managing director and vice Javier Fernández president of mutual funds at Grupo Financiero InNON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 55 years old verlat (1985-1994), manager of investment strategies Nominations and HSECR Committees of Operadora de Bolsa, and investment assistant at Mr Fernández was appointed to the Board on 15 Casa de Bolsa Banamex (1982-1983). Since 1999, Mr PE R F O RM A N CE April 2008. He is Chairman of the Board of PrimeMacGregor has been a member of the Board of the ro Fianzas, a private surety company, since March Mexican Stock Exchange and is a former Vice Chair2007. He has been engaged as a consultant for man of Mercado Mexicano de Derivados (MexDer). public and private investment transactions and has Mr MacGregor holds a bachelor of science in busibeen an active wealth management advisor since ness administration from ITAM and attended the 2002. For the past 29 years Mr Fernández has held Stanford Executive Program at Stanford University. senior executive positions at leading Mexican companies, including 14 years of experience in financial Juan Bordes services. He joined Grupo BBVA Bancomer, Mexico’s NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 63 years old largest financial services company in 1991 as ExecMr Bordes was appointed to the Board on 11 January utive Vice President Strategic Planning and succes2008. Mr Bordes has been corporate director in Técsively served as Deputy President for Systems and nica Administrativa BAL since 1979. He was the CEO G O VE RN A N CE Operations and Chief Information Officer, Deputy of Artes Gráficas Unidas from 1984-1986 and CEO of President and Chief Financial Officer, and in 1999 Fábricas de Papel Loreto y Peña Pobre from 1986was named President. Mr Fernández is a member 1989. Since 1989, Mr Bordes has been a member of the Board of Directors of FEMSA, a leading Latin of both the Board of Directors and the Executive American beverage company; of Grupo AeroportuCommittee of Industrias Peñoles, Grupo Nacional ario del Pacífico, Mexico’s largest airport operator; Provincial, Grupo Palacio de Hierro, Grupo Profuturo, of VISA, Inc., the world’s largest electronic payment Valores Mexicanos Casa de Bolsa, Crédito Afianzanetwork and of ALFA a Mexican listed conglomerate dor, Profuturo GNP Afore, Profuturo GNP Pensiones, with interests in petrochemicals, telecommunicaMédica Integral, Bal-Ondeo, Albacor and a member tions, autoparts and processed foods. Mr Fernánof the Board of Trustees of ITAM. Mr Bordes holds dez has a degree in Mechanical and Electrical engia bachelor of science in chemical engineering from neering from the Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios UNAM and attended the Stanford Executive Program FIN AN CI AL S Superiores de Monterrey (ITESM) and an MBA from at Stanford University. He also attended the Business Harvard Business School. Management Course at the Instituto Panamericano de Alta Dirección de Empresas (IPADE). Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 86 board of directors continued Arturo Fernández Fernando Solana NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 57 years old NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 80 years old Mr Fernández was appointed to the Board on 15 Audit Committee April 2008. He is a member of both the Board of DiMr Solana was appointed to the Board on 18 Febrectors and the Executive Committee of Industrias ruary 2009. He is currently President of Solana Peñoles, Grupo Nacional Provincial, Grupo ProfuConsultores, Chairman of the Mexican Council on turo, El Palacio de Hierro, Valores Mexicanos Casa Foreign Relations and Chairman of the Mexican de Bolsa and Crédito Afianzador. Mr Fernández is Fund for Education and Development. He is also an also a member of the Board of Directors of Grupo associate consultant of Analítica Consultores AsoBimbo, Minera Penmont, Química del Rey and Tecciados as well as a member of the Boards of the nología del Agua (TECSA) and an alternate director Euroamerica Foundation in Madrid and the Institute of FEMSA and BBVA Bancomer. Mr Fernández has of the Americas at the University of California in San been the rector of ITAM, an independent not-forDiego. He is a member of the Advisory Board of the profit higher education institution, for 17 years. He Latin American Parliament. Previously, Mr Solana also previously served as the head of the tax policy served in the Mexican government as Minister of office at the Mexican Ministry of Finance and as Trade (1976-1977), Minister of Education (1977head of the economic deregulation office at the 1982) and Minister of Foreign Affairs (1988-1993), Mexican Ministry of Trade. Mr Fernández holds a and as a senator in the Parliament (1994-2000). Mr bachelor of economics from ITAM as well as a PhD Solana was President and CEO of Banco Nacional in economics from the University of Chicago. de México (1982-1988), and served as Chairman of the Mexican Banking Association (1986-1987). Mr Guy Wilson Solana studied civil engineering, philosophy, public NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 62 years old policy and administration at the National University Chairman, Audit Committee of Mexico. Guy Wilson joined the Board on 1 July 2008 following his retirement from Ernst & Young LLP. He joined Ernst & Young in 1967 and became a partner in 1979. Since 1972, he has specialised in corporate transactions covering IPOs, public fund raisings, acquisitions, disposals and defences against hostile bids. From 1989 to 1991, he was seconded to HM Treasury to assist with the privatisations of the UK water and electricity industries and Scottish electricity. From 2000, he primarily, but not exclusively, concentrated on transactions in the financial services sector. 87 executive management GRO U P O VE RVIE W Jaime Lomelín Chief Executive Officer, Mr Lomelín’s biographical details can be found on page 84 of this Annual Report. Mario Arreguín Chief Financial Officer, 54 years old Mr Arreguín joined Fresnillo plc from Industrias Peñoles, where he was Chief Financial Officer for S T RAT E GY 11 years and Group Treasurer for the six years prior. Before joining Peñoles, Mr Arreguín worked in investment banking at Valores Finamex and in Project Management at Dupont México. Mr Arreguín holds a bachelor of chemical engineering with honours and received his MBA from the University of Chicago. He also completed the Stanford Executive Program at Stanford University. Manuel Luévanos Chief Operating Officer, 66 years old PE R F O RM A N CE Mr Luévanos spent over 35 years at Industrias Peñoles, including Executive Vice President of Metals, Executive Vice President of Mining and a variety of senior management positions. Mr Luévanos holds a bachelor of chemical engineering from the University of Guanajuato and has a post-graduate degree in international business from ITAM; he also studied the Stanford Executive Program at Stanford University. David Giles Vice President, Exploration, 60 years old G O VE RN A N CE Mr Giles was previously employed by Peñoles where he worked for 30 years and had undertaken a number of senior management positions including Vice President of Exploration. Before joining Peñoles, he worked for AMAX, Corona Gold and Tormex. Mr Giles has a bachelor of applied science and engineering degree in geology from the University of Toronto, and holds an MBA from ITESM University in Mexico. He is an officer of the Society of Economic Geologists and the Mexican Association of Mining, Metallurgical and Geological Engineers. FIN AN CI AL S Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 88 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Overview “Like all of my board colleagues, I am firmly committed to ensuring that we collectively oversee Fresnillo plc transparently and in the interest of all shareholders. We are fully committed to the best possible practice in corporate governance, and take our adherence to the principles and provisions of the new UK Code on Corporate Governance very seriously. In particular, we recognise that the shareholding structure of Fresnillo plc requires us to ensure that the interests of all shareholders are well represented in the proceedings of the Board. In our reporting this year, we have sought to demonstrate the steps that we have put in place to achieve this.” Alberto Baillères, Chairman, Fresnillo plc The Governance Structure of Fresnillo plc Financial R ents epo s tm rti ng ve In c Responsibilities retained Re i eg at la Str te ar dP y & Oversight ty Activity Appr by the Board fresnillo plc board a teg Str ova l* Ke y e Po nc a lic rn ies o ve and E thics a te G Corpor Responsibilities delegated to ym n& m Monitoring Board Committees Directors Re ra n c e audit hsecr nominations remuneration Financia nning onitoring Board Retention committee committee committee committee ssu Pla la s sa HS lit Ap ur CR po in on i ne tio tr ol u isa E bi a ss s an tm ra ce on ac ain ent ce tion tiv Risk/C tivity Sust s Suc Incen Responsibilities delegated to ent Oper ati g em on a na al l and financ ex pe ona ndit ial ati executive ure Management committee m sk f ri to er en Op em Day n ag -to-day ma * Only Independent Directors 89 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Board Directors Committees Audit HSECR Nominations Remuneration Independent Non-Executive Directors Lord Cairns (Senior Independent Director) X (Ch) Javier Fernández x x Fernando Ruiz x x x Fernando Solana x Guy Wilson X (Ch) Non-executive Directors S T RAT E GY appointed by Peñoles Alberto Baillères (Chairman) X (Ch) x Juan Bordes Arturo Fernández Rafael MacGregor X (Ch) Executive Director Jaime Lomelín x Peñoles and Fresnillo The Relationship Agreement aims to ensure that the Fresnillo Group can carry on its business independently of the Peñoles Group, and that transactions and relationships with the Peñoles Group are at arm’s PE R F O RM A N CE length and on normal commercial terms. Since IPO the Board has refined the process by which transactions between Peñoles and the Company are approved and the approach taken to ensure that the Relationship Agreement is fully implemented. The key elements of this process are: Governance of Transactions with Peñoles PROCESS RESPONSIBILITY Contract Negotiation Fresnillo Management (Exco) G O VE RN A N CE Industry benchmark reports or independent Verification valuation/assessment Financial Scrutiny Audit Committee Review Independent Directors approve under the Board Approval Relationship Agreement FIN AN CI AL S Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 90 corporate governance report continued Corporate Governance Report Introduction As a company with a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange, Fresnillo is required under the FSA Listing Rules to comply with the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance (a copy of which may be found on the website of the Financial Reporting Council: www.frc.org.uk) or explain its reasons for noncompliance, in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010. The following statement is therefore made in compliance with such requirement, and the sections thereafter explain how the principles in the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance were applied A detailed report on Directors’ remuneration can be found on pages 100 to 105. Combined Code Compliance Statement The 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Code) establishes, in Section 1, seventeen main principles of good governance in four areas: Directors, Directors’ Remuneration, Accountability and Audit, and Relations with Shareholders. For the financial year ended 31 December 2010, the Company has complied with Section 1 of the Code, save in the following two respects: • Code Provision A.2.2: The Code states that the chairman should on appointment meet the independence criteria set out within the Code. The Chairman was not independent at the time of his appointment. Alberto Baillères has been a board member of Industrias Peñoles, S.A.B. de C.V. (Peñoles) since 1962 and its chairman since 1967. Peñoles retains a 77.1% holding in the Company. Mr Baillères has been responsible for overseeing the successful development of Fresnillo over the many years before Fresnillo was listed and, therefore, the Board considers that Mr Baillères’ continued involvement as Chairman is very important to the Company at the present stage of its development. Furthermore a transparent governance system has been established, primarily through the Relationship Agreement between Fresnillo and Peñoles, which ensures that the Company benefits from Mr Baillères leadership and experience whilst being able to demonstrate to other shareholders that the Fresnillo Group is capable of carrying on its business independently. In particular, the Relationship Agreement ensures that transactions and relationships between the Fresnillo Group and its major shareholder are at arm’s length and on normal commercial terms. • Code Provision B.2.1: The Code provides that the Board should establish a remuneration committee of at least three Independent Non-executive Directors. The composition of the Fresnillo Remuneration Committee is made up of three members including two Independent Non-executive Directors one of whom, Lord Cairns, is the Chairman of the Committee. The Chairman of the Company, Mr Baillères, who was not independent at the time of his appointment, is also a member. The Board believes that Mr Baillères’ experience and knowledge of the Group and the Mexican market and his considerable contribution to the Remuneration Committee’s deliberations justifies his membership of the Remuneration Committee. Mr Baillères is not involved in matters concerning his own remuneration. HOW THE BOARD MANAGES ITS BUSINESS Board Membership Throughout the year, the Board consisted of ten Directors the Non-executive Chairman, Alberto Baillères, the Chief Executive Officer, Jaime Lomelín, and eight Non-executive Directors. There were no changes to the Board during the year to 31 December 2010. The names and biographies of the current Directors of the Company are set out on pages 84-86. 91 GRO U P O VE RVIE W The Board Structure The structure and business of the Board is designed to ensure that the Board focuses on strategy, supervising governance, risk and control issues. Certain aspects of the Board’s responsibilities have been delegated to appropriate committees to ensure compliance with the UK Companies Act, FSA Listing Rules and the Code. The Board has delegated authority to the following committees to facilitate the routine business of the Company: • Audit Committee • Executive Committee S T RAT E GY • HSECR Committee • Nominations Committee • Remuneration Committee The terms of reference for each of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations Committees are available on the Company’s website (www.fresnilloplc.com). The Executive Committee is led by the Chief Executive and is responsible for the management of the Company’s businesses including the implementation of decisions agreed in principle by the Board and all executive management of the operations of the Group within the strategy and budget approved by the Board. PE R F O RM A N CE The Report of the Remuneration Committee (the Directors Remuneration Report) sets out the responsibilities and activities of the Remuneration Committee during the year. Board Process The Board meets at least four times a year and has an established programme of meetings. At these meetings the Board takes responsibility for the Group’s long-term objectives and commercial strategy and monitors the management of the Group’s activities. There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board’s decision which includes approvals of major expenditure and investments and key policies. All meetings of the Board are held in Mexico. February/March April July/August October Key Activity Full year results and report Strategy Interim results Business plan and budget G O VE RN A N CE A table of attendance of members of the Board and Board committees at meetings for the financial year ended 31 December 2010 is set out below: Audit Remuneration Nominations HSECR Board Committee Committee Committee Committee (4 meetings) (4 meetings) (2 meetings) (1 meeting) (1 meeting) Alberto Baillères 4/4 2/2 1/1 Jaime Lomelín 4/4 1/1 Lord Cairns 4/4 2/2 Fernando Ruiz 4/4 4/4 2/2 1/1 Javier Fernández 3/4 1/1 0/1 Rafael MacGregor 4/4 1/1 FIN AN CI AL S Juan Bordes 4/4 Arturo Fernández 4/4 Guy Wilson 4/4 4/4 Fernando Solana 4/4 4/4 Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 92 corporate governance report continued The Company Secretary is responsible for preparing a draft agenda for each Board meeting in conjunction with Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer. The Chairman approves the final version of the agenda. Members of the Executive Committee are responsible for preparing papers in respect of strategic planning, policies and investment proposals for each Board meeting. Papers are normally circulated five days before the Board meeting concerned. All proposals presented to the Board for its consideration under the Schedule of Reserved Matters are first considered and approved by the Executive Committee. In so doing, the Executive Committee aims to ensure that any such proposals take into consideration those factors set out in section 172, Companies Act 2006. Matters that purely require Executive Committee approval are reported to the Board. All Directors have received briefings from the Company’s advisers, including presentations to familiarise them with their duties and responsibilities as Directors of a UK listed company. The Chairman ensures that the induction and training processes for new Directors continues to be developed. The Company Secretary and Carlos Ortiz Mena, the Head of Legal, supported by the Group’s UK legal advisers ensure that the Board are fully briefed on all of their legal and regulatory responsibilities. Directors are encouraged to visit the Company’s mines to familiarise themselves with the Fresnillo Group’s operations and most of the Nonexecutive Directors have now visited at least one of the Group’s locations. The Directors may raise concerns at meetings of the Board and, if necessary, ask for such concerns to be recorded in the Board minutes. Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary (whose appointment and removal is a matter reserved to the Board). A procedure has been established to enable Directors to obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s expense in relevant circumstances. Performance Evaluation During the year an evaluation of performance of the individual Directors and the Board was carried out by way of anonymous questionnaires that were collated by the Company Secretary and then reviewed and discussed by the Board in October 2010. This questionnaire focussed on issues raised by the previous evaluation exercise conducted in 2009 (in respect to the consideration of strategy and risk) and the Company’s approach to adapting its corporate governance approach to reflect the implementation of the UK Corporate Governance Code. The Board continues to consider how it may devote more time to the discussion of strategic considerations and subsequent planning. In this regard it plans to change the normal format of Board meetings to facilitate this in 2011. The Board has also commissioned advisers to assist it to develop a framework for the identification and management of risk in line with the requirements of the new UK Corporate Governance Code. The Chairman meets with the Non-executive Directors informally from time to time without the executives present. The performance of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, being the sole Executive Director, is reviewed by the Remuneration Committee (in connection with his annual bonus). The Independent Nonexecutive Directors met to evaluate the performance of the Chairman in October 2010. Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance cover is in place and a review of the cover, particularly by reference to the mining peer group among the London-listed companies, was carried out in July 2009. The Board remain satisfied that an appropriate level of cover is in place and a review of cover will take place on an annual basis. 93 GRO U P O VE RVIE W NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT The Nominations Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees and succession planning for the Directors and other senior executives. Before making appointments of new Directors, the Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and identifying and nominating suitable candidates. The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are available for inspection on the Company’s website at www.fresnilloplc.com. The members of the Nominations Committee are Alberto Baillères (Chairman of the Committee), Javier S T RAT E GY Fernández and Fernando Ruiz. The majority of the members of the Nominations Committee are, therefore, Independent Non-executive Directors. The Nominations Committee met once during the year and considered the current membership of the Board and Board Committees. It reviewed the Group’s succession planning, the time commitment required from each director and undertook a brief self-evaluation exercise. The Nominations Committee has not retained any external consultants to assist it in its work. The Nominations Committee intends to review its Board appointments policy, taking into account the guidance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code on diversity issues, when it meets in the first half of 2011. PE R F O RM A N CE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit Committee has responsibility for monitoring the integrity of the Fresnillo Group’s financial statements. It oversees the Group’s relationship with the external auditors and reviews the effectiveness of the external audit process. It also monitors the activity of the Internal Audit Department and reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal controls and risk management systems. The members of the Audit Committee at 31 December 2010 were Guy Wilson (Chairman of the Committee), Fernando Ruiz and Fernando Solana. Guy Wilson was a partner at Ernst & Young prior to his retirement on 30 June 2008. He is therefore considered to have recent and relevant financial, auditing and accounting experience. The Audit Committee met four times in the year to deal with the following business: G O VE RN A N CE FIN AN CI AL S Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 94 corporate governance report continued Audit Committee Meeting Main Business of the Meeting February 2010 • Review of Financial Statements for 31 December 2010 • Going concern assessment • Review of the report of the external auditor • Reviews of risk matrix, internal audit findings, the system of internal control and compliance with mining licences • Meeting with the external auditor without management present July 2010 • Review of External Auditor Letter to Management • Review of Interim Results and External Auditor report • Update on risk and internal audit reviews (including internal audit findings) • Review of financial aspects of related party transactions prior to approval by the Board • Reviews of reserves data and the insurance programme October 2010 • External auditor terms of engagement and year-end audit plan • Review of non-audit fees incurred with Ernst & Young and other audit firms • Presentation on Board-level review of risk and embedding risk culture within operations • Internal audit findings report and internal audit plan for 2011 • Review of Audit Committee Charter December 2010 • Year-end Audit Progress Review and report from Ernst & Young on the October • Hard-close audit • Independence and objectivity of the external auditor • Review of internal audit findings • Update on the review of the system of internal controls • Meeting with internal audit without management present • Evaluation of internal audit • Review of the Whistleblowing Procedure • Review of financial aspects of related party transactions prior to approval by the Board • Audit Committee evaluation feedback The terms of reference of the Audit Committee were amended in February 2010 to extend its duties to include reviews of the financial and commercial arrangements of any transaction requiring the approval of the Independent Directors of the Company under the Relationship Agreement. The terms of reference of the Audit Committee may be found on the Company’s website (www.fresnilloplc.com). Financial Reporting The Audit Committee reviewed the 2010 interim financial results before recommending them to the Board for approval, likewise it has reviewed the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts and associated preliminary results announcement before recommending their approval by the Board. As part of these reviews, the Audit Committee reviewed the accounting policies, the clarity of disclosure, compliance with the Listing Rules and Disclosure & Transparency Rules of the London Stock Exchange and other legal and regulatory requirements and all material information presented in the interim financial results and the Financial Statements. External Auditor The Audit Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditors and reviewed the terms of engagement of Ernst & Young LLP, the external auditor and approved audit plans and timescales prior to the year-end audit. As part of its review of the financial statements prepared by the Company, the Audit Committee has reviewed the findings of the external auditor, reviewed management representation letters and considered recommendations made by the external auditor in the course of their work. During the year, the Audit Committee has noted an increasing level of collaboration between Ernst & Young LLP and the Company’s Internal Audit Department in order to improve the respective efficiency of the external and internal audit processes. 95 GRO U P O VE RVIE W The Audit Committee has reviewed, and is satisfied with, the independence of Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditor. The Audit Committee has a policy in place in respect of the provision of non-audit services to the Fresnillo Group by the external auditor. The engagement of the external auditor to provide statutory audit, assurance, taxation and certain advisory services is pre-approved. Any engagement of the external auditor to provide permitted services above US$150,000 is subject to the specific approval of the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee considers the re-appointment of the external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, prior to the Company’s annual general meeting, taking into account the results of the auditor assessment process, the S T RAT E GY quality of the work and communication by the external auditor and the level of audit fees. The Audit Committee considers that the rotation of the audit partner in line with ICAEW guidelines is appropriate. The Audit Committee also periodically considers the need to invite tenders for the external audit. Details of the fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP during the year are shown in note 29 to the Financial Statements. The effectiveness of the external auditor was reviewed prior to the Board proposing their re-appointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Internal Controls and Risk Management The Group has in place internal controls and risk management systems in relation to the Group’s financial reporting system process and the Group’s process for preparing consolidated accounts. These systems PE R F O RM A N CE include policies and procedures to ensure that adequate accounting records are maintained and transactions are recorded accurately and fairly to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS. The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control, which includes risk management, and reviewing its effectiveness. The system of internal control is designed to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks associated with the achievement of the Group’s objectives. Because of the limitations inherent in any system of internal control, the Company’s system is designed to meet its particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed. It is designed to manage risk rather than eliminate risk altogether. Consequently it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee its responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of these controls. The Audit Committee reviews the system of internal control on an annual basis. The day to-day G O VE RN A N CE responsibility for managing risk and the maintenance of the Group’s system of internal control is collectively assumed by the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee is supported in this task by the Internal Audit Department. The process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group has been established in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance and is described more fully on page 22. The Audit Committee reviews the Group’s major risks and uncertainties prior to publication of the interim and annual financial statements. Based on the risk categories set out in the risk matrix, the Audit Committee, through the Internal Audit Department, has sought letters of representation from the Executive Committee and the executive management on the Group’s system of internal control. There are a number of components to the system of internal controls within the Company detailed below FIN AN CI AL S and assurance concerning the system of internal controls focuses on these components: Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 96 corporate governance report continued Component of the System of Internal Control Basis for Assurance • The Group risk matrix • Updated twice a year by the Executive Committee and Internal Audit Department • A framework of transaction and entity level • Reviews undertaken by the Internal Audit Department controls to prevent and detect material error and loss • A documented structure of delegated authorities • Monitored and reviewed by the Internal Audit Department and approvals for transaction and investment decisions, including any with related parties • Operating policies and procedures • Annual written representations obtained from operational and functional management • A budget with periodic reporting • Review process performed by the Executive Committee • Controls and procedures set out in the Company’s • Monitored and reviewed by the Internal Audit Department Accounting Policies and Procedures Manual • A programme of internal audit reviews conducted • Reports prepared by the Internal Audit Department are by the Group’s Internal Audit Department discussed with management prior to finalisation and reviewed by the Audit Committee The Board has, through the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee, reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal controls taking account of the matters noted above. On the basis of this review, the Board considers that the measures that have been implemented to create an appropriate risk management framework are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances. The Board and the Audit Committee have received and approved plans presented by management setting out a number of improvements to the internal control environment to take account of the expansion of the Group’s activities in exploration and mine development. These initiatives are being included in the development of related embedded risk management and assurance processes. The Board is committed to the continued development of its internal control regime with a view to achieving and maintaining best practice levels of risk management and internal control for international mining companies listed on the London Stock Exchange. Internal Audit The Audit Committee has received presentations and updates from the Group Internal Audit Department throughout the year concerning their workplan for the year. A workplan for 2011-12 has also been presented and approved by the Audit Committee. Regular update reports on the internal audit reviews conducted by the Internal Audit Department are also received by the Audit Committee. Where necessary, the Audit Committee will seek assurance that any serious weaknesses have been addressed. During the year, the Audit Committee has been briefed on internal audits conducted during that period and it is satisfied that the actions agreed between management and Internal Audit are appropriate and have been implemented. Whistleblowing Arrangements The Fresnillo Group strives to fight corruption and promote ethical business behaviour among all of its stakeholders. The Board is in the process of reviewing the Group’s policies in light of evolving anti-corruption legislation, including a review of the Code of Conduct, to which every employee must reaffirm adherence each year. The Fresnillo Group shares this Code with shareholders, clients, suppliers and community leaders and hold everyone accountable for the processes in which they participate. The Fresnillo “Plays Fair” whistleblower hotline allows stakeholders to anonymously report violations to the Code of Conduct. The results are audited by an independent third party and classified in 25 different categories: high-risk conditions, violence, fraud, inappropriate use of confidential information, accounting irregularities, conflict of interest, client complaints, theft, unethical treatment of clients, unethical treatment of suppliers, discrimination, falsification of company records, improper use of assets, bribery and sexual harassment, among others. An Honour Commission, comprised of the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Of97 GRO U P O VE RVIE W ficer and Vice President of Operations adjudicates any complaints filed. Four reports were received on the hotline in 2010. The Honour Commission asked for corrective actions in two cases and the other two were declared “not applicable”. The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing these arrangements which it did at its meeting in December 2010 and it is satisfied with the adequacy of those arrangements. Transactions with Related Parties The Audit Committee reviews the financial and commercial aspects of any transaction proposed between S T RAT E GY the Fresnillo Group and the Peñoles Group prior to such matters being considered by the Independent Nonexecutive Directors under the terms of the Relationship Agreement or in compliance with Chapter 11 of the Listing Rules. During the year, the Audit Committee has considered the proposed charges in respect of the Met-Mex Arrangements for 2010 and the terms on which some minor exploration licences were transferred from Peñoles to Fresnillo during the year. The Audit Committee also reviews a schedule of the Company’s related party transactions once a year. HSECR COMMITTEE REPORT Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations (HSECR) System The Group develops, executes and monitors a broad range of policies and practices related to health, safety, sustainability and corporate social responsibility through its Health, Safety, Environment and Community PE R F O RM A N CE Relations System. At the Board level, the Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations (HSECR) Committee is responsible for formulating and recommending HSECR policies to the full Board, reviewing management’s investigation of incidents or accidents, and evaluating the results of the Group’s independent performance audits and action plans. The members of the HSECR Committee are Rafael MacGregor (Chairman of the Committee), Javier Fernández and Jaime Lomelín. The terms of reference of the HSECR Committee are available for inspection on the Company’s website at www.fresnilloplc.com. Full details of the performance of the Company in matters of corporate and social responsibility and the activG O VE RN A N CE ity of the HSECR Committee during the year are set out in the Sustainable Development Report on pages 56-69. HOW THE BOARD MANAGES ITS RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company has an office in London where the Head of Investor Relations is based. The Group has implemented a strong investor relations programme and aims to meet major shareholders and analysts at least twice a year to discuss the results of the Group and to respond to any queries the shareholders may have. The Head of Investor Relations in London maintains ongoing relations with analysts and major shareholders through telephone calls and meetings. The Company also uses a full programme of mining conferences to meet with current and prospective investors. Contact with investors in Mexico is maintained through the Investor Relations Office in Mexico City. The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Vice President of Exploration and the Chief Operating Officer participate in the major roadshows to meet with analysts and shareholders. The Head of Investor Relations, supported by the Chief Executive Officer, gives a report at each Board meeting on communications FIN AN CI AL S and shareholder activity. The Company’s third annual general meeting will be held on Wednesday 17 May 2011. The business of the Annual General Meeting will be conducted in accordance with the provisions D.2.1 and D.2.2 of the Code. The Chairman of the Board and the chairmen of each of the board committees will be available to answer questions put forward to them by shareholders of the Company. The Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of the Annual General Meeting will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 98 corporate governance report continued HOW THE BOARD MAINTAINS INDEPENDENCE Board Balance and Independence The composition of the Board and the roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive Director and the Senior Independent Director have been structured to ensure that no one individual can dominate the decision-making processes of the Board. The separate roles of Chairman and of the Chief Executive Officer are recognised and the requirements for these roles have been specified in writing and agreed by the Board. There have been no changes to these roles since they were agreed by the Board. Mr Baillères is also the Chairman of Peñoles and other companies within the BAL Group. As Senior Independent Director, Lord Cairns is available to shareholders if they have concerns that have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or Head of Investor Relations. Alberto Baillères, Rafael MacGregor, Juan Bordes and Arturo Fernández are each directors of Peñoles and have been appointed to the Board by Peñoles pursuant to the Relationship Agreement. Thus, the Chairman was not independent at the time of his appointment. However, Mr Baillères has been responsible for overseeing the successful development of the Fresnillo Group over many years and therefore the Board considers that his continued involvement as its non-executive chairman is very important to the Company. Furthermore, a transparent governance system has been established, primarily through the Relationship Agreement, which ensures that the Company benefits from Mr Baillères’ leadership and experience whilst being able to demonstrate to other shareholders that the Fresnillo Group is capable of carrying on its business independently. In particular, the Relationship Agreement ensures that transactions and relationships between the Fresnillo Group and its major shareholder are at arm’s length and on competitive commercial terms. Fernando Ruiz is a retired partner and consultant in the firm Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia., S.C., a firm providing professional services to the Company. Mr Ruiz is not involved in providing any services to the Company on behalf of Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia., S.C. (the value of those services is not material to either party). Guy Wilson retired as a partner of Ernst & Young LLP, the Company’s auditors on 30 June 2008. Mr Wilson was not involved in the provision of audit or any other services to the Company by Ernst & Young LLP prior to his retirement. The Board considers Lord Cairns, Fernando Ruiz, Fernando Solana, Javier Fernández and Guy Wilson to be independent. Relationship Agreement On 8 May 2008, Peñoles and the Company entered into a relationship agreement to regulate the ongoing relationship between the Company and Peñoles. The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Fresnillo Group is capable of carrying on its business independently of the Peñoles Group, and that transactions and relationships with the Peñoles Group are at arm’s length and on normal commercial terms. Peñoles has also undertaken not to exercise its voting rights to amend the Memorandum and Articles of Association in a way which would be inconsistent with the provisions of the agreement. It has also agreed to abstain from voting on any resolution to approve a “related party transaction” (as defined in paragraph 11.1.5 R of the Listing Rules) involving any member of the Peñoles Group. Since the IPO the Board has refined the process by which transactions between Peñoles and the Company are approved and the approach taken to ensure that the Relationship Agreement is fully implemented. The key elements of this process are: 99 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Governance of Transactions with Peñoles PROCESS RESPONSIBILITY Contract Negotiation Fresnillo Management (Exco) Industry benchmark reports or independent Verification valuation/assessment S T RAT E GY Financial Scrutiny Audit Committee Review Independent Directors approve under the Board Approval Relationship Agreement Conflicts of Interests The duty to avoid potential conflicts and to disclose such situations for authorisation by the Board are the PE R F O RM A N CE personal responsibility of each Director. Each Director ensures that they keep these duties under review and inform the Company Secretary on an ongoing basis of any change in their respective positions, such as new directorships taken on. Each Director has completed a Directors List which set out details of situations where each director’s interests may conflict with those of the Company (“situational conflicts”). The Directors Lists have been resubmitted by each Director as at 30 June 2010 and 31 December 2010 and the Board has considered and authorised new situational conflicts identified in these resubmitted lists. In addition, Directors are reminded at the beginning of each Board meeting to notify the Board of any further conflicts to the Board. Lord Cairns senior independent director on behalf of the board G O VE RN A N CE 28 February 2011 FIN AN CI AL S Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 100 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT This Report of the Remuneration Committee is the Directors’ Remuneration Report of the Company and has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (Regulations). The Report sets out information about the remuneration of the Directors and senior management of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2010. In accordance with the Regulations, the information provided in the section entitled “Directors’ Remuneration” and accompanying notes has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP. This report will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the Company’s forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the Group’s remuneration policy for senior management (Chief Executive Officer and other members of the Executive Committee), and for determining specific remuneration packages for senior management, including pension rights and any compensation packages, as well as remuneration of the Chairman within agreed terms of reference. The Remuneration Committee consisted of the following Directors in the year ended 31 December 2010: • Lord Cairns (chairman), Independent Non-executive Director • Mr Fernando Ruiz, Independent Non-executive Director • Mr Alberto Baillères, Chairman of the Board, non-independent at the time of his appointment The Board believes that Mr Baillères’ experience and knowledge of the Group and the Mexican market and his considerable contribution to the Remuneration Committee’s deliberations justifies his membership of the Remuneration Committee. Terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee have been approved by the Board and are available for inspection on the Company’s website at www.fresnilloplc.com. The Remuneration Committee met twice during the year. The Chief Executive Officer usually attends meetings of the Remuneration Committee at the invitation of its chairman and the Company Secretary acts as secretary to this committee. No Director is present when his own remuneration is being discussed. In October 2010, the Remuneration Committee undertook an evaluation of its performance. Remuneration Policy The Group’s remuneration policy seeks to ensure that the Company is able to attract, retain, and motivate its executives and senior management. The retention of key management and the alignment of management incentives with the creation of shareholder value are key objectives of this policy. In setting the basic levels of pay for senior executives, the Remuneration Committee seeks to ensure that salaries are market competitive both within the Mexican context and in the international context for gold and silver producers. Total compensation is set around the median level. Salaries are benchmarked annually and total remuneration is benchmarked biennially. Pensions and other benefits are also set at levels that are market competitive. 101 GRO U P O VE RVIE W The variable component of remuneration is embodied within the short-term incentive plan which is available to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Operating Officer and the Vice President of Exploration as well as other corporate managers. The achievement of annual performance targets is rewarded through an annual performance related bonus. The performance targets upon which bonuses are based include a mix of financial and operational performance measures. In 2008, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the remuneration policy and recommended that the upper limit for short-term, cash-based remuneration incentives should be increased from a maximum of four months’ salary to a maximum of six months’ salary in future years. The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the impact of this change in policy and is satisfied that it has helped to improve performance by senior management. It is the Company’s policy not to use its equity to incentivise long-term performance. S T RAT E GY Advisers and Benchmarking Benchmarking information on pay and employment conditions is supplied annually to the Company by Mercer, Hay Group and Data Compensation. The information provided is used across the Group in determining salaries for all employee grades including senior management. This approach seeks to maintain consistency between Group executive and staff pay structures, and ensure that a competitive remuneration structure, compared to the Company’s peer group within Mexico, is preserved. PE R F O RM A N CE Before agreeing the salaries for the senior executives in April 2010, the Remuneration Committee received a presentation from Mercer concerning approaches to executive remuneration in comparable countries where gold and/or silver is mined, in order to validate the Company’s policy towards short-term and longterm remuneration and in order to ensure that it was globally as well as locally competitive. In Mexico, short-term, cash-based incentivisation is considered more appropriate in helping attract, retain and motivate quality senior management, thus supporting the Company’s policy not to use its equity to incentivise long-term performance. Chairman and Non-executive Directors The remuneration of the Chairman of the Company and the Non-executive Directors consists of fees that are paid quarterly in arrears. The Chairman and Non-executive Directors do not participate in any long-term incentive or annual bonus schemes, nor do they accrue any pension entitlement. Neither the Chairman nor G O VE RN A N CE any of the Non-executive Directors has a service contract with the Company; however each has entered into a letter of appointment with the Company. Long-Term Incentives Fresnillo does not offer any share or cash-based long-term incentives to management. FIN AN CI AL S Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 102 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued Short-Term Incentive Plan A cash-based short-term incentive plan is in place for the members of the Executive Committee, including the Chief Executive Officer. The Remuneration Committee approved a number of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for each member of the Executive Committee, and KPI targets were set at which payments equivalent to 0% to 50% of annual salary could be earned. A scoring system is used whereby each objective set for the executive at the beginning of the year is allocated a points-rating which represents a median performance target for that objective. Upper and lower point thresholds are set to allow for outstanding performance and ensure that underperformance is not rewarded. For each member of the Executive Committee (including the Chief Executive Officer), a bonus is only payable if the aggregate performance equals or exceeds 100 points. Bonus payments are paid for aggregate performance against target at or above 100 points as follows: Variable Pay Variable Pay Points (Month’s Salary) (% Annual Salary) 100-104 2 months 16.67% 105-109 4 months 33.33% 110-114 5 months 41.67% 115+ 6 months 50.00% The Chief Executive Officer achieved in excess of 115 points for the year to 31 December 2010. The objectives, as applied to the Chief Executive Officer’s short-term incentive payment, measures associated with each objective, and the relative weighting between objectives, are detailed below: OBJECTIVE MEASURE WEIGHTING Teamwork no measure 10.0 Stakeholder various 13.5 Financial net profit adjusted* 18.0 Exploration % increase in reserves/resources 31.5 Production equivalent ounces produced 27.0 * Adjusted to eliminate currency fluctuation, the effect of year-on-year changes in metals prices and to exclude any revaluation of the Silverstream Contract Service agreements The Chief Executive Officer, Jaime Lomelín, is employed under a contract of employment with Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo S.A. de C.V., a subsidiary of Fresnillo plc. Mr Lomelín’s contract was entered into on 9 May 2008 and is governed by Mexican Federal Labour Law. It does not have a fixed term. This means that it may be terminated in writing by either party on notice in writing and there is no entitlement to additional compensation for termination other than compensation payments required for termination without cause under Mexican labour laws. No benefits are payable under the service agreement upon termination of employment. The salary payable under Mr Lomelín’s service agreement is MXN$1,102,000 per month. In addition, he received other payments for holidays, company-paid savings contributions and other benefits. In 2010, his total salary payments were MXN$17,094,433; US$1,352,761 (2009: MXN$16,417,772; US$1,215,776). Under his service agreement, Mr Lomelín is entitled to 26 working days’ paid holiday per year. 103 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Benefits-in-kind Mr Lomelín is not entitled to profit-sharing. He is entitled to life insurance, the use of a company car, the payment of medical expenses and medical benefits. He is also entitled to membership of the defined benefit pension plan in respect of service before 30 June 2007. Pensions The Group operates two pension schemes: (i) a defined benefit scheme which was closed to new members on 1 July 2007 with benefits frozen at this date for existing members, subject to indexation with reference to S T RAT E GY the Mexican National Consumer Price Index; and (ii) a defined contribution scheme (which was introduced on 1 July 2007). Membership of the latter scheme is voluntary, contributions of between 5% and 8% are made to this plan by its members and contributions are matched by the Company. Mr Lomelín is a deferred member of the defined benefit scheme but did not join the defined contribution scheme when it was introduced in 2007. Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment PE R F O RM A N CE Each of the Non-executive Directors signed a letter of appointment with the Company, for an initial period of three years. The fees payable to each Non-executive Director are set by the Board in accordance with its Schedule of Reserved Matters, and have been set at a level to reflect the time commitment and level of involvement they are required to make in the activities of the Board and its committees. Unless otherwise determined, the Director concerned may give not less than three months’ notice of termination of the appointment. There are no special provisions that have been agreed with the Non-executive Directors or the Executive Director with regard to compensation for loss of office. The key terms of the Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment are as follows: Date of Notice Duration Unexpired Fees Director appointment period of term term* per annum Alberto Baillères 15 April 2008 3 months 3 years 45 days £30,000 G O VE RN A N CE Lord Cairns 15 April 2008 3 months 3 years 45 days £90,000 Juan Bordes 15 April 2008 3 months 3 years 45 days £30,000 Javier Fernández 15 April 2008 3 months 3 years 45 days £30,000 Arturo Fernández 15 April 2008 3 months 3 years 45 days £30,000 Rafael MacGregor 15 April 2008 3 months 3 years 45 days £30,000 Fernando Ruiz 15 April 2008 3 months 3 years 45 days £30,000 Guy Wilson 1 July 2008 3 months 3 years 4 months £90,000 Fernando Solana 18 February 2009 3 months 3 years 11 months, 18 days £30,000 *As at 1 March 2011. Copies of the Directors’ letters of appointment and service agreements are available for inspection at the FIN AN CI AL S Company’s registered office. External appointments It is the Board’s policy to allow the Executive Directors to accept directorships of other quoted and nonquoted companies provided that they have obtained the consent of the Chairman of the Company. Any such directorships must be formally notified to the Board. None of the Executive Directors holds any appointments to the board of any other FTSE100 quoted company. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 104 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued Performance Review As required by the Regulations, the following graph sets out the performance of the Company’s share price since its listing compared to the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 Indices. These are deemed to be the most appropriate indices for comparative purposes. total shareholder return from 14 april 2008 (date of ipo) to 31 december 2010 for fresnillo plc (ordinary shares) compared with the ftse 100 and ftse 250 indices, rebased to 100 350 fresnillo plc 300 250 ftse 100 200 150 ftse 250 100 50 0 14 Apr 2008 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 Information subject to audit Directors’ remuneration 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2010 Salary, Annual Bonus and other benefits US$’000 Salary/ Fees Benefits-in-Kind** Annual Bonus Total 2010 Total 2009 Chairman Alberto Baillères 46 0 0 46 47 Executive Directors Jaime Lomelín 1,352 79 480 1,911 1,704 Non-executive Directors Lord Cairns 138 0 0 138 141 Juan Bordes 46 0 0 46 47 Javier Fernández 46 0 0 46 47 Arturo Fernández 46 0 0 46 47 Rafael MacGregor 46 0 0 46 47 Hector Rangel* 0 0 0 0 4 Fernando Ruiz 46 0 0 46 47 Fernando Solana 46 0 0 46 41 Guy Wilson 138 0 0 138 141 Total 1,950 79 480 2,509 2,313 * Hector Rangel resigned as a Director on 30 January 2009. ** Refer to page 103 for the nature of the “Benefits-in-Kind” 105 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Pension entitlement The pension entitlement of the Chief Executive Officer, being the only Executive Director, was as follows: increase, before transfer increase inflation, value of in accrued in accrued increase before accumulated benefits during benefits during inflation, less US$‘000 accrued benefits the year the year directors contributions At 31 Dec At 31 Dec S T RAT E GY 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Jaime Lomelín 7,856 7,206 650 (188) 290 (188) 0 0 Note: At 31 December 2009 and 2010, the accrued value of Mr Lomelín’s pension fund equated to the transfer value. Mr Lomelín is no longer accruing service in the pension scheme. The increase in the accumulated accrued benefits is principally due to inflation and foreign exchange differences. This Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc. Signed on behalf of the Board. PE R F O RM A N CE Lord Cairns Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 February 2011 G O VE RN A N CE FIN AN CI AL S Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 106 Directors’ Report The Directors have the pleasure in presenting their Annual Report and the audited Financial Statements for the year ending 31 December 2010. Principal Activities The Fresnillo Group is a leading precious metals group with significant experience and expertise in all aspects of mining, from exploration through to mine construction and operation. It is the world’s largest primary silver producer and Mexico’s second largest gold producer. Results and Dividends Results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 114. An interim dividend of 9.20 US cents per share was paid on 14 September 2010 to shareholders on the register on 20 August 2010. The Directors have recommended a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 35.6 US cents per Ordinary Share, which will be paid on 20 May 2011 to shareholders on the register on 3 May 2011. The dividend will be paid in UK pounds sterling unless shareholders elect to be paid in US dollars. Business Review A detailed Business Review for the Group as required by section 417, Companies Act 2006 can be found on pages 6-81, inclusive, of this Annual Report. The Business Review comments, among other things, on the operation and development of the business and its future prospects along with details of the strategy, business model, key performance indicators and the description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group. This Business Review and other sections of this Annual Report contain forward looking statements. The extent to which the Company’s shareholders or anyone else may rely on these forward looking statements is set out inside the back cover of this Annual Report. Corporate Governance The Company is required to comply with the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance or explain its reasons for non-compliance. A report on corporate governance and compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code is set out on pages 88-99. Directors The names and biographies of the current Directors of the Company are set out on pages 84-86. In accordance with the Articles of Association, Directors may be appointed by the Company either by the Board or by ordinary resolution of shareholders. If appointed by the Board, then a Director holds office until the next annual general meeting. If appointed by the annual general meeting, Directors shall retire at the annual general meeting held in the third year following the year in which they were elected or last re-elected by the Company’s shareholders. Notwithstanding this, however, in accordance with Code Provision B.7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Company intends that all Directors will stand for re-election on an annual basis commencing at the 2011 AGM. Remuneration of Directors Details of Directors’ remuneration can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 100-105. 107 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Directors’ Indemnities and Insurance The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with each Director in respect of proceedings brought by third parties and pension scheme liabilities subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act 2006. The Company has purchased Directors’ & Officers’ Liability insurance. All of these arrangements remain in place at the date of this report. Significant Relationships and Agreements Section 417(5) of the Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to disclose information on contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Company. S T RAT E GY These ‘significant relationships’ are described in the Strategic Resources section of the Business Review on pages 20-21. Details of the agreement between Peñoles and the Company (the Relationship Agreement) can be found on page 98 in the Corporate Governance Report. Change of Control – Significant Agreements As required by Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the following represents the likely effect on significant agreements with the Company were it to be subject to a change of control: • The Penmont (Herradura) and MAG Silver (Juanicipio) agreements each contain provisions ensuring that PE R F O RM A N CE the respective interests of the shareholders in these respective companies may be transferred in accordance with their respective bye-laws subject to preferential rights of existing shareholders. • The New Services Agreement contains a discretionary provision for Servicios Administrativos Peñoles, S.A. de C.V to terminate the agreement should they so wish if there was a change of control of Fresnillo plc. • There are no formal “change of control” provisions within the Silverstream Contract or Met-Mex Arrangements. • The Group’s mining concessions are held by several of its Mexican subsidiary companies. As long as the companies holding the mining concessions remain Mexican resident companies, there are no provisions within the concession agreements which would be triggered by a change of control of the Company. The Company does not have any agreements with any Non-executive Director, Executive Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover. Articles of Association G O VE RN A N CE Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company may be made by Special Resolution of the shareholders. Share Capital – Structure, Rights and Restrictions Details of the Company’s share capital are set out in note 20 to the Financial Statements on page 144. The Company has two classes of share capital 717,160,159 ordinary shares of US $0.50 (Ordinary Shares) and 50,000 deferred shares of £1.00 each (Sterling Deferred Shares). The Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Mexican Stock Exchange. The rights and obligations attaching to these shares are governed by UK law and the Company’s Articles of Association. FIN AN CI AL S Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company. On a show of hands every shareholder present in person or by proxy (or being a corporation present by a duly authorised representative) shall have one vote, and on a poll every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder. The Notice of Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 108 DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary Shares other than as set out in the Articles of Association and: • certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations (for example, insider trading laws); and • pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain Directors, officers and employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Ordinary Shares. No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights as to the control of the Company. There are no limitations on the holding of securities. There are no restrictions on voting rights or any arrangements by which, with the Company’s co-operation, financial rights carried by securities are held by a person other than the holder of the securities. There are no agreements between holders of securities that are known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of voting rights. The Sterling Deferred Shares only entitle the shareholder to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to Ordinary Shareholders on winding up or on a return of capital. The Sterling Deferred Shares do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company. The Company may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Shares at a price of £1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Shares or require the holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Shares. Except at the option of the Company, the Sterling Deferred Shares are not transferrable. Authority to Purchase Own Shares The Company was authorised by a shareholders resolution passed at the annual general meeting held in May 2010 to purchase up to 10% of its issued Ordinary Share capital. Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Company’s issued and authorised share capital. This authority will expire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and a resolution to renew the authority for a further year will be proposed. No shares were purchased by the Company during the year. Directors’ Interests The number of Ordinary Shares of the Company in which the Directors were beneficially interested at 1 January 2010 and at 31 December 2010 was: 1 January 2010 31 December 2010 Alberto Baillères See below* See below* Lord Cairns 15,000 15,000 Fernando Ruiz 30,000 Javier Fernández Guy Wilson 15,000 15,000 Juan Bordes 15,000 15,000 Arturo Fernández Rafael MacGregor Fernando Solana Jaime Lomelín * Alberto Baillères holds an indirect interest in the Company. Mr Baillères and companies controlled by Mr Baillères hold, in aggregate 61.3 per cent of the issued share capital (and voting rights) of Peñoles. Peñoles holds 552,595,191 ordinary shares (77.1 per cent of the issued share capital) in the Company. No Director had any dealings in the shares of the Company between 31 December 2010 and 28 February 2011. 109 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Major Interests in shares As at 28 February 2011, the Company had been advised, in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority, of the following notifiable interests (whether directly or indirectly held) in its voting rights: Notification received from: Number of voting rights % Peñoles 552,571,902 77.05 BlackRock, Inc* 57,226,182 7.97 *includes interests held by BlackRock Global Funds. S T RAT E GY Employees Information relating to employees is given in note 8 to the Financial Statements on page 134 and in the Sustainable Development Report on pages 58-59. Creditor Payment Policy At 31 December 2010 the Company had no trade creditors (2009: nil). It is the Company’s policy to agree terms of trading, including payment terms, with all suppliers. Provided suppliers perform in accordance with the agreed terms, payment will be made in accordance with the terms. Market Value of Land and Buildings PE R F O RM A N CE Land is carried in the balance sheet at deemed cost. It is not practical to estimate the market value of land and buildings at each balance sheet date. However, the Directors are confident that there is no material difference between the carrying value and the market value of land and buildings. Political and Charitable Donations No donations were made to political organisations during the year (including in Mexico). The Group made charitable donations of US$0.5 million (2009: US$0.6 million) during the year. Further information concerning the community initiatives within the Fresnillo Group are included within the Sustainable Development Report set out on pages 66-69. Financial Risk Management G O VE RN A N CE The Company’s objectives and policies on financial risk management including information on the Company’s exposures to foreign currency, credit, commodity price, liquidity and interest rate risks can be found in note 32 to the Financial Statements. Directors Responsibilities Information about the Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements is provided on page 111. Going Concern The Company’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 6-69. The financial position of the Company FIN AN CI AL S is specifically described in the Financial Review on pages 70-81. After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. In making this assessment they have considered the Company and Group budget, the cashflow forecasts for the period to December 2012 including exploration and capital expenditure plans and sensitivities around those plans. They have also considered the sensitivities of the cashflow forecasts to movements in metal prices and exchange rates. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 110 DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued The Company has considerable financial resources, negligible liquidity risk and is operating within a sector that is experiencing increasing global demand for its products. The Directors therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements. Audit Information Each of the Directors at the date of the approval of this report confirms that: • so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and • he has taken all the reasonable steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of the information. The confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. Auditors The Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution seeking to reappoint them will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting. Annual General Meeting The Company’s Annual General Meeting will be held at Linklaters, One Silk Street, London, EC2Y 8HQ on 17 May 2011 at 12 noon. Details of the meeting venue and the resolutions to be proposed are set out in a separate Notice of Meeting which accompanies the Annual Report. For and on behalf of the Board Prism Cosec Limited Company Secretary 28 February 2011 Fresnillo plc Registered Office: 28 Grosvenor Street London W1K 4QR United Kingdom Company No: 6344120 111 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities GRO U P O VE RVIE W in relation to Group and Parent Company Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted by the European Union. The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which present a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company and of the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Company and of the Group for that period. In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: S T RAT E GY • select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: “Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors” and then apply them consistently; • present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; • provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Company and of the Group’s financial position and financial performance; • state that the Company and the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and • prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, having assessed the ability of the Company and PE R F O RM A N CE the Group to continue as a going concern, management either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Acts 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. Under applicable UK law and regulations, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Report that comply with that law and regulations. G O VE RN A N CE In addition, the Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Responsibility Statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts I confirm on behalf of the Board that to the best of my knowledge: a) the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of the Company and the Group taken as a whole; and b) the management report (entitled “Business Review”) includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business, and the principal risks and uncertainties that they face. FIN AN CI AL S For and on behalf of the Board Jaime Lomelín Chief Executive Officer 28 February 2011 Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 112 financials IN THIS SECTION Independent Auditor’s Report 113 Consolidated Financial Statements 114 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 119 Parent Company Financial Statements 160 Notes to the Parent Company Accounts 164 113 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT GRO U P O VE RVIE W to the members of Fresnillo plc We have audited the group financial statements of Fresnillo plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 32. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we S T RAT E GY have formed. Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 111, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment PE R F O RM A N CE of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the group financial statements: • Give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended; • Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and • Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. Opinions on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements. G O VE RN A N C E Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: • Certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or • We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: • The directors’ statement, set out on page 111, in relation to going concern; and • The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review; and • Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration. Other matter FIN AN C IAL S We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Fresnillo plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. Nick Gomer (Senior statutory auditor) for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 28 February 2011 Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 114 Fresnillo plc Consolidated Income Statement Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December (US$ thousands) Notes 2010 2009 Pre-Silverstream Silverstream Pre-Silverstream Silverstream revaluation revaluation revaluation revaluation effect effect Total effect effect Total Continuing operations: Revenues 4 1,409,554 1,409,554 849,944 849,944 Cost of sales 5 (435,076) (435,076) (321,629) (321,629) Gross profit 974,478 974,478 528,315 528,315 Administrative expenses 6 (52,594) (52,594) (49,867) (49,867) Exploration expenses 7 (82,113) (82,113) (49,063) (49,063) Other income 9 4,983 4,983 3,873 3,873 Other expenses 9 (11,299) (11,299) (4,502) (4,502) Profit from continuing operations before net finance costs and income tax 833,455 833,455 428,756 428,756 Finance income 10 3,887 3,887 1,664 1,664 Finance costs 10 (3,483) (3,483) (1,901) (1,901) Revaluation effects of Silverstream contract 15 191,840 191,840 19,401 19,401 Foreign exchange (loss)/gain (3,332) (3,332) 9,498 9,498 Profit from continuing operations before income tax 830,527 191,840 1,022,367 438,017 19,401 457,418 Income tax expense 11 (215,417) (57,552) (272,969) (93,719) (5,432) (99,151) Profit for the year from continuing operations 615,110 134,288 749,398 344,298 13,969 358,267 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the Company 530,838 134,288 665,126 308,042 13,969 322,011 Non-controlling interest 84,272 84,272 36,256 36,256 615,110 134,288 749,398 344,298 13,969 358,267 Earnings per share: (US$) Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations 12 0.927 0.449 Adjusted earnings per share: (US$) Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations 12 0.740 0.430 115 Fresnillo plc Consolidated GRO U P O VE RVIE W Statement of Comprehensive Income Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Profit for the year 749,398 358,267 Net (gain)/loss on cash flow hedges recycled to income statement (2,102) 34,038 Tax effect of cash flow hedges recycled to income statement 631 (9,531) Net unrealised gain on cash flow hedges 3,927 3,918 Tax effect of unrealised gain on cash flow hedges (1,179) (1,122) S T RAT E GY Net effect of cash flow hedges 1,277 27,303 Fair value gain on available-for-sale financial assets 73,342 22,880 Tax effect of fair value gain on available-for-sale financial assets (20,536) (6,407) Net effect of available-for-sale financial assets 52,806 16,473 Foreign currency translation 540 292 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 54,623 44,068 Total comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 804,021 402,335 PE R F O RM A N CE Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the Company 719,749 366,079 Non-controlling interest 84,272 36,256 804,021 402,335 G O VE RN A N C E FIN AN C IAL S Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 116 Fresnillo plc Consolidated Balance Sheet As at 31 December Notes 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 13 895,783 688,718 Available-for-sale financial assets 14 141,777 68,435 Silverstream contract 15 351,530 256,059 Deferred tax asset 11 14,226 9,363 Other receivables 17 11,687 Other assets 2,503 504 1,417,506 1,023,079 Current assets Inventories 16 63,092 33,783 Trade and other receivables 17 224,984 108,242 Prepayments 18 2,532 1,912 Derivative financial instruments 31 4,056 1,373 Silverstream contract 15 76,151 42,600 Income tax refunds due 20,167 Cash and cash equivalents 19 559,537 312,192 930,352 520,269 Total assets 2,347,858 1,543,348 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital and reserves attributable to shareholders of the Company Share capital 20 358,680 358,680 Share premium 20 818,597 818,597 Capital reserve 20 (526,910) (526,910) Net unrealised gains on cash flow hedges 20 2,172 895 Net unrealised gains on available-for-sale financial assets 20 65,072 12,266 Foreign currency translation reserve 20 (555) (1,095) Retained earnings 20 996,658 513,691 1,713,714 1,176,124 Non-controlling interest 205,554 126,979 Total equity 1,919,268 1,303,103 Non-current liabilities Provision for mine closure cost 22 39,682 35,513 Provision for pensions and other post-employment benefit plans 23 6,420 5,811 Other liabilities 4,811 Deferred tax liability 11 217,448 119,944 263,550 166,079 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 24 70,789 48,286 Derivative financial instruments 31 152 95 Income tax 54,480 Employee profit sharing 39,619 25,785 165,040 74,166 Total liabilities 428,590 240,245 Total equity and liabilities 2,347,858 1,543,348 These financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 28 February 2011 and signed on its behalf by: Jaime Lomelín Chief Executive Officer 28 February 2011 117 Fresnillo plc Consolidated GRO U P O VE RVIE W Cash Flow Statement Year ended 31 December Notes 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Net cash from operating activities 30 700,699 390,712 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment (340,297) (261,200) Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets (25) Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment and other assets 72 1,044 S T RAT E GY Proceeds from mines under development 25,563 10,753 Loans granted to contractors 17 (14,504) Repayments of loans granted to contractors 1,363 Silverstream contract 15 55,623 39,010 Interest received 2,859 1,665 Other proceeds 7,231 3,526 Net cash used in investing activities (262,090) (205,227) Cash flows from financing activities Capital contribution 2,807 891 Dividends paid to shareholders of the Company (182,590) (93,623) Dividends paid to non-controlling interest (8,504) PE R F O RM A N CE Interest paid (251) (105) Net cash used in financing activities (188,538) (92,837) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents during the year 250,071 92,648 Effect of exchange rate on cash and cash equivalents (2,726) 7,559 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 312,192 211,985 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 19 559,537 312,192 G O VE RN A N C E FIN AN C IAL S Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 118 Fresnillo plc Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Attributable to equity holders of the Company Unrealised Net unrealised gains/ gains/ (losses) on (losses) on available Foreign revaluation of -for-sale currency NonShare Share Capital cash flow financial translation Retained controlling Total Notes capital premium reserve hedges assets reserve earnings Total interest equity (US$ thousands) Balance at 1 January 2009 358,680 818,597 (526,910) (26,408) (4,207) (1,387) 285,195 903,560 89,832 993,392 Profit for the year – – – – – – 322,011 322,011 36,256 358,267 Other comprehensive income, net of tax – – – 27,303 16,473 292 – 44,068 44,068 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 27,303 16,473 292 322,011 366,079 36,256 402,335 Capital contribution – – – – – – – – 891 891 Dividends paid 21 – – – – – – (93,515) (93,515) – (93,515) Balance at 31 December 2009 358,680 818,597 (526,910) 895 12,266 (1,095) 513,691 1,176,124 126,979 1,303,103 Balance at 1 January 2010 358,680 818,597 (526,910) 895 12,266 (1,095) 513,691 1,176,124 126,979 1,303,103 Profit for the year – – – – – – 665,126 665,126 84,272 749,398 Other comprehensive income, net of tax – – – 1,277 52,806 540 – 54,623 – 54,623 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 1,277 52,806 540 665,126 719,749 84,272 804,021 Capital contribution – – – – – – – – 2,807 2,807 Dividends paid 21 – – – – – – (182,159) (182,159) (8,504) (190,663) Balance at 31 December 2010 358,680 818,597 (526,910) 2,172 65,072 (555) 996,658 1,713,714 205,554 1,919,268 119 Fresnillo plc Notes to the Consolidated GRO U P O VE RVIE W Financial Statements 1 Corporate Information Fresnillo plc (“the Company”) is a public limited company registered in England and Wales and is the holding company for the Fresnillo subsidiaries detailed below (“the Group”). Industrias Peñoles S.A.B. de C.V.(“Peñoles”) currently owns 77 percent of the shares of the Company and the ultimate controlling party of the Company is the Baillères family, whose beneficial interest is held through Peñoles. Copies of Peñoles’ accounts can be obtained from www.penoles.com.mx. The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2010, were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc on 28 February 2011. S T RAT E GY The Group’s principal business is the mining and beneficiation of non-ferrous minerals, and the sale of related production. The primary contents of this production are silver, gold, lead and zinc. The Group has four fully developed operating mines: Fresnillo, Herradura, Ciénega, and Soledad-Dipolos, the latter starting production in January 2010. The principal activities of the entities included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows: Country of Equity Company Principal activity incorporation interest % Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. Production of lead/silver and zinc concentrates Mexico 100 100 Minera Penmont, S. de R.L. de C.V. Production of doré bars (gold/silver) Mexico 56 56 PE R F O RM A N CE Minera Mexicana La Ciénega, S.A. de C.V. Production of lead and zinc concentrates and silver precipitates Mexico 100 100 Minera Saucito, S.A. de C.V. Mining project Mexico 100 100 Minera Juanicipio, S.A. de C.V. Mining project Mexico 56 56 Comercializadora de Metales Holds rights over silver production from Peñoles’ Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. polymetallic Sabinas mine Mexico 100 100 Exploraciones Mineras Parreña, S.A. de C.V. Exploration services Mexico 100 100 Minera El Bermejal, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mining equipment leasing Mexico 56 56 Compañía Minera Las Torres, S.A. de C.V. Closed mines(*) Mexico 100 100 Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S. A de C.V. Administrative services Mexico 100 100 Fresnillo Management Services, Ltd Administrative services UK 100 100 Fresbal Investments, Ltd Holding company for mining Investments Canada 100 100 Fresnillo Perú, S.A.C. Exploration services Peru 100 100 (*) Certain of the mines of Compañía Minera Las Torres, S.A de C.V. are currently operated on a small scale by a third party under a leasing agreement. G O VE RN A N C E 2 Significant Accounting Policies (a) Basis of preparation and consolidation, and statement of compliance The Group’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. The consolidated financial statements are also consistent with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments, available-for-sale financial instruments and defined benefit pension scheme assets which have been measured at fair value. The consolidated financial statements are presented in dollars of the United States of America (US dollars or US$) and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand ($000) except when otherwise indicated. FIN AN C IAL S The Group now uses a columnar approach to separately present the Silverstream revaluation effect, including related tax, in the income statement as in the Directors’ judgment this needs to be disclosed separately in this manner by virtue of its size and volatility, in order for users of the financial statements to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information and the underlying performance of the business. Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements set out the Group’s financial position as of 31 December 2010 and 2009, and the results of operations and cash flows for the years then ended. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 120 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Entities that constitute the Group are those enterprises controlled by the Group regardless of the number of shares owned by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. Entities are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group. The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The consolidated financial statements of the entities that constitute the Group have been prepared for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009 using consistent accounting policies. All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses and profits and losses, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated on consolidation. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that they are only eliminated to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity therein. These interests primarily represent the interests in Minera Penmont, S. de R.L. de C.V., Minera El Bermejal, S. de R.L. de C.V. and Minera Juanicipio, S.A. de C.V. not held by the Group. The interest of non-controlling shareholders may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on an acquisition by-acquisition basis. Subsequent to acquisition, non-controlling interests consist of the amount attributed to such interests at initial recognition and the non-controlling interest’s share of changes in equity since the date of the combination. Any losses of a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if that results in a deficit balance. (b) Changes in accounting policies and presentation rules The accounting policies applied are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 except for the adoption of certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards. Those that are applicable to the Group are as follows: • IFRS 3 (Revised) ‘Business Combinations’ and IAS 27 (Revised) ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’, issued in January 2008. IFRS 3R introduces a number of changes in the accounting for business combinations occurring in accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 that will impact the amount of goodwill recognised, the reported results in the period that an acquisition occurs, and future reported results. IAS 27R requires that a change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary (without loss of control) is accounted for as an equity transaction. Furthermore, the amended standard changes the accounting for losses incurred by partially-owned subsidiaries as well as the loss of control of a subsidiary. Other consequential amendments were made to IAS 7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’, IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’, IAS 21 ‘The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’, IAS 28 ‘Investment in Associates’ and IAS 31 ‘Interests in Joint Ventures’. The changes introduced by IFRS 3R and IAS 27R will affect future acquisitions or loss of control and transactions with Non-controlling interests (previously referred to as “minority interests”). Other new standards, amendments and interpretations that are effective but not applicable to the Group are as follows: • IFRS 1 (Amendment) “First-time adoption of international financial reporting Standards-Cost of an Investment in a Subdisidiary, Jointly controlled Entity or Associate” • IFRS 2 (Amendment) “Share-based Payment-Vesting Conditions and Cancellations” • IAS 39 (Amendment) “Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement-Eligible hedged items” • IFRIC 17 “Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners” Improvements to IFRSs In April 2009 the Board issued its second omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording. There are separate transitional provisions for each standard. The adoption of the following amendments resulted in changes to accounting policies but did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group: • IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ clarifies that segment assets and liabilities need only be reported when those assets and liabilities are included in measures that are used by the chief operating decision maker. As the Group’s chief operating decision maker does not review segment assets and liabilities, the Group has not disclosed this information in note 3. • IAS 7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’ clarifies that only expenditures that result in a recognised asset can be classified as a cash flow from investing activities. The amendment has no impact on the Group. • IAS 17 ‘Leases’ clarifies the classification of land and buildings and the specific guidance on classifying land as a lease has been removed (only the general guidance remains). The amendment has no impact on the Group financial statements as there are no property, plant and equipment under finance lease. • IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’ clarifies that the largest unit permitted for allocating goodwill, acquired in a business combination, is the operating segment as defined in IFRS 8 before aggregation for reporting purposes. The amendment has no impact on the Group as there have been no business combinations. Other amendments resulting from the 2009 Improvements to IFRS did not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group. New and amended standards and interpretations Standards and amendments issued but not yet effective up to the date of issuance of the Group’s financial statements are listed below. This listing is of standards and interpretations issued, which the Group reasonably expects to be applicable at a future date. The Group intends to adopt those standards when they become effective. The Group has not early adopted any standard, interpretation or amendment that was issued but is not yet effective. 121 GRO U P O VE RVIE W In November 2009, the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement (subsequently amended in October 2010). This new standard represents the first phase of the IASBs work on the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities as defined in IAS 39. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. In subsequent phases, the IASB will address hedge accounting and derecognition. The completion of this project is expected in early 2011. The adoption of the first phase of IFRS 9 will have an effect on the classification and measurement of the Group’s financial assets. The Group will quantify the effect in conjunction with the other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture. In October 2010, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Transfers of Financial Assets, which are applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011. The Group intends to adopt this standard when it becomes effective. The Group considers that the amendments to the following standards and interpretations, which are relevant to the Group will not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group: IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures (Revised) S T RAT E GY IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement (Amendment) In May 2010 the IASB issued improvements to IFRSs, a further omnibus of amendments to its standards. These amendments have not been adopted as they become effective for annual periods on or after either 1 July 2010 or 1 January 2011. The Group, however, expects no impact from the adoption of the amendments on its financial position or performance. (c) Significant accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Group’s consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. These judgments and estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, with regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements. Information about such judgments and estimates is contained in the accounting policies and/or the notes to the consolidated financial statements. PE R F O RM A N CE Judgments Areas of judgment, apart from those involving estimations, that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial information are: • Determination of functional currencies – note 2(d): The determination of functional currency requires management judgment, particularly where there may be several currencies in which transactions are undertaken and which impact the economic environment in which the entity operates. • Evaluation of projects status – note 2(e): The evaluation of project status impacts the accounting for costs incurred and requires management judgment. This includes the assessment of whether there is sufficient evidence of the probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals to justify the commencement of capitalisation of costs; the timing of the end of the exploration phase and the start of the development phase and the commencement of the production phase. G O VE RN A N C E These judgments directly impact the treatment of costs incurred and proceeds from the sale of metals from ore produced. Estimates and assumptions Significant areas of estimation uncertainty considered by management in preparing the consolidated financial information include: • Determination of useful lives of assets for depreciation and amortisation purposes – note 2(e) and note 13: Estimates are required to be made by management as to the useful lives of assets. For depreciation calculated under the unit-of-production method, estimated recoverable reserves are used in determining the depreciation and/or amortisation of mine specific assets. This results in a depreciation/amortisation charge proportional to the depletion of the anticipated remaining life of mine production. Each item’s life, which is assessed annually, has regard to both its physical life limitations and to present assessments of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the asset is located. These calculations require the use of estimates and assumptions, including the amount of recoverable reserves. Changes are accounted for prospectively. • Estimation of the amount and timing of mine closure costs – notes 2(l) and 22: The Group assesses its mine closure cost provision annually. Significant estimates and assumptions are made in determining the provision FIN AN C IAL S for mine closure cost as there are numerous factors that will affect the ultimate liability payable. These factors include estimates of the extent and costs of rehabilitation activities, technological changes, regulatory changes, cost increases, mine life and changes in discount rates. Those uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided. The provision at the balance sheet date represents management’s best estimate of the present value of the future closure costs required. Changes to estimated future costs are recognised in the balance sheet by adjusting the mine closure cost liability and the related asset originally recognized. If, for mature mines, the revised mine assets net of mine closure cost provisions exceed the recoverable value, that portion of the increase is charged directly to expense. For closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the income statement. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 122 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued • Income tax – notes 2(u) and 11: Judgment is required in determining whether deferred tax assets are recognised on the balance sheet. Deferred tax assets, including those arising from un-utilised tax losses require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate taxable earnings in future periods, in order to utilise recognised deferred tax assets. Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecast cash flows from operations and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction. To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Group to realise the net deferred tax assets recorded at the balance sheet date could be impacted. • Silverstream – note 15: The valuation of the Silverstream contract as a derivative financial instrument requires significant estimation by management. The derivative has a term of over 20 years and the value of this derivative is determined using a number of estimates, including the ore reserves and mineral resources and future production profile of the Sabinas mine, the estimated recoveries of silver from ore mined, estimates of the future price of silver and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows. Expectations of future silver price is one of the key assumptions underlying the valuation of this contract and the strengthening of forward silver prices in 2010 significantly impacted the valuation, resulting in an unrealised pre-tax gain of US$191.8 million recognised in the Income Statement (2009: US$19.4 million). The fair value of this contract is $427.6 million as at 31 December 2010 (2009: US$298.6 million) and changes in the underlying assumptions may change this value. For further detail of this arrangement, see note 15. For further detail on the inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value of this derivative, see note 31. The impact of changes in silver price assumptions, foreign exchange, inflation and the discount rate is included in note 32. • Contingent liabilities regarding claims from tax authorities – note 27(b): By their nature, contingencies will only be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur. The assessment of contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant judgment and estimates of the outcome of future events. (d) Foreign currency translation The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the parent company’s functional currency. The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates. For all operating entities, this is US dollars. Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into US dollars using the exchange rate at the date when the fair value is determined. For entities with functional currencies other than US dollars, as at the reporting date, assets and liabilities are translated into the reporting currency of the Group by applying the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income statement is translated at the average exchange rate for the year. The resulting difference on exchange is included as a cumulative translation adjustment in equity. On disposal of an entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that operation is recognised in the income statement. (e) Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment in value. Cost comprises its purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working condition for its intended use. The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads. The cost less the residual value of each item of property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life. Each item’s estimated useful life has been assessed with regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the item is located. Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items. Depreciation is charged to cost of sales on a unit-of-production (UOP) basis for mine buildings and installations, plant and equipment used in the mine production process or on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the individual asset when not related to the mine production process. Changes in estimates, which mainly affect unit of production calculations, are accounted for prospectively. Depreciation commences when assets are available for use. Land is not depreciated. The expected useful lives are as follows: Years Buildings 5-12 Plant and equipment 4-11 Mining properties and development costs 3-14 Other assets 2-14 An item of property, plant and equipment is de-recognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising at de-recognition of the asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in the income statement in the year that the asset is de-recognised. Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale when it is expected that the carrying amount of the asset will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use. Assets are not depreciated when classified as held for sale. 123 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Disposal of assets Gains or losses from the disposal of assets are recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed. Mining properties and development costs Payments for mining concessions are expensed during the exploration phase of a prospect and capitalised during the development of the project when incurred. Purchased ore reserves and mineral resources are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part of a business combination. Mining concessions, when capitalised, are amortised on a straight line basis over the period of time in which benefits are expected to be obtained from that specific concession. S T RAT E GY Mine development cost is capitalised as part of property, plant and equipment. Mine development activities commence once a feasibility study has been performed for the specific project. When an exploration prospect has entered into the advanced exploration phase and sufficient evidence of the probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals has been obtained preoperative expenses relating to mine preparation works are also capitalised as mine development costs. The initial cost of a mining property comprises its construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the mining property into operation and the initial estimate of the provision for mine closure cost. Revenues from metals recovered from ore mined in the mine development phase, prior to commercial production, are credited to mining properties and development costs. Upon commencement of production, capitalised expenditure is depreciated using the unit of production method based on the estimated economically proven and probable reserves to which they relate. PE R F O RM A N CE Mining properties and mine development are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and impairment in value. Construction in progress Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment. On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment. Construction in progress is not depreciated. Subsequent expenditures All subsequent expenditure on property, plant and equipment is capitalised if it meets the recognition criteria, and the carrying amount of those parts that are replaced is de-recognised. All other expenditure including repairs and maintenance expenditure is recognised in the income statement as incurred. Stripping costs G O VE RN A N C E In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden and other waste in order to access the ore body. During development and pre-production phases, these costs are capitalised as part of the initial mine investment and they are depreciated based on the mine’s production once commercial operations begins. Removal of waste material normally continues throughout the life of a mine. This activity is referred to as production stripping and commences at the time that saleable material begins to be extracted from the mine. The costs of production stripping are charged to the income statement as operating costs. Further development of a mine may occur following initial extraction of saleable material and during the production phase. Stripping costs associated with such development activities are capitalised and depreciated based on the related production. (f) Determination of ore reserves The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by internal competent persons in conformity with the Joint Ore Reserves Committee (JORC) code. Reports to support these estimates are prepared each year and certified by an independent competent person. FIN AN C IAL S The latest certified ore reserves and mineral resources are used in the unit of production calculation of depreciation for the year, in the determination of the timing of mine closure cost and for determining value in use for any impairment analysis. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves and mineral resources. Assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available. Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of ore reserves and mineral resources and may, ultimately, result in the ore reserves being restated. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 124 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued (g) Impairment of non-financial assets The carrying amounts of assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indications of impairment. If there are indicators of impairment, an exercise is undertaken to determine whether carrying values are in excess of their recoverable amount. Such reviews are undertaken on an asset by asset basis, except where such assets do not generate cash flows independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, and then the review is undertaken at the cash generating unit level. If the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded to reflect the asset at the recoverable amount in the balance sheet. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. The recoverable amount of an asset The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell. Fair value is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arm’s length basis. In assessing value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate cash inflows largely independently of those from other assets, or groups of assets, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. The Group’s cash generating units are the smallest identifiable groups of assets that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. Reversal of impairment An assessment is made each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such an indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the recoverable amount. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the impairment loss was recognised. If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the recoverable amount. That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised in previous years. Such impairment loss reversal is recognised in the income statement. (h) Financial assets Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party to contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss; loans and receivables; held to maturity investments; or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate. The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each balance sheet date. When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets classified as held-for-trading and other assets designated as fair value through profit or loss on inception are included in this category. Financial assets are classified as held-for-trading if they are acquired for sale in the short term. Derivatives are also classified as held-fortrading unless they are designated as hedging instruments. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement. Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale. After initial measurement such assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment. Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process. Current trade receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables. Long-term receivables are stated at amortised cost. Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the preceding categories and are not held to maturity investments. Available-for-sale financial assets represent equity investments that have a quoted market price in an active market; therefore a fair value can be reliably measured. After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with mark-to-market unrealised gains or losses recognised as other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve until the financial asset is derecognised. Financial assets classified as available-for-sale are de-recognised when they are sold, and all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred. When financial assets are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement within other operating income or expense. 125 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Fair value In determining estimated fair value, investments in shares or portfolios of listed securities are valued at quoted bid prices. When quoted prices on an active market are not available (and for listed non-actively traded securities), fair value is determined using a valuation technique. Valuation techniques include using a recent arm’s length transaction, if available, reference to the current fair value of another instrument that is substantially the same; discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models. If the range of reasonable fair value is significant and the probabilities of the various estimates cannot be reliably assessed, the investment is not re-measured at fair value. (i) Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the S T RAT E GY loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future expected credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate (i.e., the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition). The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account. The amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss. The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant. If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment. Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date. PE R F O RM A N CE In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence (such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor) that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice. The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account. Impaired receivables are de-recognised when they are assessed as uncollectible. Available-for-sale financial investments If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost (net of any principal payment and amortisation) and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred from equity to the income statement. In assessing whether there is an impairment, the Group considers whether a decline in fair value is either significant or prolonged, by considering the size of the decline in this value and the historic volatility in changes in fair value. Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income statement. (j) Inventories G O VE RN A N C E Finished goods and work in progress inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined using the weighted average cost method based on cost of production which excludes borrowing costs. For this purpose, the costs of production include: • personnel expenses, which include employee profit sharing, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore; • the depreciation of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore; and • related production overheads (based on normal operating capacity). Operating materials and spare parts are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value. Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories is determined by reference to specific items of stock. A regular review is undertaken by management to determine the extent of such allowance. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion FIN AN C IAL S and disposal. (k) Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash on hand and short-term deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value. Short-term deposits earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates between one day and three months. For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents as defined above are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 126 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued (l) Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost. Mine closure cost A provision for mine closure cost is made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure and restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs (which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas) based on a mine closure plan, in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs. The provision is discounted and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs. At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised where it gives rise to a future economic benefit and depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates. The provision is reviewed on an annual basis by the Group for changes in cost estimates, discount rates or life of operations. Other Other provisions are accounted for when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation for which it is probable there will be an outflow of resources for which the amount can be reliably estimated. (m) Financial liabilities The Group recognises financial liabilities on its balance sheet when, and only when, it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, including any transaction costs incurred. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Interest bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process. (n) Employee benefits The Group operates the following plans: Defined benefit pension plan This funded plan is based on each employee’s earnings and years of service. This plan was open to all employees in Mexico and it is denominated in Mexican Pesos. This plan was closed to new entrants on 1 July 2007. For members as at 30 June 2007, benefits were frozen at that date subject to indexation with reference to the Mexican National Consumer Price Index (NCPI). The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method and prepared by an independent actuarial firm as at each year end balance sheet date. The discount rate is the yield on mxAAA (Standard & Poors) and AAA-mex (Fitch Ibca) credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations and that are denominated in the same currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised as income or expense in the period in which they occur. Past service costs are recognised as an expense on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. If the benefits have already vested following the introduction of, or changes to, a pension plan, the past service cost is recognised immediately. The defined benefit asset or liability comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly. The value of any asset is restricted to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions to the plan. Defined contribution pension plan A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in profit or loss when they are due. The contributions are based on the employee’s salary. This plan started on 1 July 2007 and it is voluntary for all employees to join this scheme. 127 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Seniority premium for voluntary separation This unfunded plan corresponds to an additional payment over the legal seniority premium equivalent to approximately 12 days of salary per year for those unionised workers who have more than 15 years of service. Non-unionised employees with more than 15 years of service have the right to a payment equivalent to 12 days for each year of service. For both cases, the payment is based on the legal current minimum salary. The cost of providing benefits for the seniority premium for voluntary separation is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method and prepared by an independent actuarial firm as at each year end balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised as income or expense in the period in which they occur. Other Benefits for death and disability are covered through insurance policies. Termination payments for involuntary retirement (dismissals) are charged to the income statement, when incurred. S T RAT E GY (o) Employee profit sharing In accordance with the Mexican legislation, companies in Mexico are subject to pay for employee profit sharing (PTU) equivalent to ten percent of the taxable income of each fiscal year. PTU is accounted for as employee benefits and is calculated based on the services rendered by employees during the year, considering their most recent salaries. The liability is recognised as it accrues and is charged to the income statement. PTU, paid in each fiscal year, is considered deductible for income tax purposes. (p) Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date including whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset. PE R F O RM A N CE A reassessment is made after inception of the lease only if one of the following applies: a. There is a change in contractual terms, other than a renewal or extension of the arrangement; b. A renewal option is exercised or extension granted, unless the term of the renewal or extension was initially included in the lease term; c. There is a change in the determination of whether fulfilment is dependent on a specified asset; or d. There is a substantial change to the asset. Group as a lessee Finance leases which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property, or if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are reflected in the income statement. G O VE RN A N C E Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term. Group as a lessor Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income. Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned. Where a reassessment is made, lease accounting commences or ceases from the date when the change in circumstances gave rise to the reassessment for scenarios a), c) or d) and at the date of renewal or extension period for scenario b) above. For arrangements entered into prior to 1 January 2005, the date of inception is deemed to be 1 January 2007, in accordance with the transitional FIN AN C IAL S requirements of IFRIC 4. (q) Contingencies Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the consolidated financial information and are disclosed in notes unless their occurrence is remote. Contingent assets are not recognised in the consolidated financial information, but they are disclosed in notes if they are deemed probable. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 128 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued (r) Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received excluding discounts, rebates, and other sales taxes. Sale of goods Revenue is recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed. Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes. The Group recognises revenue on a provisional basis at the time concentrates, precipitates and doré bars are delivered to the customer’s smelter or refinery, using the Group’s best estimate of contained metal. Revenue is subject to adjustment once the analysis of the product samples is completed, contract conditions have been fulfilled and final settlement terms are agreed. Any subsequent adjustments to the initial estimate of metal content are recorded in revenue once they have been determined. In addition, sales of concentrates and precipitates throughout each calendar month, as well as doré bars that are delivered after the 20th day of each month, are “provisionally priced” subject to a final adjustment based on the average price for the month following the delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract. Doré bars that are delivered in the first 20 days of each month are finally priced in the month of delivery. For sales of goods that are subject to provisional pricing, revenue is initially recognised when the conditions set out above have been met using the provisional price. The price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and hence separated from the sales contract. At each reporting date the provisionally priced metal is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the contract until the quotation period ends. The selling price of the metals can be reliably measured as these are actively traded on international exchanges. The revaluing of provisionally priced contracts is recorded as an adjustment to revenue. Royalties Income derived from royalties is recognised only at the time when it is probable that the amounts related to certain rights will be received. Currently the Group receives royalties based on a percentage of the sales of concentrates from the Cedros, Peregrina and Sirena small scale mines rented to a third party. Rental income Rental income arising from operating leases on a small scale mine rented to a third party is accounted for on a straight line basis over the lease term. Interest income Interest income is recognised as interest accrues (using the effective interest method; i.e., the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset). Interest income is included as finance income in the income statement. Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the Group´s right to receive the payment is established. (s) Exploration expenses Exploration activity involves the search for mineral resources, the determination of technical feasibility and the assessment of commercial viability of an identified resource. Exploration expenses are charged to the income statement as incurred and are recorded in the following captions: (i) Cost of sales: costs relating to in-mine exploration, that ensure continuous extraction quality and extend mine life, and (ii) Exploration expenses: a. Costs incurred in geographical proximity to existing mines in order to replenish or increase reserves, and b. Costs incurred in regional exploration with the objective of locating new ore deposits in Mexico and Latin America and which are identified by project. Costs incurred are charged to the income statement until there is sufficient probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals and a feasibility study has been performed for the specific project. (t) Finance income and costs Finance income and costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, interest income on funds invested and the unwinding of the discount on provisions. Interest income and costs are recognised as accrued, taking into account the effective yield on the asset or liability. 129 GRO U P O VE RVIE W (u) Income tax Current income tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes. Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: (i) where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a busiS T RAT E GY ness combination and, at the time of transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and (ii) in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: (i) where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and (ii) in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future PE R F O RM A N CE and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement. Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. G O VE RN A N C E (v) De-recognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is generally de-recognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires. Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a de-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss. The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability (or part of a financial liability) extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement. (w) Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivatives to reduce certain market risks derived from changes in prices of base metals and foreign exchange which impact its financial and business transactions. Hedges are designed to protect the value of expected production against the dynamic market conditions. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently FIN AN C IAL S remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. Any gains and losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to the income statement. Derivatives are valued using valuation approaches and methodologies (such as Black Scholes and Net Present Value) applicable to the specific type of derivative instrument. The fair value of forward currency and commodity contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles. The Silverstream contract is valued using a net present value valuation approach. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 130 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for the undertaken hedge. The documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they were designated. Hedges which meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: Cash flow hedges For derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recorded as a component of equity and are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs. For gains and losses related to the hedging of revenues, these are included as part of revenues and for those related to the hedging of foreign exchange risk, in the line item in which the hedged costs are reflected. Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability. The ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges is recognised in the income statement of the related period. If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, any cumulative gain or loss recognised directly in equity from the period that the hedge was effective remains separately in equity until the forecast transaction occurs, when it is recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement. Embedded derivatives Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows. Embedded derivatives which are not clearly and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are separated and accounted for as stand alone derivatives. (x) Dividend distribution Dividends payable to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability when these are approved by the Company’s shareholders or Board as appropriate. Dividends payable to minority shareholders are recognised as a liability when these are approved by the Company’s subsidiaries. (y) Value added tax Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of value added tax. The net amount of VAT recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the balance sheet. (z) Borrowing costs Finance costs are generally expensed as incurred except where they relate to the financing of construction or development of qualifying assets requiring a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended future use. In the case of such qualifying assets, finance costs are capitalised up to the date when the asset is ready for its intended use. The amount of finance costs capitalised (before the effects of income tax) for the period is determined by applying the interest rate applicable to appropriate borrowings outstanding during the period to the average amount of accumulated expenditure for the assets during the period. 3 Segment Reporting For management purposes the Group is organised into operating segments based on producing mines. At 31 December 2009 the Group had three reportable operating segments. The construction of the Soledad-Dipolos mine was successfully concluded in December 2009 and commercial production started in January 2010. At 31 December 2010 the Group therefore has four reportable operating segments, representing the Group’s four producing mines as follows: • The Fresnillo mine, located in the State of Zacatecas is the worlds largest primary silver mine; • The Ciénega mine, located in the State of Durango is an underground gold mine; • The Herradura mine, located in the State of Sonora is an open pit gold mine; and • The Soledad-Dipolos mine, located in the State of Sonora is an open pit gold mine. The operating performance and financial results are reviewed by management. As the Group´s chief operating decision maker does not review segment assets and liabilities, the Group has not disclosed this information. No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above reportable operating segment. Projects under development have been aggregated into the Other segment below. 131 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Management monitors the results of its operating segments separately for the purpose of performance assessment and making decisions about resource allocation. Segment performance is evaluated without taking into account certain adjustments included in Revenue as reported in the consolidated income statement, and certain costs included within Cost of Sales and Gross Profit which are considered to be outside of the control of the operating management of the mines. The table below provides a reconciliation from segment profit to Gross Profit as per the consolidated income statement. Other income and expenses included in the consolidated income statement are not allocated to operating segments. Transactions between reportable segments are accounted for on an arm’s length basis similar to transactions with third parties. In 2010 all revenue was derived from customers based in Mexico. In 2009 all revenue was derived from customers based in Mexico, the Company’s country of domicile, except for approximately 3.3% of revenue as per the consolidated income statement which was sold to a third party customer based in the Netherlands. This revenue is shown within the Fresnillo and Ciénega segments below. All non-current assets are located in Mexico. Operating segments S T RAT E GY The following tables present revenue and profit information regarding the Group’s operating segments for the year ended 31 December 2010 and 2009, respectively. Adjustments Year ended 31 December 2010 Soledadand (US$ thousands) Fresnillo Herradura Ciénega Dipolos Other eliminations Total Revenues: Third party 733,537 366,047 173,200 136,770 1,409,554 Inter-Segment 35,613 (35,613) Segment revenues 733,537 366,047 173,200 136,770 35,613 (35,613) 1,409,554 Segment Profit (7) 626,983 268,933 116,615 97,669 35,612 (31,457) 1,114,355 Hedging 3,020 PE R F O RM A N CE Depreciation (105,216) Employee profit sharing (37,682) Gross profit as per the income statement 974,478 Capital expenditure (1) 60,716 (2) 54,411(3) 65,083(4) 36,790 (5) 125,021(6) (1,813) 340,297 (1) Capital expenditure consists of additions of property, plant and equipment, excluding additions relating to changes in the mine closure provision. (2) Capital expenditure consists of scoop equipment and drilling jumbos, mine development work including a shaft and ramps. (3) Capital expenditure relates to leaching pads construction, equipment such as rotary drill rig tractors and dump trucks, construction of an electrical station, open pit mine development activities and Noche Buena´s payment for the acquisition of mineral rights and royalties. (4) Capital expenditure relates to a processing plant expansion, scoop equipment, land and mine development work including work on a tailings dam. (5) Capital expenditure relates to leaching pads construction, equipment such as dump trucks and tractors, rotary drill rig and open pit mine development activities. (6) Capital expenditure relates to the Saucito mine developments including hoisting equipment and ramp and shaft developments. (7) Treatment and refining charges amounting to US$64,366 are included in the segment profit. Previously this information was presented in a separate line. Adjustments Year ended 31 December 2009 Soledadand G O VE RN A N C E (US$ thousands) Fresnillo Herradura Ciénega Dipolos Other eliminations Total Revenues: Third party 500,433 245,818 128,479 (24,786) 849,944 Inter-Segment 17,385 (17,385) Segment revenues 500,433 245,818 128,479 17,385 (42,171) 849,944 Segment Profit (6) 407,664 159,953 80,532 18,483 (14,246) 652,386 Hedging (31,863) Depreciation (67,227) Employee profit sharing (24,981) Gross profit as per the income statement 528,315 Capital expenditure (1) 34,628(2) 64,813(3) 41,665(4) 57,734 50,034(5) 1,573 250,447 (1) Capital expenditure consists of additions of property, plant and equipment, excluding additions relating to changes in the mine closure provision. (2) Capital expenditure relates to mine development work, scoop equipment, land and raise boring equipment. FIN AN C IAL S (3) Capital expenditure relates to the acquisition of the Noche Buena gold project, dump trucks, and investment in the maintenance workshop. (4) Capital expenditure relates to mine development work, scoop equipment, land and raise boring equipment. (5) Capital expenditure relates to the Saucito mine developments. (6) Treatment and refining charges amounting to US$69,227 were reclassified in 2009 to the segment profit line for comparative purposes. Previously this information was presented in a separate line. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 132 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Revenues Revenues reflect the sale of goods, being concentrates, doré, slag, and precipitates of which the primary contents are silver, gold, lead and zinc(1). a) Revenues by product sold Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Lead concentrates (containing silver, gold, lead and by-products) 797,887 573,594 Doré and slag (containing gold, silver and by-products) 502,820 245,822 Zinc concentrates 53,566 38,324 Precipitates 55,281 16,990 Effects of hedging (24,786) 1,409,554 849,944 Substantially all lead concentrates, precipitates, doré and slag, were sold to Peñoles’ metallurgical complex for smelting and refining. (1) Included in the value of lead and zinc concentrates, precipitates and doré are provisional price adjustments which represent changes in the fair value of embedded derivatives. In 2010 the Group has recognised a profit of US$35.6 million (2009: profit of US$24.0 million). For further detail refer to note 2(r). b) Value of metal content in products sold For products other than refined silver and gold, invoiced revenues are derived from the value of metal content adjusted by treatment and refining charges incurred by the metallurgical complex of the customer. The value of the metal content of the products sold, before treatment and refining charges is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Silver 746,176 529,626 Gold(1) 653,294 334,169 Zinc(2) 40,073 28,282 Lead(3) 34,377 27,094 Value of metal content in products sold 1,473,920 919,171 Adjustment for treatment and refining charges (64,366) (69,227) Total revenues(4) 1,409,554 849,944 (1) Includes hedging losses of US$nil (2009: US$25 million) (2) Includes hedging gains of US$nil (2009: US$0.1 million) (3) Includes hedging gains of US$nil (2009: US$0.1 million) (4) Included in the value of lead and zinc concentrates, precipitates and doré are provisional price adjustments which represent changes in the fair value of embedded derivatives. In 2010 the Group has recognised a profit of US$35.6 million (2009: profit of US$24.0 million). For further detail refer to note 2(r). The average realised prices for the gold and silver content of products sold, including the effects of hedging but prior to the deduction of treatment and refining charges, were: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ per ounce) Gold 1,252.1 988.9 Silver 21.4 15.3 133 GRO U P O VE RVIE W 5 Cost of sales Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Depreciation (note 13) 105,216 67,227 Personnel expenses (note 8) 82,932 60,349 Maintenance and repairs 56,494 39,251 Operating materials 65,177 47,110 Energy 57,856 35,257 Contractors 59,801 31,905 Freight 9,027 6,143 Mining rights and contributions 4,775 4,633 (Gain)/Loss on foreign currency hedges (3,020) 7,077 S T RAT E GY Change in work in progress and finished goods (ore inventories) (16,822) 12,944 Other 13,640 9,733 435,076 321,629 6 Administrative expenses Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Administrative expenses charged by Peñoles Group: Administrative services(1) 29,832 30,308 PE R F O RM A N CE 29,832 30,308 Personnel expenses (note 8) 9,638 9,683 Other administrative expenses 13,124 9,876 52,594 49,867 (1) For the period from the IPO on 14 May 2008 to 31 October 2009 certain services, comprising administrative and non-administrative services were provided by Servicios Industriales Peñoles, S. A. de C.V. (“SIPSA”) to the Group under a Transitional Services Agreement entered into on 15 April 2008 for a global fee of US$51.0 million. Of this amount, approximately US$15.0 million related to engineering and construction, technical research and development and central workshop costs, which are considered non-administrative services. The remaining US$36.0 million related to administrative expenses. From 1 November 2009 a new agreement was entered into for the period to 31 October 2012. The annual fee amounts to US$6.1 million and MXP277.5 million (US$23.7 million). On 21 December 2009, pursuant to an internal corporate restructuring within Peñoles, SIPSA’s interest in the new service agreement was transferred to Servicios Administrativos Peñoles, S.A. de C.V., a wholly owned Peñoles subsidiary. 7 Exploration expenses Year ended 31 December G O VE RN A N C E 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Contractors 57,373 33,408 Administrative services 6,519 5,214 Mining rights and contributions 6,541 3,483 Personnel expenses (note 8) 2,995 2,052 Assays 2,225 1,565 Maintenance and repairs 1,064 1,215 Operating materials 2,232 921 Rentals 919 600 Energy 213 152 Other 2,032 453 82,113 49,063 FIN AN C IAL S These exploration expenses were mainly incurred in increasing the reserves and resources of the operating mines and projects held by the Fresnillo, Penmont, La Ciénega, Saucito and Juanicipio legal entities. Minor exploration expenses of US$1.1 million (2009: US$0.3 million) were incurred in the year elsewhere in Latin America. The following table sets forth liabilities (generally payables) incurred in the exploration activities of the Group companies engaged only in exploration, principally Exploraciones Mineras Parreña, S.A. de C.V. Liabilities related to exploration activities incurred by the Group operating companies are not included since it is not possible to separate the liabilities related to exploration activities of these companies from their operating liabilities. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 134 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Liabilities related to exploration activities 3 677 Cash flows relating to exploration activities are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Operating cash out flows 82,787 48,540 8 Personnel expenses Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Employees’ profit sharing 38,404 24,981 Salaries and wages 20,668 17,712 Bonuses 10,637 8,416 Legal contributions 8,242 6,579 Other benefits 5,414 4,503 Vacations and vacations bonus 2,424 2,278 Social security 2,989 2,327 Post-employment benefits (note 23) 1,590 3,405 Other 5,197 1,883 95,565 72,084 a) Personnel expenses are distributed in the following line items: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Cost of sales (note 5) 82,932 60,349 Administrative expenses (note 6) 9,638 9,683 Exploration expenses (note 7) 2,995 2,052 95,565 72,084 b) The monthly average number of employees during the year was as follows: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009(1) No. No. Mining 1,169 1,058 Plant concentration 285 245 Exploration 178 142 Maintenance 486 462 Administration and other 311 305 Total 2,429 2,212 (1) In 2010, the classification of mine employees was modified, consequently, the 2009 disclosure was modified for comparative purposes. 135 GRO U P O VE RVIE W 9 Other income and other expenses Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Other income: Rentals 1,141 1,761 Royalties 609 815 Other 3,233 1,297 4,983 3,873 S T RAT E GY Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Other expenses: Maintenance (1) 1,332 853 Donations 461 603 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and other assets (2) 754 144 Write-off of accounts receivable 32 446 Other 8,720 2,456 11,299 4,502 PE R F O RM A N CE (1) Relates to maintenance of closed and leased mines owned by Compañía Minera Las Torres, S.A. de C.V. (2) Includes the disposal of assets as a result of replacing equipment due to capacity expansions. 10 Finance income and finance costs Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Finance income: Interest on short term deposits 2,369 912 Mark to market movement on currency derivatives 1,028 Other 490 752 3,887 1,664 G O VE RN A N C E Finance costs: Unwinding of discount on provisions (note 22) 3,005 1,615 Mark to market movement on currency derivatives 227 Other 251 286 3,483 1,901 FIN AN C IAL S Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 136 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11 Income tax expense a) The major components of income tax expense are: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Consolidated income statement: Current income tax: Current income tax charge 196,332 110,427 Amounts overprovided in previous years (1,308) (6,108) IETU(1) in excess of income tax 249 Recognition of previously un-recognised tax losses (12,946) 195,024 91,622 Deferred income tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 20,393 13,189 Changes to future tax rates(2) 5,082 Recognition of previously un-recognised tax losses (757) Amounts overprovided in previous years (4,553) Revaluation effects of Silverstream contract 57,552 (5,432) 77,945 7,529 Income tax expense reported in the income statement 272,969 99,151 (1) Business Flat tax (“Impuesto Empresarial a Tasa Unica” or “IETU”) (2) On 7th December 2009 new temporary tax rates were published in the Official Daily of the Federal Government. The tax rate for 2010 is 30% and will continue in effect for 2011 and 2012, the tax rate for 2013 will be 29% and the tax rate from 2014 will be 28%. Deferred taxes have been calculated at the rate applicable to the year the amounts are expected to materialise. Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Consolidated Statement of comprehensive income: Deferred income tax related to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income: Recycling of net gain/(loss) gain on valuation of cash flow hedges to income 631 (9,531) Net gain arising on valuation of cash flow hedges (1,179) (1,122) Net expense arising on unrealised gain on available-for-sale assets (20,536) (6,407) Income tax expense reported in other comprehensive income (21,084) (17,060) 137 GRO U P O VE RVIE W (b) The following is a reconciliation of the income tax expense at the Group’s statutory income tax rate to income tax expense at the Group’s effective income tax rate. Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Accounting profit before income tax 1,022,367 457,418 Tax at the Group’s statutory income tax rate 30.0% (2009: 28.0%) 306,710 128,077 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 760 1,547 Inflationary uplift of the tax base of assets and liabilities (13,802) (4,787) Recognition of previously un-recognised tax losses (13,703) Current income tax overprovided in previous years (1,308) (6,108) Deferred income tax overprovided in previous years (4,553) S T RAT E GY Put option closed prior to maturity (4,105) Restatement on tax value of fixed assets (1,208) Tax depreciation de-recognised 1,029 Changes to future tax rates 5,082 Exchange rate effect on tax value of assets and liabilities (6,574) 1,034 Non-deductible asset disposals 1,688 3,229 Non-deductible/non-taxable foreign exchange gains or losses (9,402) (5,491) Inflationary uplift of tax losses (1,337) (1,141) IETU in excess of income tax 249 Other (2,558) (1,208) Tax at the effective income tax rate of 26.7% (2009: 21.7%) 272,969 99,151 (c) The movements in deferred income tax liabilities and assets are as follows: PE R F O RM A N CE Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Beginning balance (110,581) (88,234) Income statement charge (77,945) (7,529) Exchange difference 3,845 2,242 Others 2,453 Cash flow hedges recycled to income statement 631 (9,531) Revaluation of derivatives used for cash flow hedges (1,179) (1,122) Unrealised gain on available-for-sale financial assets (20,536) (6,407) Ending balance (203,222) (110,581) Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities G O VE RN A N C E and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to the same fiscal authority. The amounts after offset are as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Deferred income tax assets 14,226 9,363 Deferred income tax liabilities (217,448) (119,944) Ending balance (203,222) (110,581) FIN AN C IAL S Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 138 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The amounts of deferred income tax assets and liabilities before offset as at 31 December 2010 and 2009 considering the nature of the temporary differences, are as follows: As at 31 December 2010 (US$ thousands) Assets Liabilities Net balance Related party receivables 65,921 (65,921) Other receivables 494 (494) Inventories 10,178 10,178 Prepayments 735 (735) Derivative financial instruments including Silverstream contract 58,544 (58,544) Property, plant and equipment 143,934 (143,934) Operating liabilities 1,866 1,866 Other payables and provisions 10,523 10,523 Losses carried forward 52,735 52,735 Post-employment benefits 1,767 1,767 Deductible profit sharing 11,862 11,862 Available-for-sale financial assets 21,246 (21,246) Other 1,279 (1,279) Net deferred tax balances 88,931 292,153 (203,222) As at 31 December 2009 (US$ thousands) Assets Liabilities Net balance Related party receivables 36,921 (36,921) Other receivables 50 50 Inventories 8,098 8,098 Prepayments 590 (590) Derivative financial instruments including Silverstream contract 16,562 (16,562) Property, plant and equipment 129,505 (129,505) Operating liabilities 1,551 1,551 Other payables and provisions 10,310 10,310 Losses carried forward 46,616 46,616 Post-employment benefits 1,627 1,627 Deductible profit sharing 7,673 7,673 Available-for-sale financial assets 711 (711) Other 2,217 (2,217) Net deferred tax balances 75,925 186,506 (110,581) A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of tax losses amounting to US$188.3 million (2009: US$166.5 million). There are no unrecognised tax assets in either year. (d) Unrecognised deferred tax on investments in subsidiaries The Group has not recognised all of the deferred tax liability in respect of distributable reserves of its subsidiaries because it controls them and only part of the temporary differences is expected to reverse in the foreseeable future. The temporary differences for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised aggregate to US$503.5 million (2009: US$184.3 million). Income Tax (“Impuesto Sobre la Renta” or “ISR”) and Business Flat Tax (“Impuesto Empresarial a Tasa Unica” or “IETU”) In accordance to the Mexican tax law, the Group companies in Mexico are subject to Income Tax (“ISR”) and Business Flat Tax (“IETU”). IETU is an alternative minimum corporate income tax effective in January 1, 2008 which replaced the business asset tax as a minimum tax. Companies are required to pay the greater of their mainstream corporate income tax liability for the year or their liability to IETU. 139 GRO U P O VE RVIE W On 7th December 2009 new temporary tax rates were published in the Official Daily of the Federal Government. The income tax rate for 2009 was 28%, for 2010 is 30% and will continue in effect in 2011 and 2012, the tax rate for 2013 will be 29% and the tax rate from 2014 will be 28%. Deferred taxes have been calculated at the rate applicable to the year the amounts are expected to materialise. IETU is calculated at the rate of 17% for the calendar year 2009 and 17.5% for subsequent years and applies to the sale of goods, rendering of independent services and temporary use or enjoyment of goods. In calculating the charge to IETU, deductions are allowed for certain expenses incurred in generating income. In respect of the Group, in 2009 management undertook calculations to determine the impact of the new IETU provisions on the Group. As a result of such analysis, management concluded that there was no material impact on the Group, other than the US$6.1 million tax credit arising under IETU that was recognised in 2009, since the mainstream corporate income tax liability for each group company was forecast to be greater than the future potential IETU charge. These conditions continued in 2010, accordingly, no IETU liability was recognised in either year. 12 Earnings per share Earnings per share (‘EPS’) is calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average S T RAT E GY number of ordinary shares in issue during the period. The company has no dilutive potential ordinary shares. As of 31 December 2010 and 2009, earnings per share have been calculated as follows: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 Earnings: Profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the Company (US$ thousands) 665,126 322,011 Adjusted profit from continuing operations attributable to PE R F O RM A N CE equity holders of the Company (US$ thousands) 530,838 308,042 Adjusted profit is profit as disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement adjusted to exclude revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract of US$191.8 million gain (US$134.3 million net of tax) (2009: US$19.4 million and US$14.0 million net of tax). Adjusted earnings per share have been provided in order to provide a measure of the underlying performance of the Group, prior to the revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract, a derivative financial instrument. Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 Number of shares: Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (ooo) 717,160 717,160 Earnings per share: Basic and diluted earnings per share (US$) 0.927 0.449 G O VE RN A N C E Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations (US$) 0.740 0.430 FIN AN C IAL S Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 140 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13 Property, Plant and Equipment Mining properties and Land and Plant and development Other Construction in buildings Equipment costs assets Progress Total (US$ thousands) Year ended 31 December 2009 Cost At 1 January 2009 49,812 241,222 266,976 24,361 115,617 697,988 Additions 14,480 244,141 258,621 Disposals (182) (4,481) (562) (5,225) Transfers and other movements 18,352 106,304 73,915 4,977 (203,548) At 31 December 2009 67,982 343,045 340,891 43,256 156,210 951,384 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2009 (11,303) (35,807) (144,448) (8,586) (200,144) Depreciation for the year (4,161) (25,215) (34,322) (3,529) (67,227) Disposals 92 3,653 588 372 4,705 At 31 December 2009 (15,372) (57,369) (178,182) (11,743) (262,666) Net Book amount at 31 December 2009 52,610 285,676 162,709 31,513 156,210 688,718 Year ended 31 December 2010 Cost At 1 January 2010 67,982 343,045 340,891 43,256 156,210 951,384 Additions 1,050 316,696 317,746 Disposals (631) (27,384) (109) (2,245) (30,369) Transfers and other movements 13,939 99,826 122,569 7,222 (243,556) At 31 December 2010 81,290 415,487 463,351 49,283 229,350 1,238,761 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2010 (15,372) (57,369) (178,182) (11,743) (262,666) Depreciation for the year (5,078) (36,981) (58,378) (4,779) (105,216) Disposals 327 20,627 336 3,614 24,904 At 31 December 2010 (20,123) (73,723) (236,224) (12,908) (342,978) Net Book amount at 31 December 2010 61,167 341,764 227,127 36,375 229,350 895,783 Construction in progress relates mainly to the operating mines and mining projects of Saucito, Penmont, Juanicipio, La Ciénega and Fresnillo. As at 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Saucito 96,129 85,062 Penmont 36,416 29,297 Juanicipio 24,869 20,015 La Ciénega 35,338 15,247 Fresnillo 36,249 3,637 Other 349 2,952 229,350 156,210 The amount of borrowing costs capitalised during the year ended 31 December 2010 was US$nil (2009: US$nil.) 141 GRO U P O VE RVIE W 14 Available-for-sale financial assets Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Beginning balance 68,435 45,530 Additions 25 Fair value change 73,342 22,880 Ending balance 141,777 68,435 Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: S T RAT E GY As at 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Equity securities-listed Canadian companies 141,777 68,435 Total 141,777 68,435 15 Silverstream contract On 31 December 2007, the Group entered into an agreement with Peñoles through which it is entitled to receive the proceeds received by the Peñoles Group in respect of the refined silver sold from the Sabinas Mine (“Sabinas”), a base metals mine owned and operated by the Peñoles Group, for an upfront payment of US$350 million. In addition, a per ounce cash payment of $2.00 in years 1 to 5 and $5.00 thereafter (subject to an inflationary adjustPE R F O RM A N CE ment commencing on 31 December 2013) is payable to Peñoles. Under the contract, the Group has the option to receive a net cash settlement from Peñoles attributable to the silver produced and sold from Sabinas, to take delivery of an equivalent amount of refined silver or to receive settlement in the form of both cash and silver. If, by 31 December 2032, the amount of silver produced by Sabinas is less than 60 million ounces, a further payment is due from Peñoles of US$1 per ounce of shortfall. The Silverstream contract represents a derivative financial instrument which has been recorded at fair value and classified within non-current and current assets as appropriate. Changes in the contract’s fair value, other than those represented by the realisation of the asset through the receipt of either cash or refined silver, are charged or credited to the income statement. In the year ended 31 December 2010 total proceeds received were US$55.6 million (2009: US$39.0 million), corresponding to 3.1 million ounces of payable silver (2009: 3.0 million ounces). As at 31 December 2010, a further US$7.2 million (2009: US$nil) of cash corresponding to 265,331 ounces of silver is due. The most significant driver of the US$191.8 million unrealised gain taken to income (2009: US$19.4) was the strengthening of expectations of the forward price of silver during the year. A future downturn in the forward price of silver, which may happen given the cyclical nature of prices, would result in recognising an unrealised loss in the income statement. A reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance is shown below: G O VE RN A N C E 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Balance at 1 January: 298,659 318,268 Cash received (55,623) (39,010) Cash receivable (7,195) Remeasurement gains recognised in profit and loss 191,840 19,401 Balance at 31 December 427,681 298,659 See note 31 for further information on the inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value of this derivative, see note 32 for further information relating to market and credit risks associated with the Silverstream asset, and note 2(c) for the estimates and assumptions. FIN AN C IAL S Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 142 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16 Inventories At the date of the balance sheet this item is comprised of the following: As at 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Finished goods(1) 3,027 499 Work in progress(2) 22,938 6,277 Operating materials and spare parts 38,675 28,204 64,640 34,980 Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories (1,548) (1,197) Total inventories at the lower of cost and net realisable value 63,092 33,783 (1) Finished goods include metals contained in concentrates and doré bars, and concentrates on hand or in transit to a smelter or refinery. (2) Work in progress includes metals contained in stockpile ore and in ores in leaching pads. The majority of stockpile is located at Saucito. Concentrates are a product containing sulphides with variable content of precious and base metals and are sold to smelters and/or refineries. Doré is an alloy containing a variable mixture of gold and silver that is delivered in bar form to refineries. These products once processed by the smelter and refinery are sold to customers in the form of refined products. The amount of inventories recognised as an expense in the year was US$360.0 million (2009: US$252.6 million). The amount of write down of inventories recognised as an expense was US$1.2 million (2009: US$0.1 million). 17 Trade and other receivables As at 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Trade receivables from related parties (note 28)(1) 188,548 89,391 Value Added Tax receivable 8,982 8,419 Advances to suppliers and contractors 3,825 2,671 Other receivables from related parties (note 28) 7,195 434 Loans granted to contractors 5,805 Other receivables 11,220 7,806 225,575 108,721 Provision for impairment of “other receivables” (591) (479) 224,984 108,242 Other receivables classified as non-current assets: Advances to suppliers and contractors 1,172 Loans granted to contractors 7,336 Other receivables 3,179 11,687 236,671 108,242 (1) “Trade receivables from related parties” includes the fair value of embedded derivatives arising due to provisional pricing in sales contracts of US$6.2 million as at 31 December 2010 (2009: US$ (3.3) million). Trade receivables are shown net of any corresponding advances, are non-interest bearing and generally have payment terms of 46 to 60 days. Loans granted to contractors bear interest of LIBOR plus 1.5% to LIBOR plus 3% and have a maturity of 2 to 6 years. The total receivables denominated in US$ were US$226.0 million (2009: US$97.9 million), and in Pesos US$10.6 million (2009: US$10.3 million). 143 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Movements in the provision for impairment of “other receivables” in the table above were as follows: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Beginning of the year (479) (141) Charge for the year (81) (446) Amounts written off 127 Exchange difference (31) (19) End of the year (591) (479) As of 31 December for each year presented, with the exception of “other receivables” in the table below, all trade and other receivables were neither past due nor impaired. S T RAT E GY Neither Past due past due but not impaired Year ended 31 December Total impaired nor impaired <30 days 30-60 days (US$ thousands) 2010 Trade receivables from related parties 188,548 188,548 Other receivables from related party 7,195 7,195 Loans granted to contractors 13,141 13,141 Other receivables 14,399 (591) 13,808 PE R F O RM A N CE Total 223,283 (591) 222,692 2009 Trade receivables from related parties 89,391 89,391 Other receivables from related party 434 434 Other receivables 7,806 (479) 7,327 Total 97,631 (479) 97,152 In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group performs a risk analysis considering the type and age of the outstanding receivable and the credit worthiness of the counterparty. 18 Prepayments G O VE RN A N C E At the date of the balance sheet this item is comprised of the following: As at 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Insurance and bonds 2,531 1,883 Others 1 29 2,532 1,912 19 Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December FIN AN C IAL S 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Cash at bank and on hand 1,988 1,358 Short-term deposits 557,549 310,834 Cash and cash equivalents 559,537 312,192 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposits. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 144 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20 Equity Share capital and share premium The authorised and issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2010 and 2009 is as follows: Authorised Issued Class of shares Number Amount Number Amount Ordinary shares each of US$0.50 1,000,000,000 $500,000,000 717,160,159 $358,580,080 Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares each of £1.00 50,000 £50,000 50,000 £50,000 At 31 December 2010 and 2009, all issued shares with a par value of US$0.50 each are fully paid. The rights and obligations attaching to these shares are governed by law and the Company’s Articles of Association. Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company. There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary shares. The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares only entitle the shareholder on winding up or on a return of capital to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to Ordinary Shareholders. The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company. The Company may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares at a price of £1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares or require the holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares. Except at the option of the Company the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares are not transferrable. Reserves Share premium This reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value. Capital reserve The capital reserve arose as a consequence of the Pre-IPO Reorganisation as a result of using the pooling of interest method. Net unrealised gains/(losses) on revaluation of cash flow hedges This reserve records the portion of the loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge, net of tax. When the hedged transaction occurs, the gain or the loss is transferred out of equity to the income statement. Unrealised gains/(losses) on available-for-sale financial assets This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale investments, net of tax. On disposal, the cumulative changes in fair value are recycled to the income statement. Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial information of entities with a functional currency different to that of the presentational currency of the Group. Retained earnings/accumulated losses This reserve records the accumulated results of the Group, less any distributions and dividends paid. 145 GRO U P O VE RVIE W 21 Dividends paid The dividends declared and paid during the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009, are as follows: US cents per Amount ordinary share (US$ thousands) Year ended 31 December 2010 Final dividend for 2009 declared and paid during the year (1) 16.2 116,180 Interim dividend for 2010 declared and paid during the year(2) 9.2 65,979 25.4 182,159 Year ended 31 December 2009 S T RAT E GY Final dividend for 2008 declared and paid during the year (3) 7.7 55,864 Interim dividend for 2009 declared and paid during the year(4) 5.25 37,651 12.95 93,515 (1) This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 28 April 2010 and paid on 2 June 2010. (2) This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 2 August 2010 and paid on 14 September 2010. (3 ) This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 20 February 2009 and paid on 27 May 2009. (4) This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 14 August 2009 and paid on 18 September 2009. 22 Provision for mine closure cost The provision represents the discounted values of the estimated cost to decommission and rehabilitate the mines at the estimated date of depletion of PE R F O RM A N CE mine deposits. The present value of the provision at 31 December 2010 has been calculated using an annual real discount rate of 4.33 per cent (2009: 4.33 per cent). The unwinding of discount charge in 2010 has been calculated using a nominal discount rate of 8.5 per cent (2009: 8.5 per cent). Uncertainties in estimating these costs include potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning, dismantling, and reclamation alternatives and timing and the levels of discount and inflation rates. Mexican regulations regarding the decommissioning and rehabilitation of mines are limited and less developed in comparison to regulations in many other jurisdictions. It is the Group’s intention to rehabilitate the mines beyond the requirements of Mexican law, and estimated costs reflect this level of expense. The Group intends to fully rehabilitate the affected areas at the end of the life of the mines. The provision is expected to become payable at the end of the production life of each mine, which ranges from 6 to 27 years from 31 December 2010 (8 to 19 years from 31 December 2009). Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Beginning balance 35,513 18,951 G O VE RN A N C E (Decrease)/increase to existing provision (962) 14,480 Unwinding of discount (note 10) 3,005 1,615 Foreign exchange 2,126 467 Ending balance 39,682 35,513 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans The tables below provide information relating to the defined benefit pension plan, the seniority premium for voluntary separation and payments to the defined contribution plan. a) Net benefit expense (recognised in cost of sales): Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 FIN AN C IAL S (US$ thousands) Current service cost 764 625 Interest cost on benefit obligation 2,883 2,371 Expected return on plan assets (2,413) (2,103) Net actuarial (gain)/loss recognised in the year (980) 1,280 Net defined benefit expense 254 2,173 Payments to defined contribution plans 1,336 1,232 Net benefit expense (note 8) 1,590 3,405 Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 146 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Analysis of net actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the year: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Actual return on plan assets 2,758 2,400 Expected return on plan assets (2,413) (2,103) Foreign exchange (46) (108) Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 299 189 Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 681 (1,469) Net actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the year 980 (1,280) b) Benefit liability: As at 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Defined benefit obligation (38,543) (34,009) Fair value of plan assets 32,123 28,198 Benefit liability (6,420) (5,811) Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 34,009 28,851 Interest cost 2,883 2,371 Current service cost 764 625 Benefits paid (545) (409) Actuarial (gains)/losses on obligation (681) 1,469 Defined benefit increase due to personnel transfer to the Group 114 (26) Foreign exchange 1,999 1,128 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 38,543 34,009 Funded plan 32,445 28,771 Unfunded plan 6,098 5,238 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 38,543 34,009 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 28,198 25,352 Expected return on plan assets 2,413 2,103 Actuarial gains 299 189 Amount transferred due to personnel transfer to the Group 114 (26) Benefits paid (545) (409) Foreign exchange 1,644 989 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 32,123 28,198 The overall expected rate of return on assets is determined based on market expectations applicable to the period over which the obligation is to be settled. 147 GRO U P O VE RVIE W The principal assumptions used in determining pension and other post-employment benefit obligations for the Group’s plans are shown below: As at 31 December 2010 2009 % % Discount rate 7.8 8.5 Expected rate of return on plan assets 7.8 8.5 Future salary increases 4.8 5.5 The mortality assumptions are that for current and future pensioners, men and women aged 65 will live on average for a further 17.3 and 20.6 years respectively (2009: 17.28 years for men, 20.59 for women, 2008: 16.9 years both). The fair value of the plan assets was as follows: S T RAT E GY As at 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Government debt 1,076 6,762 Promissory notes 99 State owned companies 12,354 3,310 Corporate bonds 937 1,997 Mutual funds (fixed rates) 17,756 16,030 32,123 28,198 The pension plan has not invested in any of the Group’s own financial instruments nor in properties or assets used by the Group. PE R F O RM A N CE As at 31 December 2010 2009 2008 2007 (US$ thousands) Fair value of plan assets 32,123 28,198 25,352 12,702 Present value of defined benefit obligation (38,543) (34,009) (28,851) (15,272) Deficit in the plan (6,420) (5,811) (3,499) (2,570) Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 681 (1,469) (169) 1,673 Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 299 189 (488) 471 The Group has not contributed to its defined benefit pension plan in 2010 and does not expect to contribute in 2011. 24 Trade and other payables G O VE RN A N C E As at 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Trade payables 50,766 35,696 Other payables to related parties (note 28) 2,323 375 Accrued expenses 12,037 9,870 Other taxes and contributions 5,663 2,345 70,789 48,286 Trade payables are mainly for the acquisition of materials, supplies and contractor services. These payables do not accrue interest and no guarantees have been granted. The fair value of trade and other payables approximate their book values. The Group’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 32. FIN AN C IAL S Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 148 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25 Commitments (a) Capital expenditure: A summary of capital expenditure commitments is as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Minera Saucito, S.A. de C.V. 50,470 54,205 Minera Penmont, S. de R.L. de C:V. 70,056 12,102 Minera Mexicana La Ciénega, S.A. de C.V. 19,359 9,461 Minera Fresnillo, S. A. de C.V. 48,782 14,664 Minera El Bermejal, S. de R.L. de C.V. 40,703 229,370 90,432 26 Operating leases (a) Leases as lessor The group leases certain small mines to third parties and certain equipment to contractors. Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Within one year 929 1,968 After one year but not more than five years 2,043 3,737 2,972 5,705 (b) Leases as lessee The group has financial commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases for land, offices and equipment. These leases have renewal terms at the option of the lessee at lease payments based on market prices at the time of renewal. There are no restrictions placed upon the Group by entering into these leases. The future minimum rental commitments under these leases are as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Within one year 1,070 1,068 After one year but not more than five years 651 596 1,721 1,664 As at 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Minimum lease payments expensed in the year 1,612 1,227 27 Contingencies As of 31 December 2010, the Group has the following contingencies: (a) The Group is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties. (b) Tax periods remain open to review by the Mexican tax authorities in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of corporate income tax returns, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest. Under certain circumstances the reviews may cover longer periods. In addition, because a number of tax periods remain open to review by the tax authorities, there is a risk that transactions, and in particular related party transactions, that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities, may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest. It is not practical to determine the amount of any such potential claims or the 149 GRO U P O VE RVIE W likelihood of any unfavourable outcome. However, management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and that the Group has complied with all regulations and paid or accrued all taxes and withholdings that are applicable. (c) On 8 May 2008, the Company and Peñoles entered into the Separation Agreement (the “Separation Agreement”). This agreement relates to the separation of the Group and the Peñoles Group and governs certain aspects of the relationship between the Fresnillo Group and the Peñoles Group following the initial public offering in May 2008 (“Admission”). The Separation Agreement provides for cross-indemnities between the Company and Peñoles so that, in the case of Peñoles, it is held harmless against losses, claims and liabilities (including tax liabilities) properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Group and, in the case of the Company, it is held harmless by Peñoles against losses, claims and liabilities which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business. Save for any liability arising in connection with tax, the aggregate liability of either party under the indemnities shall not exceed US$250 million in aggregate. Peñoles has agreed to indemnify the Fresnillo Group in relation to: (i) any tax charge, subject to certain exceptions, the Company may incur as a result of the Pre-IPO Reorganisation (including as a result of a transaction following Admission of a member of the Fresnillo Group, provided that Peñoles has confirmed that the proposed transaction will not give rise to a tax charge, or as a result of a transaction of a member of the Peñoles Group on or after Admission), the Global Offer or Admission and (ii) certain tax aspects of certain other pre-Admission transactions. Peñoles’ liability S T RAT E GY under these indemnities and in respect of general tax liabilities arising pre-Admission which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Fresnillo Group shall not exceed US$500 million. If a member of the Fresnillo Group forming part of Peñoles’ tax consolidation pays an intra-group dividend in excess of its net income tax account (“Cuenta de Utilidad Fiscal Neta” o “CUFIN”) after Admission and is relieved of tax as a result of the consolidation, it is required to pay Peñoles an amount in respect of that tax. 28 Related party balances and transactions The Group had the following related party transactions during the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009 and balances as at 31 December 2010 and 2009. Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by the ultimate controlling party, those who have a minority participation in Group companies, and key management personnel of the Group. PE R F O RM A N CE (a) Related party accounts receivable and payable Accounts Receivable Accounts Payable As at 31 December As at 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Trade: Met-Mex Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. 188,548 89,391 Other receivables: Industrias Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. 7,195 434 2,323 375 Sub-total 195,743 89,825 2,323 375 Less-Current portion 195,743 89,825 2,323 375 Non-current portion G O VE RN A N C E Related party accounts receivable and payable will be settled in cash. Other balances with related parties: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Silverstream contract: Industrias Peñoles, S.A.B. de C.V. 427,681 298,659 The Silverstream contract can be settled in either silver or cash. Details of the Silverstream contract are provided in note 15. FIN AN C IAL S Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 150 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued (b) Principal transactions with affiliates, including Industrias Peñoles S.A.B de C.V., the Company’s parent, are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Income: Sales:(1) Met-Mex Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. 1,397,399 821,578 Other income 860 659 Total income 1,398,259 822,237 (1) Figures do not include hedging losses. Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Expenses: Administrative services: Servicios Administrativos Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. 29,832 30,308 Servicios de Exploración, S.A. de C.V. 2,781 1,678 32,613 31,986 Energy: Termoelectrica Peñoles, S. de R.L. de C.V. 26,074 17,785 Operating materials and spare parts: Wideco Inc 3,747 2,977 Equipment repair and administrative services: Serviminas, S.A. de C.V. 3,538 2,427 Met-Mex Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. 2,223 1,563 5,761 3,990 Other expenses: 11,485 8,366 Total expenses 79,680 65,104 (c) Compensation of key management personnel of the Group Key management personnel include the members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee who receive remuneration. Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Salaries and bonuses 3,716 3,624 Post-employment pension 59 78 Other benefits 615 562 Total compensation paid to key management personnel 4,331 4,186 Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Accumulated accrued defined pension entitlement 14,528 13,230 This compensation includes amounts paid to directors disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. The accumulated accrued defined pension entitlement represents benefits accrued at the time the benefits were frozen. There are no further benefits accruing under the defined benefit scheme in respect of current services. 151 GRO U P O VE RVIE W 29 Auditor’s remuneration Fees due by the Group to its auditor during the year ended 31 December 2010 and the year ended 31 December 2009 is as follows: Ernst & Young Year ended 31 December Class of services 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Audit of the financial statements 1,101 1,197 Local statutory audits of subsidiaries 202 245 Other services pursuant to legislation 263 296 Other services relating to taxation 41 107 Other services 8 S T RAT E GY Total 1,615 1,845 30 Notes to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Year ended 31 December Notes 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operating activities Profit for the year 749,398 358,267 Adjustments to reconcile profit for the year to PE R F O RM A N CE net cash inflows from operating activities: Depreciation 5 105,216 67,227 Employee profit sharing 8 38,404 24,981 Deferred income tax 11 77,945 7,529 Current income tax expense 11 195,024 91,622 Loss on the sale of property, plant and equipment and other assets 9 754 144 Other expenses 10,695 485 Net finance costs 10 397 237 Foreign exchange gain (1,801) (9,498) Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the income statement 254 2,174 Non cash movement on derivatives (801) 25,018 Changes in fair value of Silverstream 15 (191,840) (19,401) Working capital adjustments Increase in trade and other receivables (147,220) (50,495) (Increase)/decrease in prepayments and other assets (3,303) 1,643 G O VE RN A N C E (Increase)/decrease in inventories (29,309) 4,856 Increase in trade and other payables 13,865 6,162 Cash generated from operations 817,678 510,951 Income tax paid (90,380) (102,347) Employee profit sharing paid (26,599) (17,892) Net cash from operating activities 700,699 390,712 FIN AN C IAL S Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 152 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31 Financial instruments (a) Fair values The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows: As at 31 December Carrying amount Fair value 2010 2009 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Financial assets: Cash and cash equivalents(1) 559,537 312,192 559,537 312,192 Trade and other receivables(1) (2) 218,520 97,152 218,520 97,152 Available-for-sale financial assets 141,777 68,435 141,777 68,435 Silverstream contract (note 15) 427,681 298,659 427,681 298,659 Derivative financial instruments 4,056 1,373 4,056 1,373 Financial liabilities: Trade and other payables(1) 53,089 36,071 53,089 36,071 Derivative financial instruments 152 95 152 95 (1) The carrying value of these financial instruments is deemed to approximate fair value (note 17, 19 and 24). (2) “Trade and other receivables” includes the fair value of embedded derivatives arising due to provisional pricing in sales contracts of US$6.2 million as at 31 December 2010 (2009: US$(3.3) million). (b) Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of the financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly; and Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data. The financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorised into the following fair value hierarchy as at 31 December. As of 31 December 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total (US$ thousands) Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 4,056 4,056 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts 6,162 6,162 Silverstream contract 427,681 427,681 4,056 433,843 437,899 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 141,777 141,777 141,777 4,056 433,843 579,676 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Options and forward foreign exchange contracts (152) (152) (152) (152) As of 31 December 2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total (US$ thousands) Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 1,373 1,373 Silverstream contract 298,659 298,659 1,373 298,659 300,032 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 68,435 68,435 68,435 1,373 298,659 368,467 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Option and forward foreign exchange contracts (95) (95) Embedded derivatives within sales contracts (3,348) (3,348) (95) (3,348) (3,443) 153 GRO U P O VE RVIE W There have been no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements. A reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance for Level 3 financial instruments other than Silverstream (which is disclosed in note 15) is shown below: 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Balance at 1 January: (3,348) 3,976 Changes in fair value 35,573 23,994 Realised sales (26,063) (31,318) Balance at 31 December 6,162 (3,348) S T RAT E GY Silverstream contract: The fair value of the Silverstream contract is determined using a valuation model (for further information relating to the Silverstream contract see note 15). This derivative has a term of over 20 years and the valuation model utilises a number of inputs that are not based on observable market data due to the nature of these inputs and/or the duration of the contract. Inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are the volume of silver that will be produced and sold from the Sabinas mine over the contract life, the future price of silver, future foreign exchange rates between the Mexican Peso and US Dollar, future inflation and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows. The sensitivity of the valuation to the inputs relating to market risks, being the price of silver, foreign exchange rates, inflation and the discount rate is disclosed in note 32. The estimate of the volume of silver that will be produced and sold from the Sabinas mine requires estimates of the recoverable silver reserves and resources, the related production profile based on the Sabinas mine plan and the expected recovery of silver from ore mined. The estimation of these inputs is subject to a range of operating assumptions and may change over time. Estimates of reserves and resources are updated annually by Peñoles, PE R F O RM A N CE the operator and sole interest holder in the Sabinas mine and provided to the Company. The production profile and estimated payable silver that will be recovered from ore mined is based on the latest plan and estimates, also provided to the Company by Peñoles. The inputs assume no interruption in production over the life of the Silverstream contract and production levels which are consistent with those achieved in recent years. Embedded derivatives within sales contracts: Sales of concentrates, precipitates and doré bars are “provisionally priced” and revenue is initially recognised using this provisional price and the Group’s best estimate of the contained metal. Revenue is subject to final price and metal content adjustments subsequent to the date of delivery (see note 2 (r)). This price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and is separated from the sales contract. At each reporting date the provisionally priced metal content is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the relevant sales contract. The selling price of metals can be reliably measured as these metals are actively traded on international exchanges but the estimated metal content is a non observable input to this valuation. At 31 December 2010 the fair value of embedded derivatives within sales contracts was US$6.2 million (2009: US$(3.3) million). The revaluation effects of embedded derivatives arising from these sales contracts are recorded as an adjustment to revenues. G O VE RN A N C E (c) Hedging activities-cash flow hedges The Group historically entered into derivative transactions with the purpose of managing commodity price risk associated with the sale of lead, zinc, gold and silver. The Group did not have open commodity contracts used for base metals hedging at 31 December 2010 or 2009. Derivative hedging instruments relating to gold and silver sales were terminated during the second half of 2007 resulting in a cash payment of US$81.3 million at the date of termination. The cumulative hedging losses relating to the terminated hedging instruments were deferred in equity and reclassified to the income statement when the forecast transaction occurs. In 2009 the Group recycled pre-tax hedging losses of US$25.0 million which was included in revenue. During 2010 there are no pre-tax losses recycled to the income statement with respect to the derivatives terminated in 2007 and as at 31 December 2010 there are no remaining pre-tax hedging losses related to these derivatives. FIN AN C IAL S The Group enters into certain forward and option contracts in order to manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk associated with costs incurred in Mexican Pesos and Euros. The carrying value of these derivative contracts is detailed below: Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 154 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued • Foreign currency contracts As at 31 December 2010 2010 Contract Contract Fair Term Currency value exchange rate value (thousands) (US$ thousands) Mexican Peso denominated forward contracts 2011 US$ 75,000* MX$12.50:US$1 to MX$13.24:US$1 2,027 *Reflects US$63 million forward sales contracts and US$12 million forward purchase contracts. The Group also entered into a number of Mexican Peso-US Dollar collars to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. These derivative instruments mature over the period from 12 January 2011 to 2 September 2011. The collar instruments hedge costs denominated in Mexican Pesos amounting to US$36 million with a range of floor prices from MX$12.90 to MX$13.30:US$1 and a range of capped prices from MX$13.50 to MX$14.50:US$1. The fair value of the Put options at 31 December 2010 was an asset of US$2.0 million and a liability of US$0.2 million, and the fair value of the Call options at 31 December 2010 was a liability of US$0.1 million. As at 31 December 2009 2009 Contract Contract Fair Term Currency value exchange rate Value (thousands) (US$ thousands) Mexican Peso denominated forward sales contracts 2010 US$ 21,000 MX$13.50:US$1 to MX$14.13:US$1 1,185 Mexican Peso denominated forward purchase contracts 2010 US$ 8,000 MX$13.11 US$1 to MX$13.53 US$1 (28) Mexican Peso denominated option contracts 2010 US$ 10,000 MX$11.50:US$1 to MX$12.00:US$1 (67) Euro denominated forward contracts 2010 EUR 5,508 US$1.40:EUR€1 188 Foreign currency hedging contracts held as at 31 December 2009 had maturity dates from January to June 2010 corresponding with when the hedged costs were expected to be incurred. The following table summarises the movements in deferred gains or losses on derivative instruments qualifying for hedge accounting, net of tax effects, recorded in equity for the year: As at 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Beginning balance 895 (26,408) (Gains)/losses recycled to income statement in the year (1) (2,102) 34,038 Deferred tax recycled 631 (9,531) Unrealised gain before tax arising during the year 3,927 3,918 Deferred tax on unrealised losses arising during the year and taken directly to equity (1,179) (1,122) Ending balance 2,172 895 (1) Of the net gains recycled to income, US$2.1 million gains were included in cost of sales (2009: US$24.8 million losses in revenue and US$7.1 million losses in cost of sales). 32 Financial Risk Management Overview The Group’s principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise trade receivables, cash, available-for-sale assets and trade payables. The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: a) Market risk, including foreign currency, commodity price, interest rate, inflation rate and equity price risks b) Credit risk c) Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks and the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for assessing and managing risk. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. 155 GRO U P O VE RVIE W The Group’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities. The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations. The Fresnillo Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group. The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit, which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee. (a) Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as foreign exchange rates, commodity prices or interest rates will affect the Group’s income or the value of its financial instruments. S T RAT E GY The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk. Foreign currency risk The Group has financial instruments that are denominated in Mexican Pesos (2009: Mexican Pesos and UK Pound Sterling) which are exposed to foreign currency risk. Transactions in foreign currencies include the purchases of services, fixed assets, spare parts and other items. As a result, the Group has financial assets and liabilities denominated in Mexican Pesos, also holds cash and cash equivalents in Mexican Pesos (2009: Mexican Pesos and UK Pound Sterling). The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding Silverstream) to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Mexican Peso, reflecting the impact on the Group’s profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant. It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable exchange rates for the purposes of calculating the sensitivity with relation to derivative financial instruments. PE R F O RM A N CE Strengthening/(weakening) Effect on profit Effect on equity: Year ended 31 December of US dollar before tax: increase/(decrease) increase/(decrease) (US$ thousands) (US$ thousands) 2010 10% (715) (8,660) (10%) 874 12,058 2009 10% 1,363 (2,741) (10%) (1,666) 3,351 In order to manage the Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk on expenditure denominated in Mexican Pesos, the Group has entered into certain forward and option derivative contracts with maturity dates in 2011 (see note 31 for additional detail). The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the UK pound sterling on the Group’s profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant: Strengthening/(weakening) Effect on profit G O VE RN A N C E Year ended 31 December of US dollar before tax: increase/(decrease) (US$ thousands) 2010 10% (10%) 2009 10% (3,308) (10%) 4,043 There is no impact on the Group’s equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Foreign currency risk Silverstream Future foreign exchange rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in the Mexican Peso as compared to the US dollar, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant. It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model. FIN AN C IAL S Strengthening/(weakening) Effect on fair value: Year ended 31 December of US dollar increase/(decrease) (US$ thousands) 2010 10% (4,953) (10%) 6,053 2009 10% (5,467) (10%) 6,681 Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 156 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Commodity risk The Group has exposure to changes in metals prices (specifically silver, gold, lead and zinc) which have a significant effect on the Group’s results. These prices are subject to global economic conditions and industry-related cycles. Historically the Group used derivative instruments to hedge against precious metals commodity price fluctuations. This practice was discontinued in 2007, when the Group assumed precious metals commodity risk exposure in response to favourable price trends. The table below reflects the aggregate sensitivity of financial assets and liabilities (excluding Silverstream) to a reasonably possible change in gold and silver prices, reflecting the impact on the Group’s profit before tax with all other variables held constant. It is assumed that the same percentage change in gold and silver prices is applied to all applicable periods. There is no impact on equity, other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Increase/ (decrease) Effect on profit Year ended 31 December in silver and gold price before tax: increase/(decrease) (US$ thousands) 2010 15% 22,065 (15%) (21,935) 2009 15% 12,112 (15%) (12,112) The sensitivity shown in the table above relates to changes in fair value of embedded derivatives within sales contract. Commodity price risk Silverstream Future silver price is one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in future silver prices, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant. It is assumed that the same percentage change in silver price is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model. Increase/ (decrease) Effect on fair value: Year ended 31 December in silver price increase/(decrease) (US$ thousands) 2010 25% 120,165 (25%) (120,165) 2009 15% 51,523 (15%) (51,523) Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair values of its financial instruments, principally relating to the cash balances and Silverstream contract held at the balance sheet date. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of all financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding Silverstream) to a reasonably possible change in interest rate applied to a full year from the balance sheet date. Basis point increase/(decrease) Effect on profit Year ended 31 December in interest rate before tax: increase/(decrease) (US$ thousands) 2010 100 5,727 (100) (5,727) 2009 100 3,121 (100) (3,121) There is no impact on the Group’s equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. The sensitivity shown in the table above primarily relates to the full year of interest on cash balances held as at the year end. 157 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Interest rate risk Silverstream Future interest rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant. It is assumed that the same change in interest rate is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model. Basis point increase/ (decrease) Effect on fair value: Year ended 31 December in interest rate increase/(decrease) (US$ thousands) 2010 100 (16,887) (100) 18,423 2009 100 (14,796) (100) 16,392 S T RAT E GY Equity price risk The Group has exposure to changes in the price of equity instruments that it holds as available-for-sale assets. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of available-for-sale assets to a reasonably possible change in market price of these equity instruments, reflecting the effect on the Group’s profit before tax and equity: Increase/(decrease) in Effect on profit Effect on equity: Year ended 31 December equity price before tax: increase/(decrease) increase/(decrease) (US$ thousands) (US$ thousands) 2010 5% 7,089 (5%) (7,089) PE R F O RM A N CE 2009 5% 3,422 (5%) (3,422) Inflation rate risk-Silverstream Future inflation rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract to a reasonably possible change in the inflation rate, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant. It is assumed that the same change in inflation is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model. Basis point increase/ (decrease) Effect on fair value: Year ended 31 December in inflation rate increase/(decrease) (US$ thousands) 2010 100 1,827 (100) (1,753) 2009 100 1,886 G O VE RN A N C E (100) (1,830) (b) Credit risk Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Group’s ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets and derivative financial instruments. The financial assets are trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, the Silverstream contract and available-for-sale financial assets. The Group’s policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of counterparties’ failure to honour theirs obligations. Individual exposures are monitored with customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each counterparty. The Group’s financial assets are with counterparties with what the Group considers to have an appropriate credit rating. As disclosed in note 28, the counterparties to a significant proportion of these financial assets are related parties. At each balance sheet date, the Group’s financial assets were neither impaired nor past due, other than “Other receivables” as disclosed in note 17. The Group’s policies are aimed at minimising losses from foreign currency hedging contracts. The Company’s foreign currency hedging contracts are entered into with large financial institutions with strong credit ratings. FIN AN C IAL S The Group has a high concentration of trade receivables with one counterparty Met-Mex Peñoles, the Group’s primary customer throughout 2010 and 2009. A further concentration of credit risk arises from the Silverstream contract. Both Met-Mex and the counterparty to the Silverstream contract are subsidiaries in the Peñoles group which currently owns 77 per cent of the shares of the Company and is considered by management to be of appropriate credit rating. Refer to note 17 for analysis of trade receivables ageing. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 158 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The Group’s surplus funds are managed by Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V., which manages cash and cash equivalents investing in a number of financial institutions. In order to minimize exposure to credit risk, the Group only deposits cash and cash equivalents with financial institutions with a credit rating of P-1 (Moody´s) and mxA-1+ (Standard and Poors) and above, and only for periods of less than 30 days. The maximum credit exposure at the reporting date of each category of financial asset above is the carrying value as detailed in the relevant notes. See note 14 for the maximum credit exposure to available-for-sale financial assets, note 19 for cash and cash equivalents and note 28 for related party balances with Met-Mex. The maximum credit exposure with relation to the Silverstream contract is the value of the derivative as at 31 December 2010, being $427.6 million (In 2009 $298.7). (c) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using projected cash flows from operations and by monitoring the maturity of both its financial assets and liabilities. The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments. (US$ thousands) Within 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years > 3 years Total As at 31 December 2010 Trade and other payables 53,089 53,089 Derivative financial instruments – assets 102,000 102,000 Derivative financial instruments – liabilities 12,164 12,164 As at 31 December 2009 Trade and other payables 36,071 36,071 Derivative financial instruments – assets 30,187 30,187 Derivative financial instruments – liabilities 18,000 18,000 The payments disclosed for financial derivative instruments in the above table are the gross undiscounted cash flows. However those amounts may be settled gross or net. The following table shows the corresponding estimated inflows based on the contractual terms: (US$ thousands) Within 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years > 3 years Total As at 31 December 2010 Inflows 117,800 117,800 Outflows (114,164) (114,164) Net 3,636 3,636 As at 31 December 2009 Inflows 40,246 40,246 Outflows (48,187) (48,187) Net (7,941) (7,941) The above liquidity tables include expected inflows and outflows from currency option contracts which the Group expects to exercise in 2011. It is the Group’s expectation that currency option contracts will not be exercised unless doing so is beneficial to the Group. Options that are not expected to be beneficial to the Group have therefore been excluded from the liquidity analysis. Management considers that the Group has adequate current assets and forecast cash from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from current liabilities and non-current liabilities. Capital management The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios that support its business and maximise shareholder value. Management considers capital to consist only of equity as disclosed in the balance sheet. In order to ensure an appropriate return for shareholder’s capital invested in the Company, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and approves them at its Executive Committee before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable. 159 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT GRO U P O VE RVIE W to the members of Fresnillo plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Fresnillo plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income, Parent Company Balance Sheet, the Parent Company Cash Flow Statement, the Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 18. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. S T RAT E GY Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 111, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and PE R F O RM A N CE adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: • Give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 of December 2010 • Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and • Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: • The part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act G O VE RN A N C E 2006; and • The information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements. Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: • Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or • The parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or • Certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or • We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. FIN AN C IAL S Other matter We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Fresnillo plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 Nick Gomer (Senior statutory auditor) for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor FINANCIALS London 28 February 2011 Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 160 Fresnillo plc Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income for the years ended 31 December Notes 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Profit for the year 3 483,813 1,475,296 Fair value gain on available-for-sale financial assets 7 73,342 22,880 Tax effect of fair value gain on available-for-sale financial assets 5 (20,536) (6,407) Net effect of available for sale financial assets 52,806 16,473 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 52,806 16,473 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax, attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 536,619 1,491,769 161 Fresnillo plc Parent Company GRO U P O VE RVIE W Balance Sheet as at 31 December Notes 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) ASSETS Non-current assets Investments in subsidiaries 6 7,246,569 7,092,908 Available-for-sale financial assets 7 141,777 68,435 S T RAT E GY 7,388,346 7,161,343 Current assets Interest bearing loans 14 61,143 Trade and other receivables 8 11,274 5,021 Income tax refund due 97 Derivative financial instruments 17 4,056 1,373 Cash and cash equivalents 9 189,396 36,625 265,966 43,019 PE R F O RM A N CE Total assets 7,654,312 7,204,362 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital and reserves attributable to equity shareholders of the Company Share capital 10 358,680 358,680 Share premium 10 818,597 818,597 Merger reserve 10 5,789,600 5,681,583 Net unrealised gains on available-for-sale financial assets 10 58,189 5,383 Retained earnings 10 495,774 302,137 Total equity 7,520,840 7,166,380 G O VE RN A N C E Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liability 5 21,129 817 21,129 817 Current liabilities Interest bearing loans 14 83,365 25,552 Derivative financial instruments 17 152 28 Income tax 5,858 Trade and other payables 12 28,826 5,727 112,343 37,165 Total liabilities 133,472 37,982 FIN AN C IAL S Total equity and liabilities 7,654,312 7,204,362 These financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 28 February 2011 and signed on its behalf by: Jaime Lomelín FINANCIALS Chief Executive Officer 28 February 2011 Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 162 Fresnillo plc Parent Company Cash Flow Statement for the years ended 31 December Notes 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Net cash from operating activities 16 72,432 22,597 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets 7 (25) Return of capital from subsidiaries 45,367 Capital contribution to subsidiaries (91,011) (403,101) Loans granted to related parties (111,227) (10,546) Proceeds from repayment of loans granted to related parties 50,073 354,164 Interest received 1,879 11,657 Dividends received 321,297 119,659 Settlement of derivative contracts 859 (7,571) Other (payments)/proceeds (1,429) 297 Net cash generated from investing activities 215,808 64,534 Cash flows from financing activities Loans granted by related parties 616,622 273,991 Repayment of loans granted by related parties (561,350) (290,819) Dividends paid 11 (182,590) (93,623) Interest paid (4,534) (5,629) Net cash used in financing activities (131,852) (116,080) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents during the year 156,388 (28,949) Effect of exchange rate on cash and equivalents (3,617) 8,457 Cash and equivalents at 1 January 36,625 57,117 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 9 189,396 36,625 During 2010 and 2009 there were no significant non-cash transactions. 163 Fresnillo plc Parent Company GRO U P O VE RVIE W Statement of Changes in Equity for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009 Unrealised gains/(losses) on AvaILAble-forsale Share Share Merger financial Retained Total capital premium reserve assets earnings equity (US$ thousands) S T RAT E GY Balance at 1 January 2009 358,680 818,597 4,358,400 (11,090) 243,539 5,768,126 Profit for the year – – – – 1,475,296 1,475,296 Other comprehensive income, net of tax – – – 16,473 – 16,473 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 16,473 1,475,296 1,491,769 Transfer of reserves – – 1,323,183 – (1,323,183) – Dividends paid – – – – (93,515) (93,515) Balance at 31 December 2009 358,680 818,597 5,681,583 5,383 302,137 7,166,380 Balance at 1 January 2010 358,680 818,597 5,681,583 5,383 302,137 7,166,380 Profit for the year – – – – 483,813 483,813 Other comprehensive income, net of tax – – – 52,806 – 52,806 PE R F O RM A N CE Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 52,806 483,813 536,619 Transfer of reserves – – 108,017 – (108,017) – Dividends paid – – – – (182,159) (182,159) Balance at 31 December 2010 358,680 818,597 5,789,600 58,189 495,774 7,520,840 G O VE RN A N C E FIN AN C IAL S FINANCIALS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 164 Fresnillo plc notes to the company financial statements 1 Corporate Information Fresnillo plc (“the Company”) is a public limited company registered in England and Wales and is the holding company for the Fresnillo subsidiaries detailed in note 6. Industrias Peñoles S.A.B. de C.V. (“Peñoles”) currently owns 77 percent of the shares of the Company and the ultimate controlling party of the Company is the Baillères family, whose beneficial interest is held through Peñoles. The country of incorporation of Peñoles is Mexico. Copies of Peñoles’ accounts can be obtained from www.penoles.com.mx. The primary activity of the Company is as holding company for the Fresnillo Group of companies. The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2010 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc on 28 February 2011. 2 Significant Accounting Policies (a) Basis of preparation and statement of compliance The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Company for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. The Company’s financial statements are also consistent with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. The financial statements of the Company have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain derivative financial instruments and available-for-sale financial instruments which have been measured at fair value. The financial statements are presented in dollars of the United States of America (US dollars or US$) and all monetary amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand (US$000) except when otherwise indicated. The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the financial statements are set out below. These accounting policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented unless otherwise stated. (b) Standards, interpretations and amendment The accounting policies applied are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009. New standards, amendments and interpretations that are effective but not applicable to the Company are as follows: • IFRS 3 (Revised) ‘Business Combinations’ and IAS 27 (Revised) ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’ • IAS 39 (Amendment) “Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement-Eligible hedged items”. Improvements to IFRSs In April 2009 the Board issued its second omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording. There are separate transitional provisions for each standard. The adoption of the following amendments resulted in changes to accounting policies but did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Company; • IAS 7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’ clarifies that only expenditures that result in a recognised asset can be classified as a cash flow from investing activities. The amendment has no impact on the Company. Other amendments resulting from Improvements to IFRS did not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Company. New and amended standards and interpretations Standards and amendments issued but not yet effective up to the date of issuance of the Company’s financial statements are listed below. This listing is of standards and interpretations issued, which the Company reasonably expects to be applicable at a future date. The Company intends to adopt those standards when they become effective. The Company has not early adopted any standard, interpretation or amendment that was issued but is not yet effective. In November 2010, the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement (subsequently amended in October 2010). This new standard represents the first phase of the IASBs work on the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classification and measurement of financial 165 GRO U P O VE RVIE W assets as defined in IAS 39. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. In subsequent phases, the IASB will address hedge accounting and derecognition. The completion of this project is expected in early 2011. The adoption of the first phase of IFRS 9 will have an effect on the classification and measurement of the Company’s financial assets. The Company will quantify the effect in conjunction with the other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture. In October 2010, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Transfers of Financial Assets, which are applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011. The Company intends to adopt this standard when it becomes effective. The Company considers that the amendments to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures (Revised), which are relevant to the Group, will not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Company. In May 2010 the IASB issued improvements to IFRSs, a further omnibus of amendments to its standards. These amendments have not been adopted as they become effective for annual periods on or after either 1 July 2010 or 1 January 2011. The Company, however, expects no impact from S T RAT E GY the adoption of the amendments on its financial position or performance. (c) Significant accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Company’s financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgments, estimation and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements. These judgments and estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, with regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements. Information about such judgments and estimation is in the accounting policies and/or the notes to the financial statements. Judgments Areas of judgment, apart from those involving estimations, that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statePE R F O RM A N CE ments are: • Determination of functional currency – note 2(d): The determination of functional currency requires management judgment, particularly where there may be several currencies in which transactions are undertaken and which impact the economic environment in which the entity operates. Estimates and assumptions Significant areas of estimation uncertainty made by management in preparing the consolidated financial information include: • Income tax – notes 2(n) and 5: Judgment is required in determining whether deferred tax assets are recognised on the balance sheet. Deferred tax assets, including those arising from un-utilised tax losses require management to assess the likelihood that the Company will generate taxable earnings in future periods, in order G O VE RN A N C E to utilise recognised deferred tax assets. Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecast cash flows from operations and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction. To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Company to realise the net deferred tax assets recorded at the balance sheet date could be impacted. • Impairment and subsequent reversal of impairment of investments in subsidiaries – notes 2(e) and 6: The Company assesses the investments in subsidiaries annually to determine whether any indication of impairment exists. Where an indicator of impairment exists, a formal estimate of the recoverable amount is made, which is considered to be the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use. A value in use assessment requires the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term commodity prices, discount rates, future capital requirements, exploration potential and operating performance. Fair value is determined as the amount that would be obtained from the sale of the asset in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties. Where an impairment charge has previously been recognised, the Company assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is any indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist or may have decreased. If any such indication exists, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of that investment, requiring similar estimates and assumptions as those for determining an impairment charge. At 31 December 2010, no impairment has been recognised. At 31 December 2010 an impairment reversal of US$108.0 million (2009: US$1,323.2 million) was recognised. FIN AN C IAL S • Valuation of derivative financial instruments – notes 2(p) and 17: Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are valued using valuation approaches and methodologies applicable to the specific type of derivative instrument. FINANCIALS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 166 notes to the company financial statements continued • Contingent liabilities regarding claims from tax authorities – note 13: By nature, contingencies will only be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur. The assessment of contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant judgment and estimates of the outcome of future events. (d) Foreign currency translation The Company’s financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the functional currency of the Company. The functional currency for the Company is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates. Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the Company are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into US dollars using the exchange rate at the date when the fair valued is determined. (e) Investments in subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company controls operating and financial policies, generally by owning more than 50% of voting rights. Investments in subsidiaries are initially recognised at acquisition cost less any provision for impairment. Subsequent to initial recognition investment in subsidiaries are recognised at fair value determined based on the net present value of the future cash flows related to its subsidiaries, using a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. When the Company incurs increases in or return of share capital, to/from its subsidiaries, such movements are recognised as an addition or return of capital to the original cost recognised in investment in subsidiaries. At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indicators of impairment. Where an indicator of impairment exists, a formal estimate of the recoverable amount of the investment in subsidiary is made, which is considered to be the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use. Fair value is determined as the amount that would be obtained from the sale of the investment in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties. If the carrying amount of an investment exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded in the income statement to reflect the investment at the recoverable amount. Where an impairment charge has previously been recognised, an assessment is made at the end of each reporting period whether there is any indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist or may have decreased. If any such indication exists, an estimate of the recoverable amount is made. An impairment loss is reversed to the income statement to the extent that the increased carrying value of the investment in subsidiary does not exceed that which would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. (f) Financial assets Financial assets are recognised when the Company becomes party to contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss; loans and receivables; held to maturity investments; or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate. The Company determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each balance sheet date. When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets classified as held-for-trading and other assets designated as fair value transactions through profit and loss on inception are included in this category. Financial assets are classified as held-for-trading if they are acquired for sale in the short term. Derivatives are also classified as held-for-trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement. Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale. After initial measurement such assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment. Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process. Current trade receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables. Long-term receivables are stated at amortised cost. 167 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the preceding categories and are not held-to-maturity investments. Available-for-sale financial assets represent equity investments that have a quoted market price in an active market; therefore a fair value can be reliably measured. After initial measurement, available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value with mark-to-market unrealised gains or losses being recognised as other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve until the financial asset is derecognised. Financial assets classified as available-for-sale are de-recognised when they are sold, and all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred. When financial assets are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement within other operating income or expense. Fair value S T RAT E GY In determining estimated fair value, investments in shares or portfolios of listed securities are valued at quoted bid prices. When quoted prices on an active market are not available (and for listed non-actively traded securities), fair value is determined using a valuation technique. Valuation techniques include using a recent arm’s length transaction, if available, reference to the current fair value of another instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models. If the range of reasonable fair value is significant and the probabilities of the various estimates cannot be reliably assessed, the investment is not re-measured at fair value. (g) Impairment of financial assets The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. Assets carried at amortised cost PE R F O RM A N CE If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future expected credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate (i.e., the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition). The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account. The amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss. The Company first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant. If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment. Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date. G O VE RN A N C E In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence (such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor) that the Company will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice. The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account. Impaired receivables are derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectible. Available-for-sale financial investments If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost (net of any principal payment and amortisation) and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred from equity to the income statement. In assessing whether there is an impairment, the Group considers whether a decline in fair value is either significant or prolonged by considering the size of the decline in this value and the historic volatility in changes in fair value. Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income statement. (h) Cash and cash equivalents FIN AN C IAL S For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash on hand and short-term deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value. Short-term deposits earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates between one day and three months. For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents as defined above are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts. FINANCIALS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 168 notes to the company financial statements continued (i) Share Capital Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the net proceeds received, which is the fair value of the consideration received less costs that are incurred in connection with the share issue. The nominal par value of the shares issued is taken to the share capital account and any excess is recorded in the share premium account, including the costs that were incurred with the share issue. (j) Financial liabilities The Company recognises financial liabilities on its balance sheet when, and only when, it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, including any transaction costs incurred. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Interest bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process. (k) Contingencies Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements and are disclosed in notes unless their occurrence is remote. Contingent assets are not recognised in the financial statements, but they are disclosed in notes if they are deemed probable. (l) Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Company and the revenue can be reliably measured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received excluding discounts, rebates, and other sales taxes. Trademark Royalties Trademark royalty income is recognised only at the time when it is probable that the amounts related to certain rights will be received. Interest income Interest income is recognised as interest accrues (using the effective interest method; i.e. the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset). Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the Company’s right to receive the payment is established. (m) Finance income and costs Finance income and costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, interest income on funds invested, gains and losses from the change in fair value of derivative instruments and the unwinding of the discount on provisions. Interest income and costs are recognised as accrued, taking into account the effective yield on the asset or liability. (n) Income tax Current income tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes. 169 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: (i) where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and (ii) in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: (i) where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a S T RAT E GY transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and (ii) in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. PE R F O RM A N CE Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement. Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. (o) De-recognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is generally de-recognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires. Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a de-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss. G O VE RN A N C E The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability (or part of a financial liability) extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement. (p) Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Company enters into derivative contracts in order to manage certain market risks derived from changes in prices of base metals and foreign exchange which impact the financial and business transactions of its subsidiaries. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. In the Group’s consolidated financial statements these derivative instruments are designated as cash flow hedges but for the purposes of the Company’s stand alone financial statements the related hedged items are not held by the Company, so do not qualify as cash flow hedges. Any gains and losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to FIN AN C IAL S the income statement. The cash flows from these derivatives are therefore not related to financing activities of the Company and the presentation in the Parent Company Cash Flow Statement has been amended to include them within investing activities. Derivatives are valued using valuation approaches and methodologies (such as Black Scholes and Net Present Value) applicable to the specific type of derivative instrument. The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles. FINANCIALS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 170 notes to the company financial statements continued Embedded derivatives Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the Company first becomes party to the contract, with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows. Embedded derivatives which are not clearly and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives. (q) Dividend Distribution Dividends payable to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. (r) Value added tax Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of value added tax. The net amount of VAT recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the balance sheet. (s) Borrowing costs Finance costs are generally expensed as incurred except where they relate to the financing of construction or development of qualifying assets requiring a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended future use. In the case of such qualifying assets, finance costs are capitalised up to the date when the asset is ready for its intended use. The amount of finance costs capitalised (before the effects of income tax) for the period is determined by applying the interest rate applicable to appropriate borrowings outstanding during the period to the average amount of accumulated expenditure for the assets during the period. 3 Profit or Loss attributable to the parent company The profit for the Company is US$483.8 million for the year ended 31 December 2010 (2009: US$1,475.3 million). In accordance with the exemption granted under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 a separate income statement for the Company has not been presented. 4 Segment Reporting Segmental information is not presented in the Company’s stand-alone financial statements as this is presented in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 5 Income Tax a) Income tax reported in other comprehensive income Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Deferred income tax related to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income: Unrealised gain on available-for-sale assets (note 7) (20,536) (6,407) Income tax charge reported in other comprehensive income (20,536) (6,407) (b) The movements in the deferred income tax liability are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Beginning balance (817) 5,837 Income statement charge/(credit) 224 (247) Unrealised gain on available-for-sale financial assets (20,536) (6,407) Ending balance (21,129) (817) Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities. 171 GRO U P O VE RVIE W The amounts of deferred income tax assets and liabilities before offset as at 31 December considering the nature of the temporary differences are as follows: As at 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Prepayments (120) (127) Derivative financial instruments 238 21 Available-for-sale financial assets (21,247) (711) Net deferred tax balances (21,129) (817) (c) Unrecognised deferred tax on investments in subsidiaries S T RAT E GY The Company has not recognised all of the deferred tax liability in respect of distributable reserves of its subsidiaries because it controls them and only part of the temporary differences is expected to reverse in the foreseeable future. The temporary differences for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised aggregate to US$503.5 million (2009: US$184.3 million). Income Tax (“Impuesto Sobre la Renta” or “ISR”) and Business Flat Tax (“Impuesto Empresarial a Tasa Unica” or “IETU”) In accordance to the Mexican tax law, the Company is subject to Income Tax (“ISR”) and Business Flat Tax (“IETU”). IETU is an alternative minimum corporate income tax effective in January 1, 2008 which replaced the business asset tax. Companies are required to pay the greater of their mainstream corporate income tax liability for the year or their liability to IETU. On 7th December 2009 new temporary tax rates were published in the Official Daily of the Federal Government. The tax income rate for 2009 was 28%, for 2010 is 30% and will continue in effect for 2011 and 2012, the tax rate for 2013 will be 29% and the tax rate for 2014 will be 28%. The deferred taxes PE R F O RM A N CE have been calculated at the rate applicable to the year the amounts are expected to materialise. IETU is calculated at the rate of 17% for the calendar year 2009 and 17.5% for subsequent years and applies to the sale of goods, rendering of independent services and temporary use or enjoyment of goods. In calculating the charge to IETU, deductions are allowed for certain expenses incurred in generating income. In respect of the Company, management has undertaken calculations to determine the impact of the new IETU provisions on the Company. As a result of such analysis, management has concluded that there should be no material impact on the Company, other than a US$6.1 million tax credit arising under IETU that was recognised in 2009 since the mainstream corporate income tax liability of the Company is forecast to be greater than the future potential IETU charge. These conditions continued in 2010 and no IETU liability is expected to arise in the foreseeable future. 6 Investments in subsidiaries Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) G O VE RN A N C E Beginning balance 7,092,908 5,366,624 Additions 91,011 403,101 Return of capital (45,367) Reversal of impairment 108,017 1,323,183 Ending balance 7,246,569 7,092,908 At 31 December 2010, an impairment reversal of US$108.0 million was recognised (2009: US$1,323.2 million). The recoverable value as at 31 December 2009 and 2010 was based on fair value less cost to sell. FIN AN C IAL S FINANCIALS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 172 notes to the company financial statements continued The subsidiaries in which investments are held as at 31 December 2010 and 2009 are as follows: Country of Equity Company incorporation interest 2010 2009 Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 100 Minera Penmont, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico 56 56 Minera Mexicana La Ciénega, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 100 Minera Saucito, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 100 Minera Juanicipio, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 56 56 Comercializadora de Metales Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 100 Exploraciones Mineras Parreña, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 100 Minera El Bermejal, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico 56 56 Compañía Minera Las Torres, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 100 Fresnillo Management Services Ltd UK 100 100 Fresbal Investments Ltd Canada 100 100 Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 99 99 Fresnillo Perú S.A.C. Peru 100 100 During 2009 Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo S.A. de C.V. issued new shares to the Company who now holds a 99% equity interest. Minera Fresnillo, S.A de C.V. retains a 1% shareholding in Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo S.A. de C.V. 7 Available-for-sale financial assets Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Beginning balance 68,435 45,530 Additions 25 Fair value change 73,342 22,880 Ending balance 141,777 68,435 Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: As at 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Equity securities-listed Canadian companies 141,777 68,435 Total 141,777 68,435 8 Trade and other receivables As at 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Other receivables from related parties (note 14) 10,869 4,565 Prepayments 405 456 11,274 5,021 As of 31 December for each year presented, other receivables from related parties were neither past due nor impaired. In determining the recoverability of a receivable, the Company performs a risk analysis considering the type and age of the outstanding receivable and the credit worthiness of the counterparty. 173 GRO U P O VE RVIE W 9 Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Cash at bank and on hand 13 523 Short-term deposits 189,383 36,102 Cash and cash equivalents 189,396 36,625 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposits. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Company, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates. S T RAT E GY 10 Equity Share capital and share premium The authorised and issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2010 is as follows: Authorised Issued Class of shares Number Amount Number Amount Ordinary shares each of US$0.50 1,000,000,000 $500,000,000 717,160,159 $358,580,080 PE R F O RM A N CE Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares each of £1.00 50,000 £50,000 50,000 £50,000 At 31 December 2010, all issued shares with a par value of $0.50 each are fully paid. The rights and obligations attaching to these shares are governed by law and the Company’s Articles of Association. Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company. There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary shares. The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares only entitle the shareholder on winding up or on a return of capital to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to Ordinary shareholders. The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company. The Company may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares at a price of £1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares or require the holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares. Except at the option of the Company the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares are not transferrable. Reserves Share premium G O VE RN A N C E This reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value. Merger reserve The merger reserve at 18 April 2008 represents the difference between the value of the net assets acquired as part of the Pre-IPO reorganisation and the nominal value of the shares issued pursuant to the Merger Agreement. The movement in this reserve during 2010 and 2009 represented a transfer from retained earnings following the reversal of an impairment charge relating to the Company’s investments in subsidiaries. Unrealised gains/(losses) on available-for-sale financial assets This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale investments, net of tax. On disposal, the cumulative changes in fair value are recycled to the income statement. Retained earnings FIN AN C IAL S This reserve records the accumulated results of the Company, less any distributions and dividends paid. FINANCIALS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 174 notes to the company financial statements continued 11 Dividends paid The dividends declared and paid during the year ended 31 December 2010 and 2009 were as follows: US cents per ordinary share Amount (US$ thousands) Year ended 31 December 2010 Final dividend for 2009 declared and paid during the year (1) 16.2 116,180 Interim dividend for 2010 declared and paid during the year (2) 9.2 65,979 25.4 182,159 Year ended 31 December 2009 Final dividend for 2008 declared and paid during the year (3) 7.7 55,864 Interim dividend for 2009 declared and paid during the year (4) 5.25 37,651 12.95 93,515 (1) This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 28 April 2010 and paid on 2 June 2010. (2) This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 2 August 2010 and paid on 14 September 2010. (3) This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 20 February 2009 and paid on 27 May 2009. (4) This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 14 August 2009 and paid on 18 September 2009. 12 Trade and other payables As at 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Other taxes and contributions 1,063 1,858 Other payables to related parties (note 14) 27,006 3,132 Accrued expenses 757 737 28,826 5,727 The fair value of trade and other payables approximate their book values. The Company’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables in disclosed in note 18. 13 Contingencies As of 31 December 2010 the Company has the following contingencies: (a) The Company is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties. (b) Tax periods remain open to review by the Mexican tax authorities in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of the corporate income tax return, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest. Under certain circumstances the reviews may cover longer periods. In addition, because a number of tax periods remain open to review by the tax authorities, there is a risk that transactions, and in particular related party transactions that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities, may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest. It is not practical to determine the amount of any such potential claims or the likelihood of any unfavourable outcome. However, management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and that the Company has complied with all regulations and paid or accrued all taxes and withholdings that are applicable. (c) On 8 May 2008, the Company and Peñoles entered into the Separation Agreement (the “Separation Agreement”). This agreement relates to the separation of the Fresnillo Group (“the Group”) and the Peñoles Group and governs certain aspects of the relationship between the Fresnillo Group and the Peñoles Group following the initial public offering in May 2008 (“Admission”). The Separation Agreement provides for cross-indemnities between the Company and Peñoles so that, in the case of Peñoles, it is held harmless against losses, claims and liabilities (including tax liabilities) properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Group and, in the case of the Company, it is held harmless by Peñoles against losses, claims and liabilities which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business. Save for any liability arising in connection with tax, the aggregate liability of either party under the indemnities shall not exceed US$250 million in aggregate. 175 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Peñoles has agreed to indemnify the Fresnillo Group in relation to: (i) any tax charge, subject to certain exceptions, the Company may incur as a result of the Pre-IPO Reorganisation (including as a result of a transaction following Admission of a member of the Fresnillo Group, provided that Peñoles has confirmed that the proposed transaction will not give rise to a tax charge, or as a result of a transaction of a member of the Peñoles Group on or after Admission), the Global Offer or Admission and (ii) certain tax aspects of certain other pre-Admission transactions. Peñoles’ liability under these indemnities and in respect of general tax liabilities arising pre-Admission which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Fresnillo Group shall not exceed US$500 million. If a member of the Fresnillo Group forming part of Peñoles’ tax consolidation pays an intra-group dividend in excess of its net income tax account (“Cuenta de Utilidad Fiscal Neta” o “CUFIN”) after Admission and is relieved of tax as a result of the consolidation, it is required to pay Peñoles an amount in respect of that tax. 14 Related party balances and transactions Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by the ultimate controlling party and include the Company’s subsidiaries disclosed in note 6, as well as those entities who have a minority participation in Fresnillo Group companies. There were no balances or transactions (other than dividends S T RAT E GY paid) with the parent company. Related party balances will be settled in cash. (a) Related party accounts receivable and payable Accounts Receivable Accounts Payable (US$ thousands) (US$ thousands) 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Interest bearing loans Comercializadora de Metales Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. 83,365 20,752 Minera Mexicana La Ciénega, S.A. de C.V. 30,135 Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. 31,008 4,800 PE R F O RM A N CE 61,143 83,365 25,552 Trademark royalties: Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. 4,249 20,800 Minera Mexicana La Ciénega, S.A. de C.V. 3,036 Other 101 1,184 4,350 25,020 Dividends: Minera Penmont, S. de R.L. de C.V. 10,831 Administrative services: Fresnillo Management Services Ltd 156 410 Other 38 215 1,830 2,722 G O VE RN A N C E Sub-total 72,012 4,565 110,371 28,684 Less-Current portion 72,012 4,565 110,371 28,684 Non-current portion Effective interest rates on loans granted to and received from related parties are as follows: Accounts Receivable Accounts Payable (US$ thousands) (US$ thousands) 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Comercializadora de Metales Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V.: in US dollars 5.78% in Mexican Peso 9.38% 9.58% Exploraciones Mineras Parreña, S.A. de C.V. in US dollars 5.58% Minera Mexicana La Ciénega, S.A. de C.V.: FIN AN C IAL S in US dollars 9.50% in Mexican Peso 5.27% Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. in US dollars 5.27% 5.67% FINANCIALS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 176 notes to the company financial statements continued (b) Principal transactions with affiliates (apart from dividends, additional investments and returns of capital) are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Income: Trademark Royalties: Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. 54,005 34,181 Minera Mexicana La Ciénega, S.A. de C.V. 14,517 6,059 Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. 3,019 1,045 71,541 41,285 Interest on loans to related parties: Comercializadora de Metales Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. 11,102 Minera Mexicana La Ciénega, S.A. de C.V. 932 Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. 127 Other 21 72 1,080 11,174 Sales of concentrates: Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. 26,952 26,952 Other income: Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. 36 5,266 Other 155 154 191 5,420 Total income 99,764 57,879 Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Expenses: Administrative services: Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. 4,139 2,293 Fresnillo Management Services Ltd 1,597 1,735 5,736 4,028 Interest on loans from related parties: Comercializadora de Metales Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. 4,489 Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V 133 5,626 4,622 5,626 Purchase of concentrates: Minera Saucito, S.A. de C.V. 26,144 26,144 Other expenses: Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. 332 2,030 Minera Saucito, S.A. de C.V. 5,108 Other 22 332 7,160 Total expenses 36,834 16,814 177 GRO U P O VE RVIE W 15 Auditor’s remuneration The auditor’s remuneration for the Company was US$0.7 million (2009: US$1.0 million) in respect of the audit of its financial statements together with a proportion of the fees in relation to the Fresnillo Group audit. Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the stand alone financial statements because Group financial statements are prepared which are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis. 16 Notes to the Cash Flow Statement Year ended 31 December Notes 2010 2009 S T RAT E GY (US$ thousands) Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operating activities Profit for the year 483,813 1,475,296 Adjustments to reconcile profit for the year to net cash inflows from operating activities: Impairment reversal 6 (108,017) (1,323,183) Income tax expense 14,474 5,538 Other income (329,643) (119,957) Net finance income (1,309) (9,824) Foreign exchange loss 3,620 2,874 PE R F O RM A N CE Working capital adjustments Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 4,525 (1,656) Decrease in prepayments and other assets 55 100 Increase in trade and other payables 25,642 2,634 Cash generated from operations 93,160 31,822 Income tax paid (20,728) (9,225) Net cash from operating activities 72,432 22,597 17 Financial instruments a) Fair values The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows: G O VE RN A N C E As of 31 December Carrying amount Fair value 2010 2009 2010 2009 (US$ thousands) Financial assets: Cash and cash equivalents(1) 189,396 36,625 189,396 36,625 Derivative financial instruments 4,056 1,373 4,056 1,373 Interest bearing loans 61,143 61,143 Trade and other receivables(1) 10,869 4,565 10,869 4,565 Available-for-sale financial assets 141,777 68,435 141,777 68,435 FIN AN C IAL S Financial liabilities: Interest bearing loans (1) 83,365 25,552 83,365 25,552 Trade and other payables (1) 27,006 3,132 27,006 3,132 Derivative financial instruments 152 28 152 28 (1) The carrying value of these financial instruments is deemed to approximate fair value. FINANCIALS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 178 notes to the company financial statements continued (b) Fair value hierarchy The Company uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of the financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly; and Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data. The financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorised into the following fair value hierarchy as at 31 December: As of 31 December 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total (US$ thousands) Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 4,056 4,056 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 141,777 141,777 141,777 4,056 145,833 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Option and forward foreign exchange contracts (152) (152) (152) (152) As of 31 December 2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total (US$ thousands) Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 1,373 1,373 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 68,435 68,435 68,435 1,373 69,808 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Option and forward foreign exchange contracts (28) (28) (28) (28) There have been no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements. (c) Derivative financial instruments The Company enters into certain forward and option contracts in order to manage its subsidiaries’ exposure to foreign exchange risk arising from the activities of its subsidiaries. In the Group’s consolidated financial statements these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges but for the purposes of the Company’s stand alone financial statements the related hedged items are not held by the Company, so do not qualify as cash flow hedges. • Foreign currency contracts As at 31 December 2010: Contract Contract Fair Term Currency value exchange rate value (US$ thousands) Mexican Peso denominated forward contracts 2011 US$ 75,000* MX$12.50:US$1 to MX$13.24:US$1 2,027 *Reflects US$63 million forward sales contracts and US$12 million forward purchase contracts. The Company entered into a number of Mexican Peso-US Dollar collars to hedge exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates as result of the operations of its subsidiaries. These derivative instruments mature over the period from 12 January 2011 to 2 September 2011. The collar instruments hedge costs denominated in Mexican Pesos amounting to US$36 million with a range of floor prices from MX$12.90 to MX$13.30:US$1 and a range of capped prices from MX$13.50 to MX$14.50:US$1. The fair value of the Put options at 31 December 2010 was an asset of US$2.0 million and a liability of US$0.2 million, and the fair value of the Call options at 31 December 2010 was a liability of US$0.1 million. 179 GRO U P O VE RVIE W As at 31 December 2009: Contract Contract Fair Term Currency value exchange rate Value (US$ thousands) Mexican Peso denominated forward sale contracts 2010 US$ 21,000 MX$13.50:US$1 to MX$14.13:US$1 1,185 Mexican Peso denominated forward purchase contracts 2010 US$ 8,000 MX$13.11:US$1 to MX$13.53:US$1 (28) Euro denominated forward contracts 2010 EUR 5,508 US$1.40:EUR1 188 Foreign currency contracts held as at 31 December 2009 had maturity dates from January 2010 to June 2010 corresponding with when the Mexican Peso denominated costs were expected to be incurred by the Company’s subsidiaries. S T RAT E GY 18 Financial Risk Management Overview The Company’s principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, are comprised of trade receivables, cash, available-for-sale assets and trade payables. The Company enters into certain derivative transactions with the purpose of managing foreign exchange risk arising on the activity and transactions of its subsidiaries. The Company has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: PE R F O RM A N CE a) Market risk, including foreign currency, interest rate and equity price risks b) Credit risk c) Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Company’s exposure to each of the above risks and the Company’s objectives, policies and processes for assessing and managing risk. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Company risk management framework. The Company’s risk management policies have been established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Company, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Company activities. The Company, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations. G O VE RN A N C E The Fresnillo Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Company risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Company. The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit, which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee. (a) Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as foreign exchange rates, or interest rates will affect the Company income or the value of its financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk. Foreign currency risk FIN AN C IAL S The Company is exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions and balances that are denominated in currencies other than the US dollar (primarily the Mexican Peso and UK pound sterling). Transactions in foreign currencies include the purchases of services and other items. As a result, the Company has financial liabilities denominated in Mexican Pesos. The Company also holds cash and cash equivalents in Mexican Pesos. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Mexican Peso, reflecting the impact on the Company’s profit before tax with all other variables held constant. It is assumed that the same percentage FINANCIALS change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable exchange rates for the purposes of calculating the sensitivity with relation to derivative financial instruments. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 180 notes to the company financial statements continued Strengthening/(weakening) Effect on profit Year ended 31 December of US dollar before tax: increase/(decrease) (US$ thousands) 2010 10% (4,269) (10%) 6,691 2009 10% 1,210 (10%) (1,480) There is no impact on the Company’s equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar compared to the UK pound sterling, reflecting the impact on the Company’s profit before tax, with all other variables held constant: Strengthening/(weakening) Effect on profit Year ended 31 December of US dollar before tax: increase/(decrease) (US$ thousands) 2010 10% (10%) 2009 10% (3,271) (10%) 3,997 There is no impact on the Company’s equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Interest rate risk The Company is exposed to interest rate risk from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair values of its financial instruments. The Company’s earnings are sensitive to changes in interest rates on any floating element of the Company’s interest bearing loans and borrowings. As of 31 December 2010 and 2009 there were no floating rate interest bearing loans and borrowings. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of all financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in interest rate applied to a full year from the balance sheet date. Basis point increase/(decrease) Effect on profit Year ended 31 December in interest rate before tax: increase/(decrease) (US$ thousands) 2010 100 1,892 (100) (1,892) 2009 100 111 (100) (111) There is no impact on the Company’s equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Equity price risk The Company has exposure to changes in the price of equity instruments that it holds as available-for-sale assets. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of available-for-sale assets to a reasonably possible change in market price of these equity instruments, reflecting the effect on the Company’s profit before tax and equity: Increase/(decrease) in Effect on profit Effect on equity: Year ended 31 December equity price before tax: increase/(decrease) increase/(decrease) (US$ thousands) (US$ thousands) 2010 5% 7,089 (5%) (7,089) 2009 5% 3,422 (5%) (3,422) (b) Credit risk Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Company’s ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets and derivative financial instruments. The financial assets are trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale financial assets. 181 GRO U P O VE RVIE W The Company’s policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of counterparties’ failure to honour their obligations. Individual exposures are monitored with customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Company’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. The Company’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each counterparty. The Company’s financial assets are with counterparties with what the Company considers to have an appropriate credit rating. At each balance sheet date, the Company’s financial assets were neither impaired nor past due. The Company’s policies are aimed at minimising losses from the foreign currency hedging contracts. The Company’s foreign currency hedging contracts are entered into with large financial institutions with strong credit ratings The Company’s surplus funds are managed by Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V., which manages cash and cash equivalents investing in a number of financial institutions. In order to minimise exposure to credit risk, the Company only deposits cash and cash equivalents with financial institutions with a credit rating of P-1 (Moody´s) and mxA-1+ (Standard and Poors) and above, and only for periods of less than 30 days. The maximum credit exposure at the reporting date of each category of financial asset above is the carrying value as detailed in the relevant notes. See note 7 for the maximum credit exposure for available-for-sale investments, note 9 for cash and cash equivalents and note 14 for related party balances. S T RAT E GY (c) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Company monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using projected cash flows and by monitoring the maturity of both its financial assets and liabilities. The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments. (US$ thousands) Within 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years > 3 years Total As at 31 December 2010 Interest bearing loans 83,365 83,365 Trade and other payables 27,006 27,006 PE R F O RM A N CE Derivative financial instruments – assets 102,000 102,000 Derivative financial instruments – liabilities 12,164 12,164 As at 31 December 2009 Interest bearing loans 25,972 25,972 Trade and other payables 3,132 3,132 Derivative financial instruments – assets 30,187 30,187 Derivative financial instruments – liabilities 8,000 8,000 The disclosed financial derivative instruments in the above table are the gross undiscounted cash flows. However those amounts may be settled gross or net. The following table shows the corresponding estimated inflows based on the contractual terms: ((US$ thousands) Within 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years > 3 years Total G O VE RN A N C E As at 31 December 2010 Inflows 117,800 117,800 Outflows (114,164) (114,164) Net 3,636 3,636 As at 31 December 2009 Inflows 31,394 31,394 Outflows (38,187) (38,187) Net (6,793) (6,793) The above liquidity tables include expected inflows and outflows from currency option contracts which the Company expects to exercise in 2011. It is the Company’s expectation that currency option contracts will not be exercised unless doing so is beneficial to the Company. Options that are not expected to be beneficial to the Company have therefore been excluded from the liquidity analysis. Management considers that the Company has adequate current assets and forecast cash from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from current FIN AN C IAL S liabilities and non-current liabilities. Capital management The primary objective of the Company’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios that support its business and maximise shareholder value. Management considers capital to consist only of equity as disclosed in the balance sheet. In order to FINANCIALS ensure an appropriate return for shareholder’s capital invested in the Company, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and approves them at its Executive Committee before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable. Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 182 Fresnillo plc OPERATING STATISTICS Ore processed Silver (tonnes) (grams/tonne) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Fresnillo 2,207,282 2,312,691 2,324,575 2,471,657 2,553,991 519.0 492.0 494.0 486.6 474.4 Ciénega 673,448 718,726 751,143 780,881 860,513 68.7 54.0 46.2 74.5 49.4 Herradura 8,789,794 10,869,234 13,609,318 15,617,014 16,616,247 0.9 1.0 0.6 0.8 1.3 Saucito 0 0 0 71,170 145,148 0 0 0 367.2 306.0 Soledad-Dipolos 0 0 0 0 9,647,939 0 0 0 0 0.6 Zinc Concentrate Silver (tonnes) (grams/tonne) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Fresnillo 27,522 24,102 21,922 22,317 23,719 2,387 2,090 2,212 2,516 2,444 Ciénega 19,338 18,486 21,806 15,150 18,950 267 202 162 344 186 Herradura 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Saucito 0 0 0 165 302 0 0 0 2,811 2,473 Soledad-Dipolos 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Lead Concentrate Silver (tonnes) (grams/tonne) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Fresnillo 39,855 38,406 39,608 51,699 60,526 24,444 25,586 25,064 19,972 17,276 Ciénega 18,353 19,107 21,795 16,092 17,436 1,767 1,382 1,123 2,567 1,734 Herradura 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Saucito 0 0 0 1,250 2,869 0 0 0 17,937 12,994 Soledad-Dipolos 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Doré and other products Product Silver (tonnes) (grams/tonne) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Ciénega precipitates 11.8 16.5 18.8 24.6 25.1 144,748 100,543 80,665 113,635 122,745 Ciénega gravimetric concentrator 0 0 0 36.5 197.1 0 0 0 3,192 2,150 Herradura doré 11.4 13.8 13.1 17.2 21.2 371,677 483,722 419,249 469,606 502,980 Herradura slag 192.2 325.0 420.6 492.6 588.1 1,437 3,429 3,255 2,939 2,234 Soledad-Dipolos doré 0 0 0 0 5.0 0 0 0 0 174,199 Soledad-Dipolos slag 0 0 0 0 496.1 0 0 0 0 1,490 Fresnillo concentrate from tailings dam 1,959.5 2,765.7 2,610.3 2,914.7 3,247.1 3,565.0 3,473.9 3,571.8 4,451.2 4,048.0 Metal produced Attributable1 Silver Gold (ounces) (ounces) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Fresnillo 33,658,884 33,520,617 33,775,660 35,419,848 35,905,701 29,245 26,246 24,008 24,684 24,979 Ciénega 1,262,996 1,022,207 949,574 1,588,994 1,197,792 150,527 143,719 116,903 103,510 113,351 Herradura 81,582 140,318 123,656 171,303 215,686 101,702 110,167 122,730 145,510 162,984 Saucito 0 0 0 735,744 1,222,473 0 0 0 2,881 6,323 Soledad-Dipolos 0 0 0 0 29,086 0 0 0 0 61,358 Fresnillo Total 35,003,462 34,683,142 34,848,889 37,915,889 38,570,738 281,474 280,132 263,640 276,584 368,995 1 Including Production from Fresnillo’s Tailings Dam 183 GRO U P O VE RVIE W Gold Zinc Lead (grams/tonne) (%) (%) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 0.60 0.51 0.47 0.41 0.41 1.01 0.83 0.76 0.79 0.85 0.54 0.45 0.42 0.50 0.54 7.33 6.55 5.14 4.33 4.27 2.43 2.15 2.32 1.64 1.77 1.50 1.39 1.46 1.00 0.95 0.81 0.75 0.72 0.68 0.70 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1.53 1.67 0 0 0 0.30 0.37 0 0 0 0.15 0.22 0 0 0 0 0.61 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 S T RAT E GY Gold Zinc Lead (grams/tonne) (%) (%) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 3.6 3.1 2.9 2.7 2.5 52.3 51.2 51.5 51.6 51.5 0 0 0 0 0 12.4 11.4 7.9 7.1 4.7 52.8 51.8 51.5 52.5 53.4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 7.3 12.4 0 0 0 39.7 48.8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Gold Zinc Lead (grams/tonne) (%) (%) PE R F O RM A N CE 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 20.1 18.9 16.9 13.3 11.5 0 0 0 0 0 26.6 24.0 21.9 21.4 20.2 213.3 192.0 134.2 149.3 117.4 0 0 0 0 0 41.5 41.7 41.8 38.0 37.1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 70.7 67.3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 7.0 9.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Gold (grams/tonne) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 44,775 35,409 28,564 20,944 24,936 G O VE RN A N C E 0 0 0 5,343 3,874 455,639 390,309 418,800 395,547 379,778 2,251 2,245 3,147 2,613 1,699 0 0 0 0 512,231 0 0 0 0 1,676 4.8 5.8 5.4 6.4 6.5 Zinc Lead (tonne) (tonne) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 14,792 12,349 11,277 11,510 12,212 10,611 9,219 8,685 11,058 12,236 FIN AN C IAL S 10,205 9,571 11,237 7,950 10,112 7,617 7,958 9,109 6,118 6,468 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 65 147 0 0 0 88 273 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 24,997 21,920 22,515 19,526 22,472 18,228 17,177 17,793 17,264 18,977 FINANCIALS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 184 RESERVES AND RESOURCES TABLES Fresnillo plc December 31, 2010 Consolidated Mineral Resource Statement(1) Resource Category CUT-OFF GRADE Meas. & Ind. Inferred Silver Gold LEAD ZINC Silver Gold LEAD ZINC (Mt) (Mt) (gpt) (gpt) (%) (%) (Moz) (Moz) (Mt) (Mt) Minera Fresnillo Fresnillo Measured 9.5 719 0.76 0.75 1.29 218.9 0.23 0.071 0.122 Indicated 86 gpt Ag-Eq 28.0 333 0.78 2.15 4.47 298.9 0.71 0.601 1.249 San Julián Indicated (Veins)* 2.1 gpt Au-Eq 4.4 176 1.71 0.00 0.00 25.2 0.24 0.000 0.000 Indicated (Disseminated)* 125 gpt Ag-Eq 16.3 193 0.08 0.53 1.36 101.1 0.04 0.087 0.222 Measured & Indicated 58.2 344 0.65 1.30 2.74 644.1 1.22 0.759 1.593 Fresnillo Inferred 86 gpt Ag-Eq 21.7 301 0.68 1.92 4.18 210.2 0.48 0.417 0.910 San Julián Inferred (Veins)* 2.1 gpt Au-Eq 3.8 145 1.68 0.00 0.00 17.5 0.20 0.000 0.000 Inferred (Disseminated)* 125 gpt Ag-Eq 0.04 49 0.03 0.47 2.26 0.1 0.00 0.000 0.001 Inferred 25.5 278 0.83 1.64 3.57 227.8 0.68 0.417 0.911 Minera ciÉNEGA Measured 5.0 105 3.38 1.00 1.48 16.8 0.54 0.050 0.074 Indicated 1.20 gpt Au-Eq 12.0 118 1.87 0.50 0.83 45.6 0.72 0.060 0.100 Measured & Indicated 17.0 114 2.31 0.65 1.02 62.4 1.26 0.110 0.174 Inferred 1.20 gpt Au-Eq 9.1 109 1.52 0.68 1.36 31.8 0.44 0.062 0.123 Inferred 9.1 109 1.52 0.68 1.36 31.8 0.44 0.062 0.123 Minera PENMONT (2) Herradura (Disseminated) Measured 38.7 1 0.83 0.00 0.00 1.2 1.03 0.000 0.000 Indicated 0.30 gpt Au 46.3 1 0.79 0.00 0.00 1.5 1.18 0.000 0.000 Herradura (Veins) Indicated 1.5 gpt Au 4.2 1 3.19 0.00 0.00 0.1 0.43 0.000 0.000 Soledad & Dipolos Measured 18.7 1 0.60 0.00 0.00 0.6 0.36 0.000 0.000 Indicated 0.30 gpt Au 18.9 1 0.58 0.00 0.00 0.6 0.35 0.000 0.000 Noche Buena Indicated 0.30 gpt Au 23.4 1 0.49 0.00 0.00 0.8 0.37 Measured & Indicated 150.2 1 0.77 0.00 0.00 4.8 3.72 0.000 0.000 Herradura (Disseminated) Inferred 0.30 gpt Au 15.6 1 0.67 0.00 0.00 0.5 0.34 0.000 0.000 Herradura (Veins) Inferred 1.5 gpt Au 8.1 1 3.27 0.00 0.00 0.3 0.85 0.000 0.000 Soledad & Dipolos Inferred 0.30 gpt Au 3.2 1 0.57 0.00 0.00 0.1 0.06 0.000 0.000 Noche Buena Inferred 0.30 gpt Au 6.3 1 0.47 0.00 0.00 0.2 0.10 0.000 0.000 Inferred 33.2 1 1.26 0.00 0.00 1.1 1.34 0.000 0.000 Minera SAUCITO Measured 0.2 888 5.16 0.28 0.47 5.4 0.03 0.001 0.001 Indicated* S & M 137 gpt Ag-Eq 1.7 536 3.39 0.77 1.08 28.6 0.18 0.013 0.018 Indicated* J & V 200 gpt Ag-Eq 5.4 514 1.66 0.92 1.70 88.6 0.29 0.049 0.091 Measured & Indicated 7.2 529 2.15 0.87 1.53 122.6 0.5 0.062 0.110 Inferred* S & M 137 gpt Ag-Eq 3.2 215 3.04 0.69 1.01 22.0 0.31 0.022 0.032 Inferred* J & V 200 gpt Ag-Eq 13.7 491 1.60 2.25 3.64 216.9 0.70 0.309 0.501 Total Inferred* 16.9 439 1.87 1.95 3.15 238.9 1.02 0.331 0.533 Minera JUANICIPIO (2) Indicated* 200 gpt Ag-Eq 2.9 560 1.85 2.28 3.98 52.4 0.17 0.066 0.116 Measured & Indicated 2.9 560 1.85 2.28 3.98 52.4 0.17 0.066 0.116 Inferred* 200 gpt Ag-Eq 2.7 446 1.84 1.65 3.24 38.5 0.16 0.044 0.087 Parreña Indicated (veins)* 4.0 gpt Au-Eq 0.9 141 3.49 0.00 0.00 4.2 0.10 0.000 0.000 Indicated (Disseminated)* 0.38 gpt Au 99.9 1 1.17 0.00 0.00 4.3 3.77 0.000 0.000 Measured & Indicated 100.8 3 1.20 0.00 0.00 8.5 3.87 0.000 0.000 Inferred (breccia)* 60 gpt Ag 7.05 113 0.01 1.46 1.27 25.5 0.00 0.103 0.090 Inferred (veins)* 4.0 gpt Au-Eq 1.9 115 3.64 0.00 0.00 7.0 0.22 0.000 0.000 Inferred (Disseminated)* 0.38 gpt Au 167.9 1 1.01 0.00 0.00 7.4 5.47 0.000 0.000 Inferred 176.8 7 1.00 0.06 0.05 39.9 5.70 0.103 0.090 TOTALS Measured & Indicated 336.3 83 0.99 0.30 0.59 894.8 10.75 0.997 1.992 Inferred 264.3 68 1.10 0.36 0.66 577.9 9.33 0.957 1.743 (1) Mineral resources are reported inclusive of mineral reserves. Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability. All figures rounded to reflect the relative accuracy of the estimates. Gold, silver, lead and zinc assays were capped where appropriate. Mineral resources are reported at variable metal equivalent cut-off grades based on variable metal price assumptions and appropriate metallurgical recoveries. (2) Mineral resources quoted reflect the Fresnillo plc’s attributable 56% ownership. * Cut-off grade calculations assume 100% metal recovery, except for Minera Parreña disseminated where gold recovery of 68% and 45% were considered for oxide and sulphide material, respectively. 185 Fresnillo plc 31 December 2010 Consolidated Mineral Reserve Statement(1) GRO U P O VE RVIE W Reserve cut off Proven & Category grade Probable Silver Gold Lead Zinc Silver Gold Lead Zinc (Mt) (gpt) (gpt) (%) (%) (Moz) (Moz) t(000s) t(000s) Minera Fresnillo Proven 7.4 447 0.48 0.47 0.78 106.7 0.11 35.0 58.3 Probable 27.7 291 0.71 1.98 4.11 258.7 0.63 547.1 1,135.1 Proven & Probable 131 gpt AgEq 35.1 324 0.66 1.66 3.40 365.4 0.75 582.1 1,193.4 Minera Saucito Proven 0.3 420 2.49 0.13 0.21 3.6 0.02 0.4 0.6 Probable 2.3 347 2.16 0.49 0.69 25.5 0.16 11.2 15.8 Proven & Probable 154 gpt AgEq 2.6 355 2.20 0.45 0.64 29.3 0.18 11.6 16.4 Ciénega Proven 3.0 96 3.22 0.92 1.30 9.4 0.31 27.9 39.4 S T RAT E GY Probable 7.4 142 2.21 0.53 0.81 33.9 0.53 39.4 60.2 Proven & Probable 2.38 gpt AuEq 10.5 128 2.51 0.64 0.95 43.3 0.84 67.3 99.6 Herradura (1) Proven 33.1 1 0.85 0.00 0.00 1.1 0.90 0.0 0.0 Probable 37.2 1 0.82 0.00 0.00 1.2 0.98 0.0 0.0 Proven & Probable 0.30 gpt Au 70.3 1 0.83 0.00 0.00 2.3 1.88 0.0 0.0 Soledad/Dipolos (1) Proven 14.5 1 0.63 0.00 0.00 0.5 0.29 0.0 0.0 Probable 15.3 1 0.60 0.00 0.00 0.5 0.30 0.0 0.0 Proven & Probable 0.30 gpt Au 29.8 1 0.62 0.00 0.00 1.0 0.59 0.0 0.0 Noche Buena (1) Probable 16.7 1 0.50 0.00 0.00 0.5 0.27 0.0 0.0 Proven & Probable 0.30 gpt Au 16.7 1 0.50 0.00 0.00 0.5 0.27 0.0 0.0 PE R F O RM A N CE Fresnillo plc Total Proven 58.4 65 0.88 0.11 0.17 121.3 1.65 63.2 98.2 Probable 106.6 93 0.84 0.56 1.14 320.3 2.86 597.7 1,211.1 Proven & Probable 165.0 83 0.85 0.40 0.79 441.6 4.51 660.9 1,309.3 (1) Mineral reserves quoted reflect the Fresnillo plc’s attributable 56% ownership. G O VE RN A N C E FIN AN C IAL S FINANCIALS Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 186 UN Global Compact Index United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress (stated in pages 31 and 56) Page 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, within their influence scope. 59, 61, 63, 67, 68 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 59, 96, 97 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 9, 23, 59 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 59 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 59 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 59 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 9, 63, 64 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 25, 63, 64 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 63, 64 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 22, 59, 96, 97 187 glossary Adit Entrance to an underground mine which is horizontal or nearly horizontal by which the mine can be accessed, drained of water and ventilated AGM or Annual General Meeting The annual general meeting of the Company which is scheduled to be held on Wednesday 17 May 2011 at noon at the offices of Linklaters LLP at One Silk Street, London, EC2Y 8HQ Annual Report The annual report of Fresnillo plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 and comprising the Chairman’s Letter, Chief Executive’s Statement, Business Review, Directors’ Report, Financial Statements and accompanying notes Articles of Association The articles of association of the Company which took effect on 28 May 2010 Audit Committee The audit committee of the Board Beneficiation plant Facility where extracted ore is reduced to particles that can be separated into mineral that is suitable for further processing or direct use Board The board of directors of the Company CAMIMEX Cámara Minera de México, the Mexican Mining Chamber Cancun Communiqué Document signed by nearly 1,000 businesses setting out a case for action on climate change Capex Capital expenditures; expenditures not classified as operating costs Carbon Disclosure Project Independent not-for-profit organisation holding the largest database of primary corporate climate change information in the world CFE Comisión Federal de Electricidad, the Mexican state-owned electric utility CO2 Carbon dioxide Code of Conduct The set of principles for ethical behaviour to which all employees of the Company are obliged to adhere Combined Code The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council dated June 2008 as amended Company [see also Fresnillo plc] Fresnillo plc, a company incorporated under the UK Companies Act 1985 and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 Concentrate A metal-rich product resulting from a mineral enrichment process such as gravity concentration or flotation, in which most of the desired mineral has been separated from the waste material in the ore Consolidated Financial Statements The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2010 Diamond drilling A drilling method where the rock is cut with a diamond bit attached to hollow rods; it cuts a core of rock, recovered in cylindrical sections for geological analysis Dilution Waste, which is unavoidably mined with ore Directors The directors of the Company Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 188 GLOSSARY continued Disseminated deposit or ore body A disseminated deposit is that in which the metal is evenly distributed in generally low concentrations throughout large masses of rock. Doré An impure alloy of gold and silver, generally the final product of mining and processing; the doré bullion will be refined into high purity metal EBITDA Gross profit plus depreciation included within cost of sales, less administrative expenses and exploration expenses Ejido(s) In Mexico, the communal farmland of a village, usually assigned in small parcels to villagers to be farmed under a federally supported system of communal land tenure EPS The amount of attributable profit available to equity shareholders, as calculated by dividing attributable profit for the period by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period ETF Exchange Traded Funds, investment funds that are traded on a stock exchange Executive Committee The executive committee of the Board Executive Directors The executive Directors of the Company Exploraciones Mineras Parreña, S.A. de C.V. A wholly-owned Fresnillo plc company that controls a number of exploration prospects Financial Statements The consolidated and parent company financial statements of the Company and accompanying notes for the year ended 31 December 2010 Flotation A recovery process by which valuable minerals are separated from waste to produce a concentrate; selected minerals are induced to become attached to air bubbles and float Fresnillo Group [see also Group] Fresnillo plc and its subsidiary undertakings Fresnillo plc [see also Company] A company incorporated under the UK Companies Act 1985 and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 FSA The Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom FTSE 100, 250 or 350 Share indices compiled by FTSE International Limited and comprising the top 100, 250 or 350 companies by full market value g/t Grammes per tonne GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAS Generally Accepted Auditing Standards GHG Greenhouse gases GJ Gigajoules Government Unless otherwise specified the government of the Republic of Mexico Grade The measure of concentration of metal within mineralised rock 189 Gravimetric concentrator A fluidised centrifuge that separates heavy material such as gold from lighter background material; applied to materials in which the heavy component to be recovered is a very small fraction of the total material, generally less than 500 grammes/ tonne or 0.05% by weight GRI The Global Reporting Initiative, a network-based organisation that pioneered the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework Group [see also Fresnillo Group] Fresnillo plc and its subsidiary undertakings Haulage A horizontal underground excavation which is used to transport mined ore Hectare A unit of area equal to 10,000 square metres, or 2.47 acres Hoist Equipment used in underground mining to raise and lower conveyances within the mine shaft HSECR The Fresnillo Group Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations System (Sistema de Salud, Seguridad, Medio Ambiente y Relaciones con la Comunidad), headed by the HSECR Committee of the Board HSECR Committee Health, safety, environment and community relations committee of the Board IAS International Accounting Standards ICMM International Council on Mining and Metals, founded in 2001 to advocate performance improvement in the mining and metals industry IETU Impuesto Empresarial a Tasa Unica, a business tax in Mexico IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards Independent Non-executive Directors The Non-executive Directors of the Company who are independent of Peñoles as defined by the Relationship Agreement and by reference to Provision A.3.1 of the Combined Code INIFAP Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Forestales, Agrícolas y Pecuarias, a national R&D institute for forestry, agriculture and livestock International Cyanide Management Code Voluntary industry and audit-based programme for the gold mining industry to promote responsible management of cyanide used in gold mining IPO [also Listing] Initial Public Offering; the admission of the Company’s Ordinary Shares both to the UKLA Official List and to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange on 14 May 2008 ISO 14001 An international environmental management system standard published by the International Organisation for Standardisation ITAM Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de México, a private research university in Mexico City JORC Joint Ore Reserves Committee JV Joint venture koz Thousand troy ounces Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 190 GLOSSARY continued KPI Key Performance Indicator Leaching The process by which soluble constituents are dissolved and carried down through the soil by a percolating fluid Listing [also IPO] The admission of the Company’s Ordinary Shares both to the UKLA Official List and to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange on 14 May 2008 Listing Rules Rules relating to the admission to the Official List maintained by the UKLA in accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 m3 Cubic metres Met-Mex Met-Mex Peñoles, S.A. de C.V., the operator of a refining and smelting facility in Torréon (a 100% subsidiary of Peñoles) Met-Mex Arrangements A series of contracts between the Company and Met-Mex for the sale of the primary products from the Group’s mines, silverand gold-rich lead and zinc concentrates Milling or milled ore A general term used to describe the process in which the ore is crushed and ground and subjected to physical or chemical treatment to extract the valuable metals to a concentrate or finished product Minera Juanicipio, S.A. de C.V. A joint venture company with MAG Silver Corporation in which Fresnillo plc has a 56% interest Minera Penmont S. de R.L. de C.V. A joint venture company with Newmont USA Limited in which Fresnillo plc has a 56% interest Mineralisation Any mass of host rock in which minerals of potential commercial value occur mt Million tonnes MXN Mexican peso New Services Agreement [also NSA] New Services Agreement dated 28 October 2009 between Fresnillo and SAPSA for the provision of administrative and nonadministrative services to the Fresnillo Group NGO Non-governmental organisation Nominations Committee The nominations committee of the Board Non-executive Directors The Non-executive Directors of the Company OHSAS 18001 An international occupational health and safety management system specification created by a number of leading national standards bodies, certification bodies, and specialist consultancies Ordinary Shares Ordinary shares of US$0.50 each in the Company Ore Material that contains one or more minerals, at least one of which can be mined and treated profitably under economic conditions deemed to be reasonable Ore body A continuous well-defined mass of material of sufficient mineral content to make extraction economically feasible Ore grade The classification or value of ore 191 Ounce Troy ounce oz Troy ounce Payable Silver The amount of silver in ounces contained in concentrates from Peñoles’ Sabinas mine Peñoles Industrias Peñoles, S.A.B. de C.V. Peñoles Group Peñoles and its subsidiary undertakings Porphyry A variety of igneous rock consisting of crystals embedded in a finer groundmass of minerals Pre-feasibility study A preliminary study undertaken to determine if it would be worthwhile to proceed to the feasibility study stage, which defines the technical and economic viability of a project to support the search for project financing Pre-IPO Reorganisation A reorganisation conducted by Peñoles in preparation for the Global Offer which completed on 18 April 2008, whereby the companies comprising the precious metals mining business of Peñoles were reorganised under the Company Premium Listing That category of Listing Rules applying conditions for Listing over and above those required under European law Primary silver producer A company generating over 50% of its revenue from silver production PROFEPA Procuraduría Federal de Protección al Ambiente, the Mexican Federal Environmental Protection Agency Prospect A mineral deposit with insufficient data available on the mineralisation to determine if it is economically recoverable, but warranting further investigation Relationship Agreement The relationship agreement between Peñoles and the Company dated 8 May 2008 , the purpose of which is to ensure that the Company and its subsidiaries are capable of carrying on business independently of the Peñoles Group Remuneration Committee The remuneration committee of the Board Reserves The economically mineable portions of mineral resources, which are sub-divided into two categories of increasing confidence: probable reserves relate to indicated mineral resources; and proven reserves relate to measured mineral resources Resources A concentration or occurrence of material of intrinsic economic interest in or on the Earth’s crust in such form, quality and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction; mineral resources are sub-divided, in order of increasing geological confidence, into inferred, indicated and measured categories SAPSA Servicios Administrativos Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. Scoping study A preliminary assessment based on measured, indicated, or inferred mineral resources, or a combination of any of these; includes disclosure of forecasted mine production rates that may contain capital costs required to develop and sustain the mining operation, as well as operating costs and projected cash flows SEDESOL Secretaría de Desarrollo Social, Secretariat of Social Development SEMARNAT Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales, Secretariat of the Environment and Natural Resources Shaft An opening cut downwards from the surface for transporting personnel, equipment, supplies, ore and waste Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 192 GLOSSARY continued Shotcrete Concrete or mortar conveyed through a hose and pneumatically projected at high velocity onto any type or shape of surface, including vertical or overhead areas; shotcrete undergoes placement and compaction at the same time due to the force with which it is projected from the nozzle Silverstream Contract A series of the 12 agreements between Comercializadora de Metales Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. and Peñoles pursuant to which the Fresnillo Group has the right to receive all proceeds for the Payable Silver Six Sigma A statistics-driven approach to quality control developed originally by Motorola; the methodology aims to improve operational performance, practices and systems by eliminating variability and waste and reducing defects in manufacturing processes to 3.4 defects per million Smelting A high temperature pyrometallurgical operation conducted in a furnace, in which the valuable metal is collected to a molten matte or doré phase and separated from the gangue components that accumulate in a less dense molten slag phase Sterling Deferred Shares Deferred shares of £1.00 each in the share capital of the Company Stope Underground void created by mining STPS Secretaría del Trabajo y Previsión Social, Secretariat of Labour and Social Welfare Strike Direction of line formed by the intersection of strata surfaces with the horizontal plane, always perpendicular to the dip direction Tailings dam A dammed reservoir to which the slurry is transported, where the solids settle and the supernatant liquid may be withdrawn The Wild Foundation International organisation dedicated to wilderness protection and wilderness conservation around the world Tonne [or t] Metric tonne = 1,000 kilograms tpd Tonnes per day tpy Tonnes per year Treatment charges Fees payable by mines to smelters for processing concentrates Turnbull Guidance Guidance administered by the UK Financial Reporting Council setting out best practice on internal control for UK listed companies to assist them in applying section C.2 of the UK Combined Code UK£ United Kingdom pounds sterling UKLA The United Kingdom Listing Authority; that section of the FSA acting in its capacity as the competent authority for the purposes of Part VI of the Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 (Official Listing) UNAM Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, a public university in Mexico City United Nations Global Compact A strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption US$ United States dollar SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Financial calendar For further information, please visit our website: Preliminary Statement: 1 March 2011 www.fresnilloplc.com or contact: First Interim Management Statement: 13 April 2011 Fresnillo plc Annual General Meeting: 17 May 2011 Tel: +44(0)20 7399 2470 Interim Statement: 2 August 2011 ir@fresnilloplc.com Second Interim Management Statement: 12 October 2011 Arturo Espinola, Head of Investor Relations Dividend payment schedule 2010 Final Dividend Record Date: 3 May 2011 Forward looking statements This document includes statements that are, or may be deemed 2010 Final Dividend Payment Date: 20 May 2011 2011 Interim Dividend Record Date: 19 August 2011 to be, “forward-looking statements”. These forward-looking 2011 Interim Dividend Payment Date: 13 September 2011 statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms “believes”, “estimates”, “plans”, Registrar Joint Corporate Broker “projects”, “anticipates”, “expects”, “intends”, “may”, “will”, or Computershare Investor Services PLC JPMorgan Cazenove Limited “should” or, in each case, their negative or other variations or P.O. Box 82 20 Moorgate comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans, obThe Pavilions London EC2R 6DA jectives, goals, future events or intentions. These forward-lookBridgwater Road United Kingdom ing statements include all matters that are not historical facts. Bristol BS99 7NH They appear in a number of places throughout this document United Kingdom Merrill Lynch International and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the 2 King Edward Street Group’s intentions, beliefs or current expectations concerning, Registered office London EC1A 1HQ among other things, the Group’s results of operations, financial 28 Grosvenor Street United Kingdom position, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the silver London W1K 4QR United Kingdom Auditor and gold industries. By their nature, forward-looking statements Ernst & Young LLP involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events Corporate headquarters 1 More London Place and circumstances. Moliere No. 222 London SE1 2AF Col. Polanco United Kingdom Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future perfor11540 Mexico, D.F. mance and the actual results of the Group’s operations, financial Mexico Solicitor position and liquidity, and the development of the markets and Linklaters LLP the industry in which the Group operates, may differ materially Sponsor One Silk Street from those described in, or suggested by, the forward-looking JPMorgan Cazenove Limited London EC2Y 8HQ statements contained in this document. In addition, even if the 20 Moorgate United Kingdom London EC2R 6DA results of operations, financial position and liquidity, and the deUnited Kingdom velopment of the markets and the industry in which the Group operates are consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this document, those results or developments may WARNING TO SHAREHOLDERS BOILER ROOM SCAMS Over the last year, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicnot be indicative of results or developments in subsequent periited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters. These are typically from overseas ods. A number of factors could cause results and developments based ‘brokers’ who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the foror high risk shares in US or UK investments. These operations are commonly known as ‘boiler rooms’. ward-looking statements including, without limitation, general These ‘brokers’ can be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey by the Financial economic and business conditions, industry trends, competition, Services Authority (FSA) has reported that the average amount lost by investors is around £20,000. commodity prices, changes in regulation, currency fluctuations (including the US dollar and Mexican peso exchange rates), the It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way; many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years. Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicGroup’s ability to recover its reserves or develop new reserves, ited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports. If you receive any including its ability to convert its resources into reserves and its unsolicited investment advice: mineral potential into resources or reserves, changes in its business strategy, political and economic uncertainty. • Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation Forward-looking statements may, and often do, differ materi• Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting ally from actual results. Any forward-looking statements in this Design & Photography: 33 Visual / Printing: Earthcolor, Houston www.fsa.gov.uk/register document speak only as of the date of this document, reflect • Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting the Group’s current view with respect to future events and are www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk subject to risks relating to future events and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to the Group’s operations, • If the calls persist, hang up. results of operations, growth strategy and liquidity. Investors If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the should specifically consider the factors identified in this docuFinancial Services Compensation Scheme. The FSA can be contacted by completing an online ment which could cause actual results to differ before making form at www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/doing/regulated/law/alerts/overseas.shtml. an investment decision. Subject to the requirements of the Prospectus Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Listing Rules or applicable law, the Group explicitly disclaims any Company mailings. obligation or undertaking publicly to release the result of any revisions to any forward-looking statements in this document that More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk may occur due to any change in the Group’s expectations or to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. Fresnillo plc 28 Grosvenor Street London W1K 4QR United Kingdom www.fresnilloplc.com
