2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Cover Photos: Mu by Peugeot display at the Peugeot Darl’Mat Alésia dealership in Paris, Aerial view of the photovoltaic panel array at Sochaux, Travelling show on road safety in China – teaching children about road risks by helping them learn the basic rules of the road, Citroën C-ZERO at the PSA Peugeot Citroën booth at the Planète Durable exhibition on sustainable consumption. Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 2010 In addition to the 2010 Sustainable Development and Annual Report and its website (http://ar2010.psa-peugeot-citroen.com), this document covers the economic, environmental, social, societal and governance aspects of the sustainable development performance of PSA Peugeot Citroën companies. In addition, readers may visit the dedicated sustainable development website (www.sustainability.psa-peugeot-citroen.com/) to find out the latest news, deepen their understanding of the Group’s sustainable development challenges and impacts and learn more about its policies, programmes and accomplishments. Taken together, these media make up PSA Peugeot Citroën’s sustainable development reporting for 2010. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines For the eighth straight year, the Group’s sustainable development reporting follows the sustainability reporting guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative, using the G3 version for the fifth year. According to the criteria recommended in the “G3 Guidelines, Application Levels”, the Group’s own assessment of the 2010 sustainable development reporting results in an A+ application level, checked by the GRI (the GRI application level check Statement is available on p 169 below). Audit In their capacity as PSA Peugeot Citroën’s Statutory Auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers has performed the necessary verifications aimed at expressing moderate assurance on: uu the Group’s procedures for compiling i) the environmental indicators from PCA, PCI and PMTC production plants, Peugeot and Citroën dealerships, Gefco and Faurecia, and ii) the social indicators from the Automotive Division, Peugeot and Citroën dealerships and Gefco published in this Report. These indicators are preceded by this symbol: uu certain PCA environmental indicators and certain Automotive Division social indicators. These indicators are preceded by this symbol: Unaudited indicators are preceded by this symbol: The full review report by one of the statutory auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers, may be found on page 165 below. Contacts For more information, particularly concerning internal reporting processes, please write to Sustainable Development Department, PSA Peugeot Citroën, 75, avenue de la Grande-Armée, 75116 Paris, or send an e-mail to: contact.sustainability@mpsa.com PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 1 CONTENTS Our approach to sustainable development 5 1 Economic Performance 25 1.1. Shareholders 26 1.3. Suppliers 35 1.1.1. Ownership Structure and Form of Incorporation 26 1.3.1. Global Purchases 35 1.1.2. Payments to Capital Providers 28 1.3.2. Supplier Relations 35 1.2. Customers 30 1.3.3. Purchasing by Country and Local Content 37 1.2.1. Automobile Sales 30 1.2.2. Revenue 34 2 Products and services 39 2.1. R&D and Eco-Design 40 2.5. Road Safety 54 2.2. Greenhouse Effect 41 2.5.1. Primary Safety: Avoiding Accidents 54 2.2.1. Registrations by CO2 Emissions Level 42 2.5.2. Secondary Safety: Protecting Passengers and Pedestrians during an Accident 55 2.2.2. Fuel Efficiency and CO2 Emissions 44 2.5.3. Tertiary Safety: Post-Accident Emergency 2.2.3. Petrol and Diesel Engines 46 Response57 2.2.4. Using Alternative Fuels 47 2.5.4. Peugeot Motocycles 58 2.2.5. Deploying Breakthrough Technologies: Hybrids and Electric Vehicles 48 2.6. Telematics and Mobility 58 2.2.6. Optimizing Vehicle Architecture and Equipment 50 2.6.1. Telematics 58 2.6.2. Mobility Services 59 2.3. Air Quality 51 2.3.1. Reducing Vehicle Exhaust Emissions 51 2.7. Customer Relations 60 2.7.1. Quality 60 2.4. Resource Management and Recycling52 2.7.2. Compliance with Health, Safety 2.4.1. Use of Materials 52 and Customer Privacy Standards61 2.4.2. Recycling End-of-Life Vehicles 53 2.7.3. Advertising, Communication and Consumer Information 62 3 Environment63 3.1. Greenhouse Effect 68 3.4. Recycling 80 3.1.1. Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption 68 3.4.1. Total Weight of Waste by Type 3.1.2. Greenhouse Gas Emissions 71 and Disposal Method 80 3.1.3. Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions 73 3.4.2. Transported Waste Shipped Internationally 85 3.2. Air Quality 75 3.5. Natural Habitats 86 3.2.1. NO2, SO2 and VOC Emissions 75 3.5.1. Material Effluent Discharge 86 3.2.2. Use and Emissions of Ozone-Depleting Substances 77 3.5.2. Accidental Spills 88 3.5.3. Biodiversity 88 3.3. Use of Resources 78 3.3.1. Total Water Use 78 3.3.2. Materials Used 79 2 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 4 Social and society 91 4.1. Jobs and Capabilities 93 4.3.6. Joint Management-Worker Health and Safety 4.1.1. Group Workforce 93 Agreements and Committees 119 4.1.2. Changes in the Workforce 97 4.3.7. Organisation of Working Hours 120 4.1.3. Developing Human Resources and Nurturing 4.4. Compensation 124 Talent103 4.4.1. Compensation Practices 124 4.1.4. Training 105 4.4.2. Employee Benefits 127 4.2. Social Relations 107 4.5. Equal Opportunity and 4.2.1. Social Dialogue 107 Human Rights 130 4.3. Safety, Health and Working 4.5.1. Diversity 130 Conditions110 4.5.2. Gender Equality in the Workplace 134 4.3.1. Workplace Safety Management System 110 4.5.3. Human Rights 139 4.3.2. Safety Performance 111 4.6. Corporate Citizenship 142 4.3.3. An Active Commitment to Preventing Health 4.6.1. The City on the Move Institute (IVM) 142 and Safety Risks113 4.6.2. Group and Brand Outreach Programmes 143 4.3.4. Promoting Employee Well-Being 116 4.6.3. Local Philanthropy and Social Action Plans 145 4.3.5. An Active Commitment to Health 116 5 Corporate Governance and Ethical Practices 149 5.1. Corporate Governance 150 5.2. Remuneration and Benefits 5.1.1. Information about the Administrative, of Board Members158 Management or Supervisory Bodies 150 5.2.1. Managing Board Compensation 158 5.1.2. Compliance with Best Corporate Governance 5.2.2. Supervisory Board Compensation 160 Practices151 5.3. Internal Control Systems 160 5.1.3. The Supervisory Board’s Roles, Responsibilities and Operating Procedures 152 5.4. Ethical Practices 162 5.1.4. Supervisory Board Committees 155 5.4.1. Code of Ethics 162 5.4.2. Conflicts of Interest, Corruption and AntiCompetitive Behaviour 163 Review report by one of the Statutory Auditors 165 GRI Statement and cross reference tables 169 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 3 4 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Our approach to sustainable development The Group’s Sustainable Sustainable Development Reporting 20 Development Commitments 6 Reporting Scope and Methodology 20 Message From the Chairman of the Managing Board 6 Audit21 The Automobile Industry’s Major Sustainable Main Indicators 21 Development Challenges 7 Sustainable Development Commitments and Objectives 9 Organisation12 Presence in Indices, Awards and Distinctions Received 23 Standards and Commitments 12 Presence in Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Indices23 Relations with Stakeholders 13 Awards24 Stakeholders and Forums 13 Reporting Survey 15 Public Policy and Lobbying 18 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 5 Our approach to sustainable development The Group’s Sustainable Development Commitments Message From the Chairman of the Managing Board The Group’s Sustainable Development Commitments Message From the Chairman of the Managing Board 4 ambitions In Latin America, the new management team deployed a new strategy 4 achievements supported by sizeable investments. Elsewhere in the world, we began production at the plant in Kaluga, Russia, and decided to move into “Our consolidated financial results improved very significantly in India with the Peugeot brand. 2010, allowing us to end the year with recurring operating income of €1.8 billion, substantially pared-down debt and a net profit of Our third ambition, to lift operating efficiency to benchmark levels, €1.1 billion. This positive trend was seen across the Group, as remained a constant focus for all of our teams. The fact that we greatly the Automotive Division returned to profit, Faurecia confirmed its exceeded our initial performance targets in 2010 is truly a collective strong upturn, Gefco significantly lifted its performance and Banque achievement. To rank among the top global volume manufacturers, PSA Finance generated record net banking revenue. we will continue to pay close attention to strengthening our industrial competitiveness in Europe and to deploying the PSA Excellence In addition to these good results, the progress made during the year System in every aspect of our business. towards achieving our four key ambitions – stay a step ahead, be a global player, set the benchmark in operating efficiency and commit Excellence in supplier relations is also a priority. Alongside our 13 key to responsible development – shows that we are on the right strategic strategic suppliers, we want to build up a group of major suppliers who path in our Vision for 2020. are robust both industrially and financially and able to support our R&D and geographic expansion. The year was shaped by our first ambition to stay a step ahead in design, environmental performance and services, as we move our Lastly, we can only achieve our ambitions if we keep our commitment to brands to a higher level. responsible development. We owe this to our customers, our partners and each of our employees. A number of measures were taken in Supported by their attractive design and renewed brand identities, 2010, notably to continue promoting new behaviours in the areas of the Citroën DS3, Citroën C4 and Peugeot RCZ made very successful health, well-being and workplace safety. The lost-time occupational market debuts, while the Peugeot 3008, Peugeot 5008 and new Citroën accident (LTIF) rate declined by 16% during the year. We also created C3 confirmed their strong appeal. Improved service quality also added a corporate university to help our team members learn and grow and to the brands’ momentum. launched an ethics awareness campaign to support our updated Code True to our word on environmental performance, we now have of Ethics. lowcarbon vehicles for every use based on a CO2 plan built around Automotive recurring operating income is expected to be higher in conventional, hybrid and electric powertrains. In 2010, we inaugurated 2011 than in 2010, with the performance plan’s contribution amply our new e-HDi technology, launched four electric vehicles and signed a offsetting significant increases in raw material and other input costs. joint venture agreement on hybrid technology with BMW. Technological Faurecia, Gefco and Banque PSA Finance are all expected to deliver innovation remains an integral part of our business, which is why increased recurring operating income in 2011. Free cash flow, after PSA Peugeot Citroën has been the top patent filer in France for the higher capitalised R&D and capital expenditure amounting to €3 billion, past four years. is expected to be positive. In the area of services, our brands continued to broaden their onboard By putting itself back on a growth track and taking tangible steps to telematics while offering pragmatic solutions to the challenges of achieve its ambitions, your Group is living up to the heritage of its urban mobility with Mu by Peugeot and Citroën Multicity. two brands, Peugeot and Citroën, who celebrated their 200th and During the year, we also made great strides in our ambition to be a 90th anniversaries in 2010 and unveiled their new “Motion & Emotion” global player, selling 39% of our vehicles outside Europe compared (Peugeot) and “Créative Technologie” (Citroën) baselines. I would like to with 34% the year before. This growth was particularly noticeable in take this opportunity to congratulate everyone at PSA Peugeot Citroën China, thanks to our enhanced partnership with Dongfeng and plans for these results and for their individual and collective commitment. to set up a new joint venture agreement with Chang’an. To better I am convinced that our shareholders, employees, suppliers and public consider our further development from within Asia, we decided to set and private partners are pleased with the new direction in which we up an Asia Department in Shanghai in 2010. are heading.” Philippe Varin Chairman of the Managing Board 6 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Our approach to sustainable development The Group’s Sustainable Development Commitments The Automobile Industry’s Major Sustainable Development Challenges The Automobile Industry’s Major Sustainable Development Challenges By enabling individual mobility, automobiles are an intrinsic part of responses is heavily influenced by relations with customers, suppliers, economic and social development. At the same time, they present legislators and other stakeholders. Every one involved needs to pull challenges throughout their lifecycle for society and the environment. together and take meaningful action to address these challenges This is particularly the case during the “in use” phase, which is effectively. PSA Peugeot Citroën is also taking appropriate steps to associated with three key challenges: the greenhouse effect, road deal with other issues raised by automobiles throughout their lifecycle safety and urban mobility. The impact of the Group’s technological and, more generally, by the Group’s size and businesses. Greenhouse Effect There is now a broad consensus in the scientific community that gas emissions. According to a 2005 World Resources Institute Report, the level of greenhouse gases (GHG) in the atmosphere from human cars are responsible for 10% of the world’s CO2 emissions generated activity has increased and is affecting the global climate. In its Fourth by human activities. CO2 emissions, as measured in g/km, are directly Assessment Report issued in 2007, the International Panel on Climate proportional to fuel consumption in l/km and to the fuel’s chemical Change (IPCC) estimated that, to keep the global temperature from composition. Based on the chemical equations for combustion, the rising by more than 2°C, atmospheric concentrations of CO2 would coefficient stands at around 23.5 for petrol and 26.5 for diesel fuel. This have to be limited to between 400 and 550 ppm. The increase in means, for example, that a vehicle that consumes five litres of diesel manmade CO2 emissions has led governments to implement tracking per 100 km emits 133g of CO2 per km. and regulatory measures to keep the greenhouse effect under control. As the greenhouse effect is a major challenge, PSA Peugeot Citroën The transport industry in general and the automobile industry in has made it a priority to continue reducing the CO2 emissions of its particular account for a significant and rising share of global greenhouse entire line-up. Road Safety Thanks to extensive optimisation, vehicles now offer a very good level safety) and to facilitate speedy response and rescue if an accident of passenger protection in the event of a crash (secondary safety). occurs (tertiary or post accident safety). Driver training and better Safety also means inventing effective ways to avoid accidents (primary infrastructure are also key factors in solving the equation of road safety. Urban Mobility The number and size of megacities worldwide is constantly growing, that leverage the latest technological advances, as well as in more notably in the emerging economies. Intensive and growing road effective policies for traffic management, alternative transportation transport creates urban congestion that is both costly and harmful for systems and land use planning. the environment. From PSA Peugeot Citroën’s perspective, the solution lies in more widespread use of low-emission, networked or smart cars Air Quality Automobiles contribute to air pollution, with health consequences working to eliminate contaminants like NOx, HC and particulates from that are particularly noticeable in cities. For this reason, the Group is tailpipe emissions and to introduce zero-emission vehicles. Resource Management and Recycling Automobiles also have an environmental impact at the start of their resources starting at the drawing board and does everything it can to lifecycle, in terms of raw materials, and at the end, with end-of-life facilitate end-of-life recycling. recovery and recycling. PSA Peugeot Citroën carefully manages PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 7 Our approach to sustainable development The Group’s Sustainable Development Commitments The Automobile Industry’s Major Sustainable Development Challenges The Environmental Impact of Manufacturing Operations Although automobile manufacturing in itself does not entail any major the risk of accidental pollution, respect biodiversity and diminish noise environmental risks, series production requires large facilities that and odours. As part of its continuous improvement drive in the areas of use water and energy and generate waste. These impacts can be safety, health and the environment, PSA Peugeot Citroën has deployed attenuated by using natural resources and energy responsibly and an environmental management system and best available technologies by taking steps to lower contaminant and GHG emissions, reduce at an acceptable cost. effluent, carefully manage hazardous waste and materials, eliminate Employee Relations Policies Automobile production is labour intensive and traditionally uses a largely rewarding talent and promoting equal opportunity a major focus of its male workforce. In response to this situation, PSA Peugeot Citroën global human relations policy. The Group is committed to respecting has made improving working conditions and safety, developing and and promoting human rights and best practices in all host countries. Supplier Relations Standard parts and components represent 70-75% of a vehicle’s also comply with social and environmental responsibility requirements average production cost. Work done by suppliers to fulfil Group orders that are aligned with the Group’s and be committed to continuous contributes to the automobile industry’s overall social and environmental improvement in this area. In an environment shaped by a changing impact. For PSA Peugeot Citroën, solid, longterm supplier relations industrial base, evolving skills sets and the need for innovation, the cannot be solely based on quality, costs and deadlines. Suppliers must automobile industry’s consolidation is a major challenge. Customer Relations As a big-ticket item, automobiles must respond to growing consumer and services to meet their specific requirements, with appropriate expectations for comfort, safety, environmental friendliness and financing packages if needed. Customer satisfaction is a top priority other features while remaining affordable. Customers need to have starting in the showroom and continuing on through years of use. The all the necessary information to make the right buying decision. PSA Group has published a responsible communication charter to support Peugeot Citroën is committed to offering customers quality products transparent, respectful customer relations. Partnerships in Host Countries and Communities With 198,220 employees worldwide and numerous facilities (around PSA Peugeot Citroën is committed to forging deep ties in these 30 manufacturing plants; a dozen administrative, R&D and design communities by listening closely to employees, local officials and complexes; and hundreds of dealerships − just for the Automotive neighbours and by getting involved in infrastructure projects, Division), the Group has a considerable impact on its host communities sponsorship campaigns and other local programmes. as a business partner and employer. 8 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Our approach to sustainable development The Group’s Sustainable Development Commitments Sustainable Development Commitments and Objectives Sustainable Development Commitments and Objectives A real desire to understand and effectively manage these issues ambitions are all underpinned by a fourth, a commitment to responsible enabled PSA Peugeot Citroën to deploy a sustainable development development. process that is now mature and fully integrated into the Group’s An integral part of the Group’s strategy, our sustainable development strategic Vision defined by the Managing Board in late 2009. This approach responds to a series of commitments and is expressed in Vision has set the course for the next ten years. It is structured around a number of objectives that are regularly reviewed by the Executive operating priorities, expressed in the form of three strategic ambitions: Committee. This year, the Executive Committee added six new to stay one step ahead in products and services, to be a global player indicators and deemed that five had been reached. and to set the industry benchmark in operating efficiency. These three More details Commitments and Objectives 2010 Achievements and Results on page: Ambition 1 Stay a step ahead in products and services Fuel-efficient, low-carbon vehicles uu Increase the proportion of low-carbon vehicles in the sales mix 41-45 Sell one million vehicles emitting less than 120 g/km In 2010, PSA Peugeot Citroën sold more than 800,000 of CO2 in Europe each year as from 2012 vehicles in Europe emitting less than 120 g/km of CO2. uu Offer hybrid and electric vehicles Four electric vehicles were on the market at the end 49 Put four electric vehicles on the market by end-2010 of 2010: the Peugeot iOn, the Citroën C-ZERO, the Peugeot Partner Origin and the Citroën Berlingo First. e-HDi technology was introduced in 2010 on the 48 Equip a total of one million vehicles with e-HDi technology Citroën C5, followed by the Citroën C3, DS3 and C4 by end-2013 and the Peugeot 508. Eco-design uu Sharply increase the proportion of green materials (recycled, natural or biosourced) in Peugeot and Citroën vehicles Green materials make up 15% of the polymers 52 Use 20% green materials in vehicle polymers in 2011 in the Citroën C4 and 14.3% of the polymers and up to 30% in 2015 for new vehicle projects in the Peugeot 508. uu Optimise vehicle mass Reversing the trend, the new Citroën C4 does not 50 By 2012, reduce the mass of new vehicles in Europe weigh any more than its predecessor. The Peugeot by 100 kg compared with the vehicles they replace 508 weighs 25 kg less than the Peugeot 407, and the SW version weighs 50 kg less. uu Ensure that end-of-life vehicles are recovered and recycled PSA Peugeot Citroën complies with the current 53 Achieve a recovery rate for end-of-life vehicles of 95% European Directive that calls for a minimum recycling/ as from 2015 and a re-use/recycling rate of 85% recovery rate of 85%. Safety and mobility uu Extend driver support, passenger restraint, emergency assistance and other safety systems across the vehicle line-up As of end-2010, 781,000 Peugeot and Citroën vehicles 57-58 were equipped with the emergency call service. With Equip one million vehicles in Europe with the emergency the new telematics box that offers better service at a call system in 2011 and another 500,000 in 2012 lower cost, the objective of one million vehicles should be met in 2011. New objective Objective being met Objective deadline reached PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 9 Our approach to sustainable development The Group’s Sustainable Development Commitments Sustainable Development Commitments and Objectives More details Commitments and Objectives 2010 Achievements and Results on page: uu Be the first carmaker to offer customised, multi-product mobility services The Mu by Peugeot mobility service was available at 40 59 In cities with a population of more than 300,000, deploy sites in 14 European cities in six countries at the end Mu by Peugeot at 115 sites by end-2011 of 2010. 59 Introduce a Citroën mobility services solution by 2011 Citroën offers a subscription-free rental service that delivers a car when and where needed (Call Car), as well as a dedicated travel planning website (Citroën Deploy Citroën Multicity in seven European countries, Multicity), launched in early 2011. Brazil and China by 2015 Ambition 2 Be a global player Meeting customer expectations uu Offer products and services aligned with the needs of PSA Peugeot Citroën’s different markets and delivering the quality customers expect Rank among the top carmakers in Europe by 2015 In 2010, the Group commissioned numerous surveys on 60-61 in comparative quality surveys product and service quality in its various host markets. uu Manage the environmental and societal impacts of the Peugeot and Citroën dealership networks more effectively The necessary resources for deploying the environmental 66 and social scorecard were provided to the dealership Deploy an environmental and social scorecard network in the first half of 2011. The deployment roadmap in the dealership network in 2011 is currently being defined by the Peugeot and Citroën brands for their dealership network. uu Pursue a responsible communication strategy developed with an honest view of the environmental, societal and business challenges posed by automobiles Ambition 3 Set the industry benchmark in operating efficiency Environmental management uu Continue to reduce the environmental footprint of the Group’s manufacturing operations Carefully manage energy consumption, with a target Greenhouse gas emissions per vehicle have been cut 70 of 2.05 MWh per vehicle produced in 2012 by 41% since 1995. Volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions have 77 Reduce VOC emissions to 3.42 kg per vehicle produced declined by 55% to 3.75 kg per vehicle from more than in 2012 8 kg in 1995. Over the 1995-2010 period, water withdrawn per 79 Reduce water consumption to 4 cubic meters per vehicle vehicle was reduced by 66%, to 4.85 cubic metres produced in 2012 from 14.16 cubic metres. Supplier relations uu Develop sustainable, mutually beneficial relationships that comply with the highest social responsibility and environmental responsibility requirements Have 500 suppliers sign PSA Peugeot Citroën’s social 500 suppliers had signed PSA Peugeot Citroën’s 35 and environmental responsibility requirements in 2010 social and environmental responsibility requirements as of end-2010. These suppliers represent 81% of purchasing expenditure. The Group is pursuing it signature campaign and including sustainable Ensure that 90% of purchasing expenditure is covered development clauses in its series purchasing contracts by a supplier commitment in 2012 to get suppliers on board through one of these two procedures. New objective Objective being met Objective deadline reached 10 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Our approach to sustainable development The Group’s Sustainable Development Commitments Sustainable Development Commitments and Objectives More details Commitments and Objectives 2010 Achievements and Results on page: Ambition 4 Commit to responsible development Respect for human rights, gender balance and diversity uu Promote respect for basic human rights throughout the Group’s worldwide operations On 20 May 2010, PSA Peugeot Citroën renewed its 139-140 Renew the Global Framework Agreement in 2010 Global Framework Agreement on Social Responsibility after four years of application. uu Promote all types of diversity, ensure equal opportunity and prevent discrimination In 2010, women accounted for 21.8% of all Group 134-138 Raise the percentage of women in the senior management employees, 19.3% of managers and 6.5% of senior team in France to 15% in 2012 managers. Well-being in the workplace and skills development uu Provide employees with a safe, healthy workplace in which their talent can flourish The Groupwide lost-time incident frequency (LTIF) rate, 110-113 Reduce the lost time incident frequency rate, including including temporary employees, stood at 3.87 in 2010, temporary employees, to less than 1 in 2013 down 16% from 4.63 in 2009. Continue to improve plant workstation ergonomy, with the Between 2005 and end-2010, the percentage of 114 goal of reducing the percentage of “heavy” workstations workstations rated as “heavy” declined to 9% from to 8% and increasing the percentage of “light” 18%, while the percentage of “light” workstations rose workstations to 58% in 2012 to 53% from 37%. uu Develop and recognise employee capabilities so that each team member can contribute more fully and autonomously to the company’s performance Since it was founded in April 2010, the university 106-107 has offered a variety of training courses designed to help the Group fulfil its ambitions. The university Create a corporate university in 2010 guarantees that the technical and managerial skills acquired through these courses meet a defined level of excellence. Each employee received an average of 24.6 hours 105-107 Increase the number of training hours per employee to 28 of training in 2010, with 97,850 employees attending hours in 2013 at least one training course during the year. Ethical practices and corporate governance uu Strengthen the rules of ethical behaviour across the Group In 2010, PSA Peugeot Citroën confirmed its 162 Deploy an updated and expanded Code of Ethics in 2010, commitment by deploying a new, expanded Code along with an operating guide, and set up a new ethics of Ethics with 16 guidelines. The Code of Ethics governance system is available in eight languages. It has been signed by 736 senior and executive managers. Set up a whistleblower system in 15 countries in 2012 (covering 115,000 people) Familiarise 20,000 people with the ethical guidelines through an e-learning course in 2011 Corporate citizenship uu Provide an additional contribution to civil society in response to environmental and social issues, with a focus on mobility, 142-147 local development and solidarity The bylaws of the PSA Peugeot Citroën “Un monde Launch a corporate foundation in 2011 with en mouvement” foundation were submitted to and a €2 million annual endowment through 2015 approved by officials at the Ile-de France and Paris prefectures. New objective Objective being met Objective deadline reached PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 11 Our approach to sustainable development The Group’s Sustainable Development Commitments Organisation Organisation The Group’s sustainable development policy and management system The correspondents who participate in the Sustainable Development are an integral part of its corporate governance. Committee have a network of correspondents within their own departments. The environmental network, for example, has nearly The Sustainable Development Department, which reports directly to 500 members and is present in all host countries, facilities and the Corporate Communication Senior Vice-President, has pursued subsidiaries. a structured approach since 2003. It works with a network of frontline correspondents in all the Group’s departments who are experts The main sustainable development indicators are included in in the different areas of corporate responsibility (human resources, the Executive Committee’s monthly scorecard. The sustainable environmental management, purchasing, marketing, sponsorship, etc.). development commitments and objectives are reviewed and approved A Sustainable Development Committee is convened at least every by the Executive Committee. quarter to meet with the network’s members. Standards and Commitments In implementing its sustainable development approach, the Group In addition, the Group has developed its own benchmarks and refers to a structured set of international or industry standards and guidelines in the following areas: benchmarks, including: uu Social responsibility: Global Framework Agreement on Social uu ISO 14001 for the environment; Responsibility signed with the International Metalworkers’ uu ISO 26000, Guidance for social responsibility (voluntary standard). Federation (IMF) and the European Metalworkers’ Federation (EMF) The Group ensures that its sustainable development approach is in 2006 and renewed in 2010; aligned to the standard’s guidelines as much as possible; uu Ethics: The Code of Ethics. The new Code of Ethics issued in 2010 uu The third generation (G3) sustainability reporting guidelines issued updates and expands on the Code of Ethics published in 2003; by the Global Reporting Initiative for reporting; uu Purchasing: PSA Peugeot Citroën’s Requirements Regarding Social uu The Global Compact for ten universally accepted principles in the and Environmental Responsibility with Respect to its Suppliers; areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. uu Responsible marketing and advertising: PSA Peugeot Citroën’s PSA Peugeot Citroën joined the Global Compact in 2003 and Gefco Responsible Communications Charter. in 2009. In 2009 PSA Peugeot Citroën joined Caring for Climate, The Group belongs to several French organisations that a voluntary and complementary action platform for UN Global promote sustainable development, including Comité 21, the Compact participants who seek to demonstrate leadership on the Study Centre for Corporate Responsibility (ORSE), the French issue of climate change; Advertisers’Association (UDA), the college of sustainable development uu The responsible advertising charter issued by the French managers (C3D) and the Businesses for the Environment association Advertisers’ Association (UDA) for advertising. (EpE). PSA Peugeot Citroën participates in a variety of working groups within these organisations. Lastly, PSA Peugeot Citroën has been a member of the China Business Council for Sustainable Development (CBCSD) since March 2006. 12 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Our approach to sustainable development Relations with Stakeholders Stakeholders and Forums Relations with Stakeholders Stakeholders and Forums Stakeholders Customers Motorists and other road users Host Partners Consumer associations communities Partners in and regions Sub cooperation projects contractors Neighbours and joint ventures Private Retail and dealership corporate Local network customers associations Trade Suppliers Proprietary federations dealership network Local authorities PSA Peugeot Citroën Shareholders Employees Employee and other representatives investors Certification Research Labour Unions SRI, financial agencies partners and other analysts Public officials Teachers and researchers Legislators Social Business Independent Media experts NGOs Institutions PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 13 Our approach to sustainable development Relations with Stakeholders Stakeholders and Forums Dialogue Resources The expectations of customers, employees and shareholders are a core concern at PSA Peugeot Citroën. The Group is committed to including community representatives in its circle of dialogue alongside industrial and business partners. Stakeholder Information – communication Dialogue – consultation Agreements – partnerships Employees uu Internal communication through uu Daily dialogue with management uu Training newsletters, websites, events, etc. uu Discussion within teams: Basic uu Support for individual outreach uu Awareness campaigns on Units projects, for example through the sustainable development, uu Suggestion boxes solidarity trophies programme diversity, disabilities, eco-driving, uu Dialogue through employee safe driving, etc. representatives uu Annual satisfaction surveys and a monthly review Employee representatives uu Social agenda uu Global Framework Agreement on uu Expanded European Works Council Social Responsibility with International Scope uu Nearly 150 agreements signed uu Joint Union-Management in 2010, of which more than 90 Strategy Committee outside France uu Specific sessions on site Customers and consumer uu Peugeot and Citroën websites uu Dealership networks and associations uu Responsible communication Charter customer services uu Information on road safety features uu Consultation with consumer panels when a vehicle is delivered uu Consumer relations teams Dealership networks uu Customer satisfaction and quality uu Analysis of all types of risk feedback (including ethics) before a dealership contract is signed uu Inclusion of sustainable development clauses in dealership contracts Shareholders and other uu Letter to Shareholders uu Consultation Committee investors uu Sustainable Development and uu Annual Shareholders’ Meeting Annual Report and Registration uu Investor meetings Document uu Numerous conferences uu Corporate website uu Annual and interim financial results Suppliers uu Monthly information meetings uu Supplier trophies uu Social and environmental uu Innovation days responsibility requirements uu Strategy Meeting (CEO + 300 guidelines for suppliers largest suppliers) and products/ uu Sustainable development clauses projects meeting in contracts and general selling uu Four regional delegates appointed conditions uu Supplier relations teams uu Involvment in France’s PFA – a platform set up into foster on-going discussion and exchange between auto industry stakeholders Partners in cooperation uu Presence in national (CCFA), uu Joint development and production projects and joint ventures regional and global organisations of vehicle components and bases, notably for electric vehicles, hybrid components and Euro 6 compliance Other carmakers uu Member of the European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association (ACEA) uu Member of national associations in all host counties Financial and SRI rating uu Publication of Sustainable uu Respond to questionnaires and agencies Development Performance periodic requests Indicators report uu Sustainable development website NGOs and associations uu Publication of Sustainable uu Discussions with the French uu Participation in the local Development Performance Advertisers’ Association (UDA) community (infrastructure, local Indicators report uu Respond to requests associations, etc.) uu Sustainable development website uu Meetings with NG0s uu Local Philanthropy and Social Action Plans Institutions uu Regular contacts with European and international institutions, as well as with French authorities 14 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Our approach to sustainable development Relations with Stakeholders Reporting Survey Stakeholder Information – communication Dialogue – consultation Agreements – partnerships Host communities and site uu Events on road safety, environmental uu Discussions with local officials uu Sponsorship focused on local neighbours issues, sustainable mobility and uu Open houses development other topics Media uu Press releases uu Dedicated press relations teams uu Website and media centre (corporate and brands) Teachers and researchers uu Forum for France’s leading business uu Integrating interns and apprentices, uu Partnerships with national and engineering schools laboratory space for doctoral educational systems in each host uu Awareness campaigns with local candidates under a CIFRE contract country schools uu Work on urban mobility within the City on the Move Institute (IVM) Reporting Survey Presentation The Sustainable Development Department sent a survey on the The table below is based on data from the 51 surveys that were Group’s sustainable development commitment and reporting to a completely filled out. Respondents identified themselves as follows: select panel of stakeholders to collect feedback. The survey was also posted on the sustainable development website. Partners 4% (suppliers, shareholders etc.) The results provided valuable feedback on stakeholder perceptions 27 % Employees concerning the quality of PSA Peugeot Citroën’s reporting and the appropriateness of the Group’s sustainable development measures. Researchers/teachers, The survey also gave a better view of stakeholder expectations. students 25 % 14 % Other 16 % Sustainable development consultancy, rating agencies, 14 % NGOs / Associations press Of the respondents, 92% answered “completely” or “somewhat” to to the statement “Sustainable development is a subject in which you the statement “Sustainable development is a subject on which you are involved”. Environmental issues were the most important to the are well informed”, and 84% answered “completely” or “somewhat” respondents. Opinion on 2009 Reporting Presentation Overall, the Group’s annual sustainable development publications Survey respondents found the 2009 Annual Report easy to read, were found to be useful and practical. modern and pleasant. Respondents said they would like to see more testimonials, figures and charts. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 15 Our approach to sustainable development Relations with Stakeholders Reporting Survey Opinion on 2009 Reporting Content 57% of respondents answered “completely” or “somewhat” to the question “Do you think the Group has correctly informed you of its sustainable development activities?”. PSA Peugeot Citroën has an ambitious approach to sustainable PSA Peugeot Citroën sets a good example compared with its development competitors or other large companies on sustainable development Completely disagree 4% Completely disagree 2% Completely Completely 17% agree 21% Somewhat disagree agree Somewhat 19% disagree 26% 56% Somewhat agree 55% Somewhat agree The questions and concerns raised in the survey cover tracking of the sustainable development objectives, the key indicators table and the sustainable development approach’s visibility for the end user. 16 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Our approach to sustainable development Relations with Stakeholders Reporting Survey Importance of the Main Challenges and Issues Involved Climate change and Motorists’ behaviour Transport, supply Design and pollution Fleet age chain and dealerships manufacturing process Use of natural Design and resources manufacturing process Recycling Behaviour End-of-life vehicles Design and engineering Management of the natural environment Working conditions Employee benefits Job management Health and safety Retirement and Working hours healthcare benefits Wage agreements Level of stakeholder concern with each issue Road safety Behaviour Tertiary safety Primary safety Infrastructure Secondary safety Human rights Freedom of association Women in the workforce/equal opportunity Sustainable mobility Behaviour Vehicle noise Congestion Access to mobility solutions Ethics and corporate Compensation Corporate governance governance Quality of life on and around sites Relations with Local content Customer relations Partnerships stakeholders Anticipating expectations Satisfaction PSA Peugeot Citroën’s ability to impact these challenges The level of concern with each issue has been ranked on the basis of the survey results and therefore reflects the opinions of a limited panel, with a majority of French participants. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 17 Our approach to sustainable development Relations with Stakeholders Public Policy and Lobbying Public Policy and Lobbying Automotive Carbon Emissions As the global community becomes increasingly aware of climate Working with public authorities, the Group is helping to define the change issues, the eco-car of the future remains a major topic of public conditions that would enable the emergence of a market for low-carbon debate. vehicles. As part of this process, it is helping to develop and assess electric infrastructure technologies and standards, particularly EV Concerning regulations on automotive carbon emissions, PSA Peugeot recharging technologies and plug-in hybrids. In addition, PSA Peugeot Citroën defends the position that test cycles and procedures should be Citroën would like for governments to support the development harmonised worldwide. of electric vehicles, hybrids and plug-in hybrids with incentives to More generally, PSA Peugeot Citroën feels that there is not a “onestimulate emerging demand for these vehicles. For this new market size-fits-all” technology that will produce a carbon-free automobile. to reach maturity, it is vitally important that these incentives be highly Instead, reducing overall carbon emissions will require the commercial visible and stable over time. development of several closely related technologies to meet the Concerning biofuels, the Group is in favour of introducing blends different usage patterns and price requirements of carbuyers around of up to 10% to achieve a meaningful impact quickly. That said, the world. It is widely believed that vehicles equipped with internal it is important to apply sustainability criteria in developing a biofuel combustion engines will still account for 85% of automobile sales in industry, notably to address the potential conflict between using crops 2020, and electric and hybrid vehicles 15%. for fuel instead of food. Telematics and Road Safety In the future, cars will be increasingly connected to roadway service records. PSA Peugeot Citroën intends to remain the leader in infrastructure and, more generally, to the outside world. This should postaccident (or tertiary) safety. improve both safety and the driving experience while reducing the At the same time, safety performance is improving even as vehicle automobile’s carbon footprint and promoting more fluid traffic flows. weight is reduced to meet lower carbon emissions targets. The future pan-European eCall system will have to be compatible More and more, the focus is on accident avoidance as the way to cut with PSA Peugeot Citroën’s emergency call system, which is down on road fatalities, notably through the use of new communication already widely deployed on 781,000 vehicles. It is part of a high technologies and driver assistance systems. performance PSA Peugeot Citroën telematics solution that can serve as a springboard for innovative telematics services, including The deployment of Latin NCAP in 2010 shows that expectations emergency calls, assistance, fleet management support and electronic concerning secondary safety are converging worldwide. The Environmental Impact of Manufacturing Operations PSA Peugeot Citroën has pursued an energy and emissions Manufacturing is heavily regulated, in particular with the recast management policy for many years. Substantial investments will be Industrial Emissions Directive (formerly IPPC). The revised directive required to further reduce fossil fuel consumption, in compliance with will help to further reduce the environmental impact of PSA Peugeot legal obligations. Energy use in industrial processes is coming under Citroën plants, which has already been declining for many years. The increasingly heavy tax and regulatory constraints, with the extension directive is currently being transposed into French law. of the carbon emissions trading system and new environmental laws, notably in the wake of France’s environmental summit. Innovation The automobile industry is facing major innovation challenges that will with research laboratories and institutes. As part of these programmes be embodied in technological paradigm shifts. it has hired 50 doctoral candidates under CIFRE contracts, taken part in government-sponsored automotive clusters in France (Véhicules France has a national R&D strategy based on companies cooperating du Futur, ID4car and MOVéO) and created the Science Technologies on research projects upstream from the competitive stage. The Exploratory Lean Laboratory (StelLab) within the OpenLabs network government also wants to encourage cooperative ventures (these research units bring together Group teams and the top between companies and government or private-sector laboratories. laboratories). PSA Peugeot Citroën participates in numerous research programmes 18 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Our approach to sustainable development Relations with Stakeholders Public Policy and Lobbying The Group has also participated in or led innovation and experimentation European Investment Bank and the EU R&D Framework Programme projects on electric vehicles, hybrid vehicles, lighter-weight vehicles is quite necessary, it is not enough, given the global environment. The and other topics as part of innovation programmes in France and the Group feels that R&D support for the automobile industry needs to be rest of Europe. To achieve the technological breakthroughs required, adapted so that European carmakers can meet the challenges of the notably to reduce vehicle CO2 emissions, PSA Peugeot Citroën future and remain competitive in a highly competitive global market. must find new sources of R&D financing. Although support from the Economic Environment In a still-challenging economic environment, public debate has Department and appointing regional delegates to work in liaison with increasingly focused on the need to retain manufacturing jobs in government appointed “Automobile Representatives” who report to France and to develop a European industrial policy. With deep roots the regional prefects. in France and keenly aware of cost of labour issues, PSA Peugeot It intends to go even farther and create a new relationship with Citroën needs a robust, competitive manufacturing base. suppliers to prepare the future more effectively. This is reflected in the The Group has taken a front-line stand in supporting the French development of a Best Practices Code, the deployment of programme automobile industry, notably by participating in the PFA auto to certify supplier production sites and upstream collaboration with 13 industry platform, creating a dedicated team within the Purchasing strategic suppliers. Taxation To drive a general reduction in carbon emissions, PSA Peugeot has prompted a shift in sales towards low-margin segments and Citroën supports the need for a technology-neutral regulatory and tax led to greater fragmentation of the European market. PSA Peugeot framework. However, certain high-cost technologies need incentives to Citroën and all other carmakers would like changes in taxation to be jump-start wider demand for products that are currently too expensive foreseeable. for most people, such as electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids. A pionner in particulate filter, the Group does not support any move to There is an increasing trend towards taxing cars based on CO2 discourage diesel sales, which would suddenly disrupt European car emissions, with the goal of encouraging sales of lower-carbon models. markets and hamper efforts to reduce vehicle CO2 emissions. This trend, which has become even more pronounced since 2004, Social Responsibility PSA Peugeot Citroën is building its growth on socially responsible commitment to retaining and motivating seniors and the creation of principles. a corporate university; uu ethical and responsible development, with the new Global Its employee relations policies are designed to encourage social Framework Agreement on Social Responsibility, a new Code of cohesion by focusing on: Ethics, a commitment to gender diversity and equal opportunity uu workplace health and safety, with the deployment of a new and an industrial and social commitment towards the automobile workplace health and safety management system; industry. uu human resources growth and development, with renewed hiring, These issues are discussed with government representatives and an emphasis on learning, measures to provide job opportunities, a institutions. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 19 Our approach to sustainable development Sustainable Development Reporting Reporting Scope and Methodology Sustainable Development Reporting Reporting Scope and Methodology The Group reports on its sustainable development performance According to the criteria recommended in the “G3 Guidelines, annually on the basis of operating indicators. The audited results are Application Levels”, the Group’s own assessment of its 2010 presented in this Sustainable Development Performance Indicators sustainable development reporting results in an A+ application level report, the Sustainable Development and Annual Report and on the (the GRI application level check Statement is available on p 169 below). sustainable development website. The information in this document complies with French corporate This report concerns the economic, social and environmental governance legislation (“Nouvelles Régulations Économiques” Act), as performance of fully consolidated PSA Peugeot Citroën companies. described in the Registration Document. For the eighth year in a row, the Group’s reporting follows the All of the information concerning Faurecia, a listed company sustainability reporting guidelines issued by the Global Reporting 57.4%-owned by Peugeot S.A., may be found in its Registration Initiative, with the goal of continuously improving transparency. Document. The third generation (G3) guidelines have been applied for the past five years. Scope of Reporting Indicator scope and consolidation methods are described at the In these joint ventures, PSA Peugeot Citroën exercises its role as beginning of each section, or, as appropriate, with the indicator shareholder and industrial partner in a commitment to supporting each concerned. one’s long-term development. As part of this process, it maintains regular dialogue on environmental and social issues. The scope of reporting does not include subsidiaries jointly owned with other carmakers or joint ventures accounted for by the equity method. In 2006, the Group agreed to present its Global Framework Agreement on Social Responsibility to its industrial partners, thereby encouraging PSA Peugeot Citroën owns a stake in six automobile manufacturing them to apply the international ILO conventions on which the joint ventures: Agreement is based. uu TPCA, located in Kolin in the Czech Republic, in cooperation with Depending on the management structure adopted with the industrial Toyota; partner, the joint ventures report on their social and environmental uu DPCA, located in Wuhan and Xiangyang, Hubei Province, China, in performance at different levels. cooperation with Dongfeng Motor Corp.; uu Sevelnord, located in Hordain, France, in cooperation with Fiat; In 2007, at PSA Peugeot Citroën’s initiative and with the agreement uu Sevelsud, located in Val di Sangro, Italy, in cooperation with Fiat; of co-shareholder Dongfeng Motor Corp., DPCA published its first uu Française de Mécanique, located in Douvrin, France, in cooperation Sustainable Development Report − the first such report ever prepared with Renault; by a carmaker in China. The report was updated in 2008, 2009 and 2010. uu PCMA Automotiv RUS, located in Kaluga, Russia, in cooperation with Mitsubishi Motors Corp. Period under Review The data and indicators presented in this document concern 2010 and Comparative data is generally provided for three years, wherever provide values as of 31 December, to which several first-quarter 2011 possible, or more to include information from a reference year in which highlights have been added. a policy or action plan was implemented. Most of the indicators are presented with comments explaining any changes in their scope of reporting or calculation method. 20 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Our approach to sustainable development Sustainable Development Reporting Main Indicators Audit Audit The methods for compiling the social and environmental data from Indicators for which the processes for establishing data have been Group production plants, Peugeot and Citroën sales subsidiaries and audited are preceded by this symbol: Gefco, as well as the Faurecia environmental indicators published in this report and certain PCA environmental indicators and certain Unaudited indicators are preceded by this symbol: Automotive Division social indicators have all been checked by The full review report by one of the statutory auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers, PricewaterhouseCoopers, an independent audit firm. may be found on page 165 below. Indicators for which data has been audited are preceded by this symbol: Main Indicators Data reviewed by one of the statutory auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers. The processes for compiling the other indicators were reviewed. Main Environmental Indicators Units 2008 2009 2010 TOTAL 2,760,946 2,430,864 2,831,584 (MWh ncv) Direct Energy Consumption of which PCA 2,450,119 2,141,828 2,507,405 TOTAL 3,132,807 2,868,712 3,151,666 (MWh) Indirect Energy Consumption of which PCA 2,877,076 2,648,210 2,920,763 TOTAL 595,046 523,703 607,710 Direct greenhouse gas (tonnes CO2 eq.) emissions of which PCA 527,472 460,405 537,116 TOTAL N/A N/A 410,197 (tonnes) Indirect CO2 emissions of which PCA 363,360 282,653 353,690 TOTAL 41.1 73.3 32.6 (tonnes) Direct SO2 emissions of which PCA 24.1 56.2 15.6 TOTAL 581.3 524.5 598.6 (tonnes) Direct NO2 emissions of which PCA 507.9 455.7 522.0 VOC (tonnes) PCA 9,505 7,589 8,390 Paintshop VOC releases Ratio (kg/ vehicle) PCA 4.13 3.76 3.75 TOTAL 12,597,953 11,197,982 11,804,957 (cu.m) Annual water withdrawal of which PCA 11,592,727 10,331,003 10,864,641 TOTAL 398,030 324,410 361,166 Weight of waste (excluding (tonnes) metal waste) of which PCA 358,978 287,835 325,909 N/A: Consolidation not available. Definitions: Scope: Greenhouse gas: CO2 = Carbon dioxide; N2O = Nitrous oxide; CH4 = Methane. Total = PCA, AP/AC, PCI, PMTC, Gefco. SO2 = Sulphur dioxide. PCA = Manufacturing operations of the Automotive Division. NO2 = Nitrogen dioxide. AP/AC = Peugeot and Citroën brands. VOC = Volatile organic compounds. PCI = Process Conception Ingenierie. PMTC = Peugeot Motocycles. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 21 ﻿ Our approach to sustainable development ﻿ Sustainable Development Reporting ﻿ Main Indicators Main Social Indicators (At 31 December) Units 2008 2009 2010 Employees under permanent or fixedterm contracts 201,700 186,220 198,220 Employees under fixed-term contracts* (average annual number) 10,350 6,900 8,050 Total payroll costs* (in thousands of euros) 6,539,331 6,293,134 6,381,080 Employees hired under permanent contracts* 8,840 4,075 7,465 Separation rate* (% of total workforce) 8.7% 9.0% 7.3% Total Lost-Time Incident Frequency Rate** 3.43 3.43 2.79 Disabled employees* 6,315 6,050 5,925 Hours of training* (in thousands of hours) 2,935 2,680 3,100 (average per employee in hours) 20.4 21.1 24.6 Percentage of women employees* (% of Group workforce) 21.6% 21.9% 21.8% Scope: * Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia. ** Manufacturing operations of the Automotive Division. 22 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Our approach to sustainable development Presence in Indices, Awards and Distinctions Received Presence in Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Indices Presence in Indices, Awards and Distinctions Received Presence in Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Indices A number of SRI indices, including FTSE4Good, ASPI Eurozone® and the been granted Prime status in the sustainability rating carried out by Ethibel Excellence Index®, have included PSA Peugeot Citroën in recognition oekom research AG. of its sustainable development performance. PSA Peugeot Citroën has EthiFinance is the French agency that rates PSA Peugeot Citroën and submits its research and analysis to EIRiS, which supplies data for the FTSE4Good index. The ASPI Eurozone® (Advanced Sustainable Performance Indices) selects the 120 best rated listed companies in the euro-zone on the basis of Vigeo’s corporate social responsibility ratings. PSA Peugeot Citroën leads the automobile industry in four areas: human resources, human rights, business behaviour and community commitment. The Peugeot S.A. share has been included in the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Pioneer and Excellence indices since 12 May 2006. On the basis of the Group’s CSR profile, this presence was reconfirmed on 6 July 2010. oekom research, a German sustainable development rating agency, awards Prime status to those companies which according to the oekom corporate rating are among the leaders in their industry and which meet industryspecific minimum requirements. The Group has responded to both the Carbon Disclosure Project In accordance with its Global Compact commitments, the Group Questionnaire (CDP) and the Carbon Disclosure Project SCLC reports on improvements made during the year in each of the ten Questionnaire (CDP SCLC). The Carbon Disclosure Project rates principles in its communication on progress. companies’ transparency concerning climate change issues, on the basis of a publicly disclosed methodology that changes each year. In 2010, PSA Peugeot Citroën obtained a rating of 87/100. As a result, it was included in the 2010 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI), PSA Peugeot Citroën’s communication on coming in at no. 5 in the French ranking and obtaining a Carbon progress is available on the Global Compact’s website, as well as on the Group’s sustainable Performance Score of B. PSA Peugeot Citroën’s responses may be development website. viewed on the Carbon Disclosure Project website. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 23 Our approach to sustainable development Presence in Indices, Awards and Distinctions Received Awards Awards Awards Received in 2010 uu Following an audit by Afnor Certification, the Diversity label first uu In China, the Group’s social responsibility efforts were rewarded in awarded to PSA Peugeot Citroën in 2009 was renewed in 2010. 2010 by the Golden Bee award, one of the most widely recognised The label recognises good human resources practices to promote and influential awards of its kind. The jury cited PSA Peugeot Citroën diversity and equal opportunity and to prevent discrimination. In for its ongoing road safety initiatives in China. 2005, PSA Peugeot Citroën was the first French company to obtain uu At the 2010 Paris Motor Show, Euro NCAP awarded the first France’s Gender Equality label. Euro NCAP Advanced award to carmakers who have deployed technologies that have a meaningful impact on safety. Among the ten innovations recognised, Peugeot and Citroën were singled out in the area of post-accident (or tertiary) safety for their emergency call system. In all, six vehicles won an award: the Peugeot 308, 3008 and 5008 for Peugeot Connect SOS, and the Citroën DS3, C4 and C5 for the Citroën location-aware emergency call service. uu In June 2010, Automotive News Europe honoured the Mu by Peugeot programme, which has also received awards for innovation in Germany and Belgium. uu The Group also ranks among the top three in Capitalcom’s 6th annual survey of gender equality at CAC 40 companies, reflecting its commitment to providing equal job opportunities for women. 24 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 1 Economic Performance 1.1. Shareholders 26 1.3. Suppliers 35 1.1.1. Ownership Structure and Form of Incorporation26 1.3.1. Global Purchases 35 1.1.2. Payments to Capital Providers 28 1.3.2. Supplier Relations 35 1.3.3. Purchasing by Country and Local Content 37 1.2. Customers 30 1.2.1. Automobile Sales 30 1.2.2. Revenue 34 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 25 1 Economic Performance 1.1. Shareholders 1.1.1. Ownership Structure and Form of Incorporation Policies designed to generate direct economic value and distribute it among stakeholders are presented on the “Our Responsibility” pages in the following sections of the sustainable development website: Our Shareholders, Our Clients, Our Suppliers and Communities. 1.1. Shareholders 1.1.1. Ownership Structure and Form of Incorporation Most of the financial and business information may be found in the 2010 Registration Document. Ownership Structure 31 December 2008 31 December 2009 31 December 2010 % of % of % of exercisable exercisable exercisable Main identified Shares % voting Shares % voting Shares voting shareholders * outstanding interest rights outstanding interest rights outstanding % interest rights Établissements Peugeot Frères** 6,923,760 2.96 4.64 6,923,760 2.96 4.56 19,115,760 8.17 12.47 La Française de Participations Financières (LFPF) 12,156,000 5.19 7.64 12,156,000 5.19 8.00 Foncière, Financière et de Participations (FFP) 51,792,738 22.13 32.79 51,792,738 22.13 33.15 51,792,738 22.13 33.79 Comtoise de Participation 36,000 0.02 0.02 36,000 0.02 0.02 Maillot I 100 0.00 0.00 Peugeot family 70,908,498 30.30 45.10 70,908,498 30.30 45.73 70,908,598 30.30 46.26 Other individual shareholders *** 14,246,389 6.09 4.89 14,908,642 6.37 5.11 18,413,671 7.87 6.15 Employees 6,468,981 2.76 3.80 6,546,866 2.80 4.00 6,538,348 2.79 3.88 Groupe BNP Paribas 2,641,800 1.13 1.77 2,641,800 1.13 1.74 2,491,800 1.06 1.63 Other French institutions 55,383,993 23.66 18.56 50,849,816 21.72 16.75 41,218,587 17.61 13.45 Other foreign institutions 77,210,923 32.99 25.88 81,006,070 34.61 26.67 87,290,771 37.30 28.63 Treasury stock 7,188,214 3.07 7,187,450 3.07 7,187,450 3.07 Total 234,048,798 100 100 234,049,142 100 100 234,049,225 100 100 * Source Euroclear France – TPI 31 December 2010 – and Phoenix Investor Relations. ** Comtoise de Participation et LFPF were combined within EPF as from December 2010. *** Shares held in invidual securities accounts and others (by difference). Each share entitles the holder to vote at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. Percentages of voting rights are based on exercisable voting rights However, shares registered in the name of the same shareholder for at (i.e. not including rights attached to shares held in treasury). The least four years carry double voting rights. breakdown of potential voting rights by shareholder is presented in section 18.1 of the 2010 Registration Document. 26 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Economic Performance 1.1. Shareholders 1.1.1. Ownership Structure and Form of Incorporation 1 Shareholder Structure Exercisable Voting Rights, by Shareholder (At 31 December 2010) (At 31 December 2010) 3.07% Other foreign institutions Peugeot family Other foreign 46.26% Peugeot family 30.30% institutions 28.63% Other 37.30% French institutions Other Other 7.87% individual French 13.45% shareholders institutions 2.79% Employees Groupe BNP Paribas 1.63% 1.06% Treasury stock Groupe BNP Paribas 17.61% 3.88% 6.15% Other individual shareholders Employees Percentage of Capital held by Employees through Employee Shareholding Plans (In Germany, Spain, France, the United Kingdom and Portugal, at 31 December) 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 3.0 2.76 2.80 2.79 2.67 2.54 2.52 2.5 2.25 2.0 1.85 1.5 1.40 1.06 1.0 0.5 0.0 More than 44,500 employees or former employees are Peugeot S.A. shareholders. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 27 1 Economic Performance 1.1. Shareholders 1.1.2. Payments to Capital Providers 1.1.2. Payments to Capital Providers Performance of the Peugeot S.A. Share versus the CAC 40 Index and the FTSEurofirst 300 Autos & Parts (1 January 2008 to 31 December 2010 , base 100) 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D 2008 2009 2010 Peugeot S.A. share CAC Index FTSEurofirst 300 Autos & Parts The Peugeot S.A. share gained 20% in 2010, ending the year at Over the past three years, the Peugeot S.A. share has declined by €28.41. This compared with a decrease of 3.34% in the CAC 40 index 45%, compared with a 32% decrease in the CAC 40 index and an 8% and an increase of 43% in the FTSEurofirst 300 Autos & Parts index decline in the FTSEurofirst 300 Autos & Parts index. over the year. Track the Peugeot S.A. share price in real time at www.psa-peugeot-citroen.com/en/hp1.php Dividend History 2008 2009 2010 Dividend per share (in euros) 0 0 1.10* * Subject to shareholder approval at the 31 May 2010 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. Following a two-year break and given the results of 2010, it will be proposed to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting to pay a dividend of €1.1 per share. 28 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Economic Performance 1.1. Shareholders 1.1.2. Payments to Capital Providers 1 Total Shareholder Return (TSR) (Total shareholder return on the Peugeot S.A. share) TSR compared with 31 December TSR compared with of the year before 31 December 1999 31 December 2010 + 24.67% + 12.96% 31 December 2009 N/R N/R 31 December 2008 N/R N/R N/R: Not relevant. Total Shareholder Return (TSR) corresponds to the potential capital gain plus dividends received as compared to the stock price on the date of purchase. Finance Costs (In million euros) 2008 2009 2010 Interest on other borrowings* (218) (401) (395) Interest on bank overdrafts (72) (33) (25) Interest on finance lease liabilities (20) (21) (20) Foreign exchange gain/(loss) on financial transactions (16) (28) (8) Other (16) (8) (7) Total (343) (491) (455) * Interest on borrowings includes €87 million in borrowing costs capitalised in accordance with IAS 23 – Borrowing Costs (€41 million in 2009). Retained Earnings Information concerning the appropriation of income for the year and the payment of a dividend may be found in the third resolution submitted The Notice of Meeting is available on the to shareholders at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, as presented in PSA Peugeot Citroën website. the Notice of Meeting. Direct Economic Value Distributed 2008 2009 2010 Sales and revenue (in million euros) 54,356 48,417 56,061 (as a % of sales (as a % of sales (as a % of sales Distributions (in million euros) and revenue) (in million euros) and revenue) (in million euros) and revenue) CAPEX +R&D* 4,574 8.3% 4,236 7.7% 4,230 7.7% Public sector** 1,161 2.1% 940 1.7% 1,230 2.2% Employees*** 363 0.7% 356 0.6% 453 0.8% Shareholders*** 361 0.7% 10 0.0% 6 0.0% * Excluding research tax credit and subsidies. ** Income tax, customs duties, etc. (estimated figure for Faurecia). *** Discretionary and non-discretionary profit-sharing plans, variable bonuses and raises (3.5%). **** Dividends. The value distributed for community investment amount to €4.7 million in 2010. It includes brand and corporate initiatives, as well as Local Philanthropy and Social Action Plans. Financial Assistance Received from Governments (Automotive Division) A total of €121million in financial assistance received from governments in Europe was recognized in income for 2010, versus €145 million for 2009. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 29 1 Economic Performance 1.2. Customers 1.2.1. Automobile Sales 1.2. Customers 1.2.1. Automobile Sales Consolidated Worldwide Sales by Region (Total assembled vehicles and Completely Knocked Down units, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles) 2008 2009 2010 Europe 30 Peugeot 1,190,600 1,132,400 1,172,100 Citroën 1,071,000 1,026,200 1,023,200 Total PSA Peugeot Citroën 2,261,600 2,158,600 2,195,300 Russia Peugeot 53,300 29,500 39,600 Citroën 13,200 13,000 19,900 Total PSA Peugeot Citroën 66,500 42,400 59,500 Latin America Peugeot 166,400 139,900 173,800 Citroën 96,900 92,400 120,500 Total PSA Peugeot Citroën 263,300 232,300 294,300 Asia Peugeot 87,200 118,200 164,200 Citroën 104,000 162,500 227,600 Total PSA Peugeot Citroën 191,200 280,700 391,800 Rest of the World Peugeot 115,300 94,500 120,400 Citroën 53,800 37,200 63,900 Total PSA Peugeot Citroën 169,000 131,700 184,300 Total assembled vehicles Peugeot 1,612,800 1,514,500 1,670,000 Citroën 1,338,800 1,331,300 1,455,100 Total PSA Peugeot Citroën 2,951,600 2,845,800 3,125,200 Total CKD units Peugeot 291,400 327,000 471,700 Citroën 17,400 15,200 5,300 Total PSA Peugeot Citroën 308,800 342,200 477,000 Total assembled vehicles and ckd units Peugeot 1,904,100 1,841,500 2,141,800 Citroën 1,356,200 1,346,400 1,460,400 Total PSA Peugeot Citroën 3,260,400 3,188,000 3,602,200 Figures have been rounded to the nearest 100. 30 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Economic Performance 1.2. Customers 1.2.1. Automobile Sales 1 Registrations in European Markets (Passenger car and light commercial vehicle) 2008 2009 2010 Units Market share (%) Units Market share (%) Units Market share (%) France 794,200 31.6% 871,700 32.6% 871,900 32.7% Germany 189,500 5.7% 249,800 6.3% 173,900 5.6% Austria 29,500 9.0% 32,400 9.4% 32,400 9.1% Belgium and Luxembourg 129,600 19.6% 111,000 19.1% 124,800 19.0% Denmark 32,800 17.8% 22,800 17.8% 29,100 17.1% Spain 254,300 19.1% 205,800 19.4% 203,000 18.5% Finland 12,400 7.9% 6,100 6.2% 8,200 6.9% Greece 21,200 7.3% 14,200 6.0% 11,800 7.7% Ireland 10,200 5.6% 3,700 5.5% 5,300 5.3% Iceland 200 2.4% 0 0.7% 0 1.0% Italy 234,700 9.8% 251,300 10.8% 238,900 11.1% Norway 12,600 8.6% 10,600 8.6% 16,300 10.3% Netherlands 74,600 12.8% 56,400 12.8% 70,700 13.2% Portugal 43,700 16.3% 32,000 16.0% 43,600 16.2% United Kingdom 237,200 9.8% 204,000 9.3% 217,400 9.6% Sweden 25,500 8.7% 16,800 7.0% 22,600 6.9% Switzerland 28,000 8.9% 27,500 9.5% 32,300 10.1% Total Western Europe – 18 Countries 2,130,300 13.8% 2,116,000 14.0% 2,102,300 14.5% Croatia 13,900 14.2% 7,500 15.0% 5,400 12.9% Hungary 14,200 8.1% 4,900 6.9% 3,900 7.4% Poland 42,200 11.1% 29,600 8.1% 35,800 9.5% Czech Republic 20,300 10.0% 16,800 9.3% 15,200 8.5% Slovakia 13,200 13.6% 13,200 14.6% 9,100 12.8% Slovenia 12,200 15.5% 9,400 15.0% 10,500 15.9% Total CEEC 116,000 11.2% 81,400 9.9% 79,800 10.1% Baltic States* 6,400 8.6% 2,500 9.8% 3,500 12.6% Bulgaria – Romania 24,100 6.6% 12,400 7.3% 7,700 5.7% Total Europe – 30 countries 2,276,800 13.5% 2,212,300 13.8% 2,193,200 14.2% * “Baltic States” includes: Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Figures have been rounded to the nearest 100. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 31 1 Economic Performance 1.2. Customers 1.2.1. Automobile Sales Worldwide Sales by Model (Passenger cars and light commercial vehicles, assembled vehicles and CKD units) 2008 2009 2010 Peugeot 107 106,500 118,600 111,900 1007 11,000 5,200 100 206 292,300 370,800 472,800 207 468,300 411,100 353,100 307 142,300 93,600 86,900 308 290,100 252,100 226,200 3008 400 59,500 129,600 5008 14,000 73,400 405 211,100 234,700 299,400 406 1,700 407 81,400 39,500 31,300 408 4,200 508 1,400 607 3,900 1,900 1,000 807 13,500 7,100 5,700 4007 13,700 9,400 8,400 RCZ 100 16,600 BIPPER 25,100 34,300 44,500 PARTNER 147,600 133,300 160,200 EXPERT 39,900 24,300 28,500 BOXER 55,300 31,900 48,800 Total 1,904,100 1,841,500 2,141,800 Of which diesel-powered versions 877,900 773,600 907,700 Of which passenger cars 1,671,500 1,676,600 1,937,100 Of which light commercial vehicles 232,600 164,900 204,700 32 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Economic Performance 1.2. Customers 1.2.1. Automobile Sales 1 2008 2009 2010 Citroën C1 106,700 117,000 105,200 C2 67,100 52,400 9,300 DS3 500 64,500 C3 241,500 226,700 308,300 C3 Picasso 600 86,500 83,700 ZX 68,500 75,500 71,800 XSARA 76,000 54,000 38,200 C4 194,500 216,900 235,000 C4 Picasso 188,800 143,800 128,800 DS4 200 XANTIA 14,100 12,500 4,000 C5 87,900 87,600 116,000 DS5 200 C6 2,800 1,500 1,400 C8 8,800 5,800 5,500 C-CROSSER 12,300 9,400 8,500 NEMO 30,600 43,300 43,500 BERLINGO 162,400 159,700 169,800 JUMPY 39,500 22,800 27,700 JUMPER 54,000 30,700 38,700 Total 1,356,200 1,346,400 1,460,400 Of which diesel-powered versions 788,900 709,700 769,000 Of which passenger cars 1,132,400 1,190,600 1,283,200 Of which light commercial vehicles 223,900 155,800 178,000 PSA Peugeot Citroën Total 3,260,400 3,188,000 3,602,200 Of which diesel-powered versions 1,666,800 1,483,300 1,676,700 Of which passenger cars 2,803,900 2,867,200 3,220,300 Of which light commercial vehicles 456,500 320,700 381,900 Figures have been rounded to the nearest 100. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 33 1 Economic Performance 1.2. Customers 1.2.2. Revenue 1.2.2. Revenue Consolidated Revenue by Business Automotive Transport Automotive Equipment and Logistics Finance Other Intersegment (In millions euros) Division Division Division Division businesses eliminations TOTAL 2010 revenue from sales to outside customers 41,386 11,760 1,217 1,559 139 56,061 from intragroup sales 19 2,036 2,134 293 79 (4,561) 2010 Total 41,405 13,796 3,351 1,852 218 (4,561) 56,061 2009 revenue from sales to outside customers 38,250 7,432 1,046 1,532 157 48,417 from intragroup sales 15 1,860 1,842 291 119 (4,127) 2009 Total 38,265 9,292 2,888 1,823 276 (4,127) 48,417 2008 revenue from sales to outside customers 41,621 9,532 1,365 1,651 187 54,356 from intragroup sales 22 2,479 2,171 437 89 (5,198) 2008 Total 41,643 12,011 3,536 2,088 276 (5,198) 54,356 Consolidated Revenue by Region In the table below: uu revenue is presented by destination of products sold; uu capital expenditure and assets are presented by geographic location of the subsidiary concerned. Central and Eastern (In millions euros) Western Europe Europe Latin America Rest of the world TOTAL 2010 Revenue 40,775 4,067 4,770 6,449 56,061 Non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets and financial assets 16,237 1,024 1,141 604 19,006 2009 Revenue 38,384 2,845 3,236 3,592 48,417 Non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets and financial assets 16,013 956 977 305 18,251 2008 Revenue 41,429 4,314 3,617 4,996 54,356 Non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets and financial assets 16,332 1,028 707 346 18,413 The Group’s operations are organised around five main segments: uu the Finance Division, corresponding to the Banque PSA Finance group, which provides retail financing to customers of the Peugeot uu the Automotive Division, covering the design, manufacture and sale and Citroën brands and wholesale financing to the two brands’ of passenger cars and light commercial vehicles under the Peugeot dealer networks; and Citroën brands; uu Other Businesses, which include the activities of the holding uu the Automotive Equipment Division, corresponding to the Faurecia company, Peugeot S.A., and Peugeot Motocycles. group and comprising Interior Systems, Automotive Seating, Automotive Exteriors and Emissions Control Technologies; Detailed information on the breakdown of net revenue by business uu the Transportation and Logistics Division, corresponding to the Gefco and region may be found in section 20.3, Notes 3.1 and 3.3 to the group comprising logistics and vehicle & goods transportation; consolidated financial statements in the 2010 Registration Document. 34 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Economic Performance 1.3. Suppliers 1.3.2. Supplier Relations 1 1.3. Suppliers 1.3.1. Global Purchases Total Worldwide Purchasing Expenditure (In Europe and Latin America, in billion euros) 2008 2009 2010 Total 24.6 22.5 25 Of which standard and replacement parts 20.3 17.2 20.5 PSA Peugeot Citroën’s purchasing expenditure in Europe and Latin In 2010, half of these purchases were sourced from 20 suppliers: America totalled €25 billion in 2010. Purchases of non-standard parts Faurecia, Bosch, Valeo, Continental, Lear, Delphi, Arcelor Mittal, and components came to €4.5 billion. Michelin, Johnson-Controls, JTEKT, TRW, Visteon, ThyssenKrupp, Plastic Omnium, Total, Leoni, Yazaki, Gestamp Corporacion, FSD and In Europe and Latin America, PSA Peugeot Citroën committed Magneti Marelli. €19 billion to purchase standard parts and components used in vehicle manufacturing, which together represent 70 to 75% of a vehicle’s As of 1 January 2010, PSA Peugeot Citroën sourced standard and average production cost. replacement parts in Europe from 1,100 group or independant suppliers, or a total of 1,776 companies. 1.3.2. Supplier Relations Supplier Commitments Alongside quality, lead times and cost, PSA Peugeot Citroën intends PSA Peugeot Citroën’s social and environmental requirements have to make compliance with its social responsibility practices a core been extended to suppliers through guidelines published by the component of its purchasing policy. For example, one of the key criteria Purchasing Department and distributed to the 1,000 largest suppliers, in the supplier approval process is compliance with International who must formally pledge to comply with them. Together, these Labour Organisation principles. Suppliers who fail to respect human suppliers account for around 95% of the Group’s worldwide purchases. rights must respond immediately with corrective action plans, while As of 31 December 2010, 87% of worldwide standard parts purchases continued violations will lead to sanctions, including exclusion from the were covered by a supplier agreement, compared with 76% two years Group’s list of approved suppliers. earlier. Around 500 standard and non-standard parts suppliers are now involved in the process. The PSA Peugeot Citroën’s Requirements Regarding Social and Environmental Responsibility with Respect to its Suppliers may be downloaded from the Group’s business-to-business website. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 35 1 Economic Performance 1.3. Suppliers 1.3.2. Supplier Relations Supplier Audits To build awareness of social and environmental issues, dedicated In 2010, 13 audits were performed in China, Turkey, Indonesia, programmes are undertaken with suppliers in sectors considered “at Argentina, Bulgaria, Brazil and Portugal. Of these, three were return risk.” These suppliers may also receive a self-assessment questionnaire. visits to sites audited in 2008. During these visits, the auditors were Suppliers are informed that certain requests for proposals issued by able to verify significant improvements in the industrial hygiene, safety purchasing officers in an “at risk” area may trigger an audit at their own and environmental issues that were addressed in the initial action plants or at subcontractors’ facilities. plans. Supplier Risk The parts and components developed and delivered by outside The unit set up to help suppliers withstand the effects of the economic suppliers represent some 70% of vehicle production cost, and these and financial crisis was expanded in 2008. The 40-strong team of companies’ technical and logistical performance and financial strength purchasing, finance, supply chain, legal and labour relations specialists are critical to the Group’s efficient operation and future growth. remained in place in 2010 to monitor the Group’s fulfilment of the Temporary or permanent failure by suppliers to fulfil their commitments commitments given at the height of the crisis to pay suppliers more may have an impact on the Group, the most serious risk being an quickly and comply with the High-Performance and Best Practices interruption of parts deliveries leading to production stoppages at the Code. Thirty of them are still actively involved in the work of the PFA – plants and delays in the execution of vehicle, mechanical engineering a platform set up in France in 2009 to foster on-going discussion or industrial projects. and exchange between auto industry stakeholders – and the Group has also maintained its participation in the FMEA fund established Risks related to the quality of suppliers, their financial and commercial to support automotive equipment suppliers. The unit is continuing to viability, and the reliability of parts and components that they deliver are closely monitor the situation of suppliers in the still fragile economic closely monitored. The Purchasing Department leverages its extensive environment and to support the Group’s international growth projects expertise in production costing and raw materials price management, in India, Russia and China. and its in-depth understanding of global markets, to efficiently manage competitive bidding processes and supplier relationships as part of its In 2010, 79 suppliers were the subject of preventive and remedial purchasing strategy. Close attention is paid to supplier risk, particularly action plans, representing 5.30% of total purchases. This compares the risk of supply chain disruption or of supplier bankruptcy. A dedicated with 100 suppliers representing 15% of total purchases in 2009. unit has been set up to pro-actively manage supplier bankruptcy risks During the year, French carmakers and their suppliers kept up their and deal with the consequences of any bankruptcies. Suppliers are efforts to enhance dialogue across the auto industry, mainly through selected according to seven main criteria: price competitiveness, the PFA. In order to lead its contribution, at regional level, to addressing quality, the ability to develop new products and manufacture them in the industrial and social issues arising from the transformation and large quantifies, supply chain efficiency, research and development restructuring of the French automotive industry, the Group appointed capabilities, geographic reach and long-term viability. four regional delegates in late 2010 to support changes in the supplier To strengthen processes designed to prevent the occurrence of supplier base. These regional delegates work with the team set up within risks, purchasing strategies by product family and supplier choices are the Purchasing Department, in partnership with the PFA and local, submitted to the Purchasing Executive Committee for approval. The economic, political and social stakeholders. Committee’s decision is based on a review of the supplier’s financial The reciprocal commitments of PSA Peugeot Citroën and its suppliers position, strategy, growth outlook and compliance with the social and concerning the sharing of intellectual property rights are in line with environmental standards in the sustainable development guidelines, the provisions of France’s Loi de Modernisation de l’Économie (LME) as well as on an assessment of the extent to which the Group is Act and the High Performance and Best Practices Code. In particular: dependent on the supplier. uu an agreement is signed with each supplier containing a Suppliers identified as representing a higher than normal risk are confidentiality clause applicable to both parties and a reciprocal monitored by the Purchasing Department’s Industrial Strategy and commitment to respect the intellectual property rights represented Supplier Risks unit. This unit analyses the main suppliers’ financial by the shared information; results and consolidates information about their industrial strategies. uu the information may not be used for any purpose other than the It is helping to formally define the Group’s make-or-buy policy, by working with the Purchasing Department and the management of the execution of the contracts (unless otherwise agreed between the divisions to produce analyses of the socio-economic impact of the parties); Group’s industrial choices. In addition, it monitors supplier compliance uu the rules and procedures governing the transfer and/or use of with the PSA Peugeot Citroën social and environmental standards. intellectual property rights or know-how are defined in the contract; uu the rules governing the payment of R&D costs and supplier payment At the same time, strategic partnerships with a certain number of terms comply with the LME Act. leading national and international suppliers are being strengthened in order to drive pervasive innovation and secure critical aspects of the The earthquake in Japan on 11 March 2011 and subsequent disaster Group’s current and future supply. In particular, the Group is stepping impacted certain Group suppliers, causing some disruption in up the diversification of its supplier base and expanding its safety European diesel engine output over a limited one-week period. stock policies. 36 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Economic Performance 1.3. Suppliers 1.3.3. Purchasing by Country and Local Content 1 An Industrial and Social Commitment with Automobile Industry Suppliers and Subcontractors In line with French government initiatives stemming from the industry and the Group’s size and scope, the representatives will January 2009 Automobile Summit and the creation of the Automotive work with different regional stakeholders to actively bolster the Industry Platform, PSA Peugeot Citroën is stepping up measures to French automobile industry. PSA Peugeot Citroën is also involved support the automobile industry. To speed and support changes in the in Automotive Industry Platform discussions alongside employee manufacturing base and initiatives in the area of innovation, the Group representatives. It has emphasised the need to develop assessment has named four regional delegates to reinforce actions undertaken by tools for each job family and to analyse current and future changes in the government-appointed “Automobile Representatives” who report the various professions in order to effectively organise transformations to the regional prefects. Backed by solid experience in the automobile in the manufacturing base. Social dialogue is also crucial. 1.3.3. Purchasing by Country and Local Content Standard Parts Production by Region of Origin (Standard parts production by region of origin, as a percentage of 2010 standard/replacement parts purchasing expenditure. Europe: European Union) 5% Rest of the world 4% Rest of the world 56% France 23% France Other European French plants Rest of Europe 39% Rest of Europe 73% Union Plants PSA Peugeot Citroën actively supports the local production of inputs for its manufacturing plants around the world. Local Content In the Latin America region, an average 75% of the parts used at the The percentage of local content corresponds to the amount of local Porto Real plant in Brazil are locally sourced in the region, while at the purchases divided by the plant’s total purchasing expenditure, Buenos Aires, Argentina plant, local content varies between 60% and including intragroup deliveries (such as PSA Peugeot Citroën engines 75%. delivered to an assembly plant). For example, the local region for the Trnava plant is Central and Eastern Europe, which, as defined by In Central Europe, 65% of purchases at the Kolín facility in the PSA Peugeot Citroën, comprises the following countries: Albania, Czech Republic are locally sourced and local content (from Central Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, and Eastern European countries) at the Trnava, Slovakia plant has Estonia, Hungary, Kosovo, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, Moldavia, increased to 50% at end-2010 from 5% in 2005. Montenegro, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia and Ukraine. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 37 1 Economic Performance 38 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 2 Products and services 2.1. R&D and Eco-Design 40 2.5. Road Safety 54 2.5.1. Primary Safety: Avoiding Accidents 54 2.2. Greenhouse Effect 41 2.5.2. Secondary Safety: Protecting Passengers and Pedestrians during an Accident 55 2.2.1. Registrations by CO2 Emissions Level 42 2.5.3. Tertiary Safety: Post-Accident Emergency 2.2.2. Fuel Efficiency and CO2 Emissions 44 Response57 2.2.3. Petrol and Diesel Engines 46 2.5.4. Peugeot Motocycles 58 2.2.4. Using Alternative Fuels 47 2.2.5. Deploying Breakthrough Technologies: 2.6. Telematics and Mobility 58 Hybrids and Electric Vehicles 48 2.2.6. Optimizing Vehicle Architecture and Equipment 50 2.6.1. Telematics 58 2.6.2. Mobility Services 59 2.3. Air Quality 51 2.7. Customer Relations 60 2.3.1. Reducing Vehicle Exhaust Emissions 51 2.7.1. Quality 60 2.7.2. Compliance with Health, Safety 2.4. Resource Management and Customer Privacy Standards61 and Recycling 52 2.7.3. Advertising, Communication and 2.4.1. Use of Materials 52 Consumer Information 62 2.4.2. Recycling End-of-Life Vehicles 53 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 39 2 Products and services 2.1. R&D and Eco-Design ﻿ ﻿﻿ The environmental and social impacts of PSA Peugeot Citroën’s products are described on the “Our Impacts” pages in the following subsections of the Environment section on the sustainable development website: Greenhouse Effect, Air Quality, Resource Use, and Recycling. Other aspects are presented in the “Our Responsibility” pages in the following sub-sections of the Corporate Citizenship section: Road Safety, Customers Relations and Urban Mobility. 2.1. R&D and Eco-Design R&D and Innovation PSA Peugeot Citroën is continuing to build the future by maintaining customers around the world to choose its models from among the its capital expenditure and R&D budgets. Automotive Division dizzying array on offer. But it is also what enables the Group to ensure outlays amounted to €3,496 million in 2010, €3,764 million in 2009 compliance with changing standards and legislation, sometimes and €3,817 million in 2008, and will be increased slightly in 2011, ahead of their implementation dates, and to create new competitive thereby enabling the Group to continue developing strategic models advantages. and conducting research on innovative technological solutions, while To create this innovation-led competitive advantage, PSA Peugeot pursuing its international expansion. Citroën pays careful attention to the needs, whether expressed PSA Peugeot Citroën is committed to becoming a global enterprise, or implied, of its customers and the wider community. At the same generating 50% of its sales outside Europe in 2015. This ambitious time, it makes sure that every automotive project assimilates and objective requires investing in the priority growth regions of Asia, Latin integrates the possibilities offered by new technologies, which have America and Russia. grown exponentially in recent years. It is the combination of these two approaches that generates innovative new ideas. Each Peugeot or Citroën car is created through a seamless design and development process involving daily input from more than 14,000 Attesting to its intensive commitment to innovation, PSA Peugeot engineers and technicians. Backed by a substantial budget – totalling Citroën was France’s leading patent filer for the third year in a row, more than €2 billion in 2010 for the Automotive Division, including with 1,152 patents filed in 2010. These new patents have strengthened development costs on existing vehicles, and €2,340 million for the the portfolio of innovations that are supporting the Group’s strategic Group as a whole – the R&D commitment should enable the Group to vision, particularly its goal of staying one step ahead in the area of reaffirm its leadership in low-carbon vehicles. low-carbon vehicles. As part of its commitment to sustainable development, the Group To maintain its leadership in next-generation automotive products dedicates half of its technological research efforts to clean technologies and services, in 2010, PSA Peugeot Citroën strengthened its scientific that help to shrink its vehicles’ environmental footprint by: partnerships with advanced scientific laboratories in Europe, Asia and America by creating a network of OpenLabs. These research units bring uu improving fuel efficiency and reducing carbon emissions; together teams and resources provided by the Group and its partner uu making vehicles lighter, which in turn increases fuel efficiency and laboratories, including Institut des Sciences du Mouvement in Marseille reduces raw materials content; and Laboratoire de l’Intégration du Matériau au Système in Bordeaux. uu using green materials, which are recycled, natural materials or These joint research units are exploring major issues impacting the biosourced. future of the automobile, while closely tracking scientific discoveries In an industry where model line-ups have become much more worldwide. In October, the Research and Advanced Engineering diversified, innovation is the only way to create the competitive Department created the Science Technologies Exploratory Lean advantages so critical to driving growth. Innovation is a priority for LABoratory (STELLAB) to deploy and lead the OpenLabs network. PSA Peugeot Citroën, which every day has to convince thousands of 40 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Products and services 2.2. Greenhouse Effect ﻿ ﻿﻿ 2 Main Challenges at Every Stage in the Life cycle PSA Peugeot Citroën teams are fully engaged in the eco-design vehicles comply with local environmental legislation, eco-design also process, which helps to shrink a vehicle’s environmental footprint to gives the Group a competitive advantage by helping it to create the a minimum at every stage in its life cycle by improving fuel efficiency, automotive products of the future. reducing carbon and other pollutant emissions, using natural resources reasonably and enhancing recyclability. In addition to ensuring that its Life cycle stage Main challenges uu Define new automotive products and services aligned with consumers’ mobility needs around the world, Product definition local legislation, and societal expectations concerning environmental, safety and other issues uu Design vehicles at an acceptable cost and attenuate their impact: –– on the environment, by reducing their CO and other local emissions, using resources responsibly 2 and improving their recyclability –– on society, by improving their safety performance, reducing noise pollution Design and engineering and easing traffic congestion uu Reduce the environmental impact of automobile manufacturing uu Ensure workplace safety Production uu Participate in the economic and social life of local communities uu Integrate environmental concerns into supply chain and dealership network management uu Responsibly inform customers, in advertising and labelling, and ensure a satisfying ownership experience Transport and marketing with effective sales and customer service processes uu Help to attenuate the impact of using an automobile, by promoting safer, more environmentally Use responsible driving practices uu Facilitate the collection and processing of end-of-life vehicles and parts by organisations specialised End of life in pollution abatement, recycling, recovery and re-use 2.2. Greenhouse Effect Regulations In a number of markets, CAFE legislation is requiring automakers to for carmakers to achieve corporate average CO2 emissions of 130 g/ improve their corporate average fuel economy and carbon emissions. km in 2015, corresponding to a threshold of 120 g/km including the While divergent today, the targets set by the European Union, the impact of such additional measures as biofuels and eco-innovations. United States and China are closing in on 130 to 155 g of CO2/km in 2015 and could converge by 2020. In Europe current legislation calls Group Strategy Fully aware of the automobile industry’s responsibilities in reducing uu improving the fuel efficiency of petrol and diesel-powered greenhouse gas emissions, PSA Peugeot Citroën is developing a internal combustion engines as well as the overall fuel efficiency range of increasingly fuel-efficient, low-emissions cars that continue to of its vehicles, in particular by optimising vehicle architecture meet the growing mobility needs of individuals, giving them access to (aerodynamics and mass) and equipment (gearboxes, tyres, air employment, education and healthcare. The Group’s strategy is based conditioning systems, etc.); on a holistic approach, which is the only way to meet the challenge uu deploying Stop & Start, diesel hybrid and plug-in hybrid technologies of reducing automotive CO2 emissions over the next ten years and designed to deliver powerful breakthroughs in reducing CO2 provide customers with a low-carbon vehicle. emissions; uu launching electric vehicles in 2010. As part of this approach, PSA Peugeot Citroën is deploying a wide array of technological solutions, aligned with the ways customers actually use their cars and structured around three main objectives: PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 41 2 Products and services 2.2. Greenhouse Effect 2.2.1. Registration by CO2 Emissions Level As of 2012, the Group has set the target of selling a million vehicles Stop & Start Gasoline emitting less than 120 g/km of CO2 in Europe each year. Diesel e-HDi 1l. 3 cyl ≤99g CO2/km up to As announced in late 2009, it aims at reducing carbon emissions from ≤ 99g CO2/km -15% CO2/km its vehicles sold in China by 50% by 2020, thereby bringing them in line with projected European standards for that year, which will remain CO2 emissions Full hybrid Hybrid the world’s strictest. Electric Plug-in diesel Vehicle < 50g CO2/km HYbrid4 2009 2010 2011 2012 Urban && All types Peri-urban Urban 2.2.1. Registrations by CO2 Emissions Level PSA Peugeot Citroën Registrations by CO2 Emissions Level (Passenger cars, registrations in 14-country Europe) Grams CO2 emitted per kilometre 0.5% 0.0% 0.1% 0.0% 9% ≤ 120 6.7% 121 to 140 141 to 160 161 to 200 201 to 250 > 250 38% * 41.3% * 29.5% 23.4% 2009 2010 In these charts, the CO2 emissions bands (in g/km) correspond to the ratings on French energy efficiency labels. A: <100, B: 101-120, C: 121-140, D: 141-160, 23% E: 161-200, F: 201-250, 28.5% G: >250 * Of which 15% emitting less than 110 g CO2/km. * Of which 23% emitting less than 110 g CO2/km 70% of Peugeot and Citroën vehicles sold in Europe in 2010 emit less The results also reflect the Group’s decision to focus on technological than 140 g CO2/km, with the figure rising to 78% in France. solutions widely accessible and applicable to mass-produced cars, which is the only way to have a real impact on the environment. Thanks to its range of highly fuel-efficient, low-emission engines, the Group’s average corporate CO2 emissions in Europe stood at 131.8 g/ km in 2010, versus 135.8 g/km in 2009 and 140.1 g/km in 2008. 42 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Products and services 2.2. Greenhouse Effect 2.2.1. Registration by CO2 Emissions Level 2 Breakdown of the European Automobile Market by CO2 Emissions Level (Passenger cars, 2010 registrations in 14-country Europe) % ≤ 120 121 to 140 141 to 160 161 to 200 201 to 250 > 250 35 30 Of which PSA Peugeot Citroën 19% 13% 25 20 16% 15 6% Grams CO2 emitted per kilometre ≤ 120 10 121 to 140 141 to 160 5 161 to 200 1% 0% 201 to 250 0 > 250 A comparison of PSA Peugeot Citroën registrations and the total The Group is also the European leader in passenger vehicles emitting European market by range of CO2 emissions in 2010 highlights the less than 120 g/km, with 19.1% of the market in 2010, and in vehicles Group’s contribution to reducing new vehicle emissions in Europe. emitting less than 110 g/km, with more than 29.6% of the market. In 2010, for example, the Group sold more than a million vehicles (1,020,850) emitting less than 130 g/km of CO2 worldwide, and 870,100 emitting less than 120 g/km. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 43 2 Products and services 2.2. Greenhouse Effect 2.2.2. Fuel Efficiency and CO2 Emissions 2.2.2. Fuel Efficiency and CO2 Emissions Fuel Consumption and CO2 Emissions by Vehicle in 2010 Twenty-one Peugeot and Citroën model families and 124 models are consumption. Models in boldface are the best-selling petrol or diesel sold in versions that emit less than 130 g/km of CO2. The current model version in France. In some cases, the best selling models are also the line-up also includes versions emitting less than 100 g/km of CO2, such most fuel-efficient. as the Peugeot 207, Citroën C3 and Citroën DS3. The models below were selected on the basis of their sales and environmental performance. For each one, the table shows data for the petrol and diesel versions offering the lowest CO2 emissions and fuel Fuel Displacement Horsepower Fuel consumption (litres/100 km) CO2 Noise Peugeot cc kW City Highway Combined g/km dB(A) Peugeot iOn Electric 47 0 0 0 0 66.0 Peugeot 107 1.0 68 Petrol 998 50 5.4 4.0 4.3 103 70.0 Peugeot 206+ 1.1 Petrol 1,124 44 7.8 4.6 5.8 133 71.4 1.4 75 Petrol 1,360 54 8.2 4.7 6.0 139 71.9 1.4 HDi 70 Diesel 1,398 50 4.9 3.5 4.0 104 74.6 Peugeot 207 1.4 VTi 95 Petrol 1,397 70 7.6 4.8 5.8 135 72.0 1.6 HDi Diesel 1,560 66 4.9 3.2 3.8 99 71.6 1.6 HDi 92 Diesel 1,560 68 5.2 3.5 4.2 110 74.3 Peugeot 308 1.6 VTi 120 Petrol 1,598 88 9.1 4.9 6.4 147 72.8 1.6 HDi 112 Diesel 1,560 82 5.1 3.9 4.5 114 72.0 Peugeot 3008 1.6 VTi 120 Petrol 1,598 88 9.4 5.5 6.9 159 73.3 1.6 THP 156 Petrol 1,598 115 9.9 5.6 7.1 167 73.1 1.6 HDi 112 Diesel 1,560 82 5.8 4.4 4.9 129 69.6 Peugeot 5008 1.6 VTi 120 Petrol 1,598 88 9.4 5.5 6.9 159 73.8 1.6 THP 156 Petrol 1,598 115 9.8 5.7 7.1 167 72.9 1.6 HDi 112 Diesel 1,560 82 6.2 4.7 5.2 136 69.5 Peugeot 407 1.6 HDi 110 Diesel 1,560 80 6.4 4.1 4.9 129 73.5 Peugeot 407 Coupé 2.0 HDi 163 Diesel 1,997 120 6.9 4.5 5.4 140 73.6 Peugeot 4007 2.2 HDi 156 Diesel 2,179 115 9.0 5.9 7.0 185 74.9 Peugeot 807 2.0 HDi 136 Diesel 1,997 100 7.4 5.0 5.9 155 73.9 Peugeot Bipper Tepee 1.4 75 Petrol 1,360 54 8.2 5.6 6.6 152 72.5 1.3 HDi 75 Diesel 1,248 55 5.1 3.8 4.3 113 74.0 Peugeot Partner Tepee 1.6 VTi 120 Petrol 1,598 88 9.6 6.0 7.3 169 74.0 1.6 HDi 90 Diesel 1,560 66 6.2 4.8 5.3 139 74.5 Peugeot Expert Tepee 1.6 HDi 90 Diesel 1,560 66 8.4 6.6 7.3 194 74.4 2.0 HDi 120 Diesel 1,997 88 8.8 6.5 7.3 194 74.9 Peugeot RCZ 1.6 THP 156 Petrol 1,598 115 9.3 5.2 6.7 155 71.0 2.0 HDi 163 Diesel 1,997 120 6.8 4.5 5.3 139 73.6 44 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Products and services 2.2. Greenhouse Effect 2.2.2. Fuel Efficiency and CO2 Emissions 2 Fuel Displacement Horsepower Fuel consumption (litres/100 km) CO2 Noise Citroën cc kW City Highway Combined g/km dB(A) Citroën C-Zero Electric 47 0 0 0 0 66.0 Citroën C1 1.0 Petrol 998 50 5.4 4.0 4.5 103 70.0 Citroën C3 1.1 Petrol 1,124 44 7.9 4.9 5.9 137 73.8 VTi 95 Petrol 1,397 70 7.6 4.8 5.8 134 73.9 e-HDi 90 Diesel 1,560 50 4.3 3.2 3.6 93 71.4 HDi 70 Diesel 1,398 68 4.9 3.5 4.0 104 72.1 Citroën DS3 VTi 95 Petrol 1,397 70 7.6 4.8 5.8 134 73.9 VTi 120 Petrol 1,598 88 7.9 4.8 5.9 136 73.5 HDi 90 Diesel 1,560 68 4.9 3.4 4.0 104 72.1 e-HDi 90 Diesel 1,560 68 4.3 3.2 3.6 95 71.4 Citroën C3 Picasso VTi 95 Petrol 1,397 70 8.3 5.2 6.4 149 74.0 HDi 90 Diesel 1,560 68 5.5 4.0 4.6 119 74.9 Citroën Nemo Combi 1.4 Petrol 1,360 54 8.2 5.6 6.6 152 72.5 HDi 70 Diesel 1,398 50 5.7 3.8 4.5 119 71.0 HDi 75 Diesel 1,248 55 5.1 3.8 4.3 113 74.0 Citroën Berlingo 1.6 16v Petrol 1,587 66 10.8 6.8 8.2 195 73.3 VTi 95 Petrol 1,598 72 9.6 5.7 7.1 164 74.0 HDi 92 Diesel 1,560 66 6.4 4.8 5.3 140 73.9 HDi 75 Diesel 1,560 55 6.1 4.8 5.3 139 73.6 Citroën C4 VTi 120 Petrol 1,598 88 8.8 4.7 6.2 143 71.6 VTi 95 Petrol 1,397 70 8.2 4.9 6.1 140 73.6 HDi 110 Diesel 1,560 68 5.8 3.9 4.6 119 74.1 e-HDi 110 Diesel 1,560 68 4.7 3.8 4.2 109 71.8 Citroën C4 Picasso VTi 120 Petrol 1,598 88 9 .3 5.4 6.9 159 73.8 HDi 110 Diesel 1,560 82 6.4 4.5 5.2 135 70.1 e-DHi 110 Diesel 1,560 82 5.1 4.5 4.8 125 72.5 Citroën C5 THP 155 BVA Petrol 1,598 110 10.5 5.6 7.3 169 72.1 VTi 120 BMP6 Petrol 1,598 88 8.3 5.0 6.2 144 71.4 HDi 110 Diesel 1,560 82 6.0 4.4 5.0 129 71.7 e-HDi 110 Diesel 1,560 82 5.5 4.1 4.6 120 70.3 Citroën C6 V6 HDi 240 FAP Diesel 2,993 177 10.0 5.8 7.3 190 72.8 Citroën C8 HDi 135 Diesel 1,997 88 7.4 5.0 5.9 155 73.9 Citroën C-Crosser HDi 160 DCS Diesel 2,179 115 9.3 6.0 7.2 189 71.8 HDi 160 Diesel 2,179 115 9.0 5.9 7.0 185 74.9 In tests by an independent organisation, CO2 emissions are measured The method used to measure noise levels is described in UN-ECE with the vehicle on a chassis dynamometer running the European Regulation no. 51 and is based on the ISO 362 standard, which standard Motor Vehicle Emission Group (MVEG) test procedure, which defines speed and acceleration conditions for test runs. Noise levels covers both city and highway driving cycles. The measured emissions are measured by microphones placed along the test track. Units of are then calculated per kilometre, providing a basis for determining measurement dB(A) express a level of intensity weighted to reflect the consumption by type of fuel. The resulting data enable consumers to physiological characteristics of the human ear. compare the performance of vehicles offered by different brands. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 45 2 Products and services 2.2. Greenhouse Effect 2.2.3. Petrol and Diesel Engines 2.2.3. Petrol and Diesel Engines PSA Peugeot Citroën is continuing to optimize conventional internal past decade, the Group has been assertively downsizing its engines, combustion engines to improve their fuel efficiency and reduce their enabling them to deliver the same performance in smaller, more fuelcarbon footprint, by deploying advanced technological solutions in efficient forms. engine architecture, fuel intake systems and injection systems. For the PSA Peugeot Citroën Sales by Region and Type of Fuel (Billings – Western Europe = 18 countries) Fuel Western Europe Rest of the world TOTAL Petrol 2010 649,040 1,285,180 1,934,220 2009 752,075 914,120 1,666,195 2008 663,205 939,320 1,602,525 Diesel 2010 1,418,625 265,635 1,684,260 2009 1,257,035 166,925 1,423,960 2008 1,384,740 289,915 1,674,655 Improving Fuel Efficiency and Reducing Diesel Exhaust Emissions PSA Peugeot Citroën has developed extensive expertise in diesel the emissions control performance of HDi engines, which have been powertrains, which consume less fuel and emit less CO2 while equipped with a particulate filter since 2000. Some 1.65 million HDi delivering the same performance as equivalent petrol engines. powerplants were produced in 2010, bringing total output to more than Developed in cooperation with Ford Motor Company, commonrail, 15.8 million units since 1998. direct-injection HDi diesel engines deliver outstanding driving comfort Brought to market in 2009 and 2010, the diesel versions of the and reduce CO2 emissions by a significant 20% compared with the Peugeot 207 and Citroën C3 and DS3 emit just 99 g/km of CO2 thanks previous-generation diesels. These benefits have made the HDi one to a particularly efficient technical package that includes special of the best selling engines in Europe, where diesels represented nearly aerodynamics and optimised engine calibration. 55% of unit sales in 2010. Ongoing programmes are steadily improving Improving Fuel Efficiency and Reducing Petrol Exhaust Emissions Since 2006, PSA Peugeot Citroën has been offering the 1.4-litre and In line with PSA Peugeot Citroën’s strategy of reducing its vehicles’ 1.6-litre, 4-cylinder petrol engines developed jointly with BMW group, CO2 emissions in China by 50% in 2020 as announced in late 2009, which deliver a 10 to 15% reduction in CO2 emissions compared with the engine offering will be totally renewed over the next five years, with their predecessors. By the end of 2010, 1.8 million of these engines the launch of six new engines delivering between 60 kW and 150 kW had already been produced. of power. At the same time, the Group is fully committed to developing hybrid vehicles by launching Stop & Start vehicles in 2011, to be A new stage in the partners’ cooperation began in January 2010 with followed by a full hybrid line-up. In this way, PSA Peugeot Citroën’s the signature of an agreement to jointly develop the next generation of local initiatives will provide significant support to China’s efforts to Euro 6-compliant 4-cylinder petrol engines. reduce carbon emissions while satisfying the expectations of different At the same time, the Group is also working on a new family of 1-litre customer profiles. and 1.2-litre, 3-cylinder petrol engines, which are scheduled for launch in 2012. The new powerplant will make it possible to offer cars that emit less than 100 g of CO2/km without additional technology. 46 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Products and services 2.2. Greenhouse Effect 2.2.4. Using Alternative Fuels 2 2.2.4. Using Alternative Fuels Another way to reduce a vehicle’s carbon footprint is to explore the use use of biofuels, while emphasising the need to take sustainability of other fuels than petrol and diesel, such as natural gas and biofuels. criteria into account in developing products and the related industry PSA Peugeot Citroën has reaffirmed its commitment to the responsible segments. Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) (Billings, Western Europe = 18 countries) Western Europe Outside Western Europe Worldwide 2010 3,045 0 3,045 2009 5,180 5 5,185 2008 3,210 10 3,220 PSA Peugeot Citroën markets vehicles that run on compressed natural In addition, CNG versions of the Peugeot Partner and Citroën Berlingo gas (CNG) in markets where CNG is already a viable alternative to light commercial vehicles (for businesses) and the Citroën C3 supermini petrol and diesel, i.e. in countries like Argentina or regions like the (for consumers) were marketed in 2010 in a number of European Middle East, where local conditions (strong political commitment, countries, with the majority sold in Italy and France. secure CNG supply, etc.) favour the development of CNG as an A 1.6-litre dual-fuel petrol/CNG engine designed to be offered automobile fuel. Using CNG can not only help to reduce tank-to-wheel worldwide is currently marketed in Iran and China. carbon emissions by 20% compared with conventional petrol fuels, it also enables engines to deliver high fuel efficiency. As part of the cooperation agreement with Karsan, the Group is also working on CNG versions of the stretch Peugeot Partner Origin and Citroën Berlingo First produced in Turkey. Ethanol and Flex-Fuel Vehicles (Billings, Western Europe = 18 countries) Western Europe Of which France Outside Western Europe Worldwide 2010 395 15 146,790 147,185 2009 950 20 117,500 118,450 2008 2,935 575 103,650 106,585 Ethanol and its derivative, ethyl tertiary butyl ether (ETBE), which are from 20 to 100% ethanol in Brazil, the world’s largest market for ethanol made from cereals and sugar beets in Europe and sugar cane in Brazil, blends and flex-fuel vehicles. In the latter country, the Group markets are biofuels that can be blended with petrol. flex-fuel versions of the Peugeot 206 and the Citroën C3, C4 and Xsara Picasso. In 2010, these vehicles accounted for more than 65% of the SP95-E10, a fuel introduced in France in 2009, is a blend of regular petrol vehicles sold by the Group in Latin America (Argentina, Brazil unleaded petrol (SP95) and 10% plant-derived ethanol. All of the and Paraguay) and more than 80% of those sold in Brazil. Group’s petrol-powered models produced since 1 January 2000 can run on SP95-E10. In addition, flex-fuel versions of the Peugeot 308 and Citroën C4 and C5 were marketed in several European countries in 2010, with the PSA Peugeot Citroën has also developed flex-fuel engines that can run majority sold in Sweden. on ethanol/petrol blends of up to 85% ethanol in Europe (E85 fuel) and PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 47 2 Products and services 2.2. Greenhouse Effect 2.2.5. Deploying Breakthrough Technologies: Hybrids and Electric Vehicles Biodiesel Biodiesels are a blend of diesel fuel and vegetable oil ethyl esters or Partners association, which has tested biodiesel fuels over more than methylesters (VOEEs or VOMEs), which are made from oilseeds such 100,000 kilometres. It is also partnering the Ladetel laboratory in Brazil, as rapeseed. The biodiesels currently on retail sale (at the pump) in where Phase III of the joint programme will be launched in spring 2011, Europe contain up to 7% biodiesels. with road tests using advanced biodiesels. Higher biofuel blends are more beneficial when used in captive fleets, PSA Peugeot Citroën and the Fédération Nationale des Syndicats where issues with fuel storage, refuelling and the need for stricter d’Exploitants Agricoles (FNSEA), France’s largest farmers’ union, are maintenance are easier to resolve. For example, the Group’s service committed to jointly developing ethanol and biodiesel-based biofuels fleet has been running on B30 fuel (a 30% biodiesel/70% diesel blend) in line with the objectives of the European Union directive on renewable for more than a decade. energies, which sets a target of sourcing at least 10% of land transport fuel from renewables by 2020. All of the Group’s diesel vehicles can run on B10 (with up to 10% biodiesel) and B30, provided that the fuel is of high quality and the The Group is still actively involved in developing biofuel standards vehicle is maintained accordingly. This includes the vehicles equipped to ensure the minimal quality levels required to support efficient with the new e-HDi and HYbrid4 technologies. engine performance, proper vehicle operation and a satisfying driving experience. It is also a member of the steering committee of the PSA Peugeot Citroën is participating in various research programmes European Biofuels Technology Platform. in Europe, notably in France where it is a member of the Diester Advanced Biofuels Extending the use of biofuels, without detracting from their positive are the Shamash project, which aims to produce a lipid biofuel from social and environmental impact, requires the development of microalgae supplied by Alpha Biotech, and the proposed partnership socalled “advanced” biofuels, which can be made from biomass with the administrative authority for the greater Lille region to test the feedstocks, such as crop residue, non-food crops, organic waste or use of biogas in public transit applications. even microalgae. PSA Peugeot Citroën is contributing to this process by participating in research projects and real-world trials. Two examples 2.2.5. Deploying Breakthrough Technologies: Hybrids and Electric Vehicles More than ever, the environmental challenges associated with solutions will enable PSA Peugeot Citroën to consolidate its position automobile use are being met by technological solutions designed to in the European low-carbon vehicle segment and extend its expertise drive powerful breakthroughs in fuel efficiency and carbon emissions. to other markets. The deployment of Stop & Start, hybrid and zero-emission vehicle e-HDi Technology e-HDi technology allows the engine to shut down automatically when superior driveability, faster restart and other premium features. Fitted the vehicle is standing still – at a red light, for example – and to start on an HDi diesel engine, the new reversible starter-alternator is more up again instantly and noiselessly when reactivated by the driver. As a efficient and enables regenerative braking. Introduced in the second result, it helps to reduce carbon emissions by up to 15% in city driving. half of 2010 on the Citroën C5, the e-HDi technology will be extended When combined with the system’s cost-effectiveness, these features across the entire Peugeot and Citroën line-up in 2011. offer an efficient solution to a number of traffic-related issues in cities, The Group’s objective is to have sold a total of one million vehicles where 75% of Europeans now live. equipped with e-HDi technology by the end of 2013. The technology’s first-generation was introduced on the Citroën C2 and C3 in 2004. The second generation, known as e-HDi, delivers 48 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Products and services 2.2. Greenhouse Effect 2.2.5. Deploying Breakthrough Technologies: Hybrids and Electric Vehicles 2 Hybrids PSA Peugeot Citroën’s HYbrid4 diesel hybrid technology will represent In late 2010, PSA Peugeot Citroën and BMW announced their intention a major breakthrough in the European market in terms of fuel efficiency to extend their cooperation to hybrid systems by creating an equally and carbon emissions, offering gains of up to 30% compared with the owned joint venture in early 2011. Known as BMW Peugeot Citroën equivalent HDi diesel model and emitting less than 100g/km of CO2. Electrification, the venture will focus on developing and producing The drivetrain combines the high fuel efficiency of the HDi diesel in hybrid powertrain components, including battery packs, E-machines, highway driving with all the benefits of electric propulsion on city and generators, power electronics and chargers, while also developing suburban roads. It will also offer all-wheel drive capability, thanks to software for hybrid systems. Joint research and development, the electric motor mounted on the rear axle assembly, as well as the production and component purchasing will leverage significant e-HDi system and a particulate filter. economies of scale for both companies. The joint initiative is also aimed at creating an open European platform for those technologies, The first diesel hybrid on the market, the Peugeot 3008 HYbrid4, will which will help the European industry to structure itself in the field of be equipped with the technology in 2011, to be followed by the Citroën hybridization. Subject to approval by competition authorities, the joint DS5 HYbrid4. venture is expected to launch its operations in the second quarter of As part of its strategy to reduce the carbon footprint of vehicles sold in 2011. The new hybrid components will equip both partners’ vehicles China, the Group plans to bring HYbrid4 petrol hybrids to the Chinese from 2014 onwards. market by 2015. Plug-in Hybrids PSA Peugeot Citroën is working on a plug-in hybrid, a multi-functional Trials will be carried out ahead of the technology’s market launch vehicle that can be recharged on an ordinary electric socket. An in 2014. The long-term objective is to reduce these plug-ins’ CO2 enhanced battery pack will enable the plug-in to run in all-electric emissions to less than 50 g/km. mode for between 15 and 50 kilometres, which corresponds to most motorists’ daily needs. It therefore offers all the benefits of an EV for day-to-day use, but can also handle longer distances thanks to its internal combustion engine. Electric Vehicles In late 2010, PSA Peugeot Citroën introduced the Peugeot iOn and the The Group’s EV line-up also includes two electric commercial vehicles, Citroën C-Zero, two new-generation city EVs developed in conjunction the Peugeot Partner Origin and Citroën Berlingo First, developed in with Mitsubishi Motors Corporation. With a driving range of cooperation with Venturi Automobiles and also brought to market in 150 kilometres in the standard European cycle, the models are capable 2010. Designed more specifically for fleet use, these vehicles offer of satisfying 90% of motorists’ daily transport needs. The lithium-ion three cubic metres of storage space and can carry loads of up to battery pack placed under the vehicle floor can be fully charged in six 500 kg. Their Zebra sodium nickel chloride battery, located under the hours from a simple electric socket or fast-charged to 80% of its rated bonnet, offers a range of 100 kilometres and can be charged from a capacity in 30 minutes. In addition, these city cars are aligned with simple mains socket. 250 of these versions have been ordered under a customer expectations in terms of both spaciousness, with four seats tender from the French Post Office. and 166 litres of storage space, and comfort and safety, with ESP as In 2010, a cooperation agreement was signed with Mitsubishi Motors standard equipment, six airbags and a system to protect the battery Corporation to develop electric versions of the Peugeot Partner and in the event of a collision. The Group is exploring various avenues for the Citroën Berlingo. getting these vehicles on the road, including direct sales, all-inclusive leasing contracts and participation in car-sharing schemes. Fuel Cell Vehicles Over the longer term, PSA Peugeot Citroën is exploring possible However, fuel cell vehicles are still a long way from the technical applications of hydrogen fuel cell technology. and economic maturity needed to support mass-market production. As a result, series production and mass marketing doesn’t seem After building seven technology demonstrators, the Group remains foreseeable until after 2020. Although considerable progress has been on active technology watch and is leading a fundamental research made, hydrogen fuel cell technology must still overcome a number partnership with the French Atomic Energy Commission (CEA) on the of obstacles, including the cost of the fuel cell system, the fuel cell’s Genepac fuel cell stack and as part of the EU’s StorHy programme to lifespan, the size, mass and cost of the hydrogen storage system and store hydrogen at 700 bar. The Genepac fuel cell developed with the the deployment of the necessary infrastructure to market hydrogen to CEA offers one of the highest energy-to-size ratios in the world. It can the general public. be used as a range extender, with the 20 kW module, or for propulsion, with several 80 kW stacks. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 49 2 Products and services 2.2. Greenhouse Effect 2.2.6. Optimizing Vehicle Architecture and Equipment 2.2.6. Optimizing Vehicle Architecture and Equipment Further gains in fuel efficiency and carbon emissions are being driven such as safety, handling, comfortable ride, attractive styling and by improvements in various vehicle sub-assemblies and equipment, as equipment. They are also being incorporated into models designed well as in vehicle architecture and aerodynamics. These improvements specifically for markets outside Europe. are being made without sacrificing any of the vehicle’s critical features, Equipment In addition to working on engines, PSA Peugeot Citroën is improving uu selecting tyres that offer the best trade-off between grip (primary the overall fuel efficiency of its vehicles by optimising various vehicle safety) and low rolling resistance, A 10% reduction in rolling components and equipment. Solutions include: resistance reduces a vehicle’s CO2 emissions by an average of 2 g/ km. PSA Peugeot Citroën prefers very low rolling resistance uu equipping certain models with electronic manual gearboxes, which (VLRR) tyres and is widely deploying tyre pressure sensors; can improve fuel efficiency by up to 5%; uu offering a gear change indicator that promotes eco-driving by uu optimizing air-conditioning components, like the evaporator and indicating the best time to upshift. compressor, to reduce the energy required to run the system, and eventually replacing R134a, the current refrigerant, with new solutions that contribute less to global warming; Vehicle Mass and Aerodynamics Mass has a direct influence on a car’s fuel efficiency, and therefore on density materials, such as the aluminium or plastics used in the place its CO2 emissions, with a 100 kg reduction in weight delivering a gain of steel. Another source of improvement lies in the use of innovative of an average 4 g/km. assembly techniques, such as hot stamping and laser welding, which help to reduce car body weight while improving impact resistance. To shrink the environmental footprint of its models, PSA Peugeot Citroën A vehicle’s performance also depends on its aerodynamics. is therefore actively reducing their mass, with the goal of making vehicles in development more than 100 kg lighter than the previous PSA Peugeot Citroën uses wind tunnel testing and digital modelling models, while continuing to meet cost and performance specifications, to reduce a car’s drag area (CdA) without compromising on the other particularly in the area of safety. Teams also pay careful attention in technical, practical, aesthetic and regulatory parameters involved in selecting a vehicle’s base materials, starting with the metals that on vehicle design, such as styling, safety, stability, storage space, engine average account for around 70% of its total weight. One example is cooling, rainwater drainage and acoustics. A 0.05 m² reduction in drag the increasing use of very stiff high-tensile steel. Whenever technically area reduces a vehicle’s CO2 emissions by 2.5 g/km. feasible and cost effective, mass is being reduced by choosing lower 50 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Products and services 2.3. Air Quality 2.3.1. Reducing Vehicle Exhaust Emissions 2 2.3. Air Quality 2.3.1. Reducing Vehicle Exhaust Emissions Complying with Euro 4, Euro 5 and Euro 6 standards These standards set maximum admissible levels of CO, HC, NOx and maximum admissible levels of particulate matter and NOx emissions of particulate matter emissions. Euro 5 and Euro 6 standards reduce the diesel-powered vehicles to very low levels. Petrol vehicle* – CNG – LPG (g/km) Diesel vehicle (g/km) Exhaust emissions Euro 4 Euro 5 Euro 6 Euro 4 Euro 5 Euro 6 CO 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.50 0.50 0.50 Non-methane HC 0.10 0.068 0.068 THC 0.10 0.10 NOx 0.06 0.06 0.06 0.25 0.18 0.08 THC+NOx 0.30 0.23 0.17 Particulate matter 0.005/0.0045** 0.0045** 0.025 0.005/0.0045** 0.0045** Durability (km) 100.000 160.000 160.000 100.000 160.000 160.000 Petrol vehicle* – CNG – LPG (g/test cycle) Diesel vehicle (g/test cycle) Evaporation emissions Euro 4 Euro 5 Euro 6 Euro 4 Euro 5 Euro 6 HC 2.00 2.00 2.00 * Applies only to vehicles with lean-burn, direct-injection petrol engines since Euro 5. ** In 2013, a change in the measurement procedure will reduce the maximum admissible level to 0.0045 from 0.005 (equivalent theoretical value). Euro 6 will also introduce particle number emission limits. HC: Unburned hydrocarbons; CO: Carbon monoxide; NOx: Nitrogen oxides In Europe, the Group’s petrol and diesel-powered passenger cars have In the rest of the world, vehicles sold by PSA Peugeot Citroën meet or complied with Euro 5 standards since September 2009 for new models exceed the applicable standards in each local market and are equipped introduced and since January 2011 for all models currently being sold. with the latest technologies developed for the European market. The following stage, Euro 6, will come into effect on 1 September 2014 for new models and in September 2015 for all new car registrations. Eliminating Particulate Emissions with the Particulate Filter The FAP particulate filter is an after-treatment system that eliminates A pioneer in this field, the Group had sold a total of 4.3 million FAP close to 100% of even the smallest particulate matter in exhaust equipped diesel vehicles by the end of 2010. With the advent of the gases. It has further enhanced the environmental performance of Euro 5 stage, the FAP particulate filter with additive technology has diesel engines and is playing an important role in improving the quality been extended to all Peugeot and Citroën diesel models, including of air in urban environments. Launched by PSA Peugeot Citroën in the Peugeot 207, 308, 3008, 5008, 407, 508, 807, 4007, RCZ, Partner, 2000, the FAP particulate filter has set the new standard for European Expert, Boxer and Bipper and the Citroën DS3, C3, C4, C4 Picasso, diesels. Peugeot and Citroën models equipped with the FAP Xsara Picasso, C5, C6, C8, C-Crosser, Berlingo, Jumpy, Jumper and particulate filter already more than meet Euro 5 and Euro 6 particulate Nemo. In 2010, more than 47% of the diesels sold worldwide by the emissions standards. Group were equipped with the FAP particulate filter, versus more than 37% in 2009. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 51 2 Products and services 2.4. Resource Management and Recycling 2.4.1. Use of Materials Reducing NOx Emissions with Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) To prepare for Euro 6 standards, PSA Peugeot Citroën has decided to This new after-treatment technology substantially reduces nitrogen deploy selective catalytic reduction (SCR) technology across the diesel oxide (NOx) emissions by injecting a reduction agent into the exhaust model line-up. stream before it enters a special catalyst chamber. Integrated into a new emission control architecture including a particulate filter, SCR helps to optimise fuel efficiency and limits CO2 emissions. 2.4. Resource Management and Recycling 2.4.1. Use of Materials In its commitment to optimising the use of resources and limiting the cycle assessments, which review every stage in a material’s life cycle, its products’ environmental footprint, PSA Peugeot Citroën analyses along with the related environmental impacts. and selects materials for new projects based on the findings of life An Assertive Commitment to Using Green Materials PSA Peugeot Citroën is focusing much of its research on polymers, The wider application of green materials requires the development of which account for 20% of a vehicle’s total mass. Most of the other robust supply chains and more research on new materials. To meet its materials, such as metals and fluids, are already recyclable and targets, the Group is actively selecting and certifying materials that offer extensively recycled. the best cost/technical trade-offs, to create a portfolio of solutions for future vehicle projects. In 2010, this portfolio was expanded to include For the Group, green materials include three families of materials: 17 new green materials, representing 55% of all materials certified recycled plastics, natural materials (wood, vegetable fibres, etc.) during the year. and biosourced materials (polymers made from renewable instead of petrochemical feedstocks). Their use offers a number of benefits, such To spur faster development of the biomaterials industry and expand as reducing the use of fossil plastics and fostering the development of the use of these materials in automobiles, PSA Peugeot Citroën plastics recycling processes by increasing demand. is involved in a large number of scientific partnerships. It is leading the MATORIA project to develop new injection plastics made from Since 2008, the Group has deployed an ambitious plan to increase the renewable resources and suitable for automobile applications. It is also proportion of green materials, by weight, in a vehicle’s total polymers participating in the Biocer project to develop thermoplastic composites (excluding tyres) to 20% by 2011 and to 30% by 2015, from an average made from natural fibres, which offer improved collision behaviour. 6% in 2007. Lastly, the Group is helping to financially support the Bioplastics This process is also being applied in Latin America, with a target of university chair at the MINES ParisTech engineering school, notably 20% in 2015. by funding five doctoral dissertations on natural fibres, bio-sourced polymers and a variety of other subjects. Using Green Materials in Vehicles Each vehicle project has a contractual objective for the use of In Latin America, the Citroën Aircross comprises 20 kg of green green materials. materials, in particular in the boot carpeting and door insets. Progress towards fulfilling the green materials plan may be seen in the The 200 kg of polymers (excluding tyres) used in the new Citroën C4 latest Peugeot and Citroën cars brought to market. On the Citroën C3 include 15% green materials, the highest percentage on any PSA Picasso, green materials make up around 11% of the car’s 170 kg of Peugeot Citroën vehicle to date, while the 230 kg of polymers polymers (excluding tyres). Examples include natural fibres, used to (excluding tyres) used in the Peugeot 508 include 14.3% green make the rear parcel shelves, boot carpeting and door insets, and materials. In both cases, the green component comprises 40% natural recycled automotive plastics, used as raw material for mudguards. materials and 60% recycled materials, which are found in around thirty parts or sub-assemblies, such as the rear bumper, soundproofing, boot carpets, seats and air filters. 52 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Products and services 2.4. Resource Management and Recycling 2.4.2. Recycling End-of-Life Vehicles 2 2.4.2. Recycling End-of-Life Vehicles Eco-Designing for Recycling Upstream, the impacts of recycling end-of-life vehicles (ELVs) are As a participant in the International Dismantling Information System designed into every new model and component. Vehicle materials are (IDIS) consortium, the Group provides ELV treatment operators selected according to increasingly strict criteria that are designed to (dismantlers and shredders) with disassembly instructions for Peugeot foster the development of a recovery and recycling industry. To ensure and Citroën vehicles. that its vehicles are highly recyclable, the Group is committed to: French testing laboratory UTAC has certified that PSA Peugeot Citroën uu using easily recyclable materials; implemented the processes needed to ensure that all Peugeot and uu reducing the variety of plastics in a car, to facilitate sorting after Citroën vehicles are 95% recoverable by weight, of which 85% is shredding, optimize the related recovery processes and ensure reusable or recyclable. their profitability; Downstream, PSA Peugeot Citroën is working with ELV treatment uu using a single family of plastics per major function, so that an entire operators (dismantlers and shredders) who have demonstrated sub-assembly can be recycled without prior dismantling; superior recycling and resource recovery performance, as well as the uu marking plastic parts with standardized codes, to ensure capability of complying with the European Directive mandating that identification, sorting and traceability. ELVs must be 85% recovered today and 95% as from 2015. Through At the same time, designing recycled and other green materials into car these operators, the Peugeot and Citroën brands can offer ELV owners models is supporting the emergence or development of new markets the possibility of leaving their car at a local collection centre, to be for certain materials. picked up free-of-charge and disposed of in full compliance with environmental standards. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 53 2 Products and services 2.5. Road Safety 2.5.1. Primary Safety: Avoiding Accidents 2.5. Road Safety PSA Peugeot Citroën has considered the safety of all road users to be infrastructure must also be upgraded, while motorists and other a top priority for many years, a position that has enabled it to develop road users must be effectively educated in safe driving and road use some of the safest vehicles in the world. The Group is focusing on practices. At PSA Peugeot Citroën, corporate social responsibility technologies that have shown a proven ability to make automobiles also means a daily focus on sponsoring and outreach. In 2010, the fuel efficient and safe, at an affordable cost for the largest number of Group pursued its efforts to raise awareness about road safety, with motorists. campaigns targeted to children, employees and the general public. However, addressing road safety issues involves more than just installing increasingly sophisticated onboard safety systems, which make vehicles heavier and therefore less fuel efficient. Roadway 2.5.1. Primary Safety: Avoiding Accidents Chassis Systems Capitalising on its recognised expertise in suspensions, steering, (EBA), and electronic stability programmes (ESP), which help drivers braking and other chassis systems, PSA Peugeot Citroën designs cars maintain control even in a skid. that are naturally safe to drive, with technology that compensates, to The Grip Control system, which is integrated into the electronic stability the extent possible, for bad driving, faulty infrastructure and adverse programme, is available on the Peugeot 3008 and new Partner and on weather conditions. Their architecture is engineered to deliver handling the Citroën C4 Picasso, C5 and new Berlingo. performance, precision steering and braking power that rank among the best in the market. Tyre pressure monitoring systems help to detect under-inflated tyres that can reduce vehicle stability and threaten occupant safety. Moreover, to attenuate the consequences of certain emergency situations, the Group offers such driver assistance technologies as By regularly prompting motorists to check their tyre pressure, such anti-blocking systems (ABS), which are now standard on every model, systems help to reduce tyre noise, improve fuel efficiency and increase electronic brakeforce distribution (EBD), emergency braking assist tread life. Visibility, Speed and Safe Following Distances Certain Peugeot and Citroën models come with such efficient, practical a hard spot and allows the driver to exceed the set limit. PSA innovations as: Peugeot Citroën is the European leader in driver-activated speed limiter equipment; uu innovative lighting systems: static directional lighting even in the uu a distance alert system, available on the Peugeot 3008 and 5008, compact segment, Xenon dual-function directional headlights in that indicates on the head-up display the time it would take to close the executive segment, automatic activation of emergency flasher with the vehicle in front at the current speed. The alert time point lights in the event of sudden deceleration, LED daytime running can be set by the driver; lights on the Citroën DS3, and automatic dipped beam/main beam uu the AFIL lane departure warning system, available on the Citroën switching on the Peugeot 508; C4, which alerts the driver who drifts across a lane by vibrating the uu a blind spot information system is available on the new Citroën C4. seat on the side the lane was crossed. The system indicates the presence of a vehicle in a blind spot zone through a pictogram in the corresponding wing mirror; uu a speed limiter system that deactivates the accelerator pedal when the driver tries to exceed his or her pre-set speed limit. When necessary, however, pressing strongly on the pedal overrides 54 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Products and services 2.5. Road Safety 2.5.2. Secondary Safety: Protecting Passengers and Pedestrians during an Accident 2 Ergonomics and Man-Machine Interface (MMI) Road safety is a major concern that is consistently designed into room for manual error and involving no cognitively demanding tasks, onboard systems, such as driver assistance, comfort and information/ distractions or risks of inappropriate use. Upstream scientific studies entertainment systems, and into the man-machine interfaces (MMI) are helping to enhance Group standards for addressing the emerging of controls and displays. In addition to integrating driver needs and ergonomic issues associated with new onboard technologies. expectations to ensure that the systems are useful and efficient, Environmental concerns are also channelled into the development design criteria and robust validation methods help to deliver systems of driver assistance systems that promote “eco-responsible” driving and interfaces that are not only easy to use, but also safe, leaving no habits. 2.5.2. Secondary Safety: Protecting Passengers and Pedestrians during an Accident Body Structure Secondary safety is a priority that is designed into every Peugeot Vehicles are structurally engineered to gradually dissipate the kinetic and Citroën vehicle, whose structural components resist impact and energy from an impact, with effectively positioned impact absorption absorb energy to provide the highest degree of occupant protection structures and deformable crash boxes transforming the passenger regardless of the type of collision – frontal, side, rear or even rollovers. compartment into a survival cell. At the same time, these structures make the body components easier to repair. On cabriolet models, the roll-over protection system consists of active, pyrotechnically-charged roll-bars and windscreen pillar stiffener tubes. Airbags and other Pyrotechnic Equipment In addition to structural impediments to impact injury, Peugeot and uu two curtain airbags, which protect the side of the head of the front Citroën models are equipped with up to nine airbags: and rear passengers; uu two rear lateral airbags, which protect the thorax of the rear uu two front airbags, whose pressure and volume when inflated adjust passengers in the event of a side impact. automatically to the severity of impact; uu two front side airbags, which protect the thorax, pelvic region and Thanks to an impact sensor and pyrotechnic mechanism, the active abdomen of the driver and front-seat passenger; bonnet rises automatically in the event of a pedestrian impact, thereby uu a steering column (or knee) airbag, which protects the lower limbs absorbing more energy and limiting the risk of injury to the pedestrian’s by cushioning the impact on the knees and shins; head. The system is available on both the Citroën C6 and Peugeot RCZ. Restraint Systems Restraint systems – which include Isofix attachment points for easy seats as well. These systems adjust occupant restraints while limiting and efficient installation of child seats, seatbelt load-limiting retractors pressure on the chest, thereby reducing the frequency of thoracic and and, on some models, airbags with dual energy levels – are all carefully abdominal injuries. Buckle-up reminders sound a warning and light up calculated to maximise protection for everyone in the vehicle, regardless when someone has not buckled their belt. Rear seat reminders are also of their age or where they are seated. Already fitted on front seatbelts, gradually being introduced across all the model ranges. load-limiting retractors are now gradually being installed for back PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 55 2 Products and services 2.5. Road Safety 2.5.2. Secondary Safety: Protecting Passengers and Pedestrians during an Accident EuroNCAP and China-NCAP Safety Ratings Every Peugeot and Citroën model from the entry level on up ranks the new protocol, vehicles tested receive an overall rating based on among the world’s best in secondary safety, as attested by the results protection offered to adult and child occupants as well as pedestrians of impact tests conducted by the European New Car Assessment and also considers the safety potential of advanced driver assistance Programme (Euro NCAP), an independent organisation that rates technologies. As of year-end 2008, a total of 13 Group vehicles had vehicle occupant protection. obtained the maximum 5-star rating for adult protection under the former Euro-NCAP system. Eight Group vehicles have obtained the maximum 5-star overall rating under the stricter new protocol introduced in 2009. Under Euro NCAP Assessment protocol in effect until 2008 Assessment protocol in effect from 2009 Year Adult Child Model launched Year tested Occupant* Pedestrian* Occupant* Year tested Overall rating Citroën C-zéro Peugeot iOn** 2010 2011 **** New Citroën C4 2010 2010 ***** Citroën Nemo 2010 2010 *** New Citroën C3 2009 2009 **** Citroën DS3 2009 2009 ***** Peugeot 5008 2009 2009 ***** Peugeot 3008 2009 2009 ***** Citroën C3 Picasso 2009 2009 **** Peugeot 308 CC 2008 2008 ***** ** *** 2009 ***** Citroën Berlingo Peugeot Partner** 2008 2008 **** ** **** Citroën C5 2008 2008 ***** ** **** 2009 ***** Peugeot 308 2007 2007 ***** *** **** 2009 ***** Peugeot 207 CC 2007 2007 ***** ** Citroën Grand C4 Picasso 2006 2006 ***** ** **** 2009 ***** Peugeot 207 2006 2006 ***** *** **** Citroën C6 2006 2005 ***** **** **** Peugeot Coupé 407 2005 2005 ***** ** **** Citroën C1 Peugeot 107** 2005 2005 **** ** **** Citroën C4 2004 2004 ***** *** **** Peugeot 407 2004 2004 ***** ** **** Peugeot 307 CC 2003 2003 **** ** Citroën C3 Pluriel 2003 2003 **** ** Peugeot 807 Citroën C8** 2002 2003 ***** * Citroën C3 2002 2003 **** ** Peugeot 307 2001 2001 **** ** Peugeot 607 2000 2002 **** * Citroën Xsara Picasso 2000 2001 **** ** Peugeot 206 1998 2000 **** ** * Occupant protection rated out of five stars/Pedestrian protection rated out of four stars. ** Vehicles appearing on the same line have the same technical specifications. 56 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Products and services 2.5. Road Safety 2.5.3. Tertiary Safety: Post-Accident Emergency Response 2 China NCAP Model Year launched Year tested Overall rating Peugeot 408 2010 2010 ***** Citroën C5 2010 2010 ***** Peugeot 307 Sedan 2009 2009 ***** Citroën C-Quatre 2008 2009 **** Citroën C-Triomphe 2006 2007 ***** Peugeot 307 2004 2006 **** LAB The Laboratoire d’Accidentologie et de Biomécanique (LAB) is a For more than 40 years, LAB’s research projects have helped to road safety association created jointly by PSA Peugeot Citroën and guide the Group’s technological choices and to assess their real-life Renault. A unique organisation, LAB has conducted research projects performance on the road. LAB is behind a number of major advances for 40 years to enhance understanding of accident mechanisms and in automobile safety, from seatbelts to load-limiting retractors, airbags, their related injury mechanisms. Its areas of expertise are: pre-tensioners and stronger structural components for passenger compartments. uu accidentology, meaning the analysis of road accidents. Its database comprises some 15,000 accidents; uu biomechanics, which helps to identify injury mechanisms. 2.5.3. Tertiary Safety: Post-Accident Emergency Response Emergency Call System PSA Peugeot Citroën has played a pioneering role and remains the pressing the SOS button. In the case of a collision, the same alert European leader in post-accident or tertiary safety, which helps to is sent automatically. Calls are routed to operators speaking the attenuate the effects of an accident by facilitating emergency rescue. occupants’ language. It is the only volume carmaker to have deployed a wide-scale, location Thanks to the car’s GPS system and onboard GSM mobile phone link, aware emergency call system, without a subscription or any cut-off date. assistance personnel can pinpoint the car’s location, thereby enabling The new autonomous telematics box (ATB) developed by rescue services to respond more quickly and effectively. PSA Peugeot Citroën includes a SIM card, which eliminates the need According to the European Commission, equipping every vehicle on for radio, navigation and telephone functions. the road with such a system would save 2,500 lives a year in Europe. In the event of an accident or medical emergency in an ATB-equipped vehicle, occupants can alert a dedicated assistance centre simply by Total as of end-2008* Total as of end-2009* Total as of end-2010* Number of Peugeot and Citroën vehicles equipped with the Premium emergency call service** 546,000 630,000 643,000 Alerts sent to emergency services 2,700 3,300 3,900 Austria, Belgium, France, Austria, Belgium, France, Belgium, France, Germany, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Countries in which the Premium emergency call Italy, Luxembourg, the the Netherlands, Portugal the Netherlands, Portugal, service is available*** Netherlands and Spain and Spain Spain and Switzerland * Cumulative figures since the service was introduced in January 2003. ** In the countries where the Premium emergency call service is available, the vehicle alerts the Inter Mutuelles Assistance (IMA) emergency assistance call centre, which verifies the incident and notifies the local public rescue or ambulance services. In other European countries, the vehicle dials 112, the European emergency number. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 57 2 Products and services 2.6. Telematics and Mobility 2.6.1. Telematics There are nearly 140,000 Peugeot and Citroën vehicles equipped with At the 2010 Paris Motor Show, Euro NCAP awarded the Euro NCAP the standard emergency call system (based on 112, the European Advanced award to carmakers who have deployed technologies emergency number, which does not support GPS localisation) in that have a meaningful impact on safety. Among the ten innovations European countries where the Premium service is not available. In recognised, Peugeot and Citroën were singled out in the area of all, around 781,000 Peugeot and Citroën vehicles equipped with the post-accident (or tertiary) safety for their emergency call system. In emergency call system are on the road in Europe. all, six vehicles won an award: the Peugeot 308, 3008 and 5008 for Peugeot Connect SOS, and the Citroën DS3, C4 and C5 for the Citroën locationaware emergency call service. Victim Removal Instructions To facilitate the job of rescue workers after an accident, PSA Peugeot instructions for each of its models. Citroën works with French rescue teams to prepare victim removal 2.5.4. Peugeot Motocycles Safety A major player in the European market under the Peugeot Scooters automobiles to its 125 scooters. All of this attests to Peugeot Scooters’ banner, Peugeot Motocycles has focused on scooter and motorbike long-term commitment to promoting safer and more responsible urban safety for many years. In particular, it was the first manufacturer in mobility solutions. the world to apply the anti-lock braking system (ABS) developed for 2.6. Telematics and Mobility In addition to such traditional services as maintenance, financing and support its leadership strategy in connected and mobility-related insurance, PSA Peugeot Citroën is developing solutions that leverage services. the latest technological advances and a new vision of mobility to 2.6.1. Telematics PSA Peugeot Citroën’s new telematics services are designed to make including repairs and towing service. The deployment of autonomous mobility more efficient and more environmentally friendly. telematics boxes will make onboard connected services more widely available. Since 2002, Peugeot and Citroën have offered a range of assistance services based on the shared RTx/NaviDrive telematics platform In addition, the Group’s Active Fleet Data remote fleet management that combines, in a single unit, a radio, CD player, GSM hands-free service, introduced in 2008, provides remote access to all the data telephone, GPS navigation system and traffic information. needed to support fleet use and maintenance, including odometre readings, the number of kilometres before next inspection and Introduced in the Peugeot and Citroën line-ups in 2009, the vehicle diagnostics for mechanical components such as the gearbox and integrated autonomous telematics box (ATB) is equipped with an emissions control system. Fleet managers are alerted in real time embedded SIM card that enables drivers to connect to the emergency by e-mail if the system detects safety issues such as low oil, worn call and location-aware assistance system 24/7, free of charge, for an brake pads or under-inflated tyres. By promoting regular maintenance, unlimited period, with no subscription and without having to acquire the Active Fleet Data service also helps reduce the fleet’s an integrated navigation, radio and telephone system. Thanks to the environmental impact. GPS system, customers benefit from much faster roadside assistance, 58 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Products and services 2.6. Telematics and Mobility 2.6.2. Mobility Services 2 Peugeot Peugeot Connect offers a range of innovative services based on In its Eco-consulting pack, Peugeot offers professional customers: information sent directly from the vehicle. These include: uu a CO2 footprint analysis based on an assessment of CO2 emissions uu Peugeot Connect SOS, for location-aware emergency calls; from the entire vehicle fleet; uu Peugeot Connect Assistance, for location-aware repair assistance; uu eco-driving training, comprising an Internet-based platform and uu Peugeot Connect Fleet, for fleet management; on-road sessions. The programme offers environmental benefits, uu Peugeot Connect Electric, which provide data on battery charge cutting down CO2 emissions and fuel consumption by around 20%, levels and driving range for the iOn via smartphone or computer. and enhances road safety; uu tracking of fuel consumption and CO2 emissions via Peugeot Connect Fleet, which uses onboard telematics solutions that also handle emergency call and location-aware assistance services. Citroën Citroën eTouch offers a range of services including: vehicle alerts. They are available for free during the vehicle warranty period. uu a location-aware emergency call system and assistance service thanks to an embedded SIM card; Citroën’s Send-To-Car service allows users to forward the results of a uu a virtual log and an eco-driving service available via My CITROËN Google Maps search from their computer to the onboard NaviDrive 3D and smartphone. platform, which then guides them to their destination or connects them to a phone number. These services allow motorists to track their fuel consumption and CO2 emissions, as well as receive maintenance reminders and real-time 2.6.2. Mobility Services Mu by Peugeot Mu by Peugeot is an innovative card-based mobility service. This a train or plane ticket, or arrange a get-away weekend. Driving highly original offering enables anyone – whether or not they are lessons, eco-driving courses or advanced driving techniques can Peugeot customers – to access an array of mobility services online or also be booked via the same call centre. via a smartphone application. It matches mobility needs to the most Already available at 40 sites in 14 cities in six countries in Europe, appropriate transportation solution through: Mu by Peugeot will continue to be deployed until 2013, with 75 sites uu the rental of Peugeot products or accessories. As and when to be added each year, mainly in European cities with more than needed, customers will be able to rent a bicycle, scooter, car, light 300,000 inhabitants. utility vehicle, replacement vehicle (car or scooter) or accessories The programme received an award from Automotive News Europe in like a GPS device or a roof box; June 2010 and two innovation awards in Germany and Belgium. uu access to mobility services offered by Peugeot partners. For example, customers can contact a partner travel agent to book Citroën MULTICITY With the new Citroën MULTICITY mobility offering, the brand has uu a dedicated Citroën MULTICITY Internet portal for planning trips launched an offer – available to everyone without subscription – that and travel. Taking into account different modes of transportation has positioned Citroën as a travel facilitator. when calculating itineraries, the service provides customised solutions with information on CO2 emissions, cost and travel time Citroën MULTICITY includes: for suggested itineraries. Users can also reserve airplane tickets, uu Citroën Call Car, which allows drivers anywhere in France to rent a rental cars and hotel rooms. This innovative service saves time and car by the hour or for several days and, in major French cities, to makes travel easy. The website will give users access to a special order a car for delivery in less than three hours to the location of the section that features an array of dedicated products and services person’s choice; to help them use their car more effectively. They will, for example, be able to download maps for an onboard navigation system or subscribe to a services contract. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 59 2 Products and services 2.7. Customer Relations 2.7.1. Quality 2.7. Customer Relations 2.7.1. Quality PSA Peugeot Citroën is delivering continuous improvement in the been slashed by 62% and their cost by over 68% over the past seven quality of its vehicles and services. In customer service, both brands years in Europe. The number of end-of-line factory defects declined by are making steady progress in the purchase/delivery experience and 58% over the past three years. in maintenance/repair services. The frequency of warranty claims has Frequency of Warranty Claims (8-country Europe, first 3 months in service, base 100 = September-November 2003) 120 100 80 60 38 40 20 Production month 0 S J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N 2003 2008 2009 2010 Warranty Costs (8-country Europe, first 3 months in service, base 100 = September-November 2003) 120 100 80 60 40 32 20 Production month 0 S J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N 2003 2008 2009 2010 60 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Products and services 2.7. Customer Relations 2.7.2. Compliance with Health, Safety and Customer Privacy Standards 2 Production Quality: Number of Factory Defects per Vehicle (End-of-line defects in European plants, base 100) 100 80 60 42 40 35 20 Production month 0 J F M A M J J S O N D J F M A M J J S O N D J F M A M J J S O N D Ojectif 2008 2009 2010 2011 2.7.2. Compliance with Health, Safety and Customer Privacy Standards Non-Compliance with Regulations Concerning Customer Health and Safety (Peugeot and Citroën subsidiaries) PSA Peugeot Citroën was not cited for any cases of non-compliance with regulations concerning customer health and safety in 2010. Non-Compliance with Regulations Concerning Customer Privacy (Personal data protection legislation, Peugeot and Citroën subsidiaries) PSA Peugeot Citroën was not cited for any cases of non-compliance with regulations concerning customer privacy in 2010. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 61 2 Products and services 2.7. Customer Relations 2.7.3. Advertising, Communication and Consumer Information 2.7.3. Advertising, Communication and Consumer Information Non-Compliance with Regulations Concerning Advertising, Marketing, Labelling and Consumer Information (Peugeot and Citroën subsidiaries) In 2010, four incidents of non-compliance were reported: uu Peugeot Italy was fined €16,300 for not carrying out a contest in accordance with the published rules; uu Citroën Spain was fined €1,000 for posting CO2 emissions in uu Peugeot Brazil was ordered to modify information in the vehicle undersized print; manual on the conditions under which the warranty does not apply. Failure to do so will result in a fine. Labelling and Consumer Information To improve car buyer information, Peugeot and Citroën provided their uu be 95%-recyclable at end-of-life, including resource recovery and dealers with fuel-efficiency labels in early 2006, ahead of the regulatory the possibility of being used as fuel in waste-to-energy plants. deadline. The labels display each model’s average fuel consumption and carbon emissions. Citroën’s AIRDREAM® eco-label In September 2007, the brands introduced new eco-labels to identify The AIRDREAM® label identifies the most environmentally friendly environmentally friendly cars. vehicles in the Citroën line-up in three areas: uu CO2 performance. Fossil-fuel powered AIRDREAM® vehicles emit Peugeot’s Blue Lion eco-label less than 140 g CO2/km; The Blue Lion label is awarded to Peugeot’s most eco-friendly models, uu manufacturing performance. AIRDREAM® vehicles are which must meet the following three criteria: manufactured in ISO 14001-certified plants; uu materials performance. AIRDREAM® vehicles are designed to be uu emit less than 130 g/km of CO2 (for fossil-fuel powered vehicles); 95% recyclable at end-of-life, including resource recovery and the uu be manufactured in a plant certified to ISO 14001 standards, use of some materials as fuel in waste-to-energy plants. which are based on continuous improvement in environmental performance; Responsible Communications Charter Prepared in 2007 by PSA Peugeot Citroën corporate teams in advertising reflects corporate social responsibility concerns, such as association with the Peugeot and Citroën Marketing Departments, respect for people, the environment and awareness of the economic the responsible communications charter helps to ensure that Group issues involved in buying a car. The PSA Peugeot Citroën responsible communications charter is available on the Group’s sustainable development website. The charter applies to all of the advertising produced by the Group, the communication, marketing, legal affairs, procurement and other brands, regional offices or dealer networks, including TV, online and departments, as well as to their suppliers. print advertising, events and POS displays and collaterals, regardless In November 2007, the Group also signed the responsible advertising of target audience, media or country. charter published by France’s Union des Annonceurs (UDA). Available in French, English, Spanish and Chinese, the charter has been distributed since 2008 to Group and brand teams involved in 62 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 3 Environment 3.1. Greenhouse Effect 68 3.4. Recycling 80 3.1.1. Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption 68 3.4.1. Total Weight of Waste by Type and 3.1.2. Greenhouse Gas Emissions 71 Disposal Method 80 3.1.3. Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions 73 3.4.2. Transported Waste Shipped Internationally 85 3.2. Air Quality 75 3.5. Natural Habitats 86 3.2.1. NO2, SO2 and VOC Emissions 75 3.5.1. Material Effluent Discharge 86 3.2.2. Use and Emissions of Ozone-Depleting 3.5.2. Accidental Spills 88 Substances77 3.5.3. Biodiversity 88 3.3. Use of Resources 78 3.3.1. Total Water Use 78 3.3.2. Materials Used 79 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 63 3 Environment ﻿ ﻿﻿ ﻿ ﻿﻿ PSA Peugeot Citroën’s environmental actions and priorities are presented on the “Our Impacts” pages of the Environment section of the Group’s sustainable development website: Greenhouse Effect, Air Quality, Resource Use, Recycling and Natural Habitats. Reporting Methodology The following environmental indicators comply with Articles L. 225-102-1 Faurecia, a listed company 57.4%-owned by Peugeot S.A., manages and R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code and with the Global its business independently and therefore prepares and publishes Reporting Initiative guidelines. its own indicators in its Registration Document. The company’s performance in its main indicators is presented below, however. The reported data concerned the production plants (PCA, PCI and Peugeot Motocycles), the research and design centres, the main office Certain 2008 and 2009 results have been restated to reflect more sites, the Peugeot and Citroën proprietary dealership networks and the detailed data reported after their publication in 2010. The restatements logistics platforms of fully consolidated companies. have been explained each time the difference with last year’s published figure exceeded 1%. Scope and Boundary The scope of reporting covers the following plants and facilities operated by the Automotive Division (PCA), Process Conception Ingenierie (PCI) and PMTC (Peugeot Motocycles). PCA (34 sites) France Aulnay Melun-Sénart Saint-Ouen Belchamp Metz Sept-Fons Bessoncourt Meudon Sochaux Caen Mulhouse Trémery Carrières-sous-Poissy Paris Grande-Armée Valenciennes Charleville Paris 17e Vélizy Hérimoncourt Poissy Vesoul La Ferté Vidame Poissy Pôle Tertiaire Citroën Racing La Garenne Rennes Peugeot Sport Spain Madrid Vigo Portugal Mangualde Slovakia Trnava Argentina Jeppener Buenos Aires Brazil Porto Real PCI (1 site) France St Etienne PMTC (2 sites) France Dannemarie Mandeure The scope of reporting for the Automotive Division (PCA) includes engine plant and the Peugeot and Citroën motor sports units were production facilities, technical and IT centres, replacement parts included as well. warehouses and the main office buildings. In 2010, the Jeppener 64 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Environment ﻿ ﻿﻿ ﻿ ﻿﻿ 3 In the case of Automobiles Peugeot and Automobiles Citroën (AP/AC) Changes in the scope of reporting compared with 2009, other than the scope of reporting includes: those resulting from subsidiary openings or closings, were as follows: uu proprietary Peugeot and Citroën dealerships; uu additions: Peugeot Czech Republic, Citroën Brazil and Citroën uu head offices of the import subsidiaries; Slovenia; uu PSA Peugeot Citroën replacement parts warehouses; uu exclusions: Peugeot Brazil and Peugeot Chile. uu regional training centres; A subsidiary may have more than one site, with the result that more uu regional departments. than 500 Peugeot and Citroën facilities, dealerships and other sites are The list of subsidiaries reporting data in 2010 is presented below. covered by the scope of reporting. Two new subsidiaries were created in 2010: Citroën Ireland and Peugeot Citroën Ukraine. Brands (47 subsidiaries) Peugeot Algeria Hungary Slovenia (24 subsidiaries) Argentina Italy South Africa* Austria Japan* Spain Belgium Mexico Switzerland China Netherlands Turkey Croatia Poland United Kingdom Czech Republic Portugal France Russia* Germany Slovakia Citroën Argentina Hungary Russia* (26 subsidiaries) Austria Ireland Slovakia Belgium Italy Slovenia Brazil Japan* South Africa* Croatia Netherlands Spain Czech Republic Norway Sweden Denmark Poland Switzerland France Portugal United Kingdom Germany Romania * Joint Citroën/Peugeot subsidiary. Gefco’s 2008 and 2009 indicators reflect data reported only from A subsidiary generally has a large number of sites. In 2010, reporting the logistics sites, excluding offices, the head office and outsourced covered nearly 260 sites compared with more than 150 the year before. operations in customer or sub-contractor facilities. The 2010, offices were added to the scope of reporting. Gefco (23 subsidiaries) Argentina France Russia Austria Germany Slovakia Baltic States Hungary Spain Benelux* Italy Switzerland Brazil Morocco Turkey Chile Poland Ukraine China Portugal United Kingdom Czech Republic Romania * Belgium and Netherlands. The total number of sites covered the Peugeot and Citroën brands the year. Note that failure to report data may also be due to the inability and for Gefco has changed because of site closings, openings or to calculate the indicator concerned, for example if metering systems relocations and the consolidation of operations. are not installed. Unless otherwise mentioned, data concern all sites. Coverage rates for the Peugeot and Citroën brands, Gefco and The reporting period for the Peugeot and Citroën brands, Gefco and Faurecia, presented under each chart correspond to the percentage Faurecia runs from 1 November of year Y-1 to 31 October of year Y. of total sites concerned by the given indicators that reported data for PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 65 3 Environment ﻿ ﻿﻿ ﻿ ﻿﻿ Managing the Group’s Industrial Environment For many years, the Group has been engaged in assertive environmental since 1989. This process efficiently manages the most significant stewardship at its production and R&D facilities, in a commitment to environmental aspects of the Group’s operations. ensuring that their operations comply not only with local regulations An Industrial Environment Department leads and coordinates but also safeguard the neighbouring environment and the quality general activities in this area and manages the ORGE application as of life in host communities. This initiative is also being gradually well as the annual investment budget. In addition, at each plant, an deployed in the Peugeot and Citroën dealership networks. To support environmental compliance officer is backed by a dedicated service this commitment, manufacturing strategy integrates environmental and correspondents appointed in each workshop and facility. The protection as part of a continuous improvement process, based on technical department also has environmental specialists who provide a disciplined organisation, a method structured around ISO 14001 technical support for the plants, particularly during capital projects. certification, the allocation of substantial funding and an environmental In all, some 500 people are directly involved in managing the Group’s reporting and management tool known as ORGE, whose database industrial environment. contains measurements of each facility’s environmental performance An Active Certification Policy Environmental management systems have been introduced at all As part of the ISO 14001 process, all employees, whether fixed term or production facilities worldwide, based on ISO 14001 certification, the permanent, as well as temporary workers and interns, receives training internationally recognised standard for environmental management in environmental skills or awareness tailored to their job and business. and organisation. Contract workers employed at the plants undergo similar training. This type of management system makes it possible for each facility Launched more than 10 years ago, the certification process is now to identify the significant environmental aspects of its operations fully implemented in the production plants, which are all ISO 14001 and deploy an environmental strategy, describe the procedures certified. Today the process is being deployed in the technical centres, used to implement and manage the strategy, guarantee compliance replacement parts facilities and new production plants. and drive continuous improvement, which is the foundation of good environmental management. ISO 14001 certification history: 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2007 2010 Mulhouse Poissy Aulnay Caen Metz Saint-Ouen Hérimoncourt* La Garenne Belchamp Sochaux Vigo Rennes Charleville Mangualde Vesoul Trémery Porto Real Sept-Fons Trnava Madrid Valenciennes Buenos Aires * Included in PCA data since 2005 (certified since 2001). Five automobile production joint ventures are also certified: TPCA Province), China; Sevelnord in Hordain, France; Sevelsud in Val Di in Kolín, Czech Republic; DPCA in Wuhan and Xiangyang (Hubei Sangro, Italy; and Française de Mécanique in Douvrin, France. Peugeot and Citroën Brands Environmental initiatives undertaken in the Peugeot and Citroën Lastly, the brands have deployed a number of country-specific dealership networks are led and coordinated by a corporate team, initiatives. In France, for example, Citroën has introduced the supported by a correspondent for each brand (or for both brands) in GreenPact environmental programme, which is designed to help local every country in which a subsidiary has been set up. The correspondent dealers keep up with changing French and European legislation while network cascades down environmental processes and monitors continuously reducing their environmental footprint. The programme changes in local legislation and practices. leverages a full range of communication resources – including a website, an environmental guide, a magazine, a newsletter and Since 2008, environmental data has been collected, verified and information meetings – and facilitates contacts between dealers and consolidated using an Internet-based system. other specialised stakeholders, such as organisations that collect In addition, particular attention has been paid to new buildings, with endof-life vehicles and parts or process waste coolant. the definition of new dealership construction guidelines covering energy efficiency, insulation, heating and ventilation, lighting, water and waste management. 66 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Environment ﻿ ﻿﻿ ﻿ ﻿﻿ 3 Gefco All of Gefco’s logistics and overland, maritime and air transport Since 2008, environmental data has been collected, verified and businesses are ISO 9001: 2000-certified. These operations are carried consolidated using an Internet-based system. out through an integrated international network comprising more than In its day-to-day operations, Gefco constantly strives to respond as 250 sites. proactively as possible to its customers’ sustainable development The company is also actively certifying its facilities to ISO 14001 needs. In this way, it can not only enhance their productivity and standards, with certification already earned by operations in Slovakia competitiveness, but also deliver real environmental value added and the Czech Republic, an initial site in Germany and four sites in thanks to a wide range of resources deployed in several key areas. France. This process will be gradually extended, particularly in France, In a further commitment to the environment, logistical platforms are Germany, the United Kingdom, Romania and Italy. now being built in compliance with French HQE environmental quality First, a global network of 150 environmental correspondents standards. continuously tracks energy use, waste production and other environmental impact indicators in all of the company’s operations. Faurecia In line with its environmental stewardship commitment and as 16,974 employees received more than 17,400 hours of training, an part of the Faurecia Excellence System, Faurecia’s facilities are increase of 53% from the year before. This trend reflects Faurecia’s gradually deploying environmental management systems based on commitment to making environmental issues an integral part of all the international ISO 14001 standard. ISO 14001 certification is also employees’ daily work. enabling Faurecia to comply with customer requirements. In 2010, 28 additional sites were included in Faurecia’s scope of The number of ISO 14001-certified facilities is steadily increasing, with reporting, for a total of 217. This 15% increase from 2009 reflects a total of 136 sites certified in 2010 compared with 107 in 2009. In acquisitions made during the year. addition, 61 sites currently have an action plan in place to deploy a In 2006, Faurecia installed a database and an environmental, safety and certified management system. New or recently acquired facilities with health data reporting system for all its plants worldwide, which enable more than 50 employees are expected to earn certification within three the company to track improvements in its environmental performance. years. The roll-out of ISO 14001 management systems is supported by environmental training and awareness campaigns. In 2010, PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 67 3 Environment 3.1. Greenhouse Effect 3.1.1. Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption 3.1. Greenhouse Effect 3.1.1. Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption Direct Energy Consumption (Consolidated Group) (Unit: MWh ncv) HSFO LSFO VLSFO HHO NG + LPG Coke TOTAL PCA 2010 3,709 11,830 2,386,220 105,646 2,507,405 2009 26,789 11,494 2,014,738 88,807 2,141,828 2008 8,313 13,242 2,305,628 122,936 2,450,119 AP/AC 2010 889 37,378 196,954 235,221 2009 1,578 36,338 169,486 207,402 2008 1,678 35,066 191,727 228,471 PCI 2010 5,123 5,123 2009 3,420 3,420 2008 4,458 4,458 PMTC 2010 10 27,890 27,900 2009 16 23,660 23,676 2008 29 23,113 23,142 Gefco 2010 5,644 50,291 55,935 2009 3,539 50,999 54,538 2008 3,924 50,832 54,756 Total 2010 0 0 4,598 54,862 2,666,478 105,646 2,831,584 2009 0 0 28,367 51,387 2,262,303 88,807 2,430,864 2008 0 0 9,991 52,261 2,575,758 122,936 2,760,946 Faurecia 2010 36 747 3,944 18,197 724,479 747,402 2009 4 43 2,032 8,467 527,184 537,730 2008 4 103 980 10,174 650,863 662,124 HSFO = High-Sulphur Fuel Oil. LSFO = Low-Sulphur Fuel Oil. VLSFO = Very Low-Sulphur Fuel Oil. HHO = Home Heating Oil. NG = Natural Gas. LPG = Liquefied Petroleum Gas. -: Not relevant. Energy indicators are expressed in the same unit of measurement (MWh In the case of Faurecia, direct energy consumption data concerned ncv) by applying officially recognised conversion coefficients. an average 90% of its sites in 2010, versus 100% in 2009 and 2008. Data from Peugeot and Citroën brands were reported from an average The increase in energy consumption reflected the upturn in production 92% of their sites in 2010, versus 93% in 2009 and 94% in 2008, for and a harsh winter (notably in Europe). Other factors were the wider direct energy consumption. scope of reporting, in the case of the Brands, Gefco and Faurecia, and a more reliable reporting process, in the case of the Brands and Gefco. Data from Gefco were reported from an average 78% of its sites in 2010, versus 93% in 2009 and 88% in 2008, for direct energy consumption. Most of the Gefco sites that did not report data are leased facilities, where consumption figures are included in rental expense and were therefore unavailable for reporting. 68 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Environment 3.1. Greenhouse Effect 3.1.1. Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption 3 Indirect Energy Consumption (Consolidated Group) (Unit: MWh) Electricity Steam TOTAL PCA 2010 2,646,213 274,550 2,920,763 2009 2,386,080 262,130 2,648,210 2008 2,601,683 275,393 2,877,076 AP/AC 2010 153,775 13,577 167,352 2009 155,463 12,979 168,442 2008 157,673 16,809 174,482 PCI 2010 1,837 1,837 2009 1,104 1,104 2008 1,473 1,473 PMTC 2010 12,869 12,869 2009 10,196 10,196 2008 13,849 13,849 Gefco 2010 48,845 48,845 2009 40,760 40,760 2008 65,927 65,927 Total 2010 2,863,539 288,127 3,151,666 2009 2,593,603 275,109 2,868,712 2008 2,840,605 292,202 3,132,807 Faurecia 2010 1,216,051 17,372 1,233,423 2009 870,879 17,459 888,338 2008 1,063,532 19,876 1,083,408 -: Not relevant. Data from the Peugeot and Citroën brands were reported from an In the case of Faurecia, indirect energy consumption data concerned average 88% of their sites in 2010, versus 94% in 2009 and 2008, for an average 93% of its sites in 2010, versus 100% in 2009 and 2008. indirect energy consumption. The increase in energy consumption reflected the upturn in production Data from Gefco were reported from 89% of its sites in 2010, versus and a harsh winter (notably in Europe). Other factors were the wider 95% in 2009 and 84% in 2008, for indirect energy consumption. Most scope of reporting, in the case of the Brands, Gefco and Faurecia, and of the Gefco sites that did not report data are leased facilities, where a more reliable reporting process, in the case of the Brands and Gefco. consumption figures are included in rental expense and were therefore unavailable for reporting. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 69 3 Environment 3.1. Greenhouse Effect 3.1.1. Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption Energy Consumption (PCA) Energy use has risen sharply since 1995, reflecting: Energy consumption Ratio (in MWh ncv) (in MWh ncv/painted vehicle) uu the increase in PCA’s automobile output; uu the production of engines for other carmakers; uu the increased used of water-based paints, which reduce VOC 6,000,000 4 emissions but require more electricity in the drying phase; uu the increase in the scope of reporting. 5,000,000 3.08 3 An energy policy deployed over the last several years has improved the 4,000,000 2.37 2.42 Group’s energy profile and reduced the amount of energy consumed 2.31 2.05 per painted vehicle by 21%. The policy includes measures to upgrade 3,000,000 2 heating plants, notably by replacing oil-fired boilers with natural gas 2,000,000 units, and energy saving programmes to build employee awareness, install metering and automated systems and share best practices. 1 1,000,000 The energy management plan has also enabled the Group to define 0 0 technological solutions for facilities with the highest energy use so as to reverse the upward trend in per-vehicle energy consumption and 1995 2008 2009 2010 2012 achieve the target set for 2012. Objective Lastly, the environmentally conscious Sochaux plant inaugurated a Heavy fuel + HHO: NG: Natural gas Coal + Coke Home heating oil + LPG: Liquefied petroleum gas 1.4 MWp photovoltaic plant in September 2010 in partnership with Veolia Environnement. The 9,300 square-meter array, installed at one Electricity Ratio Steam of the plant’s car parks, will feed more than one million kWh into the French power grid each year. The above chart includes energy consumption by PSA Peugeot Citroën Geographically, 92% of the Group’s energy in 2010 was used in Europe group foundries. and 8% in the rest of the world. Energy is used in a wide variety of manufacturing processes, including casting, machine cooling, paint curing and heat treatment, as well as for lighting and heating. 70 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Environment 3.1. Greenhouse Effect 3.1.2. Greenhouse Gas Emissions 3 3.1.2. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Weight (Consolidated Group) (Unit: tonnes) CO2 N2O CH4 TOTAL CO2 equivalent PCA 2010 529,711 21.6 34.3 537,116 2009 454,097 18.4 29.3 460,404 2008 520,303 20.9 33.3 527,472 AP/AC 2010 50,833 2 3 51,511 2009 45,086 1.7 2.7 45,679 2008 49,343 1.9 3 50,002 PCI 2010 1,053 0.1 0.1 1,069 2009 703 0 0.1 714 2008 916 0 0.1 930 PMTC 2010 5,736 0.3 0.3 5,822 2009 4,868 0.2 0.3 4,941 2008 4,759 0.2 0.3 4,830 Gefco 2010 12,028 0.5 0.7 12,192 2009 11,805 0.5 0.6 11,966 2008 11,648 0.5 0.7 11,811 Total 2010 599,361 24.3 38.4 607,710 2009 516,559 20.8 32.9 523,703 2008 586,969 23.5 37.3 595,046 Faurecia 2010 157,955 6.7 9.8 160,238 2009 112,857 4.8 7.2 115,025 2008 138,374 5.9 8.8 140,393 CO2 = Carbon dioxide. N2O = Nitrous oxide. CH4 = Methane. Direct greenhouse gas emissions are calculated using consumption Data from the Peugeot and Citroën brands, as well as for Gefco and data for fossil fuels (fuel-oil, coal, coke, natural gas and LPG) and Faurecia, were reported from the same percentage of sites as those applying international emission factors recommended by French reporting direct energy consumption. authorities (ruling of 31 March 2008 for CO2 and circular of 15 April 2002 for all other gases). To be compared and consolidated with CO2 emissions, N2O and CH4 emissions have been expressed in terms of CO2 equivalent. This has been calculated using Global Warming Potential (GWP) coefficients of 310 for N2O and 21 for CH4, in line with recommendations issued by the Centre Interprofessionnel Technique d’Études de la Pollution Atmosphérique (CITEPA) and the 1995 IPCC Report. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 71 3 Environment 3.1. Greenhouse Effect 3.1.2. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Greenhouse Gas Emissions, 1995-2010 (PCA) As they are directly linked to energy consumption, greenhouse gas Greenhouse gas emisions Ratio emissions track changes in the energy profile. (in t CO2 eq) (in kg CO2 eq/painted vehicle) Since 1990, programmes to upgrade installations, shift from oil and fuel to natural gas, develop combined heat and power (CHP) plants 500 and scale back energy use have helped to improve energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 405 400 Greenhouse gas emissions per finished vehicle stood at 240 kg in 2010, down 41% since 1995. 300 229 228 240 Geographically, 83% of the Group’s direct greenhouse gases in 2010 were emitted in Europe and 17% in the rest of the world. 200 100 0 1995 2008 2009 2010 Greenhouse gases Indirect greenhouse gases Ratio include carbon dioxide (CO2), nitrous oxide (N2O) and methane (CH4) Participation in the Carbon Emission Allowance Scheme (Transposition of European Directive 2003/87/EC of 13 October 2003) For the 2008 to 2012 period, eight plants (Sochaux, Mulhouse, Rennes, PSA Peugeot Citroën is carefully monitoring work on the third phase Poissy, Vesoul et Vélizy in France; Madrid and Vigo in Spain) that of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (2013-2020), currently under operate installations rated over 20 MW qualify for the carbon emission discussion at the national and community levels. Based on texts allowance scheme set up in application of European Union Directive published so far, the scheme will extend to four new facilities (three 2003/87/EC, amended, on greenhouse gas emissions trading. assembly plants and one foundry) and to all operations (casting, foundry work, etc.) in the eight facilities already covered, for their For the eight plants, changes in the allocation rules have led to a 21% combustion installations. In addition, because the automobile industry reduction in allowances compared with the 2005-2007 period. Thanks is not deemed to be exposed to carbon leakage by the European to the deployment of energy management policies, however, this has Commission, the number of free allowances allocated will decline as not had any impact on the Group, which remains self-sufficient in from 2013 in all operations except foundries. terms of allowances. Annual emissions are calculated on the basis of energy use, according to a method prescribed by regulations and verified by a certified organisation. 72 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Environment 3.1. Greenhouse Effect 3.1.3. Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions 3 3.1.3. Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions Indirect CO2 Emissions (Consolidated Group) Indirect greenhouse gas emissions have been reported since 2008 for (Unit: tonnes) Indirect CO2 emissions PCA, PCI and PMTC and since 2010 for all other units. PCA 2010 353,690 2009 282,653 Indirect CO2 emissions are calculated based on applying emissions factors, either obtained from suppliers or published by the International 2008 363,360 Energy Agency (2008 data), to the purchased electricity and steam. AP/AC 2010 44,210 Data from the Peugeot and Citroën brands, as well as for Gefco and 2009 N/A Faurecia, were reported from the same percentage of sites as those 2008 N/A reporting indirect energy consumption. PCI 2010 83 2009 42 2008 63 PMTC 2010 579 2009 388 2008 589 Gefco 2010 11,635 2009 N/A 2008 N/A Total 2010 410,197 2009 283,083 2008 364,011 Faurecia 2010 444,448 2009 N/A 2008 N/A N/A: consolidation not available. Fuel Consumption and CO2 Emissions in Logistics Operations 2008 2009 2010 No. of lorries % change % change (cu.m) CO2 (kg) (cu.m) CO2 (kg) (cu.m) CO2 (kg) vs.2009 2008 2009 2010 vs.2009 Argentina 1,583 4,211,091 1,290 3,432,812 1,217 3,239,657 -6% 33 33 32 -3% Benelux 1,775 4,721,021 1,662 4,421,319 1,820 4,844,734 10% 47 51 50 -2% France 16,913 44,988,101 13,846 36 830 982 12,209 32,500,888 -12% 569 529 492 -7% Switzerland 292 777,013 337 896,686 304 810,020 -10% 10 10 10 0% United Kingdom 1,376 3,661,224 893 2,375,380 859 2,287,744 -4% 66 57 56 -3% Russia 372 989,520 289 769,644 365 970,831 26% 7 5 7 40% Total 22,311 59,347,970 18,318 48,726,824 16,774 44,653,874 -8% 732 685 647 -6% The fleet continued to be renovated and streamlined in 2010. reduce fuel use; and moves to upgrade the fleet with the purchase of 60 Euro 5-compliant car carriers. Although Gefco’s business increased in 2010, CO2 emissions from its own fleet declined by 8% from 2009. This reflects the use of Gefco calculates its carbon emissions based on fuel consumption of subcontractors, whose fuel consumption is not included in own fleet its 7.5 tonne lorries, using CITEPA recommended conversion factors. statistics; programmes such as eco-driving training for fleet drivers to PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 73 3 Environment 3.1. Greenhouse Effect 3.1.3. Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions At the end of 2009, Gefco signed the voluntary charter of commitments Of the 188 car carriers in Gefco’s own fleet in France, 60% comply with to reduce CO2 emissions prepared by the French Environment and Euro 3 standards, 7% with Euro 4 and 32% with Euro 5. Energy Management Agency (ADEME). Fulfilling these commitments Gefco constantly reviews its transport and logistics routing plans to requires an audit and an action plan focused on vehicles (maintenance, achieve the most efficient cost/quality/carbon ratio. One solution is fleet renewal, etc.), fuel (measures to track consumption), drivers greater use of alternative modes of transport, which now account for (training) and transport organisation. 25% of the flows handled by Gefco. In the next three years, Gefco intends to: For nearly 30 years, Gefco has offered a combined road-sea-road uu renew its fleet; solution between Vigo, Spain and Saint-Nazaire, France. It also offers uu install speed-limiting devices on some one hundred car carriers to road-sea-river-road transport in China to Wuhan and road-rail-road reduce maximum speed to 85 km/h; transport for plant supply flows between Paris and Madrid. uu track fuel consumption; In March 2010, Gefco set up rail transport for Semi Knocked Down uu train its nearly 300 drivers in eco-driving techniques, which alone (SKD) components between Vesoul, France and Kaluga, Russia. will deliver 90% of the reduction in carbon emissions. The first complete trainload of SKD components arrived at the According to ADEME estimates, these measures could potentially PSA Peugeot Citroën – Mitsubishi plant in Kaluga on 10 March, after reduce CO2 emissions by 4%, equivalent to nearly 650,000 litres of travelling 3,000 kilometres in five days. The multimodal system is one fuel. of the Europe’s most ambitious in terms of freight volumes carried. By replacing the equivalent of 36 outbound lorries a day and shortening Of the 304 merchandise transport vehicles in Gefco’s own fleet in delivery times from eight to five days, the daily deliveries are helping to France, 64% are Euro-3 compliant and 30% are Euro 4-compliant. drive a sharp reduction in carbon emissions, In all, this strategic choice means 576 fewer trucks on the road between France and Russia. 74 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Environment 3.2. Air Quality 3.2.1. NO2 , SO2 and VOC Emissions 3 3.2. Air Quality PSA Peugeot Citroën is committed to abating atmospheric emissions (by increasing nitrogen availability and disrupting an ecosystem’s of sulphur oxides, nitrogen oxides and volatile organic compounds, biological balance) and photochemical smog (by forming oxidising not only because they are regulated, but also because they are a agents such as ozone). contributing factor in acidification (by forming acid rain), eutrophication 3.2.1. NO2, SO2 and VOC Emissions Direct SO2 and NO2 Emissions by Business (Consolidated Group) (Unit: tonnes) SO2 NO2 PCA 2010 15.6 522.0 2009 56.2 455.7 2008 24.1 507.9 AP/AC 2010 14.8 56.5 2009 15.6 50.7 2008 15.4 55.1 PCI 2010 0.0 1.1 2009 0.0 0.7 2008 0.0 1.0 PMTC 2010 0.1 6.0 2009 0.1 5.1 2008 0.1 5.0 Gefco 2010 2.1 12.9 2009 1.4 12.3 2008 1.5 12.4 Total 2010 32.6 598.6 2009 73.3 524.5 2008 41.1 581.3 Faurecia 2010 16.9 166.6 2009 9.0 119.0 2008 7.3 144.9 SO2 = Sulphur dioxide. NO2 = Nitrogen dioxide. NO2 and SO2 emissions are calculated using consumption data for fossil Data from the Peugeot and Citroën brands, as well as for Gefco and fuels (fuel-oil, coal, coke and gas) and applying international emission Faurecia, were reported from the same percentage of sites as those factors. Figures for fuel sulphur content are stated in regulations. reporting direct energy consumption. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 75 3 Environment 3.2. Air Quality 3.2.1. NO2 , SO2 and VOC Emissions Direct SO2 and NO2 Emissions, 1995-2010 (PCA) The Group’s assertive commitment to replacing fuel oil by natural gas SO2 and NO2 emmisions Production (in number of painted vehicle) whenever possible and buying more cogenerated steam has resulted (in tonnes/year) in a spectacular decline in NO2 and SO2 emissions between 1995 and 2010, with reductions of, respectively, 42% and 99% over the period. 3,500 2,500,000 Taken together, these reductions help improve air quality around Group 3,000 sites. 2,000,000 2,500 The Rennes and Sochaux plants eliminated the use of heavy fuel oil in 2,000 1,500,000 2009, followed by Mulhouse at the end of 2002. These initiatives have reduced SO2 emissions to very low levels. 1,500 1,000,000 1,000 NO2 emissions, which stem directly from the combustion of natural gas 500,000 at the various facilities, have stabilised at around 500 tonnes. Further 500 declines will come from energy management measures taken at all 0 0 sites. 1995 2008 2009 2010 SO2: Sulphur NO2: Nitrogen Production dioxide dioxide Paintshop VOC Releases by Business (Unit: tonnes) VOC PCA 2010 8,390 2009 7,589 2008 9,505 PMTC 2010 4 2009 7 2008 12 Total 2010 8,394 2009 7,597 2008 9,517 VOC = Volatile Organic Compounds. 76 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Environment 3.2. Air Quality 3.2.2. Use and Emissions of Ozone-Depleting Substances 3 Paintshop VOC Releases, 1995-2010 (PCA) VOC releases Ratio PSA Peugeot Citroën’s VOC emissions have declined by 55% per (in tonnes) (in kg/painted vehicle) painted vehicle since 1995 through the sustained implementation of the best, most cost-effective technologies. Examples include: 10 uu shifting to water-based paints; 8.33 uu optimising application practices (with robots) and use; 8 uu installing thermal oxidation units; uu sharing good practices among sites. 6 In 2010, VOC emissions stabilised at 3.75 kg per finished vehicle as 4.13 output increased by 11%. This performance demonstrates the validity 3.76 3.75 3.42 4 of the Group’s policy, which has as its target 3.42 kg per finished vehicle in 2012. 2 This same process is being applied at the Sochaux, Mulhouse and 0 Caen mechanical component plants, where existing production facilities are being brought into compliance with European directives on VOCs. All of the European plants comply with release standards set 1995 2008 2009 2010 2012 in the European directive. Objective VOC: Volatile Organic Compounds Ratio Geographically, 89% of the Group’s VOC emissions came from Europe in 2010 and 11% from the rest of the world. Volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions are the main environmental VOC emissions from PCA and PMTC paintshops are calculated challenge for paintshops. In France, the Group’s automobile assembly using the materials balance method, in compliance with European plants account for less than 1% of total VOC emissions produced by directive 1999/13/EC on the limitation of emissions of volatile organic human activity (source: CITEPA. In 2008, human activity produced compounds due to the use of organic solvents in certain activities and 1,086 kt of released VOCs.). installations. 3.2.2. Use and Emissions of Ozone-Depleting Substances Use and Emissions of Ozone-Depleting Substances Reducing emissions of ozone-depleting gases is a key concern in the Leak-tightness of installations containing ozone-depleting fluids is Group’s Environmental Management System. checked every year and corrective action is taken in the event leaks are detected. Although refilling equipment with CFCs has been prohibited While the use of trichloroethane and halon was discontinued between since 2001, refills with recycled/reclaimed HCFCs is authorised 1999 and 2003, CFCs and HFCs are still present in some refrigerating through 2014. units used to cool production resources (such as machine tool cutting fluids), electrical control enclosures or workplace areas. The Group is tracking the Assessment Report on the application of the European regulation on refrigerants, which will be issued in July 2011 and may identify authorised substitutes for HCFCs. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 77 3 Environment 3.3. Use of Resources 3.3.1. Total Water Use 3.3. Use of Resources 3.3.1. Total Water Use Total Annual Water Withdrawal by Source and by Business (Consolidated Group) (Unit: cu.m) City water Surface water Underground water TOTAL PCA 2010 2,084,888 4,035,499 4,744,254 10,864,641 2009 2,232,974 3,632,252 4,465,777 10,331,003 2008 2,611,790 4,036,944 4,943,993 11,592,727 AP/AC 2010 660,891 5,115 5,431 671,437 2009 684,335 4,740 5,004 694,079 2008 732,905 9,140 6,554 748,599 PCI 2010 2,379 2,379 2009 1,987 1,987 2008 2,684 2,684 PMTC 2010 14,977 14,977 2009 16,132 0 16,132 2008 12,914 11,604 24,518 Gefco 2010 221,718 0 29,805 251,523 2009 128,340 0 26,441 154,781 2008 201,346 0 28,079 229,425 Total 2010 2,984,853 4,040,614 4,779,490 11,804,957 2009 3,063,768 3 636 992 4,497,222 11,197,982 2008 3,561,639 4,057,688 4,978,626 12,597,953 Faurecia 2010 1,634,306 835,576 421,911 2,891,793 2009 1,127,576 1,159,318 365,152 2,652,046 2008 1,368,065 944,179 415,166 2,727,410 -: Not relevant. Water withdrawal data is based either on water bills or meter readings. Data from Faurecia were reported from 97% of its sites in 2010, versus 100% in 2009 and 2008. Data from Peugeot and Citroën were reported from 83% of their sites in 2010, versus 90% in 2009 and 84% in 2008. For Gefco, the sharp rise in water use was due to a larger scope of reporting and a more reliable reporting process. Data from Gefco were reported from 78% of its sites in 2010, versus 76% in 2009 and 70% in 2008. Most of the sites that did not report data are leased facilities, whose consumption figures are included in rental expense and were therefore unavailable for reporting. 78 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Environment 3.3. Use of Resources 3.3.2. Materials Used 3 Total Water Withdrawal by Source, 1995-2010 (PCA) Total water withdrawals have been halved since 1995 thanks to the Water used Ratio (in cu.m) (in cu.m/painted vehicle) deployment of a dedicated plan that called for the widespread use of meters and upgrading of recycling systems, among other things. During the same period, there was a threefold decline in water 25,000,000 14.16 15 withdrawals per painted vehicle. To meet the Group’s target for 2012 of 4 cu.m per vehicle, the downtrend seen in 2010 will have to accelerate 20,000,000 in the short term. The Sochaux plant, which has the highest water use 10 in the Group, performed a very precise audit of water use in 2010, 15,000,000 workstation by workstation, to define water saving measures. Geographically, 91% of the Group’s water in 2010 was withdrawn in 10,000,000 5.03 5.12 4.85 Europe and 9% in the rest of the world. 4 5 5,000,000 0 0 1995 2008 2009 2010 2012 Objective City water Surface water Underground water Ratio Annual Water Withdrawals The concept of available resources is specific to each site. Impact a minimum, in particular through the use of metering systems, the studies include an analysis to determine the future facility’s water display of the least water-intensive operating parameters for each requirements, such as how much river water will need to be withdrawn. workstation and the deployment of recycling systems. This is how the Aulnay and Rennes plants produced very good results in 2010, with When there is a risk of depleting water sources, particularly from the respectively 1.4 cu.m and 1.9 cu.m per painted vehicle. water table, programmes are undertaken to reduce withdrawals to 3.3.2. Materials Used Raw and Recycled Materials Consumed (For PCA, standard parts) The Group’s 2010 raw materials use was as follows: uu direct: 1,060,000 tonnes of steel and 65,000 tonnes of non-ferrous metals; uu indirect: 1,650,000 tonnes of steel, 230,000 tonnes of non-ferrous metals and 700,000 tonnes of synthetics (of which 20,000 tonnes of recycled materials). PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 79 3 Environment 3.4. Recycling 3.4.1. Total Weight of Waste by Type and Disposal Method Managing Paper Use The use of paper, both for internal office printing or for outsourced In producing print publications, the Group pays careful attention to the brochures, marketing collateral, annual reports and other publications, origin of the paper used, with a preference for PEFC and FSC certified is managed and measured at every level across the Group, including papers made exclusively with fibres from responsibly managed production plants, office facilities and dealerships. forests. In addition, as a founding member of the French government’s paperrecycling programme EcoFolio, PSA Peugeot Citroën annually Concerning office printer paper, awareness building campaigns and reports the tonnage of produced publications and pays an eco-tax to local the shared-printer print management system installed at most of the authorities to finance the collection, recycling and reuse of the paper. French sites have helped to keep consumption under control. Most waste printer paper is now sorted and collected by outside service providers who deliver it to recycling plants. 3.4. Recycling 3.4.1. Total Weight of Waste by Type and Disposal Method Total Weight of Waste by Business (PCA in 2010) In 2010, Group sites produced 967,210 tonnes of waste. The other process waste, totalling 325,910 tonnes, breaks down very unevenly by facility as follows: 166,000 tonnes from foundries, Most of this (641,300 tonnes) was metal waste, which is not included 116,280 tonnes from assembly plants, 31,100 tonnes from mechanical in the charts and tables below because all of it is recovered as a component plants and 12,530 tonnes from engineering and design byproduct and reused either in steel mills, or for around 99,500 tonnes, centres. directly in the Group’s foundries. In addition, the foundries purchased around 105,800 tonnes of outside metal waste (scrap, cast iron and aluminium) for reuse in 2010. Waste Production by Facility (PCA in 2010, excluding metal waste) Due to the nature of their operations, the Charleville and Sept-Fons Mechanical component plants 10% foundries alone accounted for half of total waste volumes, or 73 kg per vehicle. Most of this waste is spent foundry sand, much of which is Engineering, 4% recycled internally after on-site regeneration. design and Assembly administrative 36% centres plants 50% Foundries 80 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Environment 3.4. Recycling 3.4.1. Total Weight of Waste by Type and Disposal Method 3 Total Weight of Waste by Type, 1995-2010 (PCA, excluding metal waste, nearly 100% of which is recycled) (PCA, excluding foundry waste and metal waste, nearly 100% of which is recycled) Weight of waste Ratio Weight of waste Ratio (in tonnes) (in kg/painted vehicle) (in tonnes) (in kg/painted vehicle) 400,000 180,000 250 100 211 94 160,000 90 350,000 200 140,000 80 300,000 70 73 156 120,000 70 250,000 64 143 146 60 150 100,000 200,000 50 80,000 150,000 40 100 60,000 30 100,000 40,000 50 20 50,000 20,000 10 0 0 0 0 1995 2008 2009 2010 1995 2008 2009 2010 Foundry waste Non-hazardous process waste Hazardous process waste Non-hazardous process waste Hazardous process waste Ratio Ratio The change in waste volumes was due in very large part to the increase The amount of waste generated per vehicle stands at around 73 kg, in business activity at the Group’s foundries. The quantity of waste excluding foundry waste. generated per painted vehicle came to 146 kg in 2010. Waste production data are based on European Union definitions of Geographically, 89% of the Group’s waste in 2010 was produced in waste types and disposal methods. Europe and 11% in the rest of the world. Packaging Waste (PCA in 2010) Primarily composed of wood and cardboard, packaging waste accounted for 66,130 tonnes, or 20%, of total non-metal waste Other 0.4% 2.0% Soiled packaging produced in 2010 versus 50,870 tonnes in 2009. A full 98% is classified mixed packaging as non-hazardous process waste and more than 99% of packaging waste is recovered, reused or recycled. Carboard The increase in packaging waste between 2009 and 2010 reflects 35.8% packaging increased business activity, notably at the Buenos Aires and Porto Real facilities, as well as the inclusion of the Jeppener site. Because these Wood packaging 54.8% three plants receive a large number of components from Europe, they generate a high volume of packaging waste. Plastic 7.0% packaging PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 81 3 Environment 3.4. Recycling 3.4.1. Total Weight of Waste by Type and Disposal Method Total Weight of Waste by Disposal Method, 1995-2010 (PCA, excluding metal waste, nearly 100% of which is recycled) Taking into account metal waste, which has a natural outlet in the steel Weight of waste Ratio industry or Group foundries, the overall recovery rate for manufacturing (in tonnes) (in kg sanitary landfill/ painted vehicle) waste is 95%. Recovery and recycling, landfilling and other waste disposal methods 80 are defined as follows: 400,000 350,000 66 70 Recovery and recycling: 300,000 60 uu resource recovery involves reclaiming resources for use in a different 250,000 50 application (e.g. recovering foundry sand for use in road building); 200,000 40 uu recycling involves reclaiming resources for use in the same 150,000 30 application (e.g., repairing wooden pallets); 100,000 18 20 uu energy recovery involves burning the waste as fuel to generate 14 steam or electricity. 12 50,000 10 0 0 Landfilling involves storing or burying waste. Landfills are classified 1995 2008 2009 2010 according to the type of waste as hazardous, non-hazardous or inert. Other disposal methods: Sanitary landfill Other disposal methods Recovery and recycling uu incineration without energy recovery; On-site recycling Ratio uu physical/chemical treatments, such as neutralisation, oxidation-reduction and metal precipitation; uu biological treatments, such as aerobic or anaerobic decomposition. Improved on-site waste management systems have considerably Since the end of 2010, the Group has been shipping metal waste increased the percentage of waste that is recovered or recycled, between Mulhouse and Sept-Fons by river and sending foundry parts resulting in a 74% reduction in landfilled waste between 1995 and on the return trip to reduce the supply chain’s environmental impact. 2010. Much of this progress has been driven by the on-site reuse of spent foundry sand, which has increased fivefold over the period. The weight of waste per vehicle produced has been reduced by 31%. Careful analysis and characterisation of waste produced during the different stages of production (casting, foundry work, mechanical parts manufacture, stamping, paint and final assembly) have made it possible to identify processing channels that provide an alternative to landfilling. In addition, the gradual deployment of new outlets, depending on locally available treatment solutions, is driving a steady increase in the waste recovery rate, which has now reached 84% excluding metal waste. The Poissy and Sochaux plants, for example, no longer landfill any waste, and Mulhouse and Rennes are following in their footsteps. 82 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Environment 3.4. Recycling 3.4.1. Total Weight of Waste by Type and Disposal Method 3 Total Weight of Waste by Type and Disposal Method (PCA) Recovery and Other disposal (Unit: tonnes) Landfill recycling On-site recycling methods TOTAL Foundry waste 2010 10,943 60,783 91,616 86 163,428 2009 9,705 52,867 95,283 46 157,900 2008 15,734 64,605 117,927 49 198,315 Non-hazardous process waste 2010 13,627 98,450 1,271 1,217 114,565 2009 13,496 69,062 1,832 1,352 85,743 2008 18,373 83,143 1,985 402 103,904 Hazardous process waste 2010 2,935 20,761 24,221 47,917 2009 4,788 19,338 20,066 44,192 2008 6,570 26,716 23,473 56,759 Total 2010 27,505 179,994 92,886 25,524 325,909 2009 27,989 141,267 97,115 21,464 287,835 2008 40,678 174,464 119,912 23,924 358,978 -: Not relevant. The table does not include the 641,300 tonnes of metal waste produced that damaged nearly 500,000 sq.m of roof, the construction of a new in 2010, almost all of which was recycled. building in Vesoul and major upgrades to wastewater networks in Belchamp), an increase in operations (spent sand from the Sept-Fons The increase in waste was due to changes in the scope of reporting foundry and packaging waste from the Buenos Aires and Porto Real (with the integration of Jeppener, Peugeot Sport and Citroën Racing), facilities) and a process malfunction (Valenciennes). an increase in worksite waste (repairs following hailstorms in Sochaux (Automobiles Peugeot and Automobiles Citroën) Recovery and Other disposal (Unit: tonnes) Landfill recycling methods TOTAL Non-hazardous process waste 2010 5,539 10,239 156 15,934 2009 6,988 9,517 607 17,113 2008 11,309 8,430 739 20,479 Hazardous process waste 2010 1,543 3,149 292 4,984 2009 1,906 3,120 553 5,579 2008 1,331 2,781 922 5,034 Total 2010 7,081 13,388 448 20,917 2009 8,894 12,638 1,160 22,692 2008 12,640 11,211 1,661 25,512 Data from the Peugeot and Citroën brands were reported from an Data in the above table do not include the 3,710 tonnes of metal waste average 91% of their sites in 2010, versus 87% in 2009 and 78% in produced in 2010, 73% of which was recycled. 2008. When the disposal method is not known, the waste is considered to have been landfilled. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 83 3 Environment 3.4. Recycling 3.4.1. Total Weight of Waste by Type and Disposal Method (PCI and PMTC) Recovery and Other disposal (Unit: tonnes) Landfill recycling methods TOTAL Foundry waste 2010 126 126 2009 107 107 2008 227 227 Non-hazardous process waste 2010 122 551 0 673 2009 157 551 1 709 2008 220 885 1,105 Hazardous process waste 2010 6 130 482 618 2009 12 145 469 627 2008 11 186 589 785 Total 2010 128 681 608 1,417 2009 168 697 577 1,442 2008 231 1,070 816 2,117 -: Not relevant. The table does not include the 340 tonnes of metal waste produced in 2010, almost all of which was recycled. (Gefco) (Unit: tonnes) Landfill Recovery and recycling Other disposal methods TOTAL Non-hazardous process waste 2010 5,842 5,750 676 12,267 2009 6,715 3,695 192 10,601 2008 5,645 3,891 324 9,860 Hazardous process waste 2010 129 489 38 656 2009 145 532 1,163 1,839 2008 438 1,001 124 1,563 Total 2010 5,971 6,239 714 12,923 2009 6,859 4,227 1,354 12,441 2008 6,083 4,892 448 11,423 Data from Gefco were reported from an average 76% of its sites in the related tonnages are not available. When the disposal method is 2010, versus 61% in 2009 and 51% in 2008. Most of the sites that not known, the waste is considered to have been landfilled. did not report data are smaller facilities located outside France, where Data in the above table do not include the 487 tonnes of metal waste waste is managed by municipal sanitation departments. As a result, produced in 2010, 98% of which was recycled. 84 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Environment 3.4. Recycling 3.4.2. Transported Waste Shipped Internationally 3 (Faurecia) Recovery and Other disposal (Unit: tonnes) Landfill recycling On-site recycling methods Total Non-hazardous process waste 2010 36,874 49,283 22,786 5,736 114,678 2009 36,902 35,594 9,178 4,074 85,748 Hazardous process waste 2010 3,290 6,157 7,686 17,132 2009 1,725 4,527 6,228 12,480 Total 2010 40,163 55,440 22,786 13,421 131,810 2009 38,627 40,121 9,178 10,302 98,228 2008 71,093 44,220 9,387 16,990 141,690 Data from Faurecia were reported from 98% of their sites in 2010, The table does not include the 69,546 tonnes of metal waste produced versus 100% in 2009 and 2008. in 2010, almost all of which was recycled. There are no individual figures for hazardous and non-hazardous process waste for 2008. 3.4.2. Transported Waste Shipped Internationally Transported Waste Shipped Internationally in 2010 In 2010, less than 0.2% of total waste produced (excluding metal waste) Disposal involved resource recovery processes that were selected, was shipped from France to another EU member state (Belgium). This in the same way as other recovery methods, following a positive waste included: assessment of their reliability. uu various types of sludge (596 tonnes); Plants and other facilities based outside France did not ship any waste uu spent filter media (31 tonnes). to other EU member states during the year. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 85 3 Environment 3.5. Natural Habitats 3.5.1. Material Effluent Discharge 3.5. Natural Habitats 3.5.1. Material Effluent Discharge Gross Effluent Discharge, ex-Works (Consolidated Group) (Unit: kg/year) COD BOD5 SM PCA 2010 2,044,413 708,937 424,608 2009 2,170,531 766,040 461,662 2008 2,351,932 705,537 661,771 AP/AC 2010 2009 2008 PCI 2010 2009 2008 PMTC 2010 1,110 293 78 2009 838 288 192 2008 536 122 83 Gefco 2010 2009 2008 Total 2010 2,045,523 709,230 424,686 2009 2,171,369 766,328 461,854 2008 2,352,468 705,659 661,854 Faurecia N/A COD = Chemical oxygen demand; BOD5 = Biochemical oxygen demand after 5 days; SM = Suspended matter; -: Not relevant; N/A: Not available. Before release into the environment, 10% of these discharges are wastewater plant. treated in an integrated plant and 90% are further treated in a public 86 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Environment 3.5. Natural Habitats 3.5.1. Material Effluent Discharge 3 Gross Effluent Discharge, ex-Works, 1995-2010 (PCA) To continuously improve the quality of its releases, the Group has Effluent disharge Production developed a pragmatic approach to the various available solutions. (in kg/year) (in number of painted vehicles) For example, mechanical component plant cutting fluids and washing machine effluent are increasingly treated by evaporation-based concentration technologies that separate the oil phase from the water 5,000,000 3,000,000 phase, so that the oil can be treated by specialty processes and the 4,000,000 2,500,000 water discharged into the sewage network. Most of the mechanical component plants now use this technology. 3,000,000 2,000,000 In 2010, the Rennes production facility, whose out-dated integrated 1,500,000 system could no longer ensure compliance with stricter nitrogen 2,000,000 effluent standards, invested €2 million to connect its wastewater 1,000,000 1,000,000 system to the new, highly efficient, state-of-the-art inter-community 500,000 treatment plant. 0 0 Lastly, most of the manufacturing facilities are involved in a compulsory programme to detect hazardous substances in water. This programme 1995 2008 2009 2010 will allow the Group to characterise aqueous releases from the sites very precisely. Depending on the results, the Group may have to restrict or substitute certain products used in its manufacturing processes in COD: Chemical B0D5: Biochemical SM: Suspended matter oxygen demand oxygen demand after the short term to reduce these releases. 5 days Production Geographically, 98% of the Group’s process effluent in 2010 was released in Europe and 2% in the rest of the world. Whether connected to the public wastewater treatment network or The indicator measures the gross annual discharge by sites that carry equipped with their own integrated treatment plant, each facility out regular self-monitoring, which accounted for 98% of all the water tracks releases using indicators defined in their operating permits. withdrawn by PCA facilities in 2010. In particular, these include chemical oxygen demand, biochemical For reasons of consistency, annual discharge is measured using an oxygen demand after 5 days and suspended matter. The results of in-house standard based on the procedure for calculating pollution the tracking operations are reported to administrative authorities on fees charged by France’s Water Agencies, applicable since 1 January a frequent basis. This organisation ensures that aqueous releases are 2008. Because this calculation uses the month with the highest level of not harmful to the surroundings. pollution, the result exceeds the actual data. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 87 3 Environment 3.5. Natural Habitats 3.5.2. Accidental Spills 3.5.2. Accidental Spills Accidental Spills in 2010 An accident is said to have a material impact on the environment if it is controlled by local emergency response crews. A post-incident review serious enough to be reported to the public authorities. led to changes in the procedure for purging, cleaning and refilling tanks at the site. In 2010, only one production facility incident was reported to the authorities in France when nitrous gas was released during a tank purging operation in Valenciennes. The incident was effectively Amount of Penalties Paid Following a Legal Ruling Concerning the Environment The Group did not have to pay any penalties in this regard in 2010. 3.5.3. Biodiversity Respecting the Biological Balance and Managing Odours and Noise Measures required to preserve natural habitats, flora and fauna, as well the environmental impact of their operations as part of the ISO 14001 as to ensure the tranquillity of neighbouring communities, are assessed environmental management system. These audits cover: and defined during initial or supplemental environmental impact uu environmental issues such as greenhouse gas emissions, studies, in accordance with prevailing legislation. These studies assess biodiversity, energy use and health impacts; the sensitivity of the plant’s immediate surroundings, particularly their uu a description of the site’s immediate environment (environmental proximity to areas specially regulated for the protection of flora and fauna. They are conducted when new facilities are built and again at protection area, built-up urban area, etc.); every important phase in a facility’s development, such as capacity uu the possibility of ranking environmental aspects depending on their extensions or the installation of new plant or equipment. In accordance impact. with legislation, they are submitted to public hearings and to the Their findings support the management of these issues, by helping to approval of administrative authorities. set targets and track results. Around ten such impact studies are conducted on Group sites a year. In addition, all of the ISO 14001-certified sites perform annual audits of Facilities Located near Protected Areas PSA Peugeot Citroën’s global manufacturing base mainly comprises In addition, most of these facilities are located in suburban industrial 21 production plants and 13 engineering, design and administrative estates. None are located in wetlands (as defined under the Ramsar centres. Together, these facilities cover around 3,650 hectares, of Convention) or in areas that are specially regulated for the protection which 45% has been waterproofed. Waterproofing prevents water of flora and fauna (natural parks, Natura 2000 areas, nature reserves, from leaching into the ground, and as such, can be a factor in areas covered by decrees on biotopes, etc.). While a few facilities, flooding, depending on the receiving stream. In response, the Group such as Aulnay, Bessoncourt, Caen, Charleville, La Ferté Vidame, has deployed a variety of systems to manage rainwater run-off, Mulhouse, Sept-Fons, Valenciennes and Vesoul, are sited near areas particularly during extension projects with, for example, the installation of this type, their presence has not yet had any identifiable impact on of stormwater detention basins. the nearby natural habitats. 88 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Environment 3.5. Natural Habitats 3.5.3. Biodiversity 3 Surface area Proximity to a regulated area Waterproofed Distance from Facility Operations (sq.m) surface area the facility to the area Type of area Aulnay Automobile production 1,685,814 72% Between 1 and 3 km Natura 2000 area Bessoncourt IT centre 57,400 53% Between 1 and 3 km Natura 2000 area Caen Mechanical component plant 585,000 47% More than 3 km Natura 2000 area Charleville Foundry 550,000 35% Between 1 and 3 km Nature reserve La Ferté Vidame Test centre 8,080,000 4% Between 1 and 3 km Natura 2000 area Mulhouse Automobile production 3,048,474 79% Less than 1 km Natura 2000 area Sept-Fons Foundry 202,262 48% Less than 1 km Natura 2000 area Trnava Automobile production 1,920,000 32% More than 3 km Natura 2000 area Between 1 and 3 km Regional natural park Valenciennes Gearbox production 1,920,000 35% Less than 1 km Natura 2000 area Prefectural biotope Less than 1 km decree Vesoul Replacement parts warehouse 1,275,051 84% More than 3 km Nature reserve Managing Biodiversity Since facilities and the regions in which they are located have uu the facility in Porto Real, Brazil has built its car parks in such a way very different characteristics, each facility is granted considerable as to create a protected area for planting more than 14,000 trees of independence in setting up its biodiversity management programme. different species; uu after the use of heavy fuel oil was discontinued at the plant in Here are a few noteworthy examples: Sochaux, France, the dedicated railway and stripping area were uu at the plants in Rennes, France and Madrid, Spain, for example, fully rehabilitated through a landscaping programme that called native flora audits have revealed the existence of three wild orchid for the re-introduction of ground cover and local tree species species and 70 plant species, respectively. The sites have adjusted throughout the entire area; their greenspace management systems to help preserve these uu forests located on the edge of the La Ferté Vidame and Belchamp plants; facilities have earned Pan-European Forest Certification (PEFC) for their sustainable management practices. Soil Contamination PSA Peugeot Citroën is committed to identifying any soil contamination or commercial facilities are acquired or sold, or when certain installed pre-existing at its sites. equipment is divested. Either at the instigation of public authorities or at the Group’s initiative, Upstream, the Group is also applying strict procedures to prevent soil soil contamination has been assessed at a large number of sites. After contamination in the first place, in particular: in-depth surveys, the experts concluded that some of the sites required uu by installing retention basins for liquid storage facilities; only self-monitoring. Depending on the site, these surveys were uu by avoiding, to the extent possible, the use of underground pipelines supported by a small number of one-time remediation or prevention programmes. Assessments are also carried out when manufacturing to carry liquid contaminants. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 89 3 Environment 90 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 4 Social and society 4.1. Jobs and Capabilities 93 4.4. Compensation 124 4.1.1. Group Workforce 93 4.4.1. Compensation Practices 124 4.1.2. Changes in the Workforce 97 4.4.2. Employee Benefits 127 4.1.3. Developing Human Resources and Nurturing Talent 103 4.5. Equal Opportunity and 4.1.4. Training 105 Human Rights 130 4.5.1. Diversity 130 4.2. Social Relations 107 4.5.2. Gender Equality in the Workplace 134 4.2.1. Social Dialogue 107 4.5.3. Human Rights 139 4.3. Safety, Health and 4.6. Corporate Citizenship 142 Working Conditions 110 4.6.1. The City on the Move Institute (IVM) 142 4.3.1. Workplace Safety Management System 110 4.6.2. Group and Brand Outreach Programmes 143 4.3.2. Safety Performance 111 4.6.3. Local Philanthropy and Social Action Plans 145 4.3.3. An Active Commitment to Preventing Health and Safety Risks 113 4.3.4. Promoting Employee Well-Being 116 4.3.5. An Active Commitment to Health 116 4.3.6. Joint Management-Worker Health and Safety Agreements and Committees 119 4.3.7. Organisation of Working Hours 120 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 91 4 Social and society ﻿ ﻿﻿ ﻿ ﻿﻿ PSA Peugeot Citroën’s social actions and priorities are presented in the “Our Responsibility” pages of the Employee section of the Group’s sustainable development website: Dialogue, Human Rights & Ethics, Working conditions, Employment, Remuneration. Reporting Methodology PSA Peugeot Citroën’s social responsibility policies have been For each indicator in the following chapter, information is provided deployed worldwide and are regularly monitored. Data are reported about the results or the programmes underway. For reasons of space, annually by every subsidiary around the world via a dedicated social however, information about calculation procedures and reference reporting system, in full compliance with France’s Nouvelle Régulation agreements has been omitted. The definitions used are those found in Économique legislation (French decree no. 2002-221, 2002) and international standards. Global Reporting Initiative guidelines. Scope of Reporting With the exception of tables concerning headcount and hiring, the uu the “Other businesses” comprise the Peugeot S.A. holding company, following employee relations indicators have been prepared on the PMTC France, PMTC Germany and PMTC Italy (versus SCEMM, basis of data from all the companies fully consolidated by PSA Peugeot PMTC France, PMTC Germany and PMTC Italy previously). Citroën, other than Faurecia, the Automotive Equipment Division. The scope of reporting does not include employees of joint ventures Faurecia, a listed company 57.4%-owned by Peugeot S.A., manages with Dongfeng Motor Corp. (DPCA), Toyota (TCPA), Fiat (Sevelnord its business independently and therefore prepares and publishes and Sevelsud), Renault (Française de Mecanique) and Mitsubishi its own human resources and other indicators in its Registration Motors Corporation (PCMA Automotiv RUS). Document. Consequently, the policies described in this chapter do not The “manufacturing” scope includes all of the Group’s automobile concern Faurecia. production plants, mechanical component plants and foundries. In 2010, SCEMM and the Peugeot S.A. holding company were “Offices and R&D facilities” refers to Group’s offices and automotive reclassified, as follows: innovation and research facilities. The “sales unit” comprises all of the Group’s sales subsidiaries. uu the “Automotive Division” includes both the Automotive Division and SCEMM (versus the Automotive Division and the Peugeot S.A. holding company previously); Definitions The “manager” category includes engineers and managers with a job ETAM is the French acronym for “administrative employees, technicians description similar to managers in France. and supervisors”. 92 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.1. Jobs and Capabilities 4.1.1. Group Workforce 4 4.1. Jobs and Capabilities 4.1.1. Group Workforce Number of Employees under Permanent or Fixed-Term Contracts by Division, 2005-2010 (Consolidated Group, at 31 December) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Automotive Division 140,050 140,000 134,345 129,890 121,365 120,880 Banque PSA Finance 2,370 2,365 2,330 2,390 2,470 2,595 Gefco 9,370 9,900 9,980 10,060 9,335 9,380 Faurecia 54,960 57,810 59,765 58,140 52,065 64,190 Other Businesses 1,750 1,675 1,430 1,220 985 1,175 Total 208,500 211,750 207,850 201,700 186,220 198,220 To support its strategy and growth, PSA Peugeot Citroën began hiring The increase in the Faurecia workforce primarily reflects the acquisition again in 2010 in response to renewed demand in western Europe and of Emcon (6,640 employees) and Plastal (2,700 employees). expanding markets in Latin America and Asia. Number of Employees under Permanent or Fixed-Term Contracts by Region and Division (Consolidated Group, at 31 December 2010) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL Automotive Division 79,595 29,530 11,755 120,880 Banque PSA Finance 830 1,630 135 2,595 Gefco 4,510 3,705 1,165 9,380 Faurecia 12,775 29,200 22,215 64,190 Other Businesses 1,135 40 0 1,175 Total 98,845 64,105 35,270 198,220 PSA Peugeot Citroën employs 198,220 people in three core businesses. Excluding Faurecia, the Group had 134,030 employees at 31 December 2010, of which 125,925 under permanent contracts (94% of the total) and 8,105 under fixed-term contracts. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 93 4 Social and society 4.1. Jobs and Capabilities 4.1.1. Group Workforce Number of Employees under Permanent or Fixed-Term Contracts by Region (Consolidated Group, at 31 December) 2008 2009 2010 France 108,620 101,330 98,845 Rest of Europe 66,050 59,790 64,105 Rest of Western Europe 48,885 45,045 48,585 Central and Eastern Europe 17,160 14,745 15,520 Rest of the world 27,030 25,100 35,270 Africa 2,115 2,150 2,995 South America 13,665 12,135 15,775 North and Central America 7,635 7,165 11,035 Asia and Middle East 3,620 3,650 5,465 Total 201,700 186,220 198,220 Western Europe: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Central and Eastern Europe: Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Latvia, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia and Ukraine. Africa: Algeria, Morocco, South Africa and Tunisia. South America: Argentina, Brazil and Chile. North and Central America: Canada, Mexico and the United States. Asia and Middle East: China, India, Iran, South Korea, Thailand, Turkey, Malaysia and Japan. In 2010, 50% of employees worked outside France, of which 32% in other European countries and 18% in the rest of the world. Supporting and Promoting an International Profile 99,375 employees work outside France, in more than 42 countries. In expand. A dedicated Peugeot Citroën subsidiary for international skills each one, PSA Peugeot Citroën is committed to hiring locally and to management has been created to: leveraging local skills. Fully 90.5% of managers based outside France uu motivate experts and managers from all countries; in the Automotive, Finance, and Transportation & Logistics Divisions uu create career paths that give a view of the international challenges are nationals. stemming from the globalised economy; Particular attention is paid to the orientation and integration of newly uu give local team members the opportunity to take on more hired local managers, with programmes designed to improve their responsibility within the Group. understanding of how the Group works and their knowledge of its basic management principles and practices. As the Group takes on an increasingly international profile, more nonFrench members will join the management teams and English will Around the world, PSA Peugeot Citroën deploys experts and become the day-to-day working language. managers with capabilities and profiles that match the global diversity and local specificities of the markets in which the Group wants to 94 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.1. Jobs and Capabilities 4.1.1. Group Workforce 4 Number of Seconded Employees by Division (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, at 31 December) 2008 2009 2010 Automotive Division 660 620 610 Banque PSA Finance 30 30 35 Gefco 70 60 65 Other Businesses 5 5 0 Total 765 715 710 In 2010, 710 employees were involved in foreign postings, with an The above table does not include the 195 Faurecia employees average assignment of 36 months. 95 employees were seconded in seconded during the year. France, 235 in the rest of Europe and 380 outside Europe. In addition, 270 employees had longterms assignments outside France and 2,355 in France (excluding Faurecia). Employees under Permanent or Fixed-Term Contracts by Category (Consolidated Group, at 31 December 2010) 17% Managers Operators 57% 26% Administrative employees, technicians and supervisors PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 95 4 Social and society 4.1. Jobs and Capabilities 4.1.1. Group Workforce Employees under Fixed-Term Contracts (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, average annual number) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL Automotive Division 2010 3,690 3,040 755 7,485 2009 2,610 3,100 965 6,675 2008 2,980 5,315 1,850 10,145 Banque PSA Finance 2010 40 160 0 200 2009 30 155 5 190 2008 0 150 5 155 Gefco 2010 140 135 40 315 2009 N/A N/A N/A N/A 2008 140 265 5 410 Other Businesses 2010 50 0 0 50 2009 35 0 0 35 2008 45 5 0 50 Total 2010 3,920 3,335 795 8,050 2009 2,675 3,255 970 6,900 2008 3,165 5,735 1,860 10,760 N/A: Not available. In 2010, 840 employees (or 11.3% of new hires under permanent The average annual number of employees under fixed-term contracts contracts) were hired worldwide (excluding Faurecia) under permanent is calculated by dividing by 12 the sum of the number of these contracts following a fixed-term assignment. employees at each month-end. For information, Faurecia had 455 employees under fixed-term contracts (average annual number). Temporary Employees (Consolidated Group excluding Faurecia, average annual number) Along with its temporary employment agency partners, PSA Peugeot Citroën This charter also guarantees temporary workers that they will enjoy the applies the charter governing working conditions for temporary same working conditions as regular employees. workers in France. In particular, the charter stipulates that temporary employees cannot work for more than 15 consecutive months in the Group, so that they have an idea of when their assignment will end. France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL Automotive Division 2010 6,560 670 390 7,620 2009 3,665 440 240 4,345 2008 5,650 490 300 6,440 Banque PSA Finance 2010 0 95 10 105 2009 0 110 5 115 2008 15 85 5 105 Gefco 2010 555 575 150 1,280 2009 310 600 150 1,060 2008 680 960 405 2,045 Other Businesses 2010 50 0 0 50 2009 40 0 0 40 2008 90 0 0 90 Total 2010 7,165 1,340 550 9,055 2009 4,015 1,150 395 5,560 2008 6,435 1,535 710 8,680 96 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.1. Jobs and Capabilities 4.1.2. Changes in the Workforce 4 In 2010, more than 835 people (or 11.2% of new hires under permanent The average annual number of temporary employees is calculated by contracts) were hired worldwide (excluding Faurecia) under permanent dividing by 12 the sum of the number of these employees at each contracts following a temporary assignment with the Group. month-end. The above table does not include the average 10,255 people who worked on temporary assignments at Faurecia in 2010. Number of Contractor Employees Working on Group Sites (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, at 31 December, full-time equivalents) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL Automotive Division 2010 7,310 2,360 2,955 12,625 2009 5,875 2,185 2,600 10,660 2008 6,130 2,590 4,750 13,470 Banque PSA Finance 2010 30 40 40 110 2009 30 35 35 100 2008 25 40 35 100 Gefco 2010 145 320 285 750 2009 245 260 75 580 2008 220 265 95 580 Other Businesses 2010 10 0 0 10 2009 20 0 0 20 2008 20 0 0 20 Total 2010 7,495 2,720 3,280 13,495 2009 6,170 2,480 2,710 11,360 2008 6,395 2,895 4,880 14,170 Only long-term positions under annual service contracts (such as food or security services) are included. 4.1.2. Changes in the Workforce Net Jobs Created or Eliminated, 2008-2010 (Consolidated Group, at 31 December) Net jobs added (lost) Employees at through acquisitions and Net jobs created Employees at 31 December 2008 disposals 2008-2010 (eliminated) 31 December 2010 Rest of Europe 66,045 5,380 -7,320 64,105 Africa 2,115 485 395 2,995 North and Central America 7,635 2,250 1,150 11,035 South America 13,665 1,685 425 15,775 Asia and Middle East 3,620 420 1,425 5,465 Worldwide except France 93,080 10,220 -3,925 99,375 France 108,620 -35 -9,740 98,845 Worldwide 201,700 10,185 -13,665 198,220 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 97 4 Social and society 4.1. Jobs and Capabilities 4.1.2. Changes in the Workforce Between 2008 and 2010, the Group shed 13,665 jobs. The decrease acquisitions/disposals column primarily reflects Faurecia’s acquisition since 2009 primarily reflects measures taken to align the workforce with of Plastal (2,700 employees) and Emcon (6,640 employees). business levels. This downsizing process was carried out responsibly and without disruption or conflict. The significant number in the Employees Hired under Permanent Contracts (Consolidated Group, at 31 December) PSA Peugeot Citroën began hiring again in 2010 in response to A global sourcing reference centre has been set up to define policy in renewed demand in western Europe and expanding markets in Latin this area and shared services centres for recruitment have been opened America and Asia. Designed to support strategic projects and growth, in the main countries now hiring. In France, the shared services centre the recruiting drive has focused on leading-edge skills sets, notably in reinstated employer brand campaigns, featuring evening events, job low-carbon R&D, as well as on manufacturing and marketing. fairs in schools and partnerships with employment agencies or the government job centre. It also renovated its hiring resources to make A major hiring programme was carried out in France (excluding Gefco the most of social networks, with dedicated “PSA MyExperience” and and Faurecia), bringing in nearly 1,600 engineers, sales people and “PSA IngéTek” Facebook pages, virtual forums and a new jobs booth technicians and more than 1,150 line operators. In addition, a number for schools. of production sites provided employees in less demanded skills sets with training, re-training and mobility opportunities. The induction process was enhanced during the year to facilitate onboarding for new employees. The corporate university has created a 360° tour to help new hires get a clear view of the Group, its challenges and organisation, and to provide an opportunity for them to talk with employees from a variety of backgrounds. France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL Automotive Division 2010 2,660 1,605 2,110 6,375 2009 975 1,340 1,045 3,360 2008 1,995 3,155 1,695 6,845 Banque PSA Finance 2010 60 180 20 260 2009 40 105 10 155 2008 45 170 10 225 Gefco 2010 100 430 270 800 2009 30 300 220 550 2008 315 875 580 1,770 Faurecia 2010 195 2,230 6,440 8,865 2009 80 1,280 4,640 6,000 2008 625 5,405 4,160 10,190 Other Businesses 2010 30 0 0 30 2009 10 0 0 10 2008 0 0 0 0 Total 2010 3,045 4,445 8,840 16,330 2009 1,135 3,025 5,915 10,075 2008 2,980 9,605 6,445 19,030 In 2010, the Group hired 16,330 people, of which nearly 55% in More than 81% of new employees were hired outside France. the Automobile Equipment Division (Faurecia) and 4.9% in the Transportation & Logistics Division (Gefco). 98 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.1. Jobs and Capabilities 4.1.2. Changes in the Workforce 4 Employees Hired under Permanent Contracts by Category (Consolidated Group, at 31 December 2010) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL Operators ETAM Managers Operators ETAM Managers Operators ETAM Managers Operators ETAM Managers Automotive Division 1,155 785 720 675 700 230 1,260 605 245 3,090 2,090 1,195 Banque PSA Finance 0 55 5 0 160 20 0 15 5 0 230 30 Gefco 20 40 40 70 335 25 145 120 5 235 495 70 Faurecia 35 30 130 1,695 370 165 4,975 700 765 6,705 1,100 1,060 Other Businesses 0 5 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 25 Total 1,210 915 920 2,440 1,565 440 6,380 1,440 1,020 10,030 3,920 2,380 New employees hired under permanent contracts represented 8.2% of the total workforce in 2010, versus 5.4% in 2009 and 9.4% in 2008. Employees Hired under Fixed-Term Contracts (Consolidated Group, at 31 December 2010) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL Automotive Division 3,600 2,110 980 6,690 Banque PSA Finance 85 150 0 235 Gefco 150 125 15 290 Faurecia 360 2,190 4,920 7,470 Other Businesses 35 0 0 35 Total 4,230 4,575 5,915 14,720 Of the total employees hired under fixed-term contracts during the year excluding Gefco and Faurecia, 54.7% were women, 80.7% were operators, 17.7% were administrative employees, technicians and supervisors (ETAM) and 1.5% were managers. Separation Rates (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, at 31 December) 2008 2009 2010 Separation rate 8.7% 9.0% 7.3% In 2010, the Groupwide separation rate (excluding Faurecia) was 7.3%, The separation rate is calculated by dividing the total number of including separations as part of the jobs and capabilities redeployment separations involving during the year employees under permanent plan. or fixed-term contracts (through resignations, redundancies, dismissals, retirement, death, etc.) by the total number of employees under permanent or fixed-term contracts (excluding Faurecia) at 31 December. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 99 4 Social and society 4.1. Jobs and Capabilities 4.1.2. Changes in the Workforce Separations of Employees under Permanent or Fixed-Term Contracts by Age Group and Gender (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, at 31 December 2010) <20 years 20/29 years 30/39 years 40/49 years ≥ 50 years TOTAL M W M W M W M W M W M W Resignations 40 5 775 265 830 290 385 130 210 40 2,240 730 Dismissals 0 30 395 90 320 120 285 40 515 80 1,515 360 Redundancies 0 0 85 30 190 90 195 55 1,585 440 2,055 615 End of fixed-term Contracts, retirement or death and other separation 410 165 2,185 940 585 380 210 115 1,585 285 4,975 1,885 Total 450 200 3,440 1,325 1,925 880 1,075 340 3,895 845 10,785 3,590 M: Men. W: Women. Separations of Employees under Permanent or Fixed-Term Contracts by Region (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, at 31 December 2010) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL Resignations 1,055 1,325 590 2,970 Dismissals 745 690 440 1,875 Redundancies 2,365 265 40 2,670 Retirement or death and other separation 1,435 775 35 2,245 Total 5,600 3,055 1,105 9,760 Separation rate 6.5% 8.8% 8.5% 7.3% Resignations of Employees under Permanent Contracts (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, at 31 December) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL Automotive Division 2010 710 890 445 2,045 2009 1,155 995 355 2,505 2008 1,010 1,815 375 3,200 Banque PSA Finance 2010 25 70 0 95 2009 10 55 5 70 2008 25 95 5 125 Gefco 2010 225 200 100 525 2009 160 255 65 480 2008 240 485 125 850 Other Businesses 2010 0 0 0 0 2009 90 5 0 95 2008 40 5 0 45 Total 2010 960 1,160 545 2,665 2009 1,415 1,310 425 3,150 2008 1,315 2,400 505 4,220 The number of resignations amounted to 2.8% of total employees The above table does not include the 2,655 Faurecia employees who under permanent contracts in 2010, versus 3.2% in 2009. resigned during the year. A total of 305 employees under fixed-term contract (excluding Faurecia) resigned during the year. 100 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.1. Jobs and Capabilities 4.1.2. Changes in the Workforce 4 Premature Terminations or Dismissals of Employees under Permanent or FixedTerm Contracts (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, at 31 December) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL Automotive Division 2010 660 590 370 1,620 2009 465 780 255 1,500 2008 775 665 310 1,750 Banque PSA Finance 2010 5 25 0 30 2009 5 15 0 20 2008 5 15 0 20 Gefco 2010 75 80 65 220 2009 105 130 145 380 2008 100 80 220 400 Other Businesses 2010 5 0 0 5 2009 30 0 0 30 2008 35 0 0 35 Total 2010 745 695 435 1,875 2009 605 925 400 1,930 2008 915 760 530 2,205 The above figures include all dismissals during the year, including The above table does not include the 3,925 Faurecia employees who premature termination of work contracts for incapacity and disability, were prematurely terminated or dismissed during the year. and dismissals for personal reasons. Retirement, Death and other Separation of Employees under Permanent or FixedTerm Contracts (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, at 31 December 2010) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL Automotive Division 1,360 740 35 2,135 Banque PSA Finance 15 20 0 35 Gefco 60 15 0 75 Other Businesses 0 0 0 0 Total 1,435 775 35 2,245 The above table does not include the 315 Faurecia employees under permanent contracts who retired, died or otherwise left the company during the year. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 101 4 Social and society 4.1. Jobs and Capabilities 4.1.2. Changes in the Workforce Dismissals or Redundancies of Employees under Permanent or Fixed-Term Contracts (Including through the Jobs and Capabilities Redeployment Plan) (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, at 31 December) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL Automotive Division 2010 2,365 230 15 2,610 2009 2,105 800 375 3,280 2008 2,485 195 100 2,780 Banque PSA Finance 2010 0 0 0 0 2009 0 5 0 5 2008 0 0 0 0 Gefco 2010 0 35 25 60 2009 45 175 0 220 2008 10 290 0 300 Other Businesses 2010 0 0 0 0 2009 15 0 0 15 2008 25 0 0 25 Total 2010 2,365 265 40 2,670 2009 2,165 980 375 3,520 2008 2,520 485 100 3,105 The number of worldwide dismissals and redundancies (excluding The above table does not include the 1,075 people made redundant at Faurecia) in 2010 was again primarily attributable to the jobs and Faurecia during the year. capabilities redeployment plan carried out in 2009 and wound down in March 2010. 102 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.1. Jobs and Capabilities 4.1.3. Developing Human Resources and Nurturing Talent 4 4.1.3. Developing Human Resources and Nurturing Talent Working with Employee Representatives to Prepare Jobs and Capabilities for the Future Proactively responding to an evolving skills base, accurately predicting provides for a comprehensive system designed to meet three key the capabilities needed in the future and improving employee visibility goals: of over-the-horizon technologies and manufacturing processes are all uu improve the ability to foresee changes in jobs, skills sets and critical challenges for PSA Peugeot Citroën. A forward-looking view is capabilities by enhancing employee visibility of over-the-horizon needed to initiate effective policies for training, career development, job technologies and manufacturing processes; mobility, hiring and jobs and skills redeployment. It is the company’s uu instil a new dynamic for individual career management to responsibility to take this type of approach so that it can make the necessary adjustments smoothly, without sudden upheavals and last encourage personal investment and job mobility in a commitment minute retraining. to developing the Group’s skills and capabilities base; uu provide a support system for employees concerned by corporate Forward-looking management involves analysing situations with transformation programmes, such as retraining, collective transfers employee representatives, discussing policies deployed and or developments in less demanded professions. considering their foreseeable impact on jobs and skills. The Group has oversight committees in its main host countries A new human resources planning and development agreement signed to discuss future trends in jobs, capabilities and skills sets with in France in 2010 and based on the agreement in force since 2007 employee representatives. This forward-looking approach provides a qualitative and quantitative outlook for managing strategic skills sets, technological or organisational changes, alignment programmes and other issues. Anticipating Transformations and Helping Employees Navigate Change PSA Peugeot Citroën systematically deploys measures to support In France, for example, the Group is gradually managing the employees through major transformations and changes in both redeployment of operations at the Moissy Cramayel site, primarily the manufacturing and non-manufacturing sides of the business to through internal transfers. All of the measures included in the jobs maintain social cohesion. and skills redeployment plan are based on voluntary participation and all employees benefit from the dedicated job mobility department’s A structured approach is applied during each change project to analyse resources. The Group is also involved in promoting new activities to the impacts and consequences and prepare support measures. support the local job base. The Jobs and Capabilities Redeployment Plan in France (Automotive Division in France, at 31 December 2010) The measures implemented in France in January 2009 under the jobs and capabilities redeployment plan ended on 31 March 2010. Separations recorded in 2010: Operators ETAM Managers TOTAL Personal projects 290 65 30 385 Outplacement leaves 1,175 535 270 1,980 Voluntary retirements 285 75 130 490 Total 1,750 675 430 2,855 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 103 4 Social and society 4.1. Jobs and Capabilities 4.1.3. Developing Human Resources and Nurturing Talent Mapping Out Skills Using the Job Families and Professions Approach PSA Peugeot Citroën’s jobs and capabilities policy is designed to This division into professions helps employees: prepare the professions it will be needing to achieve high performance uu understand the functions and skills involved in each profession and in the years ahead. The Group is organised into 20 job families, or how they will change; cross-functional skills communities with worldwide scope, that provide uu access their specific profession’s standards, processes and a vision of jobs, professions and capabilities over a five-year period. The job families define action plans for each profession concerning resources; hiring, expertise, training, retraining, mobility, localisation and uu be involved in local management of their profession at the internationalisation. appropriate level; uu share best practices in their profession; Two major steps were taken in 2010 to enhance this approach. uu know about and access the approved training in their profession. First, the job families were structured into 120 professions. A profession Second, a sponsor from the Executive Committee was appointed for is a consistent set of operations within a job family that requires a each job family to ensure that its concerns are voiced at the highest uniform group of skills, resources and processes. level of management. This new approach provides a solid framework for anticipating the professions of tomorrow and for giving employees the opportunity to grow. Developing Human Resources A new global human resources development policy was adopted in uu professional mobility allows interested employees to expand their June 2010. Expressed and led by executive management, this policy career horizons and develop their skills; is designed to promote the professional development of all employees uu PSA Peugeot Citroën manages jobs responsibly. and to make managers responsible for their teams’ growth. The policy comprises seven core principles: The policy is also intended to support the Group’s international expansion and enhance its competitiveness by attracting and retaining uu each employee is an active participant in his or her career growth; top talent, providing employees with the necessary training to stay uu each manager is responsible for developing his or her team; at the top of their game, and helping team members navigate the uu all employees are entitled to an annual performance review; changes caused by major shifts in the automotive industry. uu career paths are defined by job family, through each family’s professions; uu training represents a major investment for both the company and employees; Percentage of Employees Having a Performance Review (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, 2010) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL Operators 79.0% 61.0% 27.2% 69.3% ETAM 76.7% 66.3% 69.8% 73.0% Managers 91.2% 83.8% 79.9% 88.9% Total 81.0% 65.2% 48.0% 73.8% The purpose of the annual performance review is for employees and the-job performance. It also provides an opportunity to discuss mutual their supervisors to define objectives and expected outcomes for expectations and review the employee’s career prospects. the year ahead, as well as the behaviours needed for effective on104 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.1. Jobs and Capabilities 4.1.4. Training 4 Supporting Active Job Path Management and Career Growth At PSA Peugeot Citroën, capabilities are at the centre of career results of the past year and set objectives for the year ahead. These development and training. This focus makes its possible to clarify reviews provide an opportunity to identify the necessary behaviours employees’ career development prospects and anticipate more for effective performance and define a plan to develop the employee’s effectively the Group’s needs in terms of both skills and workforce technical capabilities and working methods. They are a key component levels. Each year, career committees and succession planning of the human resources development policy and major lever for committees review career development possibilities. Organised within deploying the Group’s Vision and ambitions. In 2010, an employeeeach division, these committees map out employee career paths and support programme, based on specific training for managers and develop succession plans for strategic positions. the distribution of an e-learning module, was deployed worldwide to enhance the quality of the annual performance review process. The use of tools based on skills assessment and individual performance has been extended across the global organisation. All employees now have an annual performance review to discuss the Giving Priority to Internal Resources in Job Mobility Priority is given to internal resources in human resources planning. The Group’s expansion in China, Russia and Latin America, as well Every effort is made to give employees ample information so that as its cooperation strategy, provide further opportunities for career they can see where the professions are headed and which paths may growth and diversification. be open to them. In this way, they can anticipate moves that will be In 2010, more than 21% of engineers and managers changed positions beneficial to their career development, with the company’s support. and 3,890 people took assignments in another region or country. In France, for example, mobility and career development units have been set up at all sites, while in Spain, a dedicated mobility programme has improved communication about available positions. Changes in Job Category The vast array of jobs available within the Group provides employees of Automotive Division employees were promoted or changed job with attractive paths to career advancement. In 2010, around 15.7% categories. 4.1.4. Training Hours of Training by Region (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, at 31 December) Total hours of training (in thousands) Average hours of training per employee 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 France 1,665 1,515 2,015 17.9 18.0 24.5 Rest of Europe 890 905 825 23.1 27.9 26.3 Rest of the world 380 260 260 31.3 24.9 21.4 Total 2,935 2,680 3,100 20.4 21.1 24.6 Each employee received an average of 24.6 hours of training in 2010, Employees also benefited from 51,000 hours of online language with 97,850 employees attending at least one training course during training not included in the table above. the year. At Faurecia, training amounted to an average 20.1 hours per employee in 2010. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 105 4 Social and society 4.1. Jobs and Capabilities 4.1.4. Training Average Hours of Training by Employee and by Category (Automotive Division manufacturing companies worldwide, at 31 December) 2008 2009 2010 Operators 20 22 26 ETAM 36 31 33 Engineers and managers 21 21 28 AVERAGE 23 24 28 Training Expenditure by Division (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, at 31 December 2010) The 3.1 million hours of training conducted throughout the Group represented an outlay of close to €125 million. Gefco 0.6% Other businesses Faurecia offered nearly 1.2 million hours of training, representing a 6.3% Banque PSA Finance 1.5% budget of more than €18 million for the year. 91.6% Automotive Division The Corporate University’s Global Role and Missions As a core player in the transformation process, the corporate university employee well-being, quality, individual performance reviews, ethics, is responsible for transmitting knowledge, behaviours and working the onboarding process, economy, the impact of globalisation and methods aligned with the Group’s values and policies. Since it was cultural diversity on business and new employee induction. Backed by founded in April 2010, the university has offered a variety of training innovative teaching resources and a solid understanding of the latest courses designed to help the Group fulfil its ambitions. The university systems for sharing knowledge, the university also provides training guarantees that the technical and managerial skills acquired through in key skill areas that will allow the Group to remain a step ahead in these courses meet a defined level of excellence. products and services. Basic courses are offered for all the divisions in a number of areas, The training catalogue now comprises nearly 5,000 courses. including management, English as a foreign language, diversity, the PSA Excellence System, the Workplace Safety Management System, Offering Courses that Meet Recognised Standards The 120 professions identified by the job families will undergo a three levels of training (beginner, advanced and senior), provide certification process by end-2012. The quality assurance certification a system for validating the concepts mastered and ensure that the will be awarded to each profession’s training cluster every other year on teaching system is appropriate in the local environment. Certified the basis of rigorous specifications with five key requirements: describe training clusters are organised in accordance with a standard model. and justify skills, deploy the related training clusters worldwide, offer 106 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.2. Social Relations 4.2.1. Social Dialogue 4 Fostering Strategic Partnerships Among its missions, the corporate university is responsible for nurturing researchers supported by three or four students can work full time for strategic relationships with schools and universities worldwide to three to six months on technical topics that are of key importance to enhance the Group’s attractiveness among students, teachers and the company. researchers. Examples include PSA Peugeot Citroën-sponsored chairs, foundations and long-term partnerships. Under these systems, 4.2. Social Relations 4.2.1. Social Dialogue Deployed across the world, the Group’s social policies are designed PSA Peugeot Citroën actively supports employee freedom of to foster a sense of community built on the strong values of solidarity, association and representation and is committed to respecting the tolerance and commitment. At the core of these policies is a independence and pluralism of trade unions in all its facilities. commitment to continuous dialogue with employee representatives. More than 96% of employees are represented by unions or employee In initiating its major change projects, the Group has actively engaged representatives. in social dialogue, based on employee information and involvement. This approach has led to numerous agreements in all host countries. Managing with an Open Ear On a daily basis, social dialogue is lead by the Group’s managers. As concerns health and safety, preventive measures and results are Effective dialogue requires employee involvement, ongoing discussions monitored by Safety and Health Committees that span from senior with employee representatives, active communication and leadership, unit management down to front-line management. Each manager and the ability to understand difficulties encountered in the front lines participates in a committee and is informed of standards to be and to resolve them through continuous improvement. This type of applied in the area of prevention, along with expected outcomes. local employee relations management helps to create a positive As committee members, managers are also able to provide valuable working environment. Managers receive specific training in employee feedback about difficulties encountered in implementing measures relations to help them get a good grasp of their mission. or changes in risks. This approach is designed to ensure effective topdown and bottomup communication. In addition, whistle-blower To ensure that it has the best front-line human resources capabilities, procedures have been set up for use by employees or supervisors the Group also trains professionals in the human resources function so that corrective and preventive action can be taken as quickly as who need to have a full understanding of the techniques and regulatory possible to avoid occupational illnesses or accidents. changes in their particular areas. This training in employee relations has been approved by the corporate university. A Large Number of New Agreements The Group’s commitment to social dialogue has resulted in a large In 2010, nearly 150 company agreements were signed, including more number of innovative, consistently pioneering agreements that reflect than 90 outside France. These agreements covered a wide range and embrace the social changes reshaping our world. They also of topics, from organisation of the workweek and human resources reflect the Group’s commitment to extending best human resources planning and development to the evaluation and prevention of job policies across the business base and to promoting such strong values related stress, job classifications and career development, and as respect for human rights, equal opportunity, team diversity and retaining and motivating seniors. All of the agreements were approved workplace health and safety. by a large majority. Unions and employee representative bodies are consistently informed Worldwide, 94% of the Group’s employees (excluding Faurecia) are and consulted before any major changes are undertaken in the Group. covered by a collective bargaining agreement. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 107 4 Social and society 4.2. Social Relations 4.2.1. Social Dialogue Agreements Signed Worldwide The following list gives examples of agreements signed in 2010 in the uu Agreement on the organisation of electronic voting in nonproduction Group’s leading host countries. These agreements concern one or and R&D sites, signed in December. more Group companies (Automobiles Peugeot, Automobiles Citroën, uu Amendment to the agreement on vocational training and Banque PSA Peugeot Citroën Finance, production plants, Gefco, etc.). compensation during short-time working, signed in December. Argentina Germany uu Agreement on flexible working, signed in April. uu Agreement on developing employee compensation, signed in March. Belgium uu Agreement on Key Account Managers’ variable bonuses, signed uu Agreement on wage indexation, signed in March. in March. uu Agreement on procedures and payment for compensatory rest, signed in November. Italy uu Agreement on flexible working hours, respect for working hours and Brazil payment of working hours, signed in July. uu Profit-sharing agreement, signed in June. uu Agreement on labour union relations and rights, signed in December. uu Agreement on salary negotiations and employee relations clauses, signed in November. Japan uu Agreement on the procedures and conditions for re-employing China individuals after the mandatory retirement age, signed in January. uu Agreement on compensation for meals, signed in February. Spain France uu Agreement on the time bank, signed in January. uu Amendment to the agreement on labour union rights, signed in uu Agreement on corporate shuttles, signed in February. January. uu Agreement on continuous shift organisation in the body shop and uu Agreement on retaining and motivating seniors, signed in January. paintshop, signed in February. uu Agreement on the new jobs and capabilities dynamic, signed in uu Agreement on work organisation and salaries, signed in March. April. uu Agreement on discretionary and non-discretionary profit-sharing United Kingdom plans and employee savings, signed in May. uu Agreement on attendance bonuses, signed in January. uu Agreement on jobs and flexibility in manufacturing facilities, signed uu Agreement on retirement plans, signed in April. in October. uu Agreement on effective working hours, the organisation of working hours and vacation time, signed in December. Social Agenda In all of the Group’s major host countries, social dialogue is making it agenda reflects the legal deadlines for meeting with employee possible to lead corporate transformation programmes in collaboration representative bodies and mandatory commissions. It also sets aside with employee representatives. time for meetings with employee representatives to discuss current issues that may be resolved through agreements. In the sites, the social dialogue process is structured according to a “social agenda”, which is issued in draft form every six months to Since 2010, the main collective negotiations have converged thanks to allow participants to prepare major issues for discussion. The agenda monthly tracking of the labour agreement agenda in Europe. is updated quarterly as each item on the agenda is addressed. The Expanded European Works Council with International Scope The European Works Council provides management and employee with the goal of drawing up an assessment and producing suggestions representatives with a dedicated forum in which to discuss the Group’s with senior management. The extended European Works Council also strategy, performance and outlook. met to prepare and sign the amendment to the Global Framework Agreement on Social Responsibility. The European Works Council was extended to include Argentina and Brazil in 2006. China and Russia will join this global council in 2011. These organisations, which promote social dialogue worldwide, are an integral part of the Group’s contractual agreements. They give The European Works Council and its Liaison Committee of officers met management a place to hear employee concerns, expectations and ten times in 2010. These meetings featured a number of presentations, suggestions and to initiate the necessary discussions when a major as well as work on the deployment and application of Lean approaches, cross-functional project is in the works. 108 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.2. Social Relations 4.2.1. Social Dialogue 4 The Joint Union-Management Strategy Committee The Committee is a forum for analysis, dialogue and discussion partnerships and cooperative ventures, international development and between management and French trade unions. In 2008, it was other topics and trends that could have an impact on jobs. extended to unions outside France through an agreement signed with The members met three times in 2010 to consider the Group’s industrial IG Metall, T&GWU, SIT-FSI, UGT and CC-OO. The Committee explores competitiveness, measures to reduce carbon emissions, strategy in in more detail issues related to the Group’s short and medium-term Asia and other major issues. situation and development, including products, markets, competitors, Employee Information and Satisfaction Employees are kept regularly informed through newsletters, bulletin Employee satisfaction surveys are carried out every year in many board postings, intranet sites and a variety of other media. Employees countries, notably France, the United Kingdom, Russia, Spain, worldwide can access the human resources intranet, which is also Portugal, Germany, Argentina, Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, Malta, Algeria available in English and Spanish. To ensure that employees are kept and Chile. These surveys cover a variety of topics, including internal fully and transparently informed, Group facilities and subsidiaries communication, corporate culture, working conditions, professional regularly organise information sessions and staff meetings for the development, training, compensation, employee-manager relations, entire unit. Group policy and strategy, team work and food services. The 2010 surveys show that PSA Peugeot Citroën employees, in their vast majority, are satisfied. Nurturing Employee Commitment As a responsible employer, PSA Peugeot Citroën listens carefully be rolled out to the entire workforce in 2011. This survey should help to its employees so that it can stimulate people to give the most of the Group make the most of its strengths and work on new areas for themselves, both individually and collectively. development. In 2010, an opinion survey conducted among the Group’s managers Participatory management programmes encourage employee initiative enabled the Group to identify levers and deploy action plans to improve and involvement at every level and in every business, to nurture a managerial practices. A common survey for all units is expected to culture of continuous improvement. Minimum Notice Periods Prior to Changes Unions and employee representative bodies are consistently informed Except in exceptional circumstances, employees are informed at least and consulted before any major changes are undertaken in the Group. two months ahead of any major planned change and one month in Similarly, employees are informed through regular procedures. advance for any major changes in work schedules. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 109 4 Social and society 4.3. Safety, Health and Working Conditions 4.3.1. Workplace Safety Management System 4.3. Safety, Health and Working Conditions 4.3.1. Workplace Safety Management System Transforming the Group’s Safety Culture PSA Peugeot Citroën’s workplace health and safety policy, signed by standards and practices in this area and makes health and accident the Executive Committee on 12 January 2010, is defined and promoted prevention a priority. at the highest level of the company. This policy, which applies to PSA Peugeot Citroën complies with International Labour Organisation all subsidiaries and units, represents a completely new approach recommendations concerning workplace health and safety and fulfils to workplace health and safety management and requires radical its obligations in every host country. changes in behaviour on the part of both managers and employees. Meeting safety targets is also a criterion for determining executive At all Group sites, employees and outside contractors must be able bonuses, alongside operating income and quality performance. to work in complete safety without any risk to their health. This is a critical factor in the Group’s responsible development, anchored in Since 2010, all employees have had a direct stake in the Group’s respect and consideration for individuals. Employee health and safety safety results with the creation of personal targets for managers and is a prerequisite for continuous improvement. the inclusion of safety as a criterion in discretionary profit sharing agreements. The Group systematically assesses and manages risk in all of its actions and decisions, with prevention guided by three core behaviours: lead by example, maintain vigilance and respond swiftly. The workplace health and safety policy has also been formalised in the Global Framework Agreement on Social Responsibility, which expresses the Group’s commitment to implementing the best Uncompromising Application of the New Workplace Safety Management System The Group’s workplace health and safety policy is deployed through and align the corporate culture. It provides a framework for cascading the Workplace Safety Management System, which comprises best practices and for measuring results against objectives. 22 requirements that define areas needing special attention and On 30 March 2010, more than 800 managers and prevention specialists management. Applicable to all subsidiaries and units, the Workplace from all Group sites and businesses attended the first workplace Safety and Management System is based on six fundamental health and safety convention during which they were reminded of the principles: Group’s commitments and were presented with a progress report on uu executive management involvement; the Workplace Safety Management System’s deployment, backed by uu structured leadership; front-line accounts. uu clearly established and applied standards; In addition to cross-functional training designed to help managers uu defined roles; assimilate the knowledge they need to deploy the Workplace Safety uu effective warning systems; Management System effectively, the Group conducts health and safety uu effective monitoring and improvement resources. audits to ensure that the principles are put into practice. In 2010, corporate teams audited 12 manufacturing facilities and 12 sales Managers in units around the world apply the approach on a daily areas (for a total of 80 units) in addition to local audits covering all basis using a Workplace Safety Management System roadmap. This subsidiaries. roadmap includes five steps that are crucial to instilling lasting change: raise awareness, change mindsets, change behaviours, change habits 110 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.3. Safety, Health and Working Conditions 4.3.2. Safety Performance 4 Workplace Safety Management System Tools and Applications In Vigo, Spain, management has invented a safety training resource The Safety Gates programme calls for posting safety rules at strategic for all employees called the Safety Box. Packed with Q&A quizzes and locations throughout sites. Highly visible signs at plant and building interactive games, the Safety Box gets people to think in a fun way entrances notify staff and non-staff of mandatory safety rules, notably about such important topics as driving rules and behaviour, individual concerning individual protective gear and precautions to be taken protective gear and machine and installation safety. The Safety Box when moving about in workshops. The principle behind Safety Gates has been so successful that the Group has decided to introduce it at is to encourage employees, temporary staff, outside contractors and all manufacturing sites. In France, the first Safety Boxes have been visitors to make sure they are in compliance before entering an area. inaugurated at the Aulnay, Poissy and Sochaux sites, with the goal of training all employees in 2011. The Same Exacting Safety Standards for Everyone Safety is a priority for everyone present at PSA Peugeot Citroën sites, A support system has been set up with temporary employment agencies including employees of outside contractors. Without taking on their legal as part of the framework agreement on temporary employment. The responsibility, the Group ensures that these companies comply with Group includes workers from temporary employment agencies in its safety practices and requires outside contractors to apply its standards safety statistics monitoring. within the scope of the Workplace Safety Management System. 4.3.2. Safety Performance Eliminating Risky Situations to Achieve an Accident-Free Workplace The Group believes that the only acceptable goal is an accident-free The improvement seen in 2010 provides a compelling reason to work environment and that no real progress can be achieved without continue deploying the Work Safety Management System. The target ensuring employees’ safety. This uncompromising focus on safety for 2011 calls for a 30% decrease in the LTIF rate to 2.8, a midway must be the same in every country and every business. point towards the goal of less than 1 set for 2013. This target has already been met in a number of units, including Porto Real, Buenos Aires, Mangualde and Tremery. Deploying the Work Safety Management System and Measuring Results (Consolidated Group, excluding Gefco and Faurecia) Thanks to measures taken in 2010, safety performance improved Tangible measures contributing to this performance included: noticeably in all the Group’s subsidiaries and units. The Groupwide uu the assertive deployment of the Work Safety Management System, losttime incident frequency (LTIF) rate, including temporary which led all subsidiaries through roadmap step 1 (raise awareness) employees, stood at 3.87 in 2010, down 16% from 4.63 in 2009. in 2010; This reflects good results for both permanent staff and temporary uu the implementation of the workplace alert system to help employees employees, who have been included in the scope of consolidation voice their difficulties at specific workstations. since 2009. After stagnating for several years, the LTIF rate for Group employees improved by 18% in 2010 to 2.79, while the LTIF rate for temporary employees declined by nearly 50% to 25.1 from 48.2 in 2009. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 111 4 Social and society 4.3. Safety, Health and Working Conditions 4.3.2. Safety Performance Total Lost-Time Incident Frequency Rate (Manufacturing, office, R&D and sales units worldwide, excluding Faurecia and Gefco) The lost-time incident frequency (LTIF) rate corresponds to the number 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 of lost-time occupational accidents multiplied by one million and divided by the number of hours worked. 6.36 5.06 4.40 3.72 3.41 3.43 3.43 2.79 Total Lost-Time Incident Frequency Rate by Region (Manufacturing, office, R&D and sales units worldwide, excluding Faurecia and Gefco, in 2010) Rest Rest In 2010, the Groupwide lost-time incident frequency (LTIF) rate stood France of Europe of the world at 2.79 (3.87 including temporary employees), down more than 50% 3.60 from 2005. The recordable incident frequency rate declined to 11.45 from 11.58 2.90 in 2009, while the first-aid frequency rate fell to 37 from 46 the year before. 1.96 Gefco saw a slight increase in its LTIF rate, to 7.4 from 6.94 in 2009. To reverse this trend and meet its targets, Gefco is applying Group directives concerning workplace health and safety in all its host countries. Safety Performance (Manufacturing and sales units, Consolidated Group, excluding Gefco and Faurecia, 2010) Sales units Manufacturing units Frequency rate Severity rate Frequency rate Severity rate Europe 2.33 0.13 4.17 0.42 Africa 0 0 South America 0 0 0.47 0.03 Asia and Middle East 0 0 Total 2.14 0.12 3.66 0.37 The Group does not have any manufacturing facilities outside Europe The frequency rate, also known as LTIF rate, corresponds to the and South America. number of accidents multiplied by one million and divided by the number of hours worked. The severity rate corresponds to the number The sales units include import subsidiaries and dealerships. of consecutive days lost to accidents multiplied by one thousand and divided by the number of hours worked. 112 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.3. Safety, Health and Working Conditions 4.3.3. An Active Commitment to Preventing Health and Safety Risks 4 Commuting Accidents (Manufacturing and R&D facilities, France) 2008 2009 2010 Frequency index 3 3.3 4.4 The frequency rate corresponds to the number of commuting accidents with lost-time multiplied by one thousand and divided by the number of employees. Fatal Accidents (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, 2010) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL Automotive Division 4 0 1 5 Banque PSA Finance 0 0 0 0 Gefco 0 0 0 0 Other Businesses 0 0 0 0 Total 4 0 1 5 There were five fatal accidents in 2010, four of them in France. All five occurred during the commute between work and home. Number of Occupational Accidents Requiring First-Aid Involving Contractor or Temporary Employees (Consolidated Group, excluding Gefco and Faurecia, at 31 December 2010) Safety conditions for contractor employees are the same as for Group employees. First-aid and follow-up care are provided for contract and temporary employees who are victims of occupational accidents. France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL Contractor Temporary Contractor Temporary Contractor Temporary Contractor Temporary employees employees employees employees employees employees employees employees Occupational accidents 934 1,572 180 110 105 55 1,240 1,750 Gefco also recorded one fatal accident in 2010, involving a contractor employee. The work accident statistics include 44 accidents among external service providers and 74 among temporary staff. 4.3.3. An Active Commitment to Preventing Health and Safety Risks To meet its responsibility in preserving employees’ health and safety, uu preventing musculoskeletal disorders; PSA Peugeot Citroën has strengthened its overall approach by uu managing chemical risks; focusing on five priority commitments that reflect the major risks to uu preventing psychosocial risks; which the Group is exposed: uu preventing road risks; uu promoting workstation safety with STOP audits. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 113 4 Social and society 4.3. Safety, Health and Working Conditions 4.3.3. An Active Commitment to Preventing Health and Safety Risks Preventing Musculoskeletal Disorders Preventing musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) is a key workplace health 37%. The Group intends to pursue this trend and has set a target of and safety policy priority. MSDs are a leading cause of workrelated just 8% “heavy” workstations for 2012, increasing the percentage injuries in the automotive industry. These disorders often stem from of “light” workstations to 58%; physical factors, such as exertion and repetitive movement, as well as uu collecting employee input. A workplace alert system has been from non-physical factors, such as work organisation, mental stress deployed to continuously collect employee input and identify and operators’ perception of their work. The measures taken fall into and resolve problem areas in the earliest stages. The approach three broad categories: is designed to ensure that employees open up about strenuous situations and report any difficulties they may encounter as soon as uu improving workstations. Manufacturing sites focus on alleviating possible. Supervisors analyse the information and take appropriate physical and postural stress by reducing the number of workstations measures; rated as “heavy”. The process, structured by a workplace and uu training individuals involved in workplace health and safety. These organisation assessment method, is led by multi-disciplinary teams, comprising occupational physicians, engineers, safety technicians, team members learn about preventing MSDs in ergonomics training ergonomists and managers. Between 2005 and end-2010, the sessions approved by PSA Peugeot Citroën’s corporate university. percentage of workstations rated as “heavy” declined to 9% from 18%, while the percentage of “light” workstations rose to 53% from The Changing Proportion of “Light ”, “Medium” and “Heavy ” Workstations (Automobile manufacturing units Consolidated Group – as a %, as rated by the METEO method) 2011 2012 2005 … 2008 2009 2010 Objective Objective 58 56 53 51 49 45 40 39 37 38 35 34 18 11 10 9 9 8 … “Light“ workstations “Medium“ workstations “Heavy“ worstations Managing Chemical Risks Preventing chemical risks is a critical health challenge in light of the risks, determine the type of information necessary, take preventive risks related to the use of products and the pollution generated by measures or find an effective substitute. A plan has also been deployed certain processes. to track air quality. Information on the risks and specific measures for preventing chemical risks is available to employees who handle these PSA Peugeot Citroën complies fully with all regulatory standards, products and is included in their initial job training. This approach is led including REACH and Classification, Labelling and Packaging (CLP). by multi-disciplinary teams to ensure that the most effective protective All chemical products located at a site or unit are inventoried and measures are applied. recorded. The data is carefully analysed so that the Group can assess 114 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.3. Safety, Health and Working Conditions 4.3.3. An Active Commitment to Preventing Health and Safety Risks 4 Preventing Psychosocial Risks Psychosocial risks are a reality in the workplace. Starting in 2007, In 2010, more than 14,000 employees in France volunteered to fill out PSA Peugeot Citroën decided to look at stress head on and to recognise a confidential questionnaire to measure workplace stress and identify psychosocial risks as job-related risks. The deployment of preventive job-related causes. The feedback is used for collective analyses that measures helps managers improve their management techniques so serve as the basis for developing prevention plans and, if necessary, they can achieve high performance in a more serene environment. individual monitoring by occupational physicians. A similar survey is being conducted in Spain. Each month, PSA Peugeot Citroën’s senior A company-wide agreement was signed in October 2009 with five management team receives a report on employee well-being prepared labour unions to implement a psychosocial risk prevention plan in all in cooperation with the workplace health departments. countries and all divisions. The plan calls for: The process includes new or enhanced systems for listening to uu close monitoring of identified cases of psychological distress and of individual employees and providing the support they need. These collective situations that can create psychosocial risks; include working closely with occupational health services, raising uu enhanced measures to help employees voice their problems and managerial awareness and vigilance, monitoring and handling receive individualised support; complaints of harassment and discrimination, organising local units uu a self-evaluation system to raise managerial awareness; to identify and resolve distress situations and providing access to uu a shared methodology for evaluating workplace stress that makes psychologists. it possible to determine employees’ stress levels and identify collective job-related factors; Awareness training for managers covering stress factors and measures uu the development and deployment of collective action plans, to prevent psychological risks is provided in several countries. prepared according to identified stress factors and risk situations. Preventing Road Risks As a carmaker, PSA Peugeot Citroën naturally puts a high priority rollover simulators, booths, conferences and free breathalysers. In on road safety. In association with employee representatives, an Algeria, for example, the Group produced a manual on good driving occupational road risk prevention manual was reissued in 2010 to habits to support the government’s road safety programme. All provide employees with guidelines on how to use their cars when on employees and customers received the manual, along with a sticker business trips or commuting. All employees have been made aware of for their cars. the manual, in part through presentations by their managers. As in previous years, the Group continued to work closely with During the year, several units provided hands-on driver training, local road safety associations to improve road safety through public including for motorcycles and scooters, or worked with public officials awareness campaigns in all its host countries. Specific initiatives were to raise employee awareness using such resources as driving and carried out in China, Brazil and Russia. Promoting Workstation Safety with STOP Audits The STOP preventive observation procedure helps employees develop observing the working environment to identify factors that might result their ability to detect risky situations or behaviours at workstations. This in an incident. This process, which is widely used at production sites, procedure encourages discussions among employees and managers was gradually extended to sales sites in 2010. and facilitates adoption of preventive measures. STOP audits involve PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 115 4 Social and society 4.3. Safety, Health and Working Conditions 4.3.4. Promoting Employee Well-Being 4.3.4. Promoting Employee Well-Being Organising Work with a Focus on People For PSA Peugeot Citroën, people are a critical factor in the equation by the implementation of measures that give each employee a clear when it comes to how work is organised. Management techniques mission and define long-term, motivating targets for individuals and allow employees to develop their skills in a work environment that teams. This type of organisation is designed to develop employee wellis conducive to well-being and high performance. At all levels of being and to eliminate factors that do not promote an efficient, stressthe company, the application of Lean principles and a culture of free workplace. On a daily basis, the approach makes use of resources continuous improvement are driving efforts to simplify working like visual management, working standards and basic work units. methods. Discussion, decision making and autonomy are facilitated Achieving a Better Work-Life Balance Innovative local services have been introduced to assist employees Involvement in outside activities is also encouraged, with more than in achieving a better work-life balance, such as company concierge 80 sports, cultural and charity associations active within the Group. services, travel agencies, special bus lines, carpooling sites or help The PSA Peugeot Citroën Challenges multi-site sports events in with administrative formalities. By becoming a founding member of different host countries are growing in popularity as well. In 2010, 20 of the French Labour Ministry’s “Businesses and Daycare” initiative, the these fun-filled events were held, for even greater participation and Group enhanced its commitment to helping employees find good diversity. Lastly, Works Councils supported by the company offer a childcare solutions. In 2010, more than 100 openings were offered in wide variety of social, athletic and cultural activities. French daycare facilities. Improving Working Conditions In all subsidiaries and all facilities and across all businesses, the Group Specific agreements define guidelines for workspace design and is committed to creating a friendly, safe work environment that complies architecture, including standards for washrooms, lighting and office with the highest international standards. In line with this commitment, layout. the Group pays special attention to providing quality workspaces, rest areas and other amenities. 4.3.5. An Active Commitment to Health Keeping Employees Healthy throughout their Careers Good health is essential to sustaining the performance of human uu educate and train employees to prevent negative impacts on health; resources and business operations. For PSA Peugeot Citroën, health uu correct disease-causing situations in the workplace and promote all is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not types of measures that foster workplace well-being; merely the absence of disease or infirmity. uu prevent non-work related illnesses when measures in the workplace The Group’s health policy focuses on developing well-being in the are possible; workplace and keeping employees healthy throughout their careers. uu support employees with health issues inasmuch as is possible. Leveraging social dialogue and structured coordination among Plans and programmes developed for all Group employees make use occupational physicians, the policy takes an individual and collective of internal, multi-disciplinary skills and take each region’s environment, approach with five priority objectives: regulations and healthcare priorities into account. uu maintain a responsive occupational disease tracking system; 116 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.3. Safety, Health and Working Conditions 4.3.5. An Active Commitment to Health 4 Health-Related Programmes Underway in the Group As part of the health plan, various training, prevention, assistance and treatment programmes are offered throughout the Group. The following table shows examples of the main health-related programmes underway in the Group. Beneficiary Educational programmes Preventive programmes Assistance programmes Treatment programmes Employees uu Training and information on uu Vaccination campaign for uu Onsite occupational uu Mutual insurance plan workplace health seasonal flu physicians uu Medical insurance uu Training on preventing uu Preventive testing for uu Social workers uu Hospital insurance psychosocial risks hepatitis C, certain types uu Psychologists and uu Possibility of homecare uu Ergonomics training of cancer, high blood psychological counselling assistance in the event uu Training on chemical pressure, diabetes, etc. units of a workplace accident products uu Driving test uu Freephone hotline for uu Post-operation uu Information and awareness uu Prevention unit to monitor employees in distress rehabilitation therapy building on the issue of psychosocial risks uu Help in quitting smoking uu Various financial aid or noise and the mandatory uu Assessment of uu Re-entry assistance for support programmes use of hearing protectors psychosocial risks workers on long-term sick uu Life Power Training for uu Stress prevention unit leave managers on the issue of uu Alcohol and drug workplace stress prevention unit uu Safety training (first-aid, uu Medical examinations rescue, fire, chemical risks, (check-ups, eye tests, prevention of workplace testing for various accidents etc.) illnesses, such as uu Awareness campaigns and cardiovascular disease, distribution of brochures diabetes and cancer, etc.) addressing a variety of uu Inquiries, audits, etc. health and safety issues uu Lombal’GYM class to (AIDS, smoking, alcohol, prevent lower back injuries healthy eating to combat uu Educational programme on diabetes and obesity, back preventing serious illnesses problems, hepatitis, etc.) uu Sessions on preventive uu Awareness campaigns on back care and proper use healthy eating, obesity and of computer screens the benefits of exercise, as uu Deployment of defibrillators well as nutritional advice Employee families uu Awareness campaigns uu Support, consulting and uu Support, advice and uu Supplementary addressing a variety of advice for families psychological assistance for insurance plan, issues, including smoking, uu Cardiovascular risk employees and their families extended family alcohol, healthy eating prevention programme in the case of serious or healthcare benefits habits to combat diabetes, chronic illness affecting an uu Medical and travel obesity, etc. employee insurance uu Brochure sent to uu Assistance from medical employees’ homes on the staff and social workers importance of looking for uu Personal services for signs of mental suffering. employee families, home uu Distribution of a brochure care and remote assistance on road risks and home for elderly and dependent accidents before the individuals summer and winter uu Financial assistance for holidays families of injured employees Local communities uu First-aid training uu Prevention plan and uu Financial assistance for uu Community AIDS/HIV uu Participation in a variety of monitoring of air quality associations (disabled screening financed by health-related campaigns (asbestos, etc.) people, etc.) the Group in South and events uu Home and road accident uu Blood and platelet Africa prevention programme drives, etc. uu Financial assistance for uu AIDS/HIV prevention associations that help programmes persons with medicalor social difficulties, as part of Local Philanthropy and Social Action Plans PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 117 4 Social and society 4.3. Safety, Health and Working Conditions 4.3.5. An Active Commitment to Health Occupational Illnesses by Region (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, 2010) The priority focus is on job-related diseases, which are covered by active prevention programmes in every plant and facility. France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL Musculoskeletal disorders of the upper limbs 415 45 5 465 Musculoskeletal disorders of the spine 20 0 10 30 Asbestos-related occupational illnesses 25 0 0 25 Noise-related hearing loss 10 0 5 15 Other 20 0 0 20 Total 490 45 20 555 In 2010, Group units (excluding Faurecia) declared occupational Of the total, 84% concerned illnesses related to musculoskeletal illnesses for 555 employees, compared with 420 in 2009 and 422 in disorders of the upper limbs, 5% musculoskeletal disorders of the 2008. 88% of the illnesses were declared in France, 8% in the rest of spine, 4% asbestos-related illnesses, 3% hearing loss and 4% other Europe and 4% in the rest of the world. illnesses. 118 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.3. Safety, Health and Working Conditions 4.3.6. Joint Management-Worker Health and Safety Agreements and Committees 4 4.3.6. Joint Management-Worker Health and Safety Agreements and Committees Joint Management-Worker Health and Safety Committees – Percentage of Employees Represented In most host countries, joint management-worker organisations are in charge of monitoring the application of employee health and safety practices. The following table provides examples in the countries where the Group has the most employees. Country Organisation Members Employer representatives Employee representatives Algeria Joint Health and Safety Commission Occupational physicians Employer representatives Employee representatives Health Committee Occupational physicians Employee representatives Argentina Safety, Ergonomics and Fire Prevention Committee Employer representatives Employer representatives Members of the works council Safety engineer Austria Central Safety Council Occupational physicians Prevention consultant Employer representatives Belgium Prevention and Workplace Protection Committee Employee representatives Employee representatives Brazil Internal Accident Prevention Commission Employer representatives Employer representatives China Environment and Safety Commission Group of employees Employer representatives Employee representatives Occupational physicians Safety manager Union representatives France Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committee Representative of the regional health insurance fund Employer representatives Employee representatives Occupational physicians Safety manager Germany Safety and Health Committee External consultant Employer representatives Employee representatives Medical officer Italy Prevention and Protection Services Prevention and Protection Services Manager Employer representatives Employee representatives Morocco Safety and Health Committee Occupational physicians Employee representatives Poland Industrial Hygiene and Safety Commission Employer representatives Employee representatives Health and safety manager Employer representatives Portugal Industrial Hygiene and Safety Committee Occupational physicians Employer representative Employee representatives Romania Safety and Health Committee Occupational physicians Employee representatives Russia Investigation Committee Employer representatives Employee representatives Employer representatives Slovakia Working Conditions Committee Production centre Chief Executive Employee representatives Industrial Hygiene and Safety Committee Employer representatives Employee representatives Spain Safety and Health Committee Employer representatives Employer representative Employee representatives Occupational physicians Turkey Safety and Health Committee Health and safety engineer More than 96% of Group employees (excluding Faurecia) are represented by joint management-worker health and safety committees. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 119 4 Social and society 4.3. Safety, Health and Working Conditions 4.3.7. Organisation of Working Hours Health and Safety Agreements The Group is committed to implementing the best workplace health Germany and safety standards and practices and has made health and safety uu Agreement on managing employees returning from long-term sick a priority. The commitment is also expressed in several national leave, signed in November. company agreements. Italy Health and safety agreements have been signed in a number of host uu Agreement on the installation of a video surveillance system, signed countries, including: in April. China Slovakia uu Agreement on annual medical check-ups for employees, signed in uu Collective agreement on workplace health and safety, signed in April. January. uu Agreement on insurance for commuting accidents, signed in August. France uu Agreement on workplace well-being and the prevention of psychosocial risks, for Française de Mécanique, signed in March. uu Agreement on assessing and preventing workplace stress, signed in April. 4.3.7. Organisation of Working Hours In every host country, working hours are consistently equal to or less than the legal workweek or industry practices. Maintaining Flexibility to Preserve Jobs Job creation relies to a great extent on the Group’s ability to make its In France, an agreement on enhancing flexibility and adding new manufacturing base more competitive. PSA Peugeot Citroën constantly hires at manufacturing facilities was signed in September 2010. searches for the best solutions to adapt to changes in demand. All Among other things, it calls for the possibility of introducing variable organisational modifications are negotiated beforehand to balance night shifts based on shorter night-time hours, with daily worktimes employees’ interests with the need for flexibility and competitiveness. depending on order intake. This innovative agreement – the first of its kind in the French automobile industry – led to the recruitment of 900 additional employees under permanent contracts in 2010. 120 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.3. Safety, Health and Working Conditions 4.3.7. Organisation of Working Hours 4  Number of Part-Time Employees under Permanent or Fixed-Term Contracts (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, at 31 December) Part-time employees are defined as employees who work fewer hours schedules also take into account legal and medical considerations. per week or fewer average hours over a period of up to one year, than These solutions include working part of a day or halfday, as well as a comparable full-time employee. working a reduced number of total hours. PSA Peugeot Citroën offers individualised working schedules that let Part-time work is chosen by employees and not dictated by the Group. employees balance their work and personal lives. Requests for part-time work are approved whenever possible, with individualised solutions that align employee needs with efficient team performance. Part-time France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL Automotive Division 2010 2,715 2,760 10 5,485 2009 2,815 5,335 20 8,170 2008 2,940 5,130 10 8,080 Banque PSA Finance 2010 45 190 0 235 2009 40 285 0 325 2008 45 240 0 285 Gefco 2010 170 170 340 2009 305 175 0 480 2008 290 175 0 465 Other Businesses 2010 65 0 0 65 2009 40 0 0 40 2008 25 5 0 30 Total 2010 2,995 3,120 10 6,125 2009 3,200 5,795 20 9,015 2008 3,300 5,550 10 8,860 At 31 December 2010, 6,125 employees worked part-time worldwide The decline of total number of part-time employees from the (excluding Faurecia), of which nearly 950 worked half-time. Of the previous year primarily reflects a change in the classification of total, 58% were women and 42% were men. employees on partial retirement in Spain. Since 1 January 2010, these employees are accounted for on the basis of actual hours worked rather than as part-time employees. Maternity, Paternity and Parental Leave (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, at 31 December 2010) In 2010, 1,745 Group employees worldwide (excluding Faurecia) took operators, 26% were administrative employees, technicians and maternity leave. These leaves are recognised in accordance with supervisors (ETAM) and 19% were managers. local legislation and comply with legally prescribed length-of-leave A total of 1,180 Group employees worldwide (excluding Faurecia) took periods. Of the women taking maternity leave during the year, 21% parental leave in 2010. Parental leave enables employees in certain were operators, 51% were administrative employees, technicians and countries to take time off from work following childbirth so that they supervisors (ETAM) and 28% were managers. may raise their children themselves. Of the employees taking parental A total of 3,925 Group employees worldwide (excluding Faurecia) took leave during the year, 30% were operators, 56% were administrative paternity leave in 2010. These leaves are recognised in accordance employees, technicians and supervisors (ETAM) and 14% were with local legislation and comply with legally prescribed lengthofleave managers. periods. Of the men taking paternity leave during the year, 55% were PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 121 4 Social and society 4.3. Safety, Health and Working Conditions 4.3.7. Organisation of Working Hours Special Work Schedules (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, at 31 December) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Automotive Division Double shift 26,185 25,970 25,930 9,155 11,660 10,450 3,235 4,345 5,285 38,575 41,975 41,665 Triple or night shifts 9,185 8,825 8,275 3,300 1,795 1,975 1,735 160 840 14,220 10,780 11,090 Weekend* 1,085 1,005 1,310 60 30 175 10 0 0 1,155 1,035 1,485 Banque PSA Finance Double shift 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Triple or night shifts 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Weekend 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Gefco Double shift 720 1,040 1,385 610 400 445 330 325 380 1,660 1,765 2,210 Triple or night shifts 125 110 130 255 255 305 35 0 15 415 365 450 Weekend 15 30 0 155 430 5 0 0 0 170 460 5 Other Businesses Double shift 515 410 350 0 0 0 0 0 0 515 410 350 Triple or night shifts 0 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 Weekend 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total Double shift 27,420 27,420 27,665 9,765 12,060 10,895 3,565 4,670 5,665 40,750 44,150 44,225 Triple or night shifts 9,310 8,935 8,410 3,555 2,050 2,280 1,770 160 855 14,635 11,145 11,545 Weekend 1,100 1,035 1,310 215 460 180 10 0 0 1,325 1,495 1,490 * Weekend shifts (generally Friday, Saturday and Sunday) are shorter than regular shifts. In 2010, some 57,260 employees worked under special work schedules. Overtime (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, at 31 December) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL Automotive Division 2010 873,535 1,016,890 1,430,435 3,320,860 2009 688,495 977,060 672,835 2,338,390 2008 969,920 815,035 1,656,370 3,441,325 Banque PSA Finance 2010 20,785 30,130 0 50,915 2009 13,040 28,945 5 41,990 2008 12,240 22,545 0 34,785 Gefco 2010 249,210 217,815 237,145 704,170 2009 182,860 205,320 128,335 516,515 2008 195,515 212,925 181,260 589,700 Other Businesses 2010 7,545 0 0 7,545 2009 6,300 0 0 6,300 2008 10,615 0 0 10,615 Total 2010 1,151,075 1,264,835 1,667,580 4,083,490 2009 890,695 1,211,325 801,175 2,903,195 2008 1,188,290 1,050,505 1,837,630 4,076,425 In most countries, working hours are determined on an annual or multi-year basis. 122 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.3. Safety, Health and Working Conditions 4.3.7. Organisation of Working Hours 4 Short-Time Working Short-time work offers an alternative to unemployment and TOTAL redundancies. It has allowed the Group to preserve jobs despite the Automotive Division 2010 1,737,650 recession while developing employee skills to prepare for the future. In 2009 4,838,885 France, PSA Peugeot Citroën signed two accords with the government between 2009 and 2010 on long-term short-time working that led to 2008 5,350,200 agreements on compensation and training for employees during Banque PSA Finance 2010 20 unworked periods. In all, the Group recorded 1.75 million unworked 2009 0 hours in 2010. 2008 0 Gefco 2010 300 2009 49,685 2008 24,060 Other Businesses 2010 14,840 2009 0 2008 20,155 Total 2010 1,752,810 2009 4,888,570 2008 5,394,415 Paid Absences Other than Vacation (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, at 31 December) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL Other paid Other paid Other paid Other paid Sick leave leave Sick leave leave Sick leave leave Sick leave leave Automotive Division 2010 3,586,680 559,245 1,540,460 830,100 452,235 248,600 5,579,375 1,637,945 2009 3,949,325 907,960 1,690,580 926,740 417,285 279,075 6,057,190 2,113,775 2008 4,209,145 976,715 1,760,045 736,225 550,145 52,520 6,519,335 1,765,460 Banque PSA Finance 2010 28,775 12,115 85,990 45,395 85 580 114,850 58,090 2009 28,880 20,020 73,275 54,800 145 150 102,300 74,970 2008 34,035 21,870 50,380 30,205 0 720 84,415 52,795 Gefco 2010 268,740 78,270 161,275 59,940 13,075 14,320 443,090 152,530 2009 228,855 58,490 228,965 58,030 10,655 8,950 468,475 125,470 2008 238,830 92,305 184,405 79,830 8,595 5,945 431,830 178,080 Other Businesses 2010 59,400 4,285 1,275 305 0 0 60,675 4,590 2009 90,690 8,035 2,445 280 0 0 93,135 8,315 2008 86,905 7,815 2,840 95 0 0 89,745 7,910 Total 2010 3,943,595 653,915 1,789,000 935,740 465,395 263,500 6,197,990 1,853,155 2009 4,297,750 994,505 1,995,265 1,039,850 428,085 288,175 6,721,100 2,322,530 2008 4,568,915 1,098,705 1,997,670 846,355 558,740 59,185 7,125,325 2,004,245 Paid absences other than vacation totalled 8,051,145 hours, of which Based on the nearly 240 million hours worked, the overall absenteeism 6,197,990 for sick leave, 625,455 for maternity leave, 476,775 for rate stood at 3.4% for 2010, versus 3.7% for 2009. accident-related absences and 750,925 for other reasons. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 123 4 Social and society 4.4. Compensation 4.4.1. Compensation Practices 4.4. Compensation 4.4.1. Compensation Practices In all host countries, compensation policies are designed to maintain In addition to across-the-board raises, merit raises are awarded employee purchasing power, while rewarding performance, offering each year to individual employees in all job categories, based on their compensation that is fair and competitive with market practices and performance, job proficiency and career development. Processes are giving employees a stake in the value they help to create. strictly monitored to prevent any discrimination. In 2010, 25 agreements were signed with employee representatives in To give employees a stake in their company’s performance and provide France, the United Kingdom, Brazil, Argentina, Sweden, China, Spain more effective support for their personal projects, a variety of company and Portugal. These agreements not only maintained purchasing savings plans are also offered in the host countries. power, but also provided for individual performance-based bonuses. Total Payroll by Region  (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, at 31 December) (in thousand euros) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL 2010 4,621,763 1,391,183 368,134 6,381,080 2009 4,619,340 1,419,552 254,242 6,293,134 2008 4,776,909 1,492,919 269,504 6,539,331 In 2010, total payroll costs (excluding Faurecia) came to €4,549,634,000, while related payroll taxes amounted to €1,831,446,000. 124 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.4. Compensation 4.4.1. Compensation Practices 4 Group Minimum Wage Versus Local Statutory Minimum Wage (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia and Gefco, base 100, by Country in 2010) Group minimum wage/ Country local statutory minimum wage Local statutory minimum wage Argentina 158 Local statutory minimum wage Austria 100 Regional minimum wage Belgium 129 Local statutory minimum wage Brazil 234 Local statutory minimum wage China 380 Regional minimum wage (Shanghai) Czech Republic 350 Local statutory minimum wage France 127 Local statutory minimum wage Germany 138 Regional minimum wage Italy 121 Industry minimum wage Netherlands 100 Local minimum wage (for people over 23) Poland 152 Local statutory minimum wage Portugal 113 Local statutory minimum wage Russia 296 Regional minimum wage Slovakia 188 Local statutory minimum wage Spain 135 Local statutory minimum wage Switzerland No statutory minimum wage; no industry agreements Turkey 128 Local statutory minimum wage United Kingdom 100 Local statutory minimum wage Information is reported for countries representative of the Group’s The ratio is calculated based on each country’s statutory minimum organisation (excluding Faurecia), where there are more than wage (when one exists), without considering any regional variations. 300 employees. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 125 4 Social and society 4.4. Compensation 4.4.1. Compensation Practices Ratio of Average Salaries of Men to Women Operators and ETAM in France (Peugeot Citroën Automobile France, in 2010, base 100) The ratios of the average salary of men to women are defined according to the classification table in the Metal Industry Collective Agreement. Operators Administrative employees, technicians and supervisors (ETAM) Ratio of the average salary of men to the average salary of women Ratio of the average salary of men to the average salary of women 170 99.7 190 NM 175 99.5 195 NM 180 100.8 200 NM 185 100.9 215 NM 190 101.2 225 106.7 195 100.4 240 104.5 200 100.8 255 104.0 215 101.0 270 100.9 225 101.7 285 98.8 240 102.5 305 98.0 255 103.7 320 99.0 270 NM 335 96.0 285 NM 365 97.6 NM: not material. In 2010, the average increase in compensation (across-the-board By category, the average increase came to 1.78% for women and raises, individual raises and promotions and increases in seniority 1.77% for men among operators and 1.77% for women and 1.76% bonuses) was higher for women than men among both operators and for men among administrative employees, technicians and supervisors administrative employees, technicians and supervisors (ETAM), at (ETAM). 1.78% for women and 1.76% for men. Ratio of Average Salaries of Men to Women Managers in France (Countries where the Group has manufacturing operations, in 2010, base 100) The following indicator concerns managers in sales subsidiaries, France (PCA) finance companies and production plants in countries where the Group has manufacturing operations. Managers Ratio of the average salary of men to the average salary of women For countries other than France, managers are defined according K92 100.6 to the Group’s job classification standards, while in France, they are defined according to the Metal Industry Collective Agreement and any 1 101.1 relevant company agreements. 2 100.3 3A 101.0 3B 101.4 3C 113.1 These indicators show that since 2004, the average monthly and annual salary in every job category was the same for men and women with the same grade or job classification, except for the 3C category for which the gap has contracted since 2007. 126 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.4. Compensation 4.4.2. Employee Benefits 4 Argentina, Brazil, Spain, Portugal, Slovakia Ratio of the average salary of men to the average salary of women Argentina Brazil Spain Portugal Slovakia Senior executives NM NM NM NM NM Senior managers NM 101.2 98.8 NM NM Upper management 95.7 109.0 114.9 83.6 121.4 Middle management 104.4 109.2 78.9 111.1 105.5 Junior managers NM NM NM NM 101.8 NM: not material. 4.4.2. Employee Benefits Profit-Sharing and Incentive Bonuses (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, at 31 December) In every host country around the world, full-time and part-time employees under permanent contracts or fixed-term contracts exceeding three months are paid an incentive bonus based on operating income, as part of the Group’s commitment to enabling employees to share in the value they create. (Rounded to the nearest million euros) 2008 2009 2010 Total France – profit-sharing and incentive bonuses (Group agreement) 55 4 56 Incentive and/or profit-sharing programmes in other French subsidiaries* 7 7 13 Incentive programmes in foreign subsidiaries 0 0 11 Total 12 11 80 * Gefco in 2010. Société Commerciale Citroën (SCC) and Gefco in 2008 and 2009. In France, an enhanced profit-sharing agreement for 2010-2012 sharing system. In 2011, €80 million will be distributed for 2010 to was signed, along with a discretionary profit-share agreement that Automotive, Finance and Transportation & Logistics Divisions employees recognises employees’ contribution to the achievement of strategic in the form of discretionary and non-discretionary profit shares. targets. Group employees outside France also benefit from a profit Encouraging Individual and Collective Performance In addition to collective discretionary and non-discretionary profit and to offering competitive compensation aligned with market sharing systems, bonuses are paid to managers in positions of practices. In 2010, the variable bonus system was extended to certain responsibility that have a critical impact on the Group’s earnings, employees in China, Latin America and Europe. reflecting a commitment to encouraging a results-orientated culture PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 127 4 Social and society 4.4. Compensation 4.4.2. Employee Benefits Employee Savings Plans (PEAG, PED and PEP) (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia) Corporate savings plans have been set up to give employees a way uu the diversified savings plan, introduced on 1 January 2004, which to benefit from the Group’s growth. In France, employees have the allows employees to invest in socially responsible funds as an opportunity to invest in a PSA Peugeot Citroën employees’ fund, while alternative to Group shares; in Germany, Spain, Portugal and the United Kingdom, they can select uu a long term insurance-based savings plan. from a variety of investment vehicles depending on local legislation. The Group provides a matching contribution. All employees, including those under limited term contracts (provided seniority criteria are met), are entitled to invest in the plans under the The corporate savings plan comprises three components: same terms and conditions, adjusted for hours worked in the case of part-time workers. uu the plan invested in Peugeot S.A. shares; Employee contributions Employer contributions Number of employees investing* 1 Jan.–31 Dec. (in million euros) 1 Jan.–31 Dec. (in million euros) 1 Jan.–31 Dec. 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Automotive Division 78.03 14.86 21.07 10.56 5.79 9.34 134,604 22,222 12,799 Banque PSA Finance 0.87 0.33 0.44 0.21 0.13 0.20 1,480 579 183 Gefco 1.90 1.08 1.83 0.57 0.35 0.59 8,677 5,167 1,686 Other Businesses 0.37 0.11 0.51 0.07 0.05 0.22 490 62 222 Total 81.16 16.38 23.85 11.42 6.32 10.35 145,251 28,030 14,890 * Reinvestment of profit-shares, incentive bonuses and voluntary contributions. The Group paid more than €10.3 million in matching contributions into the local savings plans in 2010. International Employee Savings Plan (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, at 31 December) Employee contributions Employer contributions (in million euros) (in million euros) Number of participants 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 United Kingdom 1.07 0.89 0.92 0.36 0.30 0.47 919 874 877 Spain 0.45 0.17 0.22 0.16 0.06 0.11 1,487 920 188 Germany 0.29 0.37 0.27 0.10 0.12 0.14 680 997 244 Portugal 0.03 0.01 0.04 0.01 0.01 0.02 112 186 25 Total 1.84 1.44 1.45 0.63 0.49 0.74 3,198 2,977 1,334 128 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.4. Compensation 4.4.2. Employee Benefits 4 Supplementary Pension Plans by Division (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia) Employer contributions Employee contributions Number of participating 1 Jan.–31 Dec. (in thousand euros) 1 Jan.–31 Dec. (in thousand euros) employees Automotive Division 2010 37,150 15,798 55,349 2009 34,890 14,000 57,455 2008 45,526 15,755 62,864 Banque PSA Finance 2010 2,116 660 1,322 2009 2,203 631 1,210 2008 1,982 534 1,208 Gefco 2010 5,222 1,534 3,674 2009 3,593 1,495 4,480 2008 2,711 1,899 3,842 Other Businesses 2010 566 283 841 2009 153 74 679 2008 229 114 831 Total 2010 45,053 18,275 61,186 2009 40,839 16,200 63,824 2008 47,448 18,302 68,745 Supplementary Pension Plans by Region (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia) Employer contributions Employee contributions 1 Jan.–31 Dec. (in thousand euros) 1 Jan.–31 Dec. (in thousand euros) Number of participating employees 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 France 25,581 20,254 22,424 12,746 10,281 11,192 49,044 43,876 41,452 Rest of Europe 20,938 18,868 21,010 4,542 4,742 5,368 17,839 17,820 17,356 Rest of the world 929 1,717 1,619 1,017 1,177 1,715 1,862 2,128 2,378 Total 47,448 40,839 45,053 18,302 16,200 18,275 68,745 63,824 61,186 To help employees prepare for the future, supplemental defined Managed by joint labour-management commissions in line with local contribution retirement plans are being set up in all host countries practices, these systems are not designed to replace pay-as-yougo and wherever they are necessary to offset insufficient mandatory schemes in countries where such schemes are available. Rather, pension schemes and market practices. Such plans have already been they have been created to provide beneficiaries with supplemental introduced in Germany, Brazil, Spain, France, Japan, the Netherlands, retirement income to offset the expected drop in replacement rates, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and the United Kingdom. as well as to harmonise retirement benefits across subsidiaries in each country. Extending Pension Coverage with Defined Benefit Plans At 31 December 2010, future benefit obligations under defined benefit In accordance with IAS 19, these obligations are measured every year plans amounted to €3,610 million, of which €2,902 million was covered by an international firm of actuaries, based on assumptions reviewed by external funds. by the Group’s auditors. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 129 4 Social and society 4.5. Equal Opportunity and Human Rights 4.5.1. Diversity Strong Social Safety Net In all host countries, insurance plans are being introduced to provide disability coverage was introduced in Slovenia and Croatia and a at least death and disability cover. Employer-funded healthcare plans health coverage plan was also set up in Croatia. have also been put in place in several countries. In 2010, death and Social Services Depending on the national and local situation, all Group companies for housing, transportation, food services, health and social services, and plants contribute to social and cultural activities and help to corporate concierge services, daycare centres, health care and improve the quality of work life. personal protection insurance, as well as subsidies paid to Works Councils in France for employee welfare programmes. In all, the Automotive, Finance and Transportation & Logistics Divisions paid more than €249 million in employee benefits in 2010. Representing over 3.9% of payroll, this amount encompasses employer payments 4.5. Equal Opportunity and Human Rights 4.5.1. Diversity Bringing the Best Talent Together PSA Peugeot Citroën has chosen to highlight the diversity of its people experience, as well as seniors, people without degrees, people from and their cultures and to make equality and respect for differences a immigrant families and the disabled. It also wants to hire more women. founding principle of its responsible growth. All of the host countries Because PSA Peugeot Citroën’s business performance benefits are concerned by this societal challenge and the Group intends to from team diversity, the Group needs to hire people from a variety go beyond local legal requirements in applying and promoting best of backgrounds that reflect its host communities and environments. human resources practices. Diversity is a source of synergy, social harmony and economic Diversity in the workforce is a societal challenge, since it is unacceptable efficiency. Diversity also stimulates the emergence of different points to exclude particular categories of people from the job market. of view, making it an important source of creativity and innovation. The Group seeks to bring in more young people without previous Ensuring Equal Opportunity and Promoting Diversity PSA Peugeot Citroën also fights against all forms of discrimination and The Group guarantees respect for employees’ private lives. intolerance towards difference, considering that capabilities are the The Group has further diversified its employee and skills base by key factor in hiring and career development. pursuing new hiring channels. These include partnerships with Promoting diversity means recruiting, bringing together and nurturing educational systems and government employment services, online the brightest talent, regardless of nationality, gender, lifestyle, sexual hiring initiatives and unsolicited applications. To ensure equal orientation, age, marital status, pregnancy or parenthood, genetic opportunity at every stage of the process, hiring practices have been characteristics, real or supposed belonging to an ethnic group, nation made more objective through the deployment of such tools as best or race, political opinion, union activity, religious conviction, physical practice guides for recruiters, anonymous CVs, simulation-based appearance, name, pre-existing health conditions or disability. hiring techniques and training courses designed to help prevent discrimination. 130 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.5. Equal Opportunity and Human Rights 4.5.1. Diversity 4 In April 2009, PSA Peugeot Citroën was one of the first French Each year, PSA Peugeot Citroën takes new steps to promote diversity. companies to obtain France’s Diversity label in recognition of its In 2010, it surveyed some 12,000 employees to find out more about human resources policy and practices to promote diversity and equal sexual orientation discrimination based on what is already known opportunity and to prevent discrimination. The label was renewed in about discrimination against disabilities and gender equality. 2010. Ten pilot countries participated in qualitative and quantitative testing In France and Spain, joint labour-management diversity and equal to get a better view of the state of diversity in each one. The Group opportunity oversight committees have been created to monitor used this snapshot to discover and review specific situations in each effective application of agreements. They are responsible for ensuring country, with the goal of expanding its commitment to diversity. that commitments are met and for analysing measures taken locally. Articulating a Worldwide Diversity Commitment PSA Peugeot Citroën has chosen to formalise its position in a each country, these correspondents will be responsible for leading and worldwide diversity commitment that is applicable in all host countries. deploying the commitment in the different subsidiaries, supported by a deployment kit and best practices sharing within the correspondents’ Included in the PSA Excellence System, this commitment comprises network. seven founding principles that provide an overall view of diversity and its challenges. The goal is to improve the Group’s action in this As part of the joint monitoring process with employee representatives, area and to help the subsidiaries make progress in implementing and an annual self-assessment will be conducted to measure each the level promoting diversity measures. of each subsidiary’s commitment to diversity and the progress made during the year. In each country, diversity action plans are implemented In December 2010, global diversity correspondents met for the first time to create a climate of continuous improvement in the subsidiaries. in Paris to launch the worldwide diversity commitment. Appointed in Providing Managers with Diversity Training Training sessions on managing diversity launched in France in 2008 As part of the worldwide diversity commitment, diversity training continued to be deployed in 2009 and 2010. The module provides is being expanded to the different host countries, notably Spain, managers with tangible responses and resources for handling real Portugal, Italy and Belgium. life equal opportunity issues within their teams. The idea is to help In Spain, Gefco managers have attended sessions on diversity and managers apply the principles underlying respect for difference, equal opportunity, while in Poland, employees have been made aware prevention, and zero tolerance for any type of discrimination. Nearly of discrimination against seniors. 2,500 managers completed the course in the first three years of deployment and another 1,150 will be trained in 2011. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 131 4 Social and society 4.5. Equal Opportunity and Human Rights 4.5.1. Diversity Top Ten Nationalities Other than French Represented in the Group (Consolidated Group, at 31 December 2010 – percentage of total workforce) The top ten nationalities other than French represented in the Group 2.1 % British accounted for 40% of the total workforce. Slovak 2.1% More than 103,000 employees are non-French, or 52% of the 10.5% Spanish workforce, and some 128 nationalities are represented. Mexican 2.4% Portuguese 2.7% Polish 2.7% North American 2.9% 6.7% German Argentine 3.4% 4.4% Brazilian Age Pyramid (Automotive Division, France – employees under permanent and fixed-term contracts, at 31 December 2010)) 2500 2000 1500 1000 500 0 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 73 21,133 23,765 21,991 13,722 Employees with less than 7 years seniority Total headcount A balance has been attained between the different employee age groups. 132 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.5. Equal Opportunity and Human Rights 4.5.1. Diversity 4 Committing to Opportunities for Young People PSA Peugeot Citroën is interested in attracting and hiring young people A number of targeted measures have also been deployed. In 2008, to prepare its future. For this reason, it pursued in 2010 an ambitious for example, the Group signed on to a French government plan to work-study programme launched in June 2009 to nurture the skills the provide job opportunities for young people from disadvantaged Group will be needing in the years ahead. In response to current social neighbourhoods. Over three years, this led to contracts for 776 and societal challenges, the programme includes a significant number workstudy students, 916 interns and more than 300 temporary and of measures targeted to young people with few or no qualifications. It permanent employees. In Italy, the Puntiamo su di te (We’re Counting gives these individuals a real chance to envision their future and enter on You) programme is designed to give young people with high the workforce by discovering first-hand the jobs and values of a large potential experience in different departments throughout the company. manufacturer like PSA Peugeot Citroën. In 2010, more than 4,000 Women accounted for 31% of interns and 28% of work-study interns and nearly 3,200 students were taken on under work-study, programme participants (work-study, skills acquisition and skills acquisition and apprenticeship contracts. apprenticeship contracts). Retaining and Motivating Seniors in Europe PSA Peugeot Citroën does not believe in having a separate policy for and the transition to retirement. The goal is to recognise seniors’ role employees over 50, who represent nearly 30% of the total workforce in the company and consider their experience as an advantage for PSA excluding Gefco and Faurecia. On the contrary, managing seniors is part Peugeot Citroën’s success. of the Group’s overall jobs and capabilities policy, which guarantees Having different generations work side by side also promotes social equal opportunity and treatment and anticipates demographic trends. cohesion and business efficiency. For this reason, the issue of retaining As part of this policy, agreements to retain and motivate seniors were and motivating seniors needs to be linked to that of providing job signed in France and Japan in 2010. In particular, these agreements opportunities for young people, to anticipate demographic trends are designed to foster age diversity within teams, maintain motivating and prepare generational renewal. With this in mind, the Group calls salary packages and career advancement opportunities, adapt on seniors to mentor and sponsor young people coming into the working conditions to seniors, and manage end-of-career schedules workforce. Disabled Employees (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, at 31 December) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL Automotive Division 2010 5,095 490 40 5,625 2009 5,260 500 35 5,795 2008 5,515 515 55 6,085 Banque PSA Finance 2010 10 20 0 30 2009 10 15 0 25 2008 5 15 0 20 Gefco 2010 185 35 0 220 2009 140 40 0 180 2008 100 45 0 145 Other Businesses 2010 50 0 0 50 2009 50 0 0 50 2008 65 0 0 65 Total 2010 5,340 545 40 5,925 2009 5,460 555 35 6,050 2008 5,685 575 55 6,315 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 133 4 Social and society 4.5. Equal Opportunity and Human Rights 4.5.2. Gender Equality in the Workplace Worldwide, the Group (excluding Faurecia) directly employs 5,925 The above table does not include the 1,155 disabled people who work disabled people, as defined by local legislation. for Faurecia. PSA Peugeot Citroën is committed to hiring and retaining disabled In addition to these direct hires, PSA Peugeot Citroën was the leading employees. In the Automotive Division in France, 7.9% of employees manufacturer in France for sourcing from sheltered workshops, with are classified as handicapped (including sheltered workers under purchases representing value added of €30 million. contract), above the mandatory national rate of 6%. Agreements on social integration and job opportunities for the disabled In all, 79% of disabled employees are operators, 17% are administrative people have been concluded and implemented, backed by numerous employees, technicians and supervisors (ETAM) and 4% are managers. awareness campaigns and tangible measures. In January 2011, for example, a partnership agreement was signed with three associations In France, more than €4.7 million was spent in 2010 on programmes specialised in placing and hiring disabled applicants, with the goal of related to hiring and retaining the disabled. giving new momentum to employment of the disabled people. 4.5.2. Gender Equality in the Workplace Bringing More Women into the Group Over the last several years, PSA Peugeot Citroën has taken active The new agreement strengthens measures already in place and makes measures to promote gender diversity and gender equality. Building further commitments. These include increasing the number of women on an initial agreement signed in 2003 and renewed in 2007, the Group in the workforce by hiring at least the same percentage of women as signed a greatly expanded agreement in February 2011 to promote the percentage of women applicants and guaranteeing equal pay for gender equality and the development of jobs for women. men and women. Guaranteeing Equal Pay and Career Paths In all job categories, men and women are offered the same job category or level of responsibility are based solely on capabilities classifications and salary levels when they are hired. and results. This practice ensures equal opportunity and treatment for employees, with the possibility of salary adjustments if gaps are In line with the company agreement on diversity and social cohesion identified. signed in 2004 and renewed in 2008, promotions to a higher coefficient, A Recognised Commitment PSA Peugeot Citroën was the first company in France to receive the in working groups on gender equality with a view to creating a Equal Opportunity Employer label from the Ministry of Social Cohesion European label. Measures have been taken to obtain labels in France, and Equality in 2005. The label was renewed in 2008 in recognition Spain, Belgium and Italy as from early 2011. of the Group’s ongoing commitment to gender equality. In 2010, the Group extended this commitment to the rest of Europe by participating 134 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.5. Equal Opportunity and Human Rights 4.5.2. Gender Equality in the Workplace 4 Giving More Women a Place in the Group and its Professions Gender diversity promotes synergy, social balance and business Since 2002, the percentage of women in the Group’s workforce has efficiency. Although the technical courses that lead to jobs in the risen from 17.6% to 21.8%. PSA Peugeot Citroën intends to sustain automotive industry have traditionally attracted fewer women students, this increase and make its jobs and professions more open to women. the percentage of women in the workforce has risen. This reflects both trends in the labour market and various measures taken, notably to improve working conditions. Promoting Gender Diversity in Management True gender diversity means that women should have access to the a rate of 6.5% versus 5% in 2008. Executive management has set an same career paths and opportunities as men, notably as concerns objective of 11% for the senior management teams by end-2011. positions of responsibility. A network of women managers was created within the Group in the For this reason, the same criteria for detecting high potential individuals spring of 2010. The network now has more than 100 members from are applied to both women and men. These criteria do not take age and different departments and divisions and helps promote the goal of seniority into account so that women who take maternity leave are not bringing more women into the Group. It is driven by a desire to share disadvantaged. They are based solely on capabilities, effectiveness experience, advice and ideas and to support women along their career and performance. paths. At 31 December 2010, the executive and senior management teams (excluding Faurecia and Gefco) included 49 women and 752 men, for Number of Women Employees under Permanent or Fixed-Term Contracts (Consolidated Group, at 31 December) % increase 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2002-2010 Operators 16,235 16,295 19,105 19,060 21,065 22,365 21,635 19,980 21,190 +30.5% ETAM 14,420 15,510 16,655 16,395 16,175 15,650 15,610 14,600 15,285 +6.0% Managers 4,245 4,580 5,325 5,945 6,320 6,255 6,310 6,155 6,650 +56.7% Total 34,900 36,385 41,085 41,400 43,560 44,270 43,555 40,735 43,125 +23.6% Women account for 19.3% of engineers and managers, 29.8% of PSA Peugeot Citroën’s commitments to gender equality were first administrative employees, technicians and supervisors (ETAM) and expressed in the 12 November 2003 agreement on gender equality 18.8% of operators. and employment for women (renewed in 2007 and early 2011). As a result, 2002 has been chosen as the reference year. Percentage of Women Employees under Permanent and Fixed-Term Contracts (Consolidated Group, at 31 December) 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Percentage of total headcount 17.6% 18.2% 19.8% 19.8% 20.6% 21.3% 21.6% 21.9% 21.8% The number of women employees rose by nearly 6% in 2010. The the acquisitions made by Faurecia during the year. slight decline in the percentage of women in the workforce reflected PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 135 4 Social and society 4.5. Equal Opportunity and Human Rights 4.5.2. Gender Equality in the Workplace Employees under Permanent and Fixed-Term Contracts by Gender and Region (Consolidated Group, at 31 December 2010) France Rest of Europe Rest of the world TOTAL Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Automotive Division 13,790 65,805 6,240 23,290 1,555 10,200 21,585 99,295 Banque PSA Finance 485 345 850 780 50 85 1,385 1,210 Gefco 1,425 3,085 1,410 2,295 245 920 3,080 6,300 Faurecia 2,890 9,885 7,310 21,890 6,475 15,740 16,675 47,515 Other Businesses 390 745 10 30 0 0 400 775 Total 18,980 79,865 15,820 48,285 8,325 26,945 43,125 155,095 Employees under Permanent or Fixed-Term Contracts by Age Group and Gender (Consolidated Group, at 31 December 2010) < 20 years 20/29 years 30/39 years 40/49 years ≥ 50 years 48,540 41,445 36,845 26,675 14,955 9,030 10,520 8,230 1,590 390 Men Women New Employees Hired under Permanent Contracts by Age Group and Gender (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia and Gefco, at 31 December 2010) < 20 years 20-29 years 30-39 years 40-49 years ≥ 50 years 5,625 4,000 2,070 1,515 1,370 605 490 380 110 165 Number of women hired Number of men hired 136 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.5. Equal Opportunity and Human Rights 4.5.2. Gender Equality in the Workplace 4 Percentage of Women Employees under Permanent Contracts, by Age Group (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia and Gefco, at 31 December 2010) < 20 years 20-29 years 30-39 years 40-49 years ≥ 50 years TOTAL Number of women hired 110 2,070 1,370 605 165 4,320 Percentage of total hires 22.4% 26.9% 25.5% 28.5% 25.2% 26.5% Percentage of Women Managers by Age Group (Consolidated Group, at 31 December 2010) < 30 years 30-39 years 40-49 years ≥ 50 years Number of women managers 900 3,080 1,770 900 Total number of managers 2,995 12,835 11,605 7,000 Percentage of women managers 30.1% 24.0% 15.3% 12.9% Women accounted for 30.1% of managers under 30 and 12.9% of managers 50 and better. Percentage of Women Managers (Consolidated Group, at 31 December) 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Percentage of women managers 15.3% 16.5% 17.3% 17.9% 18.6% 18.9% 19.1% 19.3% Senior Managers (Consolidated Group, excluding Gefco and Faurecia, at 31 December 2010) 30-39 years 40-49 years ≥ 50 years TOTAL Nationality Number Percentage French 642 85.4% Men 22 340 341 703 Spanish 31 4.1% Women 4 24 21 49 German 14 1.9% Total 26 364 362 752 British 13 1.7% Argentine 9 1.2% At PSA Peugeot Citroën, “senior managers” include the members of Belgian 9 1.2% Executive Committee, along with the senior executives and senior managers in charge of adapting and implementing the Group’s Italian 7 0.9% strategic Vision, policies and programmes. Switzerland 5 0.7% Brazilian 4 0.5% Portuguese 3 0.4% American 2 0.3% Austrian 2 0.3% Chinese 2 0.3% Dutch 2 0.3% Canadian 1 0.1% Danish 1 0.1% Luxembourger 1 0.1% Moroccan 1 0.1% Norwegian 1 0.1% Polish 1 0.1% Rumanian 1 0.1% Total 752 100.0% PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 137 4 Social and society 4.5. Equal Opportunity and Human Rights 4.5.2. Gender Equality in the Workplace Executive Management (Automotive Division, at 31 December 2010) PSA Peugeot Citroën is headed by a five-member Managing Board, The Group executive management team is comprised of 13 people, supported by an Executive Committee, which comprises the five including one woman. Ten members are French, one is Portuguese, members of the Managing Board and five Executive Vice-Presidents one is German and one is from Luxembourg. reporting to the Chairman of the Managing Board. In addition to the Executive Committee, three Vice-Presidents report to the Chairman of the Managing Board. Preventing Workplace Harassment, Discrimination and Violence (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, 2010) PSA Peugeot Citroën condemns all infringements of respect for A standard tracking procedure aligned with the local legal framework individual rights and dignity, as well as verbal or physical abuse, has been established in all host countries. When a problem is harassment, workplace violence and discrimination. This type of identified, the information is reported to human resources and a review behaviour is liable to sanctions, and specific measures have been is carried out. In 2010, 137 complaints alleging workplace harassment, drawn up in all countries to prevent it. Employees are informed discrimination or violence were reported to the corporate Human about the Group’s policy on a regular basis and a large number of Resources Department. managers have been targeted through awareness building campaigns. 15% of complaints are still being reviewed by the Human Resources Employees who are victims of or witnesses to cases of harassment, Departments concerned or by an outside authority. Of the complaints discrimination or violence at the workplace may contact their Human handled, 53% were deemed unfounded and 25% resulted in Resources Department. In the event of complications in using disciplinary action for the person concerned. traditional channels, employees may anonymously contact identified managers responsible for diversity and/or harassment issues. With this system, the Group has demonstrated that there is no place for discrimination or harassment at PSA Peugeot Citroën. Combating Spousal Abuse PSA Peugeot Citroën promotes public awareness of the problem of uu maintain an open-door policy for victims of spousal abuse, with spousal abuse. In November 2009, the Group signed a spousal abuse consultations and referral. prevention protocol in France. This protocol follows on initiatives in A number of initiatives were launched across the Group in 2010 to Spain, where an agreement to combat domestic violence was signed raise awareness, including poster campaigns, dedicated meetings, in 2005. participation in a cross-border seminar on educating and counselling With this protocol the Group undertakes to: abusers and signature of a victim-support agreement. uu inform employees of national campaigns to prevent and combat These actions reflect the Group’s commitment to responsible spousal abuse; development and to promoting uncompromising respect for human uu promote awareness among specialists in the human resources, rights at all its units. social services and occupational medicine departments and train them to address the issue of spousal abuse; 138 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.5. Equal Opportunity and Human Rights 4.5.3. Human Rights 4 4.5.3. Human Rights Upholding Fundamental Human Rights PSA Peugeot Citroën is committed to growth founded on socially Declaration of Human Rights. This commitment is expressed to responsible principles and practices, consistently applied in every host the public on the Group’s sustainable development website and to country and business around the world. employees around the world on the human resources intranet site, with a direct link to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights on the In 2003, the Group pledged to uphold and promote the ten principles UN website. of the United Nations Global Compact, an agreement inspired by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour None of the Group’s subsidiaries was convicted in 2010 of involvement Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at in human rights violations or the use of forced labour. Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and the Moreover, PSA Peugeot Citroën actively supports employee freedom United Nations Convention Against Corruption. The Group promotes of association and representation around the world and is committed the respect of human rights in every host country, even in regions to respecting the independence and pluralism of trade unions. Active, where such respect is not always forthcoming. The Group’s policies ongoing social dialogue is maintained with union representatives in demonstrate to employees that it is deeply committed to the Universal every host country. Global Framework Agreement on Social Responsibility On 20 May 2010, PSA Peugeot Citroën renewed its Global Framework human resources development. Partners, suppliers and independent Agreement on Social Responsibility after four years of application. dealership networks are also asked to comply with these requirements. The agreement, which was signed by Executive Management, The results after the first four years are very encouraging, showing the International Metalworkers’ Federation (IMF), the European that all the subsidiaries have taken the commitments contained in Metalworkers’ Federation (EMF) and members of the European the agreement to heart. Each year, labour unions and employee Works Council Liaison Committee, commits nearly 90 unions in the representatives were involved in implementing innovative measures Group’s host countries. It applies to all of the 127 subsidiaries of the and sharing best practices. Automotive, Finance and Transportation & Logistics Divisions, based in 33 countries on four continents. The renewed agreement includes a fifteenth commitment on environmental protection and enhanced social commitments. It will With this agreement, the Group has pledged to uphold and promote provide new impetus for social and environmental progress. the fundamental human rights outlined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and to apply best practices in management and The Global Framework Agreement on Social Responsibility is available on the sustainable development website. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 139 4 Social and society 4.5. Equal Opportunity and Human Rights 4.5.3. Human Rights Global Framework Agreement on Social Responsibility – Fifteen Commitments 1. Avoid complicity in human rights abuses 2. Uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 3. Effectively abolish child labour 4. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 5. Work against all forms of corruption 6. Focus on safety, working conditions and health 7. Develop the skills of the future through continuing training 8. Provide employees with the means to participate 9. Advance planning for changes to professional and job profiles 10. Apply fair remuneration practices 11. Ensure social protection 12. Negotiate organisation of work and scheduling 13. Share social requirements with suppliers, subcontractors, industrial partners and distribution networks 14. Take into account the impact of the company’s business on the areas in which it operates 15. Preserve the environment Providing Enhanced Support for Deploying Action Plans As part of the agreement, all the subsidiaries and units implement The agreement has led to tangible measures in all subsidiaries. three priority action plans each year. These innovative plans, backed Numerous action plans have been carried out to fight against by defined targets, help ensure that the commitments are effectively discrimination, harassment and workplace violence. Training and taken into account. In 2010, the subsidiaries defined and deployed awareness campaigns have been deployed in Poland, Denmark, more than 360 priority action plans. Spain, the Netherlands, Norway and Slovakia; alert systems have been developed and enhanced in Hungary, Ukraine, Argentina and Portugal; With the agreement’s renewal, the Group decided to provide enhanced and formal procedures have been issued in Slovakia, Croatia and support within the subsidiaries to give new momentum to the concept Austria. Units in the Netherlands, Russia, Ukraine and other countries of corporate social responsibility. have deployed action plans to share PSA Peugeot Citroën’s social Internal and external audits are performed at the subsidiaries to ensure requirements with suppliers. In Brazil, the subsidiaries introduced that the agreement is applied properly. Between 2007 and 2010, more programmes to promote jobs and training for local residents as a way than 20% of the subsidiaries were audited. to contribute to social and economic development. Lastly, in Germany and Poland, managers underwent training to identify and eliminate workplace stress. Training in Human Rights Policies and Procedures (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia, 2010) Of which security staff Topics Number of hours Number of employees Number of hours Number of employees Equal opportunity, diversity, antidiscrimination, etc. 14,855 4,185 590 75 Compliance with internal rules, Global Framework Agreement, Code of Ethics, data privacy guidelines, etc. 14,470 8,100 185 105 Corruption, conflicts of interest, etc. 3,400 3,040 110 135 Other 3,845 750 25 5 Total 36,570 16,075 910 320 140 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.5. Equal Opportunity and Human Rights 4.5.3. Human Rights 4 In 2010, some 16,075 employees, or 12.8% of the global workforce were presented in the form of a module in a more general programme, (excluding Faurecia), participated in training in human rights policies such as orientation training for young hires. and procedures. In addition, the Group’s human rights policies and procedures are Some of the courses focused on an issue related to the employee’s explained on the human resources intranet site and illustrated by the duties, such as the anti-money laundering course designed to combat different agreements signed by the Group, including the text of the money laundering, prevent fraud and avoid financing terrorist activities, Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Global Compact’s ten which was a required course for all finance company employees. principles. Others, concerning human rights and antidiscrimination practices, were specifically intended for managers and recruiters. Still others Global Social Audit PSA Peugeot Citroën’s social responsibility policies have been uu prepare audit grids for this process; deployed worldwide and are regularly monitored. Social audits are a uu work with the sites to ensure rapid implementation of the necessary tracking tool that helps to drive continuous improvement in processes corrective measures. and ensure effective application of social policy. The social audit is designed to ensure compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, In 2010, nearly 40 sites or units were audited, with a focus on application contractual commitments and the Group’s social responsibility of the Global Framework Agreement on Social Responsibility, hiring principles. procedures and non-discrimination practices, the use of temporary workers, gender equality, diversity, social cohesion, and workplace Social audits are carried out by more than 20 full-time auditors, with health and safety. By recommending remedial actions and regularly support from nearly 120 people around the world. These internal audits tracking their application, social audits help to impel a dynamic of are supplemented by external compliance audits concerning employee continuous improvement. relations information and social responsibility commitments. As a socially responsible company, PSA Peugeot Citroën shares its The process relies heavily on self-assessments by sites, country social requirements with suppliers. In 2010, 13 social and environmental organisations, departments and divisions. The auditor’s role is to: audits were performed at tier 1 to tier 3 suppliers identified as potentially at risk, as part of the deployment of the Purchasing Department’s uu perform targeted audits on the selected priority issues; sustainable development action plan. Conducted by an external, uu guide senior management and unit managers in the self-assessment independent organisation, these audits led to corrective action plans process; whenever cases of non-compliance were detected. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 141 4 Social and society 4.6. Corporate Citizenship 4.6.1. The City on the Move Institute (IVM) 4.6. Corporate Citizenship PSA Peugeot Citroën’s social actions and priorities are presented in the “Our Responsibility” pages of the Employee section of the Group’s sustainable development website: Dialogue, Human Rights & Ethics, Working conditions, Employment, Remuneration. Group Contribution to Social Responsibility Programmes (2010) Citroën-led Peugeot-led 6% 7% initiatives initiatives Group-sponsored corporate project 30% 58% Local Philanthropy and Social Action Plans* * Local Philanthropy and Social Action Plans account for more than half of the Group’s corporate citizenship budget. Managed by local plants and facilities, these initiatives demonstrate the Group’s commitment to playing an active role in local communities. 4.6.1. The City on the Move Institute (IVM) Created by PSA Peugeot Citroën in 2000, the City on the Move PSA Peugeot Citroën allocated a budget of €1,085,000 to IVM in 2010. Institute (IVM) has initiated and promoted research and trials aimed Among the different issues addressed in 2010, IVM pursued its at understanding how urban mobility is changing. It supports the programme, launched in 2009, of public hearings and debates on emergence of innovative urban mobility solutions through research “Climate Change, Urban Mobility and Cleantech”, in which a host panel programmes and initiatives that bring together business people, of European experts exchange ideas with their visiting North American researchers, academics, architects, urban planners, urban developers, counterparts. The purpose of the programme is to explore how the transport providers, local authorities, people involved in society and United States – a country with a vast array of mobility solutions – is the arts, and members of associations. Each partner is a stakeholder confronting mobility and energy challenges and, in particular, how in a given project, supporting the research or initiative with financing, it is stimulating and supporting the development of clean or green resources or expertise. technologies at a time when climate change is a major issue. 142 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.6. Corporate Citizenship 4.6.2. Group and Brand Outreach Programmes 4 The programme uses an innovative format inspired by public hearings private car parks at certain times of the day in Ningbo, and a carheld by the US Congress, with a commission of experts questioning pooling service for inhabitants of a Wuhan neighbourhood. The an American scientist and mobility professional on a specific topic. awards ceremony took place in the Shenzhen Pavilion at Expo The persons addressing the commission respond to questions Shanghai 2010 and a seminar on the topic was held in the Alsace submitted in advance by the experts. In addition to developing a better Pavilion. The award’s theme was chosen by the Association of understanding of how the US deals with clean technologies, the project Urban Planning Schools for its annual student contest organised in also aims to showcase a range of approaches, compare ideas and partnership with the IVM; opinions, enrich discussions in France, and more accurately identify uu in Argentina, through an experiment launched with the city of Buenos the challenges and areas for action for governments, organisations Aires to deploy and test information systems for urban transport and manufacturing companies. networks. An initial pilot project submitted for assessment is being carried out on a bus line in Buenos Aires. International experts are With the “City at your Doorstep” mobility and services programme in working together to develop this innovative concept that is adapted France, the IVM wants to enhance understanding of emerging demand to cities in emerging markets. Surveys on user needs have been and identify new players and innovation potential, especially in the conducted and prototype systems built; areas of workplace practices and mobility for employees in the personal uu in Peru, an exhibition and symposium on the theme of “A City for services sector. The objective for 2011 is to conduct experiments on new organisational and/or technical solutions, in partnership with Everyone” was organised with universities, research centres and businesses, associations and public authorities. the French embassy. Launched in 2007, the IVM’s research and action programme on taxis In late 2010, to celebrate its 10th anniversary and demonstrate has broadened discussion of the issue, since the taxi represents an its commitment to the future, the IVM reviewed the results of its excellent intermediary mobility solution between mass transit and programmes at a public event in Paris. individual transport. This international programme is intended to study In its partnerships with academic institutions, the IVM signed a new the taxi’s potential resources, role and possible integration in mobility convention with Université Paris-Est for its University Chair in Europe. strategies and to open discussions with researchers, public authorities, transport operators and companies, and the public at large, with the Outside France, the institute continued to host visiting scientists in goal of supporting the development of this mode of transportation. China and created a university Chair in Latin America. To consolidate Following on from an international conference on taxis it organised in the work of its three university Chairs in Europe, China and Latin 2007, the IVM led the initial special session on taxis in Lisbon in 2010 America and to provide a global, crosscutting vision of urban mobility, a and announced the creation of an international research network. project was launched to organise an international symposium involving the three Chairs, to be held in early 2012. After setting up offices in Shanghai in 2001 and Buenos Aires in 2005, the IVM is continuing to extend its international initiatives in 2010: In partnership with Fondation EDF Diversiterre, IVM developed the “Dream Cities, Sustainable Cities” exhibition, which was inaugurated uu in Brazil, with the opening of an office in Rio de Janeiro; in October 2009 in Paris. In 2010, the exhibition travelled to Mulhouse. uu in China, the IVM partnered the Better Mobility, Better Life Award Lastly, the exhibition “The Street” and its catalogue continued their and student contest, which is intended to identify and promote world tour, traveling to China, Brazil (Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo), innovative civil society initiatives to support urban mobility. Argentina, Spain, Portugal, Uruguay and Peru. Awardwinners included a bike-sharing service for residents of Shanghai’s suburbs, a programme to provide public access to 4.6.2. Group and Brand Outreach Programmes Group-Sponsored Projects For over a decade, PSA Peugeot Citroën has supported the Paris of the permanent exhibits at Paris’flagship science museum, the Cité emergency service agency (SAMU). This socially responsible des Sciences et de l’Industrie, and is continuing its support in 2011. commitment is fully aligned with the Group’s policy of promoting access Reflecting its deep commitment to improving road safety in cooperation to mobility, which helps to integrate individuals into society, fight social with other road-use stakeholders, PSA Peugeot Citroën was a exclusion and foster community ties. As part of this commitment, the cofounder of the French Road Safety Foundation, created in 2004 Group donates and maintains the agency’s roaming fleet of 15 vehicles, at the initiative of the French Ministry of Research. The Foundation, and has lent additional vehicles on several occasions, particularly as which was declared in the public interest in 2005, is financed both reinforcement during the winter months. by the government and by private French companies such as PSA PSA Peugeot Citroën currently serves on the agency’s Board of Peugeot Citroën, Renault and Plastic Omnium. Like all French research Directors. foundations, it brings together public and private organisations, in this case to identify, promote and finance road-safety research projects. PSA Peugeot Citroën is a member of the Villette-Entreprises It provides a unique forum for all types of road safety stakeholders, Foundation, which helps to disseminate scientific knowledge by including government representatives, carmakers, public transit fostering relationships between companies and science or technology and road transport specialists, trade federations and public health museums. Through the foundation, the Group sponsored the renovation PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 143 4 Social and society 4.6. Corporate Citizenship 4.6.2. Group and Brand Outreach Programmes professionals. By promoting these projects, the Foundation wants to In 2010, PSA Peugeot Citroën was one of the main corporate sponsors help meet the French government’s target of reducing the number of for France-Russia Year 2010, a cross-cultural event. The Group’s road fatalities to fewer than 3,000 by 2010, while also reducing the sponsorship supported the organisation of events in both countries number of people seriously injured in road accidents. including live shows, films and concerts, as well as seminars and symposiums. Initiatives Supported by the Peugeot Brand Since 1998, Peugeot has sponsored a carbon sink project in the hinges on its seamless integration into the region’s economic and Amazon, which is reforesting vast areas of deteriorated land and social fabric. This has led to the creation of local jobs to help raise restoring biodiversity in the Brazilian state of Mato Grosso, while awareness about the future of forests and the importance of preserving studying the relationship between reforestation and the absorption them. Since 2009, Peugeot, the French Forestry Commission (ONF) of atmospheric CO2. The reforestation initiative is helping to revitalise and the Mato Grosso government have had an agreement designating native plant species, with the aim of restoring balance to the the carbon sink as a Private Natural Heritage Reserve, which serves ecosystem. More than two million trees representing some 50 species as a life-size laboratory for the research needs of the Brazilian and have already been planted, over a total estimated surface area of international scientific community. Tree felling and logging are 2,000 hectares. The Amazon rainforest is home to more than half of prohibited throughout the reserve, which comprises 1,800 hectares of the world’s terrestrial biodiversity. In its first decade in existence, the natural forest. Peugeot carbon sink absorbed an estimated 53,000 tonnes of CO2, or Peugeot also continued its programme, introduced in 1994, of lending an average 5.1 tonnes per hectare per year. Depending on tree spacing vehicles to Solidarité Sida, an association that educates the public and the species planted, sequestration may vary from 2 to 12 tonnes about AIDS and solicits donations for medical research. Through per hectare per year from one plot to another. These calculations are the programme, three vehicles are made available to the association based on the ARACM001 methodology prepared by the International for the entire year, with others lent for timely operations such as the Panel of Experts on Climate Change. The sink’s long-term success Solidays festival. Initiatives Supported by the Citroën Brand In 2010, Citroën pursued its partnership with Action Against Hunger In China, the Group supported the Crayon Rouge association at Expo (ACF), which was launched in 2009 in honour of their respective Shanghai 2010, in partnership with the Beijing Youth Development anniversaries, the 90th for Citroën and the 30th for ACF. The brand also Foundation. A nationwide initiative for children from low-income continued to participate in an initial project in Burkina Faso to facilitate families was carried out in six major Chinese cities. Citroën offered an access to drinking water in Tapoa Province schools. under-resourced school with supplies and organised a contest in which children drew a picture of what the exhibition looked like to them. In all, For the second year in a row, the brand distributed Citroën-brand 600 drawings were submitted and posted on the largest Chinese web miniature cars, stuffed animals and other items as Christmas presents portal of its kind. Visitors to the site and a special Citroën committee to some 3,000 hospitalised, needy or orphaned children in France voted for the 40 best drawings and awarded 10 grand prizes. and a number of other countries in Europe, including Switzerland, Germany, Belgium, Portugal and Austria. Initiatives Supported by the Citroën and Peugeot Brands At the request of Peugeot and Citroën, vocational teachers “without missions were carried out by three teachers – in English, French and borders” regularly conduct training programmes as needed. In 2010, Spanish – in three countries (Nigeria, Tunisia and Cuba). 144 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.6. Corporate Citizenship 4.6.3. Local Philanthropy and Social Action Plans 4 4.6.3. Local Philanthropy and Social Action Plans Allocation of Funding in 2010 Local Philanthropy and Social Action Plans enable Group sites to uu road safety, with safe driving programmes to inform people, raise structure their outreach programmes to local communities, institutions, their awareness and teach correct practices; associations and other stakeholders in their regions, while fostering uu urban mobility, with programmes to support sustainable, responsible more effective dialogue with both employees and the public. The plans and widely accessible mobility; are deployed in France and other countries by production plants and uu environmental issues, with programmes to preserve or restore office facilities. natural sites, raise people’s awareness or train them in environmental Their components focus on the following areas: techniques. uu local development, with initiatives that reflect the Group’s In 2010, funding committed to these plans was mainly allocated to commitment to its host communities; programmes concerning local development (73%), road safety (12%), mobility (10%) and environmental stewardship (5%). Developing Community Ties In 2010, the Group undertook a number of local outreach initiatives in de la Deuxième Chance and Fondation Agir Contre l’Exclusion in communities near its production facilities and office sites. Examples Rennes, the Spread Hope association in Sochaux, Fondation Porto included: Real in Brazil and similar organisations in Vigo and Mangualde; uu supporting local cultural and sports associations in Aulnay, Buenos uu providing environmental, business start-up or industrial organisation Aires, La Ferté Vidame, Madrid, Rennes, Sept-Fons, Valenciennes, consulting services for small and medium-sized enterprises located Vesoul, Vigo and China; near the plants in Aulnay, Mulhouse, Poissy, Rennes (through uu lending vehicles throughout the year to various associations in Performance Bretagne and PB2i), in Sochaux (through the FrancheComté Entreprendre association and participation in the automotive Sochaux, the Paris area (Trans-Forme, Voiture&CO and Mission cluster) and in Trémery (through Partenaires Superforce Lorraine); Locale de Poissy) and Valenciennes; uu collecting and donating toys in Madrid and Buenos Aires; uu supporting initiatives to promote the hiring of young people from sensitive areas in partnership with the E2C Nord association uu organising site visits for host communities in Aulnay, Charleville, in Valenciennes and pursuing the partnership with the Iochpe Madrid, Poissy, Rennes, Sept-Fons, Sochaux and Valenciennes. Foundation in Brazil. Since March 2008, the Porto Real facility Moreover, special action plans are also being deployed by some of the has provided space for the Formare programme, which provides Group’s facilities or countries. vocational training for young people from low-income families in the area. The programme’s second graduating class completed their The Madrid plant continued to sponsor “The Southern Perspective”, a training in late 2010 and 20 additional young people were hired. radio programme put together by schools in the surrounding area to PSA Peugeot Citroën allows employees to volunteer as teachers for address environmental and gender equality issues. the programme during their working hours. In addition to providing To encourage community outreach projects, three facilities organised professional training, the programme prepares students for the job the Solidarity Trophies, a competition designed to provide financial market by exposing them to real-life work experiences. In Russia, support for employees seeking to organise – either personally or as PSA Peugeot Citroën set up a training programme in cooperation part of an association – a local or international solidarity project that with schools to promote employment opportunities by taking on delivers collective benefits in five categories: Ecology, Education, young people with specialised skills from developing regions; Integration, Mobility and Emergency/Topical. In 2010, approximately uu participating in educational projects with academic institutions. 40 applications were submitted in the facilities (La Garenne and Rennes These include career Day programmes held in La Garenne, Madrid, in France and Madrid in Spain) and eleven employees were awarded Mulhouse, Rennes, Valenciennes, Sept-Fons and Vesoul, as well trophies, along with financial backing from the Group to enable them as a cooperation project with the China Foundation for Poverty to pursue their projects. Alleviation to enable underprivileged children to complete their studies; Following earthquakes in the Qinghai and Sichuan regions of China, uu donating used computers and other equipment to schools and nonPSA Peugeot Citroën and its DPCA joint venture were involved in profit organisations in Buenos Aires, Madrid, Mangualde, Vigo and charitable initiatives, donating funds and equipment. China; In Argentina, the Group supports the NGO “A Roof for My Country” uu donating cars, vehicle body parts, mechanical components and through a team of employee volunteers who provide transportation spare parts to serve as vocational training aids in Buenos Aires, and take part in house construction projects. In February 2010, a La Ferté Vidame, Madrid, Metz, Rennes, Sept-Fons, Trémery, campaign was launched in Argentina to collect staples for victims of Valenciennes, Vesoul and China; the Chilean earthquake. uu supporting community outreach associations, such as the French telethon in Aulnay, the Hospital Italiano marathon in support of child cancer survivors in Buenos Aires, Semilla in Madrid, Fondation PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 145 4 Social and society 4.6. Corporate Citizenship 4.6.3. Local Philanthropy and Social Action Plans Promoting Road Safety Raising driver awareness of road safety issues is a major focus of programme for children in 90 schools. Secondary school students the Group’s corporate citizenship commitment. In 2010, the French were invited to take part in a contest involving short films on road production and office facilities led road safety awareness-building safety, which was supported by a TV campaign. Initiatives were also programmes for employees and/or their host community, generally organised for the general public, including a safe driving training in partnership with academic institutions and organisations such as programme. local fire brigades, the national police, the gendarmerie, the French In Brazil, the Group is sponsoring the Global Road Safety Partnership motorcycle federation, the MACIF insurance company and the NGO’s participation in a road safety programme in Resende, helping Centaure network of driver training sites. Examples included: to prepare brochures for local distribution and awareness-building uu conducting remedial and safe driving courses, including training in campaigns for the general public, for example at the start of the slippery road driving, in La Ferté Vidame, Sept-Fons and Vesoul; school year, during Carnival and on a special day organised for twouu donating vehicles for drills and training courses in La Ferté Vidame, wheel vehicles. Mulhouse, Poissy and Vélizy to learn how to free people trapped In China, the Group continued to support the travelling exhibition to inside after an accident; teach pre-school children about road safety. In 2010, the exhibition uu preparing and distributing information and awareness-building visited five pre-schools and a dealership in five different cities, booklets in La Garenne, Poissy, Valenciennes and Vélizy; distributing educational road safety brochures to 20,000 people and uu distributing safety kits containing a reflective vest and warning training 5,000 children in a variety of workshops, such as a bike-riding triangle in Buenos Aires and breathalysers in La Garenne; course, sing-alongs, a road safety board game and a road sign drawuu setting up exhibits and events, such as driving simulators, barrel and-guess game. crash simulations, drunk driving tests and vehicle inspection campaigns, in Aulnay, Charleville, La Ferté Vidame, La Garenne, In 2010, the Group’s social responsibility efforts were rewarded by the Metz, Poissy and Trémery; Golden Bee award, one of the most widely recognised and influential uu organising road safety contests in Aulnay, Caen and Trémery; awards of its kind in China. The jury cited PSA Peugeot Citroën for its ongoing road safety initiatives in China. The Group has played a uu helping to create a go-kart driving school in Aulnay to teach children pioneering role in helping to make driving safer in China by leading of employees and local parents about road safety hazards. discussions on road safety issues and organising conferences that Facilities in Argentina, Brazil and China were also highly active during bring together journalists and experts. the year. In Argentina, in addition to actions organised to provide employees with road safety kits, other initiatives were set up for young people, including a road safety drawing contest and an awareness-raising Supporting Sustainable Mobility Mobility is one of the basic building blocks of modern society, The sites also organise initiatives to benefit the mobility-challenged, determining access to jobs, healthcare and culture. Encouraging such as: sustainable, responsible and mutually supportive mobility also means uu recycling plastic bottle caps at the Aulnay, Buenos Aires, Caen, supporting the inalienable right to mobility, ensuring the right balance La Garenne, Paris, Poissy, Saint-Ouen, Trémery, Valenciennes and between the different modes of transport and promoting technologies Vélizy facilities, with proceeds donated to help-the-handicapped that contribute to the smooth flow of automobile traffic. associations; Online car-pooling sites have been opened on the corporate intranet uu organising disability awareness days in Aulnay, La Ferté Vidame, to make office commutes easier, particularly in Aulnay, La Garenne, La Garenne, Metz, Mulhouse, Poissy, Rennes, SeptFons, Rennes and Vélizy. Car-pooling services are also available to employees Valenciennes, Vélizy and Vesoul involving, for example, the at other sites in France and elsewhere in Europe. preparation and distribution of educational booklets on the importance of hiring disabled people, showings of short films In addition, PSA Peugeot Citroën continued to i) lend or donate about disability, situational exercises simulating visual or physical vehicles to programmes that promote solutions for the disadvantaged impairment, a seeing eyedog demonstration, an exhibition of like the Rio Solidario project for favela-dwellers in Brazil; ii) support mobility adapted vehicles, Braille writing workshops, and meetings the Down’s Syndrome Foundation of Madrid, which helps to integrate with employers who have successfully integrated mobility solutions people with trisomy 21 or a mental disability into the workplace iii) and into the workplace; lend vehicles to the French telethon, in partnership with the Aulnay uu installing equipment and renovating access points at the Aulnay and Mayor’s Office, and to the Clayes Handisports association, through the Group’s plant in Poissy. During the year, Sochaux donated the Caen sites to improve access for mobility-challenged individuals; 20 millionth vehicle manufactured at the site to the Haitian Protestant uu participating, through the Vélizy site, in the 14th “Childhood Dreams” Federation for driving orphans to and from school. air show that enables two children – one with a disability and one without – to fly for the first time and lending vehicles to the event organisers. 146 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Social and society 4.6. Corporate Citizenship 4.6.3. Local Philanthropy and Social Action Plans 4 Supporting Environmental Initiatives In 2010, PSA Peugeot Citroën launched a wide range of environmental Capitalising on its environmental expertise, the Group is leading a initiatives, including: number of educational campaigns to promote eco-friendly practices. Examples include: uu organising and taking part in environmental events. These include World Environment Day programmes in Argentina, La Garenne uu participating in monthly environmental discussion sessions in Porto and Porto Real, an exhibition for sustainable development week Real; in Aulnay, forums and discussions on environmental issues at the uu pursuing the “Eco-Logical” environmental information and Porto Real facility, nature films in Sept-Fons, a partnership with awareness campaign in La Garenne and two initiatives at the the Vive La Seine association in Poissy, and support for the Vigo Aulnay plant: a quarterly environmental briefing and the “Stop and Mayor’s Office Foundation, which promotes sustainable energy Start Attitude” programme designed to encourage employees to resources in Vigo, Spain; turn everything off at the end of the day; uu sponsoring an Environment Day at the Sochaux site. The event uu organising workshops to train students in environment-related jobs was attended by more than 3,000 people, including 2,000 children, in Mulhouse; who took part in workshops designed to raise awareness of uu offering local students, employees and their families in Poissy the environmental protection issues, in partnership with a number of opportunity to learn about the environment by observing animal non-profit organisations. As part of Water Day, launched with the and plant life from a barge on the Seine River; Porte de Hainaut Urban Community, the Valenciennes plant hosted uu giving environmental protection quizzes and advice at Caen, around 100 primary school children, who participated in workshops Trémery and Porto Real. on sorted waste and water recycling and reuse; uu supporting the deployment of a waste-sorting system at Mulhouse Ongoing support was provided in Argentina to NGO Cascos Verdes and Saint-Ouen; which, through the “Crear Conciencia” programme, helps give uu Helping to rehabilitate nature sites in Poissy. mentally disabled young people a chance to attend university and play a role in society, thanks to a two-year training course on environmental protection. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 147 4 Social and society 148 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 5 Corporate Governance and Ethical Practices 5.1. Corporate Governance 150 5.3. Internal Control Systems 160 5.1.1. Information about the Administrative, Management or Supervisory Bodies 150 5.4. Ethical Practices 162 5.1.2. Compliance with Best Corporate Governance Practices 151 5.4.1. Code of Ethics 162 5.1.3. The Supervisory Board’s Roles, 5.4.2. Conflicts of Interest, Corruption Responsibilities and Operating Procedures 152 and AntiCompetitive Behaviour 163 5.1.4. Supervisory Board Committees 155 5.2. Remuneration and Benefits of Board Members 158 5.2.1. Managing Board Compensation 158 5.2.2. Supervisory Board Compensation 160 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 149 5 Corporate Governance and Ethical Practices 5.1. Corporate Governance 5.1.1. Information about the Administrative, Management or Supervisory Bodies 5.1. Corporate Governance Since 1972, Peugeot S.A. has had a two-tier management structure and control. This separation is especially effective in addressing the comprising a Managing Board, responsible for strategic and operational concern for a balance of power between the executive and oversight management, and a Supervisory Board, responsible for oversight functions, as reflected in the principles of good corporate governance. 5.1.1. Information about the Administrative, Management or Supervisory Bodies The Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board has twelve members plus two non-voting The Board had one woman member in 2010. In accordance with advisors (censeurs). The members are elected by shareholders for French Act 2011-103 of 27 January 2011 concerning gender balance six-year terms. No member of the Supervisory Board is a salaried among Board members, the Supervisory Board conducted studies employee of a Group company. and undertook the necessary measures, taking into account the expiry dates of the current members’ terms, to ensure that its membership The other functions exercised by Supervisory Board members and complies with gender balance principles. At least 20% of members will advisors are listed in section 14.1.1 of the 2010 Registration Document, be women following the 2014 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and at along with the dates when they were elected to the Supervisory Board least 40% after the 2017 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. In particular, and when their terms expire. at its 8 February 2011 meeting, the Board decided to put forward a The Supervisory Board comprises the following members: Thierry proposal at the 2011 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting to elect another Peugeot (Chairman), Jean-Philippe Peugeot, Jean-Louis Silvant, Marc woman as director. Friedel, Jean-Louis Masurel, Jean-Paul Parayre, Robert Peugeot, More generally, the Appointments and Governance Committee has Henri Philippe Reichstul, Marie-Hélène Roncoroni, Geoffroy Roux de undertaken a member selection process designed to change the Bézieux, Ernest-Antoine Seillière, Joseph F. Toot Jr., François Michelin Board’s membership structure. (advisor), Roland Peugeot (advisor). The Supervisory Board comprises five members of the Peugeot family and seven members qualified as independent based on the criteria applied by the Group. Members of the Managing Board Managing Board members are appointed by the Supervisory Board for JeanMarc Gales, Grégoire Olivier and Frédéric Saint-Geours. In four-year terms. They may be removed from office by the Supervisory addition to their collective decision-making role, the Managing Board Board pursuant to the company’s bylaws, or by shareholders in a members also have the following specific areas of responsibility: Shareholders’ Meeting, in accordance with French company law. Guillaume Faury is in charge of research and development, JeanMarc Gales leads the Brands Department, Grégoire Olivier heads the The current members of the Managing Board, who were appointed Asia Division and Frédéric Saint-Geours is in charge of Finance and on 17 June 2009, are Philippe Varin, Chairman, Guillaume Faury, Strategic Development. Executive Committee The Executive Committee comprises the five members of the Managing In addition to the Executive Committee, three Senior Vice-Presidents Board and five Executive Vice-Presidents reporting to the Chairman report to the Chairman of the Managing Board: Carlos Gomez (Latin of the Managing Board: Yannick Bezard (Purchasing), Claude Brunet America), Caroline Mille (Corporate Communications) and Bernd (Human Resources and Quality), Jean-Claude Hanus (Corporate Schantz (Russia, Ukraine and CIS). Secretary), Denis Martin (Industrial Operations) and Jean-Christophe The other functions exercised by Managing Board members and Quémard (Programmes). advisors are listed in section 14.1.2 of the 2010 Registration Document, Pierre Todorov – who joined PSA Peugeot Citroën on 1 March 2011 – will along with the dates when they were elected to the Managing Board be appointed Corporate Secretary on 1 September 2011 to take over and when their terms expire. from Jean-Claude Hanus, who is retiring after 39 years with the Group. 150 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Corporate Governance and Ethical Practices 5.1. Corporate Governance 5.1.2. Compliance with Best Corporate Governance Practices 5 5.1.2. Compliance with Best Corporate Governance Practices Application of the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code At its 16 December 2008 meeting, the Supervisory Board decided to When selecting new Supervisory Board candidates based on adopt the AFEP/MEDEF Corporate Governance Code, as applicable to the recommendations of the Appointments and Governance French joint-stock companies with a Supervisory Board and Managing Committee, the Board seeks to appoint a greater number of Board. The consolidated version of the Code, issued in April 2010, may independent members and to ensure that there are staggered be viewed at Peugeot S.A.’s head office or on the MEDEF website at renewals of members’ terms of office. It is also considering the www.medef.com. election of new members qualified as independent in accordance with the AFEP/MEDEF criteria and the re-election of certain While Peugeot S.A. applies the vast majority of the recommendations members for terms of less than six years. At the same time, the set out in the Code, there are a certain number that it has elected not Supervisory Board is committed to increasing the percentage of to apply. These exceptions are described below. women members, in accordance with new legal requirements (Act uu Independence criteria 2011-103 of 27 January 2011) and based on the guidelines recently The Supervisory Board has elected not to apply two of the AFEP/ included in the AFEP/MEDEF Corporate Governance Code. MEDEF’s independence criteria, as follows: uu Having a certain proportion of independent members on the –– not being a director or Supervisory Board member of the Board’s Committees. As an exception to the recommendations corporation for more than twelve years. The Supervisory in the AFEP/MEDEF Corporate Governance Code concerning the Board does not apply this recommendation as it considers that proportion of independent members of Board Committees (at least the automotive experience of its members is extremely valuable, two thirds for the Finance and Audit Committee and a majority especially in a business requiring a medium and longterm vision. for the Appointments Committee), the membership structure In addition, the Supervisory Board’s internal rules state that of the Finance and Audit Committee and the Appointments and one of the Board’s key missions is to “ensure that the strategy Governance Committee takes into account the requirement to have proposed and applied by the Managing Board fits with the representatives from members of the Peugeot family, which is the Group’s long-term vision, as defined by the Supervisory Board”; Group’s majority shareholder. –– not holding a directorship or equivalent position in another uu Setting Board members’ terms of office at four years. Supervisory Group company in the past five years. The Board considers Board members’ terms of office are set at six years rather than four that the fact of having recently been a director of another Group as recommended in the Code, as the Supervisory Board considers company does not give rise to any risk of the type of conflict of that a supervisory and oversight body needs to be in place for a interest that the AFEP/MEDEF independence rules are designed certain amount of time in order to be able to effectively perform to avoid. In addition, no member of the Supervisory Board its duties. The term of office for Managing Board members is four exercises any senior executive responsibilities or is a salaried years however. The dates on which the terms of office of the current employee of a Group company. Consequently Jean-Louis Supervisory Board members are due to end are staggered between Silvant is considered to be independent, even though he sits 2011 and 2016. on the Board of Directors of Peugeot Suisse, a company whose uu Having a variable component of attendance fees. Attendance operations only represent a small proportion of the Group’s fees payable to Supervisory Board members do not include any automotive business. variable component based on actual attendance at Board and In total, the Supervisory Board considers that Jean-Louis Masurel, Committee meetings. Attendance rates at Supervisory Board Jean-Paul Parayre, Henri Philippe Reichstul, Geoffroy Roux de meetings were 90% in 2010 and 96% in 2009 and attendance rates Bézieux, Ernest-Antoine Seillière, Joseph F. Toot Jr. and JeanLouis at the various Committee meetings ranged from 95% to 100% Silvant can be qualified as independent. These independent in 2010. Furthermore, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board members represent seven out of the 12 members of the Supervisory frequently consults Board members on issues outside of scheduled Board, which means that, based on the independence criteria meetings, and likewise, Board members regularly take the initiative applied by the Group, Peugeot S.A. complies with the AFEP/ MEDEF of informing the Chairman of their opinions and recommendations. recommendation that in controlled companies at least one third of Board members should be independent. Information on the Situation of Members of the Supervisory Board and Managing Board The membership structure of the Supervisory Board appropriately second cousins. There are no family ties among the other Supervisory reflects the percentage of capital held by the company’s main Board or Managing Board members. shareholder, the Peugeot family. Jean-Louis Masurel, Henri Philippe Reichstul, Geoffroy Roux de The Board comprises five family members: Thierry Peugeot, JeanBézieux, Ernest-Antoine Seillière and Joseph F. Toot Jr. have no Philippe Peugeot, Robert Peugeot, Marie-Hélène Roncoroni and Marc ties with the company, its Group or its management and contribute Friedel. Marie-Hélène Roncoroni is Thierry Peugeot’s sister, and Thierry their international finance and managerial experience to the Board’s Peugeot, Jean-Philippe Peugeot, Robert Peugeot and Marc Friedel are deliberations. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 151 5 Corporate Governance and Ethical Practices 5.1. Corporate Governance 5.1.3. The Supervisory Board’s Roles, Responsibilities and Operating Procedures A former member of the Executive Committee, Jean-Louis Silvant Jean-Paul Parayre, former Chairman of the Peugeot S.A. Managing contributes his long experience in a large number of executive Board and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Vallourec, contributes positions with the Group, particularly in production and human his knowledge of the automotive industry and the Group’s operating resources management. procedures, as well as of British and American corporate governance practices. Conflicts of Interest Concerning Supervisory Board or Managing Board Members To the best of the company’s knowledge, there are no conflicts of In addition, corporate officers pledge to comply with the Stock interest between the duties of Supervisory Board and Managing Board Market Code of Ethics introduced in February 2010, which states members to Peugeot S.A. and their private interests or other duties. that “corporate officers shall refrain from trading in any stocks or other securities, directly or indirectly, on their own behalf or for a third No loans or guarantees have been granted to or on behalf of any party, during the 30 calendar days preceding the publication of the members of the Supervisory Board or Managing Board by the company annual financial statements, the interim financial statements and the or any Group entities. consolidated revenue figures”. No assets required for the operation of the business are owned by any members of the Supervisory Board or Managing Board or their families. Sanctions Applicable to Supervisory Board or Managing Board Members To the best of the company’s knowledge, in the last five years no (iii) been the subject of any official public incrimination and/or sanctions member of the Supervisory Board or Managing Board has (i) been by statutory or regulatory authorities or (iv) been disqualified by a convicted of any fraudulent offence, (ii) been a member of the court from acting as a member of the administrative, management or administrative, management or supervisory body of a company that supervisory bodies of an issuer or from acting in the management or has been declared bankrupt, or placed in liquidation or receivership, conduct of the affairs of any issuer. 5.1.3. The Supervisory Board’s Roles, Responsibilities and Operating Procedures Internal Rules At its 9 February 2010 meeting, the Supervisory Board revised its uu the Supervisory Board ensures that the strategy proposed and internal rules that were originally adopted in February 2003. The new applied by the Managing Board fits with the Group’s long-term version defines the Board’s roles and responsibilities as follows: vision as defined by the Supervisory Board. The Board reviews the strategic plan and the various multi-year business plans, as well as uu the Supervisory Board appoints members of the Managing Board, the capital expenditure plan and the budget. can remove them from office and determines their compensation packages; The internal rules also stipulate that the Supervisory Board is required uu the Supervisory Board sets the amount of compensation for its to authorise in advance the following actions by the Managing Board Chairman and Vice-Chairman or Chairmen and determines the as provided for in article 9 of the company’s bylaws: procedures for allocating attendance fees among its members; uu shareholder-approved share issues (whether paid up in cash or by uu in accordance with the law, the Supervisory Board acts as the capitalising retained earnings) and capital reductions; oversight body of the company, which is administered and managed uu any and all issues of ordinary or convertible bonds; by the Managing Board. uu the drafting of any merger agreements or agreements for the sale The Supervisory Board is therefore responsible for: of a business; –– overseeing the Managing Board’s management of the company uu the signature or termination of any manufacturing or sales by performing any checks and controls it deems appropriate, agreements representing a future commitment for Peugeot S.A., –– carrying out periodic controls of the company’s management (i) with companies whose corporate purpose is similar or related to on a quarterly basis by reviewing business reports presented that of Peugeot S.A., and generally the execution of any major by the Managing Board and (ii) within three months of each transaction which substantially alters the scope of the business or year-end, by examining and issuing its opinion and comments the balance sheet structure of the company or the Group. on the annual financial statements of the company and Group, as presented by the Managing Board, and on the Management Report to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting; 152 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Corporate Governance and Ethical Practices 5.1. Corporate Governance 5.1.3. The Supervisory Board’s Roles, Responsibilities and Operating Procedures 5 The Managing Board may carry out the following actions only with the level. In 2010, such approval was required for individual guarantees unanimous backing of all of its members or, failing that, with the prior exceeding €25 million, or when the cumulative amount of guarantees authorisation of the Supervisory Board: given during the year exceeded €125 million (excluding customs and tax bonds). uu the purchase, sale, exchange or transfer of any and all operating real estate and businesses in transactions representing an amount The Supervisory Board’s internal rules also set out the following: in excess of the ceiling set by the Supervisory Board (currently uu Supervisory Board information procedures, practices and €50 million); guidelines; uu the purchase, acquisition or sale of any equity interest in any and all uu the minimum number of Board meetings that must be held per existing or future enterprises directly or indirectly representing an year (currently five), as well as the procedures to be applied when immediate or future investment, expense, debt guarantee or seller’s holding the meetings and preparing the agenda; warranty involving an amount in excess of the ceiling set by the uu the roles and responsibilities of Supervisory Board Committees; Supervisory Board; uu the procedures for assessing the Board’s performance; uu the signature of loan agreements, other than for bond issues, for a period or an amount in excess of the limits set by the Supervisory uu the obligations of Board members, particularly the requirement to Board (currently €100 million). comply with the Stock Market Code of Ethics introduced in 2010, which each Board member has signed. Lastly, guarantees given on behalf of subsidiaries are submitted for Supervisory Board approval when the amount exceeds a certain Operating Procedures Two weeks before each Supervisory Board meeting all of the Board’s been released. A supplementary pack is usually also provided in the members receive the agenda of the forthcoming meeting and the meeting itself. draft minutes of the previous meeting. In addition, at the end of the The members of the Managing Board attend Supervisory Board week preceding the planned meeting, the Board members are sent meetings and the Statutory Auditors attend the meetings where the an information pack containing a copy of the minutes of the previous annual and interim financial statements are examined. meeting, the presentations to be given for each agenda item, the minutes of the meetings of the Board Committees and, where the The schedule for each year’s meetings is prepared in April of meeting involves examining a quarterly business review, the Report the preceding year. Ordinary Supervisory Board meetings are of the Managing Board. The packs also contain the schedule for the systematically preceded by meetings held by the Finance and Audit meetings of the Supervisory Board and the Board Committees for the Committee, the Appointments and Governance Committee and the year in progress and the following year, an update of the “blackout Compensation Committee. periods” during which Board members are prohibited from trading in Each ordinary Supervisory Board meeting lasts for a minimum of three the company’s securities (as specified in the Stock Market Code of and a half hours, but may be longer when required. The Chairman of Ethics), press articles that have been published about the Group since the Board may call special meetings where necessary. the last Board meeting, and any external financial analyses that have Assessment of the Board’s Performance In February and March 2010 the Supervisory Board carried out a Concerning the Supervisory Board’s membership structure, formal assessment of its own work and the work performed by its recommendations were put forward on the need to increase the committees based on an individual questionnaire completed by each proportion of women on the Board and to appoint an independent Board member. non-French member with proven financial experience who is also familiar with the business environment in Asia. The Appointments In summary, the findings of the self-assessment showed that the and Governance Committee subsequently launched a process to find Board’s membership structure is generally considered to be appropriate candidates corresponding to this profile. and that the members believe the quality of Board meetings to be high, with increasingly open discussions, enabling them to effectively deal In addition, following recommendations expressed during the self with the items on the agenda. The Supervisory Board members also assessment, Supervisory Board meetings have been extended feel that the committees effectively fulfil their role of preparing the by between thirty and sixty minutes, and time discipline has been Board’s discussions. improved to leave room for discussion at the end. However, a number of areas for improvement were also identified Also further to suggestions made during the assessment process, during the assessment process. For example, half of the Board’s the Board’s programme for training and on-site visits was stepped members felt that they do not receive the preparatory documents in up in 2010, with the introduction of two half-day sessions to be sufficient time for meetings. systematically held every year on the Group’s future product ranges and long-term strategy. Supervisory Board members have also been provided with a list of on-site visits that they can make if they so wish. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 153 5 Corporate Governance and Ethical Practices 5.1. Corporate Governance 5.1.3. The Supervisory Board’s Roles, Responsibilities and Operating Procedures Another area for improvement expressed during the self-assessment plants and sales units managed by the Group’s joint ventures, and was for Board members to have a better understanding of the Group’s met its manufacturing partners as well as certain local political and strategy in Latin America and China. This request was fulfilled in administrative representatives. A similar visit to Latin America is October 2010 when the members of both the Supervisory Board and scheduled for 2011. Managing Board spent five days in China. During the trip, they met The Supervisory Board carried out another self-assessment in local managers and freely discussed the Group’s current position January 2011 based on a more detailed questionnaire sent to the and outlook in the country. They also visited the manufacturing Board’s members. Supervisory Board Meetings in 2010 The Supervisory Board met eight times in 2010, with an average and set the performance criteria underlying Managing Board members’ attendance rate of 90%. incentive bonuses for 2010. During five of these meetings – held on 9 February, 20 April, 27 July, On 20 April, the Supervisory Board examined the agenda, Report 19 October and 21 December – the Board reviewed business reports of the Managing Board and draft resolutions for the 2010 Annual presented by the Managing Board concerning the Group’s sales Shareholders’ Meeting and approved its own report to the meeting. and manufacturing performance, as well as the financial results of In addition it reviewed the findings of its self-assessment, examined its various divisions, and its overall financial situation. During these the independence of its members and defined the requisite profile meetings, the Board was also informed about events affecting for candidate members, as part of an underlying aim to diversify the employees and quality, and gave its opinion on the Group’s strategic Board’s membership structure by increasing the number of women, growth vision, which it discussed in detail with the Managing Board non-French and independent members. during the February and April meetings. At its 19 October meeting – which took place in Shanghai in the The 9 February and 27 July meetings were attended by the Statutory offices of the Group’s new Asia Division – the Managing Board gave a Auditors and included, respectively, presentations of the full-year 2009 presentation on the Group’s medium-term plan. financial statements of the company and the Group and the results for In December, the Supervisory Board was given a presentation by the the first half of 2010. Managing Board on the 2011 budget and announced the two audit At its February meeting, the Supervisory Board adopted the revised firms whose reappointment as the Group’s Statutory Auditors will be version of its internal rules (it subsequently adopted the internal submitted to the 2011 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. rules of the Strategy Committee, the Appointments and Governance The Board’s remaining three meetings during the year were held on Committee and the Compensation Committee at its 20 April meeting 2 June, 29 September and 29 November. and those of the Finance and Audit Committee on 27 July). At the 2 June meeting, the Board unanimously decided to appoint During the same meeting in February the Board adopted a Stock Thierry Peugeot as Chairman of the Supervisory Board for the Market Code of Ethics, which sets out the rules concerning transactions remainder of his term as a Supervisory Board member, which was carried out by Supervisory Board members and non-voting advisors as renewed at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on that same day well as Managing Board members in securities issued by Peugeot S.A., and attended by all of the Supervisory Board members. Société Foncière Financière et de Participations (FFP) and Faurecia. The Code provides for preventive measures under which Board At each of these three meetings, the Board authorised the issue of members can trade in these securities while complying with market bonds, in accordance with article 9 of the company’s bylaws. It also integrity rules. gave its opinion, took decisions or gave approvals as required on various matters, based on preparatory work performed by the Board Also at its 9 February meeting, the Board approved the new regulations Committees. applicable to the top hat pension plan for the Group’s senior executives 154 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Corporate Governance and Ethical Practices 5.1. Corporate Governance 5.1.4. Supervisory Board Committees 5 5.1.4. Supervisory Board Committees The Supervisory Board is assisted by four specialised committees: specifically dedicated to these two areas. Furthermore, by having a the Finance and Audit Committee, the Strategy Committee, the committee that deals exclusively with compensation issues, the Group Appointments and Governance Committee and the Compensation can track market practices more closely and enhance the effectiveness Committee. of its compensation policies. The Compensation Committee and the Appointments and Governance The role of these committees is to prepare certain matters to be Committee were set up in 2010 to replace the combined Compensation discussed at Supervisory Board meetings. They therefore issue and Appointments Committee as the Board felt that, in view of the proposals, recommendations and opinions on the areas falling within underlying strategic importance of appointments and the central their terms of reference and submit them to the Supervisory Board at role of corporate governance, the Group should have a committee its meetings. The Finance and Audit Committee Roles and Responsibilities served as Co. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of large listed companies. The Finance and Audit Committee’s internal rules were revised in 2010, in particular to bring them in line with the AMF Report of the Audit Marie-Hélène Roncoroni, who represents the company’s main Committee Working Group. The new version was approved by the shareholder, has specific knowledge in financial and accounting Supervisory Board on 27 July. matters, and worked for seven years in the Group’s Finance Department. In accordance with article 823-19 of the French Commercial Code, the Finance and Audit Committee oversees issues concerning the preparation and control of accounting and financial data. In particular, Finance and Audit Committee Meetings in 2010 it oversees the process of preparing financial information, the The Finance and Audit Committee met eight times in 2010, with an effectiveness of internal control and risk management systems, the average attendance rate of 98%. statutory auditing of the parent company and consolidated financial statements and the independence of the Statutory Auditors. It is also In January, the Committee and the Chief Financial Officer examined responsible for informing the Supervisory Board of its opinion on off the possible financial arrangements and potential financial conditions balance sheet commitments and any corporate action or other project for a strategic development project, as well as its potential financial requiring prior approval by the Board. As part of its duty to oversee impact. the effectiveness of internal control systems, the Committee issues an In February, the Committee met with the Statutory Auditors and the opinion on the internal audit plan for the coming year and is informed Chief Financial Officer to review the 2009 consolidated and parent of the findings of the internal audits performed in implementing the company financial statements. During a second meeting held in plan. The Committee reports on its work at each Supervisory Board February, attended by the Chief Financial Officer and the Chairman of meeting. the Managing Board, the Committee examined the financial outlook The Finance and Audit Committee, which enjoys free access to all the in general and the potential financial consequences of the strategic information it needs, can meet with the head of internal audit and with development projects in progress. It also examined with an external the Statutory Auditors, with or without any Managing Board members consultant the rating methods used by financial ratings agencies and attending. how these are applied for the Group. In April, the Committee reviewed the first quarter results for 2010 – with Membership a particular focus on changes in the Group’s debt – and examined the draft resolutions to be tabled at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. The Finance and Audit Committee comprises five members, who are appointed in their own name and may not be represented by another In July it met with the Statutory Auditors and Chief Financial Officer party. Two of these five members are independent based on the to examine the consolidated financial statements for the first half of criteria applied by the Group. The Committee’s current members are: 2010. It also reviewed the Group’s financing and strategic outlook and Jean-Paul Parayre (Committee Chairman), Marc Friedel, Jean-Louis began the Statutory Auditor selection process in view of the upcoming Masurel, Robert Peugeot and Marie-Hélène Roncoroni. expiry of the current Auditors’ terms of office. At this same meeting the Committee reviewed the Group’s various risk exposures in conjunction It is chaired by a Supervisory Board member who is classified as with the line managers concerned, as well as the processes used to independent in accordance with the criteria applied by the Group, and manage and track these risks. In addition, it examined the structure as required by law, includes another independent member specialised and operating procedures of the Group’s internal audit function as in financial or accounting matters (Jean-Louis Masurel who is the well as the findings of the assignments performed by the internal audit Chairman of another company’s Finance Committee) and who has teams. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 155 5 Corporate Governance and Ethical Practices 5.1. Corporate Governance 5.1.4. Supervisory Board Committees At its September meeting, which was attended by the Group Lastly, in December, the Finance and Audit Committee examined VicePresident, Finance and Treasury, the Committee analysed the the end-of-year forecasts and the 2011 budget. It also issued proposed issue of Peugeot S.A. bonds as part of the on-going EMTN its recommendation to the Board concerning the two audit firms programme. At the same time, with the Chief Financial Officer and the shortlisted during Statutory Auditor reproposal process. Corporate Secretary, it reviewed the status of the OCEANE convertible The 2011 audit plan, which was provided to the Finance and Audit bond issue carried out in June 2009. Committee in December 2010, was examined by the Committee In October, the Committee reviewed the Group’s medium-term plan during its meeting in January 2011, which was not attended by and related projects as well as issues relating to the Group’s financial the Chief Financial Officer. At this meeting, which was specifically rating. It also decided on the date for hearing the Statutory Auditors’ dedicated to audit matters, the Vice-President, Internal Audit, updated service and fee proposals as part of the Auditor selection process. the Committee on the internal audit programme and the Committee gave its opinion on the organisation of the internal audit function. The Strategy Committee Roles and Responsibilities Membership The role of the Strategy Committee – whose internal rules were revised The Strategy Committee comprises seven members, who are and adopted by the Supervisory Board at its 20 April 2010 meeting – is appointed in their own name and may not be represented by another to examine the Group’s long-term future, reflect on potential avenues party. The Committee’s current members are: Robert Peugeot of growth and recommend to the Supervisory Board the Group’s (Committee Chairman), Jean-Paul Parayre, Jean-Philippe Peugeot, overall strategic vision. It also ensures that the strategy proposed and Thierry Peugeot, Henri Philippe Reichstul, Ernest-Antoine Seillière, applied by the Managing Board fits with the Group’s long-term vision Jean-Louis Silvant. as defined by the Supervisory Board and issues recommendations on Four of these seven members are independent based on the criteria the long-term strategic plans and Medium-Term Plan presented by the applied by the Group. Managing Board. The Strategy Committee examines all major projects from their outset and is kept informed of the projects’ terms and conditions (particularly Strategy Committee Meetings in 2010 their financial structure), as well as of any changes and developments. The Strategy Committee met three times in 2010, with an average attendance rate of 95%. The meetings were attended by the members In particular, the Committee meets to discuss any project that falls of the Managing Board and Group executives involved in the issues within the scope of article 9 of the company’s bylaws, whereby discussed. the Supervisory Board must approve in advance “the signature or termination of any manufacturing or sales agreements representing At the March meeting, the Committee primarily examined the Group’s a future commitment for Peugeot S.A., and generally the execution strategic development projects and the outlook for current or future of any major transaction which substantially alters the scope of the co-operation agreements, particularly in China. business or the balance sheet structure of the company or the Group”. In May, the Committee discussed the Group’s long-term goals, as expressed by the Peugeot and Citroën brands, and in September it examined the Group’s Medium-Term Plan, ways to improve the Group’s competitiveness, and potential new co-operation agreements. The Appointments and Governance Committee Roles and Responsibilities Membership The Appointments and Governance Committee – whose internal rules The Committee comprises six members, who are appointed in their own were adopted at the Supervisory Board meeting held on 20 April 2010 – name and may not be represented by another party. The Committee’s prepares Supervisory Board discussions concerning the appointment current members are: Jean-Philippe Peugeot (Committee Chairman), of new Supervisory Board and Managing Board members, by proposing Robert Peugeot, Thierry Peugeot, Geoffroy Roux de Bézieux, selection criteria, organising the selection process, recommending ErnestAntoine Seillière, Jean-Louis Silvant. candidates for appointment or re-appointment, and monitoring Three of these six members are independent based on the criteria succession plans for members of the Managing Board. In addition, applied by the Group. it tracks changes in French legislation concerning the governance of listed companies, as well as all of the recommendations issued by market regulators and representatives of listed companies. Appointments and Governance Committee Meetings It also submits opinions or recommendations to the Supervisory Board in 2010 concerning governance issues. The Appointments and Governance Committee met five times in 2010, with a 100% attendance rate. 156 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Corporate Governance and Ethical Practices 5.1. Corporate Governance 5.1.4. Supervisory Board Committees 5 At the beginning of the year, the Committee discussed (i) the The Committee participated in the Board’s process for assessing its membership structure of the Supervisory Board Committees, (ii) own performance in 2010, by (i) finalising the questionnaire given to the amendments to the internal rules of the Supervisory Board and the members and (ii) recommending measures in response to the its committees and (iii) the introduction in February 2010 of a Stock observations made in the questionnaires and to ensure that the Board Market Code of Ethics applicable to Supervisory Board members, continues to function effectively and applies best corporate governance non-voting advisors and Managing Board members. practices. These recommendations were put into practice in 2010. A further self-assessment of the Supervisory Board’s performance was Also during the year, the Committee reviewed the criteria applied by the performed in January 2011 based on a more detailed questionnaire. Supervisory Board when assessing the independence of its members, as well as future changes to the Board’s membership to align it with Also in 2010, the Committee kept itself closely informed of actions best market practices. As part of this review, the Committee launched implemented by the Group concerning ethics and conduct (such as a process to find new Supervisory Board members with a view to the processes for revising and enriching the Code of Ethics and setting increasing the proportion of women, non-French and independent up an Ethics Committee) and undertook a review of the succession members and creating a more diverse Board. plans for a number of senior executives. The Compensation Committee Roles and Responsibilities Compensation Committee Meetings in 2010 The Compensation Committee – whose internal rules were adopted The Compensation Committee met seven times in 2010, with a 100% at the Supervisory Board meeting held on 20 April 2010 – prepares attendance rate. Supervisory Board discussions regarding all aspects of compensation At the beginning of the year, the Committee determined the incentive and benefits for the Chairman, Vice-Chairmen and other members of bonuses for Managing Board members for 2010, examining, for each the Supervisory Board as well as for Board Committee members and member, the maximum percentage of the base salary that the bonus the Chairman and other members of the Managing Board. could represent and the applicable Group and personal performance To fulfil these responsibilities, the Committee stays informed of criteria. uu current and emerging market compensation practices; Also in 2010, the Committee examined the new rules for the uu the pay levels and forms of compensation of senior executives who supplementary pension plan for the Group’s senior executives. are not on the Managing Board, as well as the Managing Board Towards the end of the year, the Committee set the base salary of the policies for reviewing and updating these compensation packages. members of the Managing Board as well as the terms and conditions for calculating their incentive bonuses for 2011. Membership In addition, the Committee reviewed the methods used for allocating The Compensation Committee comprises five members, who are attendance fees among Supervisory Board members out of the appointed in their own name and may not be represented by another aggregate amount approved by shareholders. party. The Committee’s current members are: Thierry Peugeot (Committee Chairman), Jean-Philippe Peugeot, Ernest-Antoine At several of the meetings held in 2010, the Committee members Seillière, Jean-Louis Silvant, Geoffroy Roux de Bézieux. examined the long-term incentive plan proposed by the Managing Board that involved granting performance shares to 291 senior Three of these five members are independent based on the criteria executives and managers. applied by the Group. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 157 5 Corporate Governance and Ethical Practices 5.2. Remuneration and Benefits of Board Members 5.2.1. Managing Board Compensation 5.2. Remuneration and Benefits of Board Members 5.2.1. Managing Board Compensation Compensation Policy The compensation paid to each Managing Board member is determined At the end of the year, the Supervisory Board determines the base by the Supervisory Board after reviewing the recommendations of the salary that will be paid to Managing Board members the following Compensation and Appointments Committee. year and, at the beginning of the year, it calculates the incentive bonus based on an evaluation of how well each member met his or her The annual compensation paid to Managing Board members includes assigned objectives over the year. Also at the beginning of the year, the a base salary and an incentive bonus based on the achievement of a Supervisory Board sets objectives for each Managing Board member certain number of qualified and quantified objectives. for the current year. 2010 Compensation For 2010, annual base salaries amounted to €1,300,000 for the uu the portion of the incentive bonus corresponding to personal Chairman of the Managing Board and €618,000 for the other members objectives corresponded to a maximum of 35% of base salary of the Managing Board, unchanged from 2009. Grégoire Olivier, who is for the Chairman of the Managing Board and 25% for the based in China, also received a distance allowance corresponding to other members. These personal objectives – which related to half of his salary on an annualised basis. each member’s individual executive responsibilities – included criteria such as strategic development in Asia, implementing the The Chairman and members of the Managing Board were also eligible excellence system, recurring operating income for certain divisions, to receive an incentive bonus in 2010, subject to performance the performance of vehicle projects, market share gains, and the conditions based on the achievement of objectives. Barring exceptional services strategy. circumstances, the Chairman of the Managing Board could receive a bonus of up to 150% of his base salary if all of his objectives were met The Supervisory Board was also entitled to grant the Chairman of the and the other members could be awarded up to 100% of their base Managing Board an additional incentive bonus, equal to up to 40% of salary. his base salary, for his overall performance in heading the Group, as assessed by the Supervisory Board. The five members of the Managing Board were assigned both shared and personal objectives for 2010: In early 2011, the Supervisory Board determined the incentive bonus due to each member of the Managing Board, based on the extent to uu the portion of the incentive bonus based on shared objectives which his 2010 objectives were met. corresponded to a maximum of 75% of the base salary of each of the Managing Board members. These quantified objectives In addition, in view of the particularly outstanding results achieved were based on the following performance criteria: consolidated in 2010, the Supervisory Board decided to grant additional bonuses recurring operating income, recurring operating income for the to Philippe Varin and the other members of the Managing Board, Automotive Division, the free cash flow of the manufacturing and amounting to €300,000 and €120,000 respectively. sales companies*, workplace safety, vehicle quality and customer service. The achievement level for each of the objectives was calculated based on accounting data or information provided by external organisations. Although the required achievement levels cannot be disclosed, they were determined precisely, in relationship with the corresponding budget items; * Net cash generated by the operating activities of manufacturing and sales companies (excluding BPF) in 2010, less net cash used in investing activities. 158 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Corporate Governance and Ethical Practices 5.2. Remuneration and Benefits of Board Members 5.2.1. Managing Board Compensation 5 2011 Compensation For 2011, the Supervisory Board has decided that, barring exceptional calculated based on accounting data or information provided by circumstances, the incentive bonus payable to the Chairman of the external organisations. Managing Board may represent a maximum of 150% of his base For the Chairman of the Managing Board, the portion of the incentive salary, unchanged from 2010. The maximum percentage for the other bonus determined by reference to shared Group objectives and members of the Managing Board has been increased to 110%, again personal objectives will correspond to a maximum of, respectively, barring any exceptional circumstances. 90% and 30% of his base salary. The additional incentive bonus based As in 2010, the incentive bonus for 2011 will be based on the on the Supervisory Board’s assessment of his overall performance in achievement of both shared and personal objectives set for the five heading the Group may represent a maximum of 30% of his base Managing Board members. salary. The shared Group objectives will be based on the following performance For the four other Managing Board members, the portions of their criteria: consolidated recurring operating income, recurring operating incentive bonus corresponding to shared Group objectives and income for the Automotive Division, implementation of the Automotive personal objectives will remain unchanged in 2011, at 75% and 25% Division Performance Plan, the net cash position of the manufacturing of their base salary respectively. The Supervisory Board will also be and sales companies, workplace safety, vehicle quality and customer able to allocate each of these Managing Board members an additional service. The achievement level for each of the objectives will be bonus – representing up to 10% of their base salary – following an overall assessment of their performance. Pension Benefits under an Insured Plan The Group has set up a top hat pension plan for its senior executives For future members of the Managing Board: (including eligible Managing Board members) to supplement the The following terms and conditions will apply to future Managing retirement benefits payable under statutory schemes. The eligibility Board members: the reference benchmark salary will correspond to criteria and the applicable terms and conditions are set out in the plan. the average of their base salary for the last three years in their position For the current members of the Managing Board: plus a percentage equal to the average of the ratios of their incentive bonus/base salary for the eight years preceding their retirement from For current Managing Board members, the top hat plan guarantees the PSA Peugeot Citroën Group. a level of pension benefit in the aggregate for all plans (statutory and supplementary) equal to up to 50% of a benchmark salary, taken to The additional benefits will comprise i) a fixed portion equivalent be the average of the three highest gross annual salaries (including to 20% of the benchmark salary and ii) an additional 1.75% of the incentive bonus) received over the last five years with the Group. benchmark salary per year of service with the Group, up to a maximum 30%. The overall pension benefits payable under all plans (statutory The additional benefits comprise i) a fixed portion equivalent to 30% and supplementary) will be capped at 50% of the benchmark salary of the benchmark salary and ii) an additional 2% of the benchmark and at 29 times the annual ceiling used for social security contributions. salary per year of service with the Group, up to a maximum 20%. To be To be entitled to this additional pension benefit, a member must have entitled to this additional pension benefit, a member must have served served as a senior executive of the Group (as defined in the plan) for at as a senior executive of the Group (as defined in the plan) for at least least eight years and end his or her career with the Group. five years and must end his career with the Group. Employment Contracts None of the members of the Managing Board has an employment corporate officer. Consequently none of them would be entitled to contract that would be reinstated after he or she ceases to be a receive any benefits for the termination of an employment contract. Stock-Options/Stock Grants Without Consideration None of the members of the Managing Board was granted any stocksection 20 of the 2010 Registration Document. Table 5 (§ 15.3 of the options or performance shares in 2010. 2010 Registration Document) shows that none of these options were exercised by Managing Board members during the year. The Managing Board members who received stock-options in 2007 and 2008 are subject to lock-up rules and are prohibited from using To the best of the company’s knowledge, none of these options have hedging instruments. been covered by a hedging instrument. Details of previous stock-option plans in effect at 31 December 2010 are presented in Note 26.3 to the consolidated financial statements in PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 159 5 Corporate Governance and Ethical Practices 5.3. Internal Control Systems Other Benefits The only benefit in kind provided to Managing Board members is a cease to be a member. Details of the different types of compensation, company car. commitments and benefits granted to Managing Board members in respect of their office in 2010 are presented in tables 1, 2 and 10 in No other commitments have been given to past or present Managing section 15 of the 2010 Registration Document. Board members concerning any other benefits to be paid when they 5.2.2. Supervisory Board Compensation Supervisory Board members and advisors are paid annual attendance Details on the different types of compensation, commitments and fees up to an aggregate amount determined in advance by the benefits granted to Supervisory Board members in respect of 2010 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. Pursuant to the decision of the Annual are presented in the tables in section 15 of the 2010 Registration Shareholders’ Meeting of 28 May 2008, this amount has been set at Document. €600,000 until further notice. In addition, Thierry Peugeot, Jean-Philippe Peugeot, Robert Peugeot In 2010, €30,000 was allocated to each member of the Supervisory and Marie-Hélène Roncoroni receive compensation for working or Board and €17,000 to each advisor. The members of the Supervisory holding corporate offices in the Peugeot family’s companies. Details Board Committees were paid an additional €10,000, with the Chairmen regarding this compensation are provided in the Foncière, Financière of the Strategy Committee, the Appointments and Governance et de Participations (FFP) Management Report. Committee and the Compensation Committee receiving an additional The Supervisory Board has decided to increase its Chairman’s €15,000 and the Chairman of the Finance and Audit Committee annual compensation to €550,000 as from 2011 and to put forward €20,000. a recommendation to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting to raise to The Chairman of the Supervisory Board also received €425,000 in €1 million the directors’ fees allocated to Supervisory Board members compensation for 2010, unchanged since 2002, and each of the Vicefor their duties as members of the Board and/or members/Chairmen Chairmen of the Supervisory Board received €30,000. of the Board Committees. The Supervisory Board considers that this recommendation is justified in view of the volume of work carried out No benefits in kind were awarded to Supervisory Board members, with by its members as well as the significant amount of time devoted to the exception of a company car provided for the Chairman. preparing and attending Board and Committee meetings. 5.3. Internal Control Systems The applicable internal control processes are described in the Report of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board in section 16 of the 2010 Registration Document. Objectives of the PSA Peugeot Citroën Internal Control Systems As part of its commitment to preventing and limiting the effect of More generally, these procedures and processes also contribute to the internal and external risks, the Group has set up risk management and proficient management of the Group’s businesses, the effectiveness of internal control to ensure: its operations and the efficient use of its resources. uu compliance with laws and regulations; The Group’s internal controls are implemented based on its operational uu application of the Managing Board’s instructions and strategic organisation as well as its legal structure. guidelines; uu efficient internal processes, particularly those that help to safeguard the assets of the Group’s companies; uu reliable financial reporting. 160 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Corporate Governance and Ethical Practices 5.3. Internal Control Systems 5 Internal Control Principles PSA Peugeot Citroën’s internal control system was designed with five –– the process is underpinned by compliance with applicable laws key goals in mind: and regulations, exemplary behaviour and ethical practices, which the Group believes to be essential to responsible growth. uu to reflect the Group’s strategic objectives, which are to be a global, uu to integrate a formal system, the Global Risk Management System profitable, independent company that ranks among the world’s (GRMS); leading broadline automobile manufacturers: uu to structure the system in such a way that it enables each –– the entire process is designed to proactively identify the risks department or division to deploy the same risk management and capable of affecting the Group over the medium to long term, internal control process; –– all of the Group’s companies are involved in the process, uu to deploy the system with the support of dedicated standards and managing risks and ensuring internal control compliance in all IT resources; of their operations, uu to make the system auditable based on quality indicators. –– the process focuses on action plans and outcomes, with a constant view to supporting operating efficiency, Risk Management and Control Guidelines At its monthly meetings, the Executive Committee systematically Audit Department carried out 85 audits, whose general conclusions tracks the Group’s major risks, with a focus on new developments or were reported to Senior Management and to the external auditors the emergence of new risks. During these meetings, it is informed of for the purpose of their accounting and financial reports. The Internal any difficulties encountered in managing these risks and plays careful Audit Department is also responsible for assessing the quality of the attention to the effectiveness and quality of the action plans being Group’s internal control system. deployed. The Legal Affairs Department, which is part of the Corporate Secretary, In general, Senior Management is responsible for the quality of is responsible for preparing or verifying the Group’s contractual internal control and risk management systems, whose design and commitments and ensuring their legal and regulatory compliance. It implementation it delegates to the Corporate Secretary, and more is also in charge of organising the Group’s defence in the event of particularly to the Risk Management and Control Department. disputes with third parties. In this way, it helps to limit and manage the Group’s exposure to legal risks as an employer and in connection with Each operating Division and corporate Department has its own the design and distribution of vehicles, the purchase of components reference manual, accessible by every employee on a dedicated and the supply of services. intranet site and describing its operating procedures and processes as well as interfaces with the other Departments or Divisions. It offers an Management controls within the Group are organised around an effective working framework to provide employees with the information integrated three-tier structure: they need to correctly perform the tasks assigned to them. uu a Corporate Department is responsible for the entire system and In accordance with the corresponding risk management and control for issuing finance and management standards and procedures, guidelines, each Division or Department is responsible for managing describing the methods to be used, the related software applications and controlling its own risk. As such, each one applies in its remit the and the timelines for the various tasks; iterative five-step process described in the Global Risk Management uu the second tier consists of management control structures at System: (i) identify, (ii) analyse, (iii) assess, (iv) address and (v) control divisional level, with Automotive Division controls organised around risks. Deployment of this process is managed by an Executive Risk the main entities (the brands, production, R&D); Controller and by the Site Risk Managers, backed as needed by a uu the third tier corresponds to management control structures in each network of specialists capable of managing specific risks, such as operating unit, such as a plant or a marketing and sales subsidiary financial and legal risks, information system risks, environmental risks for the Automotive Division. and supplier risks. The Supervisory Board, with the support of the Finance and Audit The Risk Management and Control Department, which reports to Committee ensures that the risk management and internal control the Corporate Secretary, designs and maintains the Global Risk system operates effectively. It is informed of the internal control Management System and the dedicated information system. In this system and the risk map, with particular emphasis of risks capable capacity, it works in close cooperation with the network of Executive of having an impact on the Company’s financial and accounting Risk Controllers and Site Risk Managers, who submit the information information, and ensures that these systems are sufficiently mature that the Department consolidates and analyses to prepare an updated and proficiently managed. It was with these objectives in mind that risk map. Every month, the updated map is sent to the Executive the Risk Management and Control Department presented the Group’s Committee along with comments on any difficulties encountered in internal control and risk management procedures and risk mapping managing the identified risks and the action plans to be implemented methodology to the Finance and Audit Committee at its July meeting. or enhanced. The Finance and Audit Committee also reviews the Internal Audit The Internal Audit Department, which is part of the Corporate Department’s organisational and operating principles, expresses an Secretary, uses the risk map created from the Global Risk Management opinion on the internal audit plan and is informed of the findings of (i) System as a base for preparing its annual audit plan, which is defined the internal audits performed as part of the plan and (ii) the follow-up independently and subsequently submitted to Senior Management audits to check that the recommendations have been implemented. and the Finance and Audit Committee for review. In 2010, the Internal As part of this process, a session was devoted entirely to the Internal PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 161 5 Corporate Governance and Ethical Practices 5.4. Ethical Practices 5.4.1. Code of Ethics Audit Department at the Finance and Audit Committee’s January The Finance and Audit Committee may also be asked by the Managing 2011 meeting, which was attended without the Chief Financial Officer Board, the head of internal audit, the head of internal control or and other members of the Managing Board. During the meeting, the the Statutory Auditors to review any event exposing the Group to Committee reviewed the findings of the 2010 audits, the progress made significant risk. on the resulting action plans, the 2011 audit plan and the organisation and resources deployed to lead these audits and track their outcomes. 5.4. Ethical Practices 5.4.1. Code of Ethics New Code of Ethics PSA Peugeot Citroën’s corporate culture is based on respect and In 2010, PSA Peugeot Citroën emphasised the importance of ethical responsibility, reflecting both the history of the Group and that of the practices by deploying a new, expanded Code of Ethics. Available in Peugeot and Citroën brands. This ethical outlook was reaffirmed in eight languages and comprising 16 rules of ethical conduct, the Code the strategic Vision statement unveiled in 2009, which had as its core of Ethics is designed to provide employees with updated guidelines ambition of responsible development. that reflect the company’s business, social and environmental responsibilities. This ambition is evidenced in collective commitments to key stakeholders, including customers, employees, shareholders, partners All employees may refer to the Code of Ethics, which is posted on the and the community. To meet these commitments, everyone in the Group intranet. corporate community must comply with shared ethical guidelines, In line with its pledge to support the Global Compact, PSA Peugeot compiled in the Group’s Code of Ethics. Citroën ensures that its actions always reflect the principles defined in the Code of Ethics, particularly with respect to not financing political parties, avoiding conflicts of interest and preventing acts of corruption. Structured Cascading Managers from all levels were deeply involved in the extensive behaviours or situations have several options available to them. They deployment of the new Code of Ethics. The Group’s 752 executive and may express their concerns to their supervisor, their human resources senior managers were asked to personally sign the Code and cascade manager or a member of the Executive Committee. In 2011, all its rules to their teams. In addition, the Management Committees managers, employees, technicians and supervisors will be asked to have been asked to spend at least two meetings each year formally formally accept the Code’s rules of conduct. measuring their practices against the Code of Ethics. Lastly, an international network of Chief Ethics Officers was put into The Group also has an Ethics Committee that reports to the Executive place to deploy the process in every host country and to systematically Committee. Its members include the Corporate Secretary (Chairman), report to the Ethics Committee any local ethical issues or breaches of the head of Human Resources and the head of internal audit. compliance. If necessary, employees can reach the Ethics Committee directly via a dedicated e-mail address. Employees who witness non-compliant The PSA Peugeot Citroën Code of Ethics may be downloaded from the sustainable development website. 162 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Corporate Governance and Ethical Practices 5.4. Ethical Practices 5.4.2. Conflicts of Interest, Corruption and AntiCompetitive Behaviour 5 5.4.2. Conflicts of Interest, Corruption and AntiCompetitive Behaviour Preventing Corruption and Avoiding Conflicts of Interest Under the terms of the Global Framework Agreement on Social Suppliers are also expected to demonstrate their commitment to Responsibility, PSA Peugeot Citroën is committed to fighting against preventing corruption and avoiding conflicts of interest, as stipulated all forms of corruption and avoiding conflicts of interest. Every in PSA Peugeot Citroën’s Requirements Regarding Social and employee has been informed of this commitment and made aware of Environmental Responsibility with Respect to its Suppliers. Purchasing its importance. directives have also been defined to discourage corrupt practices. Demonstrating the commitment to fighting against corruption is based In addition to legally mandated control processes in force at Banque on the following key factors: PSA Finance, every audit of a Group plant, site or subsidiary includes procedures designed to analyse the risk of corruption, in order to uu the involvement of every employee; prevent any occurrence. A variety of audits and other internal control uu an analysis of risks and the definition of processes to control them; procedures are performed every year to detect any cases of corruption, uu the traceability of every transaction; with disciplinary action taken in line with the severity of the case. uu the separation of powers and multiple signatures depending on the amount of the transaction; In every aspect of its business, and particularly where competition rules uu careful selection of partners. are concerned, PSA Peugeot Citroën fully complies with applicable national or European Union law and regulations. To improve employee In addition, employees may report suspected cases of corruption or understanding of competition rules, an intranet-based e-learning potential corruption to their supervisor or to the Ethics Committee. programme designed to discourage anti-competitive behaviour is now offered in the catalogue of courses of PSA Peugeot Citroën. Cases of Conflict of Interest (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia) There were no major cases of conflict of interest reported in 2010. Cases of Corruption (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia) There were no convictions for corruption in 2010. Cases of Anti-Competitive Behaviour (Consolidated Group, excluding Faurecia) Group companies did not record any fines in 2010 that had a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. A provision was set aside for a case involving Peugeot’s subsidiary in Turkey. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 163 5 Corporate Governance and Ethical Practices 164 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Review report by one of the Statutory Auditors This is a free translation into English of the report by one of the Statutory Auditors issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. Review report by one of the Statutory Auditors on the Processes for Compiling Certain Environmental and Social Indicators and on a Selection of PSA Peugeot Citroën Group Data Published in the 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Report To the Management of PSA Peugeot Citroën, At the request of PSA Peugeot Citroën and in our capacity as the Group’s Statutory Auditors, we have performed a review for the purpose of enabling us to express moderate assurance on: uu the Group’s processes for compiling i) certain environmental indicators from the Group’s plants, offices and other facilities, and ii) social indicators for the Group with the exception of Faurecia; uu data of a selection of environmental indicators for production facilities operated by Peugeot Citroën Automobiles (PCA) and certain social indicators for the Automotive Division. The corresponding 2010 indicators are shown in the “Environment” and “Social and Society” chapters of the 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators document, where they are indentified by the following symbols: uu for Group environmental indicators and Group social indicators with the exception of Faurecia, the compilation processes of which have been reviewed within the context of our work; uu for PCA plant environmental indicators and Automotive Division social indicators, the data of which have been reviewed within the context of our work. The above-mentioned indicators were prepared and compiled under the responsibility of PSA Peugeot Citroën management in accordance with the Group’s 2010 reporting standards. Information concerning these standards may be requested from the Group Sustainable. Development Department at contact.sustainability@mpsa.com. Our responsibility, based on our review, is to express a conclusion on the processes for compiling indicators and on the selection of the above-mentioned data. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 165 Review report by one of the Statutory Auditors Nature and Scope of our Work We carried out our work in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. We performed the procedures described below to obtain moderate assurance that no irregularities exist with regard to data of the selection of reported environmental and social indicators and the processes enabling their compilation. We did not perform all of the procedures required to obtain reasonable assurance (a higher level of assurance). uu We assessed the processes used by the different Group units to report environmental and social indicators to head office, with regard to their relevance, reliability, objectivity and understandability. uu We selected a sample of facilities, as described below, based on the quantitative and qualitative criteria applied to the data (such as relative weighting, region or business) and in line with the findings of our previous reviews. In the selected facilities and units, we conducted interviews with the persons responsible for compiling the data to verify that the processes were properly understood and correctly implemented. We performed detailed assessments, on a test basis, to verify that the selected data had been correctly calculated and were consistent with the supporting documentation. Sample selected for environmental indicators: PCA Manufacturing sites in Caen, Poissy and Sochaux (France) and in Vigo (Spain) Faurecia The facilities in Augsburg and Essen (Germany) and Pitesti (Romania) Gefco The Gefco subsidiaries in France and the Czech Republic Peugeot and Citroën Brands Peugeot France regional headquarters Peugeot and Citroën subsidiaries in Spain Sample selected for the social indicators: PCA Manufacturing facilities in Mulhouse, Poissy and Rennes (France) and Vigo (Spain) Gefco The Gefco subsidiaries in France and the Czech Republic The PCA production plants or Automotive Division facilities whose data were reviewed represent the following contributions: –– for environmental indicators, an average of 30% of the PCA plants’ energy consumption, 30% of their direct greenhouse gas emissions, 13% of their sulphur dioxide emissions, 32% of their nitrogen dioxide emissions, 58% of their volatile organic compound emissions and 42% of their water consumption; –– for social indicators, 39% of the hours worked in the Automotive Division facilities used to calculate lost-time incident frequency and severity rates. uu For environmental indicators, we prepared a questionnaire to enable us to assess, on a test basis, whether the indicators reporting processes were properly applied and the internal controls effectively performed. This questionnaire was sent to: –– 22 Faurecia facilities in 15 countries, –– 5 Gefco subsidiaries in 5 countries, –– 5 Peugeot and Citroën subsidiaries in 3 countries. uu We prepared similar questionnaires for social indicators and sent them to six Peugeot and Citroën subsidiaries. uu Lastly, at Group level, we performed analytical procedures and verified, on a test basis, that the data had been correctly consolidated and calculated. 166 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Review report by one of the Statutory Auditors This work involved, in particular, interviews with the persons responsible for preparing and applying the processes and consolidating the data, as follows: The Industrial Environment Unit, part of the Institutional Relations Department in the Corporate Secretary, which is in charge of compiling and consolidating environmental reporting data from PCA production plants and for centralising Group Groupe / PCA environmental indicators An outside service provider in charge of compiling and consolidating Faurecia’s environmental data The Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) coordinators for each of Faurecia’s four Business Groups (Automotive Seating, Interior Systems, Emissions Control Technologies and Automotive Exteriors) The HSE managers in charge of validating environmental indicators for: uu The Automotive Seating Business Group uu The Northern Europe division of the Automotive Exteriors Business Group, the Spain-Portugal-United Kingdom division of the Faurecia Interior Systems Business Group and the Europe-South Africa division of the Emissions Control Technologies Business Group An outside service provider in charge of compiling and consolidating Gefco’s environmental data Gefco The Sustainable Development Officer in the Quality Department in charge of validating Gefco environmental reporting data. An outside service provider in charge of compiling and consolidating the Peugeot and Citroën brands’ environmental data Peugeot and The Environment Manager in the Customer Service Department responsible for compiling and consolidating environmental Citroën Brands reporting data from the Peugeot and Citroën brands For social indicators: Group The Employee Relations and Labour Department, part of the Industrial Department and the Human Resources Reporting Department which reports to the Human Resources and Quality Department, in charge of compiling social reporting data, establishing certain data on workforce, training, working hours and workweek organisation, and consolidating social indicators Gefco The Gefco Human Resources Management Control Department, part of the Human Resources, Communication and Organisation Department, in charge of reviewing employee data compiled by Gefco subsidiaries In performing our work, we were assisted by experts from our Sustainable Development Department. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 167 Review report by one of the Statutory Auditors Conclusion Concerning the environmental indicators, our review revealed limited or non-existent internal controls of environmental reporting data from the Peugeot and Citroën brands and Gefco. Based on our review and subject to the mentioned above exception, no material irregularities came to light causing us to believe that the following processes and data do not comply with the Group’s 2010 reporting standards and procedures: uu the processes for compiling environmental indicators from the plants, and the social indicators for the Group (with the exception of social indicators of Faurecia), uu the data of a selection of environmental indicators reported for PCA production facilities and the Automotive Division social indicators, specified in the first paragraph. Neuilly-sur-Seine, 12 April 2011 Pierre Riou Sylvain Lambert Partner Partner Statutory Auditor Sustainable Development Department 168 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators GRI Statement and cross Titre 1bis reference tables The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Statement PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 169 GRI Statement and cross reference tables GRI Index 2010 Sustainable 2010 Sustainable Development Development and Performance Registration Annual Report Indicators Document Reporting (relevant pages) (relevant pages) (relevant pages) status 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Executive management statement 4-5, 8-9 6 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 7-8 13-26 2. Organisation Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation Cover Cover Cover 2.2 Primary brands, products, services 18-29 32-33, 58-59 65-84 2.3 Operational structure 6-7, 10-11 150-151 85-90 2.4 Location of headquarters Back cover Back cover Back cover 2.5 Country operations 12-13 64-65 92-93 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 50 26-27 192 2.7 Markets served 30-35 30-31 68, 74-78 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation 12-13 30, 34, 93 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 20 363-365 2.10 Awards received 24 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period 20 3.2 Date of most recent report 20 3.3 Reporting cycle 20 3.4 Contact point for questions about the report or its contents 1 6 3.5 Process for defining report content 15-17, 20, 41 (1) 3.6 Boundary of the report 20, 64-65, 92 3.7 Limitations on report scope 20, 64-65, 92 3.8 Basis for reporting on subsidiaries and partially/non-owned entities 20 3.9 Data measurement techniques 20, 64-65, 92 3.10 Re-statements from previous reports 64 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 20 3.12 GRI content index 170-174 3.13 External assurance for the report 1, 21 4. Governance, Commitments & Engagement 4.1 Governance structure 6-7, 10-11 150-151 125-134 4.2 Executive officer and the Chair of the gouvernance body 150-160 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive Board members N/R (2) 4.4 Shareholders/Employee mechanisms for Board Direction 50 26 193 4.5 Compensation and organisational performance 158-160 135-146 4.6 Conflict of interest avoidance 152, 163 4.7 Qualifications/expertise of Board members 150-154 4.8 Mission and values statements 4-5, 8-9 6, 9-11, 162 4.9 Board oversight of sustainability performance 9, 12 4.10 Performance evaluation of Board of Directors 153-154 151-152 4.11 Precautionnary approach/principle 160-162 4.12 Endorsement of external sustainablity charters/initiatives 12 4.13 Significant memberships in associations 12 4.14 Listing of stakeholder groups 13 4.15 Basis for stakeholders identification/selection 13-15 4.16 Stakeholder engagement approaches 14-15 4.17 Key stakeholder issues and concerns 15-17 170 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators GRI Statement and cross reference tables 2010 Sustainable 2010 Sustainable Development Development and Performance Registration Annual Report Indicators Document Reporting Indicator (relevant pages) (relevant pages) (relevant pages) status Economy 25-38 EC1 Economic value generated and distributed 12-13 29 Financial implications, risks and opportunities due EC2 to climate change 7-8, 40-42 (3) EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations 129 EC4 Financial assistance received from government 29 EC5 Wages comparison 125-127 184 EC6 Spending on locally based suppliers 37-38 EC7 Local hiring 94 EC8 Infrastructure investments and public benefit 142-147 EC9 Indirect economic impacts 7-8, 35-37 (4) Environment 39-54, 63-90 EN1 Weight or volume of materials used 50, 52, 79 46 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled 52, 79 39-40, 46 (5) EN3 Direct energy consumption broken down by primary source 49 68, 70 47 Indirect energy consumption broken down by primary EN4 source 49 69, 70 48 (6) Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency EN5 improvements 40-43, 70 41 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient products/services, EN6 and energy saved 15-17 40-50 35-38 (7) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 40-50, 71-72 31-34 (8) EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 49 78-79 45 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal EN9 of water 79 (9) EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused (10) Location/size of land owned/lease/managed in, EN11 or adjacent to, protected areas 88-89 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities on protected areas 88-89 EN13 Area of habitats protected or restored 88-89, 147 EN14 Programmes for managing impacts on biodiversity 88-89 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list EN15 species affected by operations 88-89 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions EN16 by weight 49 71-72 49 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions EN17 by weight 15-17, 49 41-45, 73 51 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 15-17 46-50, 72-74 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 77 (11) NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type EN20 and weight 49 75-76 50 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 86-88 42, 46 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 49 80-85 42, 52-54 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 88 Weight of hazardous waste transported, imported, EN24 exported, or treated 81-85 52-54 Water sources/habitats significantly affected by water EN25 and runoff 79, 87-89 Initiatives to manage environmental impacts of products EN26 and services across product lifecycle 41, 52 EN27 Reclaimed products 55, 81 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 171 GRI Statement and cross reference tables 2010 Sustainable 2010 Sustainable Development Development and Performance Registration Annual Report Indicators Document Reporting Indicator (relevant pages) (relevant pages) (relevant pages) status Incidents/fines for non compliance with environmental EN28 regulations 88 43 EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transport for logistics 73-74 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures 40 (12) Labour practices & decent work 91-141 Workforce by employment type, employment contract, LA1 and region 13 93-97 177-178 LA2 Employee turnover by age/gender/region 49 97-101 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees 124-127 LA4 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 107 172 LA5 Notice period regarding operational changes 109 LA6 Management-worker health and safety committees 119 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, LA7 absenteeism and fatalities, by region 43-44, 49 110-118, 123 164-165 LA8 Education for families affected by serious diseases 117 165-167 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements 120 LA10 Average hours of training 49 105-106 187 LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning 45 105-107 169-170 LA12 Performance and career evaluations 104 187-188 LA13 Employee and governance body demographics 6-7, 10-11 130-138 185-186 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee LA14 category 126-127 Human rights 139-141 HR1 Investment agreements with human rights clauses 35-36 HR2 Human rights screening of major suppliers/contractors 35-36 Employee training on human rights policies HR3 and procedures 140-141 Total number of incidents of discrimination HR4 and actions taken 138 HR5 Freedom of association 107-109, 139-141 171-172 HR6 Child labor risk and elimination 35-36, 139-141 173 HR7 Forced and compulsory labor risk and elimination 35-36, 139-141 173 HR8 Security practices (security personnel training) 135-136 HR9 Indigenous rights 139-141 172 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators GRI Statement and cross reference tables 2010 Sustainable 2010 Sustainable Development Development and Performance Registration Annual Report Indicators Document Reporting Indicator (relevant pages) (relevant pages) (relevant pages) status Product responsibility 39-62 Health and safety across the life cycle of products PR1 and services 15-17 7, 41, 54-58, 61 54-57 PR2 Non-compliance with health and safety regulations 61 PR3 Product and service information and labeling 62 Non-compliance with product and service information PR4 and labeling regulation 62 PR5 Procedures relating to customer satisfaction 38 8, 60-61 PR6 Marketing communications’ adherence to regulations 62 Non-compliance with marketing communications PR7 regulations 62 PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy 61 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations regarding provision and use PR9 of products and services 61-62 Society 142-148 SO1 Impacts of operations on communities 47 142-148 59-63 SO2 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption 160-163 SO3 Extent of training and risk analysis to prevent corruption 44-45 160-163 SO4 Actions taken in response to instances of corruption 163 SO5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying 18-19 SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties 162 Anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly SO7 practices 163 Monetary value of significant fines/sanctions SO8 for noncompliance with laws/regulations 61-62, 88, 163 43 Standard indicators are in black. Additional indicators are in grey. Fully reported Partially reported Not reported; N/R: Not relevant Note that this document does not necessarily contain all of because the reporting status reflects information disclosed in other PSA Peugeot Citroën’s response to a given indicator, even though media, such as the PSA Peugeot Citroën sustainable development its reporting status shows that it is partially or fully reported. This is website (www.sustainability.psa-peugeot-citroen.com). The GRI content index template is available on the Group’s sustainable development website. PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 173 GRI Statement and cross reference tables Notes: (1) For defining report content, material issues have been studied thanks to the stakeholders’ feedback collected in our survey on the Group sustainable development commitment and reporting and thanks to our own assessment of our main impacts at every step of the life cycle of the products. Main challenges and results are also reported in the 2010 Sustainable Development and Annual Report. This process complies with the GRI’s ‘Guidance on Defining Report Content’. (2) Not relevant − The governance of PSA Peugeot Citroën is based on an Executive Board and a Supervisory Board. (3) The Group has responded to the Carbon Disclosure Project questionnaire (CDP). Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change are indicated in the Group’s answers to this questionnaire. Risk factors are described in 2010 Registration Document, section 4. (4) Not available. Indirect economic impact is difficult to assess by company. The ratio in industry between direct employment and ancillary employment can be estimated at 3 to 4. Other impact types are covered in certain studies, but it is still difficult to make reliable economic assessments. (5) The use of renewable materials is monitored internally. The key focus is on recyclability and the effective recycling of vehicles. (6) Not available. The Group consumes outsourced electricity and steam. No detail on all suppliers’ primary sources is available. The Group will be able to provide this indicator for PCA’s perimeter (manufacturing operations of the Automotive Division) for the next reporting session and is tempting to retrieve the information for Gefco and APIAC in mid or long-term. (7) The energy challenges of the automotive industry concerning its products are closely linked to the greenhouse effect. Cf. EN18. (8) Not available. The energy consumption of suppliers of automotive parts for Peugeot and Citroën vehicles is neither compiled nor estimated. PSA Peugeot Citroën encourages its suppliers to make progress through its purchasing requirements. (9) Not relevant. PSA Peugeot Citroën’s sites are not located in areas with water withdrawal restrictions, so have no significant impact on the water source. (10) Not available. Optimising water consumption at PCA automotive sites is factored in from the design phase of the new site and is one of the objectives of the Environmental Management System. Water recycling and other processes to limit water consumption are encouraged. Open circuit cooling is forbidden at all new facilities. PSA Peugeot Citroën prefers to monitor its water consumption (cf. water consumption indicator) rather than measure the quantity of water recycled at each site. (11) Weight not available, but a complete action plan is set up. The Group’s is studying the feasibility to consolidate this indicator in order to be able to provide reliable data in long-term. (12) Not available. Only R&D expenses dedicated to environmental issues are estimated and published. This indicator is not consolidated. As of today, no methodology exists to assess this cost within a reliable bracket for all industrial activities. The Group monitors trends in these costs on a case-by-case basis, notably investments in this area, and has started internal discussions on the subject in parallel with the development of a possible international standard. Correspondance between Global Compact and GRI indicators Areas Principle GRI G3 indicators 1. Businesses are asked to support and respect the protection of 1. Human Rights international human rights within their sphere of influence. HR1,HR2,HR3,HR5,HR6,HR7,HR8,HR9 2. Make sure their own corporations are not complicit in human rights abuses. 1.1,EC1,HR1,HR2,HR8 3. Businesses are asked to uphold the freedom of association and the 2. Labour effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. HR5,LA4,LA5 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. HR7 5. The effective abolition of child labour. HR6 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. HR4,LA2,LA10,LA13,LA14 7. Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to 3. Environment environmental challenges. 2.1 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly EN2,EN5,EN6,EN7,EN10,EN13,EN14, technologies. EN 18,EN21,EN22,EN26,EN27,EN30 EN2,EN5,EN6,EN7,EN10,EN18,EN26, 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. EN27 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including 4. Anti-Corruption extortion and bribery. SO2,SO3,SO4 174 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators GRI Statement and cross reference tables ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility 2010 Sustainable Development Core subjects and issues of Performance Indicators social responsibility (relevant pages) Core subject Organizational governance 150-157 Core subject Human rights Issue 1 Due diligence 139 Issue 2 Human rights risk situations 139-141 Issue 3 Avoidance of complicity 139-141 Issue 4 Resolving grievances 139-141 Issue 5 Discrimination and vulnerable groups 130-138 Issue 6 Civil and political rights 139-141 Issue 7 Economic, social and cultural rights 139-141 Issue 8 Fundamental rights at work 139-141 Core subject Labour Practices Issue 1 Employment and employment relationships 92-109 Issue 2 Conditions of work and social protection 113-123 Issue 3 Social dialogue 107-109 Issue 4 Health and safety at work 110-123 Issue 5 Human development and training in the workplace 105-107 Core subject The environment Issue 1 Prevention of pollution 51-52, 75-77 Issue 2 Sustainable resource use 52-53 Issue 3 Climate change mitigation and adaptation 40-50, 68-74 Issue 4 Protection and restoration of the natural environment 86-89 Core subject Fair operating practices Issue 1 Anti–corruption 163 Issue 2 Responsible political involvement 162 Issue 3 Fair competition 163 Issue 4 Promoting social responsibility in the sphere of influence 35-37 Issue 5 Respect for property rights Core subject Consumer issues Issue 1 Fair marketing, information and contractual practices 61-62 Issue 2 Protecting consumers’ health and safety 54-58, 61 Issue 3 Sustainable consumption 59, 62 Issue 4 Consumer service, support, and dispute resolution 60-61 Issue 5 Consumer data protection and privacy 61 Issue 6 Access to essential services 146 Issue 7 Education and awareness 14-59 Core subject Community involvement and development Issue 1 Community involvement 142-147 Issue 2 Education and culture 145 Issue 3 Employment creation and skills development 97-99, 105-107, 176 Issue 4 Technology development 40-41 Issue 5 Wealth and income creation 29 Issue 6 Health 117 Issue 7 Social investment PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators 175 GRI Statement and cross reference tables 176 PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Indicators Cover photos: Nicolas Zwickel / Daniel Novak / Communication Chine / Stephan Meyer. Design: Design and copywriting: PSA Peugeot Citroën Sustainable Development Department – May 2011 This document was printed in France by an Imprim’Vert® certified printer, which guarantees the proper handling and disposal of hazardous waste through approved entities and the use of paper that is certified 100% recycled. Please recycle this publication in the appropriate container. PEUGEOT S.A. Incorporated in France with issued capital of €234,049,225 Governed by a Managing Board and a Supervisory Board Registered Office: 75, avenue de la Grande-Armée 75116 Paris, France R.C.S. Paris B 552 100 554 – Siret 552 100 554 00021 Phone: + 33 (0)1 40 66 55 11 – Fax: + 33 (0)1 40 66 54 14 www.psa-peugeot-citroen.com www.sustainability.psa-peugeot-citroen.com
