GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Company Name Pfizer Corporation Austria Address Floridsdorfer Hauptstrasse 1, 1210 Vienna Country Austria Membership date 2009/04/14 Number of employees 175 Contact name Robin Rumler Contact Position CEO Sector Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology Date 28/01/2011 Brief description of nature of business Pfizer Corporation Austria is the Austrian branch of Pfizer Inc., the world’s leading supplier of innovative medicines in the field of human and animal medicine. The Pfizer branch in Vienna was opened in 1956. Pfizer Austria has been able to steadily expand its market position in recent years and, since 2003, has occupied a leading position in the prescription pharmacy market. By 2003, Pfizer had carried out some 123 clinical trials with some 3,000 patients in Austria alone. In 2003, Pfizer Austria opened a new Clinical Research Unit and, with a growing number of employees, it is already working on over 30 phase II-IV clinical trial projects in the therapeutic areas of oncology, infectiology, psychiatry, neurology, rheumatology, cardiology, urology, endocrinology and coagulation. More than 100 Pfizer products are available on the Austrian market. In January 2009 Robin Rumler took over the management of Pfizer Austria. He is also Director of the Business Unit Primary Care. There are currently some 175 employees working for Pfizer Austria. Since the beginning of 2005, Pfizer Austria has been domiciled at Floridotower, in the 21st district of Vienna. Communication on Progress 2009 Pfizer Corporation Austria Statement of support Ladies and Gentlemen, I’m very proud and happy being able to present the first Communication of Progress (COP) of Pfizer Austria to you. Although this is our first COP, Pfizer Austria has a long standing tradition of taking on social responsibility. For us, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) means that – apart from economic growth and success social and ecological criteria will receive adequate consideration in our business activities and will be equally relevant for us. Not only on a global level, but also here in Austria our actions and activities will be governed by the principles of Global Compact, with Pfizer Inc. being a founding member and with Pfizer Austria having become a member of its own in 2009. We have committed ourselves to implement the principles and objectives of the UN Global Compact and to report on our progress. All our efforts will be based on our values and our mission and vision – “Working together for a healthier world“ (in German: “Gemeinsam für eine gesündere Welt”. What else is of particular importance for us? 9 Our responsibility goes beyond the field of medicine alone. Only together with partners we will be able to improve health and the healthcare system. 9 It is our mission to discover and develop new medicines and to provide these medicines to people around the globe. 9 Even in times of crisis CSR is no luxury for us, but an integrated component of our enterprise. For us, and for our stakeholders, this COP covers important social topics and is to show and demonstrate our social and healthcare activities. We have already developed special programs for various CSR fields or are about to do so, e.g. FAIR PLAY network for topics relating to our employees. The “Pfizer goes Green” initiative for environmentally friendly and ecological working procedures is currently in the planning phase. In addition, we cooperate intensely with a number of patient organizations and have also focused activities on other topics such as drug safety and disease prevention. Naturally, whatever we will achieve, will be achieved by the joint efforts of hundreds of Pfizer colleagues here in Austria – and thousands of colleagues worldwide. It is of particular importance to intensify inclusion and integration of our stakeholders and to ensure their cooperation; because confidence and trust will not be established by itself, but much rather by an atmosphere of openness and dialog and by appropriate transparency of our activities and objectives. We will continue to employ our best efforts to maintain and fulfill your trust and your expectations and will not rest on what has already been achieved: in 2010 we have conducted a detailed stakeholder analysis and have started to revise and update our CSR strategy and objectives to reduce any possible deficits and fully exhaust all potentials; and for 2011 a large-scale stakeholder dialog has been planned, among others. In January 2011 Pfizer Austria has published its first sustainability report based on the recognized guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative and is therefore one of the pioneers in the pharmaceutical industry in respect to CSR-reporting in Austria. The following pages are an excerpt of the report and all pages mentioned in this COP relate to the report. Even in times of unease and unrest we are facing the future with an optimistic stance. Please join us in doing so! Yours Dr. Robin Rumler Executive Director Pfizer Austria Vienna, 2010 Communication on Progress 2009 Pfizer Corporation Austria THE 10 PRINCIPLES OUR PROGRESS The UN Global Compact established in 2000 is based on 10 principles derived from basic ethical principles such as human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. The 7000 members to date (as with 2009) have committed themselves to socially responsible action within their sphere of influence and to the publication of an annual Communication on Progress. For more detailed information on UN Global Compact please visit www.unglobalcompact.org. Pfizer Austria has signed the UN Global Compact in April 2009. The present tabulated Communication on Progress provides a survey of how Pfizer Austria has implemented the 10 principles of UN Global Compact in its business activities and which results could be obtained in the year reported on. Measures and Principle Commitment Systems Achievements 2009 Human Rights Principle 1 Pfizer Austria commits itself to the full and • Code of Business Conduct • Audit “Job and Support and respect complete respect of human rights and (Pfizer Blue Book, p.14) family” human rights expects the same of its business partners. • Open Door Policy (p. 14) (p.11,20) Pfizer integrates human rights and values • Environment, Health & Principle 2 into all its business activities and Safety (internal Exclude any abuse of continually also develops new programs compliance program) human rights and measures to represent a good role (p.16) model also beyond its sphere of influence • UN Global Compact (p.11) Labour Standards Principle 3 Pfizer ensures fair working conditions for • Code of Business Conduct • Pfizer Working Uphold freedom of its employees and customers and commits (Pfizer Blue Book, p.14) Group FAIR association and recognize itself to treat all employees, business • Open Door Policy (p.14) PLAY (p.20) the right of collective partners and applicants with appropriate • UN Global Compact (p.11) bargaining honesty and respect. Pfizer commits itself Principle 4 to equal rights and offers its employees Engage in the abolition of and applicants equal employment any kind of forced labour chances regardless of ethnicity, gender, Principle 5 religious confession, etc. (p. 16-17, 19Engage in the abolition of 20). any kind of child labour Principle 6 • Audit “Job and Engage in the elimination family” of any kind of (p.11,20) discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7 It is an essential goal of Pfizer to run a • UN Global Compact (p.11) • Recycable Engage in and support more environmentally friendly business office material environment protection and to sensitize its employees for (p.35) environmental protection. Currently, the • Ecological Principle 8 discussions on planned future ecological office building Initiatives to promote measures are ongoing (p.35,36,38) (p.35) environmental responsibility Principle 9 Develop, enhance and promote environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10 Pfizer has shown a longstanding business • Code of Business Conduct • Employee Measures against policy prohibiting employees working on (Pfizer Blue Book, p.14) trainings (p.21corruption, extortion and behalf of Pfizer to provide persons or • Pharmig Code of Conduct 22) bribery institutions with payments or other (p.13,31) compensations in order to influence any officials in illegal manner or to obtain an unfair business advantage (p.13,14) Communication on Progress 2009 Pfizer Corporation Austria PROSPECTS – THINGS WE STILL WANT TO ACHIEVE IN THE FUTURE Pfizer Austria has made numerous plans to ensure more sustainable activities in various fields. On the one hand, we want to reduce our ecological footprint, i.e. by limiting our emissions and our energy consumption. On the other hand, we also want to enter into a more intense relationship with our stakeholders and collect and analyze their particular needs. In addition, it is our special intention to provide “a great place to work” for our employees and colleagues and to eliminate any weaknesses encountered in this respect. The following survey of our measures and objectives will provide a brief overview of the things we still intend to achieve: Anti-corruption Objective Measures Status Transparency o Publication of all our support services and donations • in planning Human Rights Objective Measures Status Diversity o Establishment of a working group on the topic • in planning “Diversity” Employees Objective Measures Status Extension of work o Evaluation and development of part-time and maternity • since 2010 life balance at place leave models of work o Extension and promotion of paternity leave • as from 2011 o “Exchange of experience” programs for maternity leave and part-time work for interested colleagues • as from 2011 Increase of employee o Regular collection of employees’ opinion • annually since 2010 satisfaction o Evaluation of opinion poll results and establishment of • since 2010 working groups o Reduction of fluctuation o “Fruit basket” for promoting employees’ health • as from 2011 • as from 2011 Society and social responsibility Objective Measures Status o Calculation of value o Preparation of a detailed value added calculation • in planning added (financial contribution of Pfizer Austria towards private and public income, including donations, distribution of profits, etc.) o Intensification of o Stakeholder analysis • since 2010 stakeholder dialog o Systematic stakeholder dialog (e.g. in focus groups, • since 2010 surveys, etc.) o Extension of o Extension of partners/institutions participating in the • since 2010 “Corporate “Corporate Volunteering Program Volunteering” Initiative Communication on Progress 2009 Pfizer Corporation Austria Product and drug safety Objective Measures Status Extension of o Testing of website usability and improving usability as • in planning information material needed o Preparation and design of information materials and for new dialog brochures in additional languages such as Turkish, • in planning groups Serbo-Croatian, English Product and drug o Additional studies and surveys for the purpose of • 2010 safety analyzing the issue and the attitude of the Austrian population with regard to counterfeit drugs o Information work for patients/general public with regard • 2010 to the topic “Counterfeit drugs and drug safety” in cooperation with Pharmig (Austrian Association of the Pharmaceutical Industry), Chamber of Pharmacists and Federal Ministry of Health Environment/Ecology o Ecological purchase o Use of products with eco-labels as far as possible • since 2010 o Complete switch to recycable office material (pens, copy and company paper, printing ink) • as from 2011 o Careful utilization of o Joint printer for all colleagues • since 2010 resources o Double-sided printing of documents • since 2010 o Switch to e-invoicing o Switch to electronic pay slips • since 2009 – ongoing o Reduction of direct and indirect energy consumption by • since 2009 – ongoing utilization of “Green” IT • in planning o Print shop – “Print on Demand” • since 2010 o Use of “eco-power for the Pfizer offices or extension of • as from 2011 the share of “clean energy” o Make Pfizer mobility o Introduction of gasoline consumption trainings for all • in planning for 2011 more ecological employees with company car o Extension of the car-sharing program • In planning for 2011 o Reduction of CO2 emission by “green fleet” as from 2011 • implementation until 2015 o Reduction of CO2 emission by 10% in the year 2011 • continual transformation process o Evaluation of o Eco-business plan – the check: optional analysis of • as from 2011 improvement potentials with practice-oriented approaches for potentials improvement o Initiative “Pfizer goes Green” • since 2010 o Green Behaviour o Incentive models for establishing green behavior • as from 2011 among employees o Internal training events on sustainability topics • since 2010 o Promotion of participation in external sustainability events • as from 2011 Communication on Progress 2009 Pfizer Corporation Austria
