Contents 2011 KOREAN AIR Sustainability report 2011 Korean Air’s sustainability report About this report 00 2010 Highlights 02 CEO’s Message SUSTAINING Purpose of the report 1370, Gonghang-dong, Gangseo-gu, Value Created Korean Air’s sustainability report, titled “Sustaining Excellence,” summarizes KoSeoul 157-712, Korea 06 Business Portfolio rean Air’s economic, social and environmental activities and achievements over EXCELLENCE 10 Corporate Governance Tel +82-2-2656-7114 www.koreanair.com the past year. In an effort to promote greater transparency, this annual report Current Effort for Sustainability serves to disclose such information to our stakeholders, including employees, 14 Sustainability Management customers, shareholders & investors, business partners, government agencies 16 Business Ethics and local communities, in a timely manner. 18 SkyTeam Joint Statement on Sustainable Management 20 2010 Major Sustainability Issues Reporting principles Economic Responsibility The Korean Air Sustainability Report 2011 is the airline’s sixth sustainability report, 26 Economic Performance by Region prepared in accordance with the G3 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 28 Business Environment & Risk Management This report also benchmarked the sustainability reports of other global airliners to 30 Economic Value Creation & Distribution reflect the aviation industry’s activities and achievements in terms of sustainability. Environmental Responsibility Reporting Content 36 Environmental Impact 38 Climate Change The content of the report was compiled by Korean Air’s Environment Team based on 40 Addressing Climate Change raw data and drafts of information collected from 23 related departments. Also, the 43 Fleet Modernization content was proofread by all pertinent departments and the members of Korean Air’s 46 Noise Reduction executive management. 48 Environmental Impact Minimization 54 Eco Campaigns Reporting scope Social Responsibility This report encompasses fiscal year 2010 (Jan. 1 – Dec. 31, 2010) and contains data 60 Customer Communication collected over the past three years. For more details regarding our economic per62 Customer Satisfaction Service formance in 2010, please refer to the Korean Air 2010 Annual Report. 64 Customer Safety & Security 66 Employment & Human Rights 68 Human Resource Management http://www.koreanair.com 70 Human Resource Development 72 Labor-Management Collaboration 73 Employee Compensation & Welfare 74 Employee Health & Safety 75 Win-Win Partnership 76 Social Contribution 78 Sports Sponsorship 79 Mecenat 80 Global Planting Campaign 81 Disaster Relief Activities Appendix 83 UN Global Compact 84 2010 Awards 85 GRI Summary 85 Readers’ Feedback This report is printed on an environmentally-friendly recycled paper using soybean oil. 2010 Highlights Korean Air Opens New Era in Air Travel Supporting Pyeongchang’s bid for the Ranked 2nd in IATA’s Global Ranking for Global Afforestation Campaign Opened Venue for Art and Culture, Opened a User-Friendly Website with A380 Aircraft 2018 Winter Olympics Commercial Cargo Transport the Ilwoo Space for Greater Internet Inclusiveness Under its fleet modernization plan, Korean Air is phasFor the third time, the city of Pyeongchang was again Korean Air was ranked second in the IATA’s global Committed to improving the environment, Korean The Ilwoo Foundation, under the direction of the HanIn 2010, Korean Air added a new webpage to its webing out old aircraft, replacing them with high-efficiena candidate for the Winter Olympic Games in 2018. In ranking for the transport of commercial cargo in 2011 Air launched a global project for the planting of trees jin Group, opened the Ilwoo Space a venue for the site dedicated to improving accessibility for visuallycy eco-friendly aircraft, such as A380s and B787s. The support of the committee behind the city’s bid, Korean and was ranked 13th in the transport of international in 2004 and has been continually to participating in promotion of art and culture for the general public. challenged users. The website uses fewer images company has ordered ten A380 aircraft and has placed Air mobilized its international network as a leading passengers. Although we missed the top spot in the these afforestation initiatives. In 2010, the company In seeking to give back to society, the Hanjin Group and more text, backed by a “Screen Reader” program its first A380 on commercial flights to Japan and Hong global airliner to bolster the city’s candidacy. Korean cargo transport ranking this year, we aim to regain the planted 87,700 trees in Mongolia, China and Los Anconstructed the space which is dedicated to the exwhich reads text aloud for the benefit of visually-imKong since June, 2011. Korean Air is proud to usher in Air’s Chairman Yang-ho Cho was inaugurated as the position by achieving greater customer satisfaction geles, in conjunction with NGOs. The company has hibition of photos and artwork. Nestled in the vicinity paired users. For color-blind patrons, the website ofa new era of air travel with its A380 aircraft for global chairman of the committee in September, 2009. Since through enhancements to our transport service. In now planted over a million trees around the world. In of Seoul’s art district near Deoksoo Palace, the Ilwoo fers users a variety of background colors to choose passengers, solidifying its corporate image as a leadthen, Chairman Cho has lead the Committee’s activi2010, Korean Air had 56,9 billion in RPK (revenue pas2010, the teachers and students of the Suwon AgriculSpace helps complete an area dedicated to art and from and user-friendly styles and formats. Moreover, ing global airliner. ties at various international sporting events and the senger kilometers: the sum of the number of revenue tural Life Science High School, the winner of the 2009 culture in the heart of downtown Seoul with cultural physically-challenged users can use key commands meetings of the International Olympic Committee passengers multiplied by the distance of travel) for the Green Teacher Green Tour contest, also participated in establishments such as the National Museum of for navigating the website. (IOC). transport of international passengers and 9,5 billion in the tree planting event along with students from NeiContemporary Art, Korea, the Seoul Museum of Art, FTK (freight ton kilometers: the sum of the metric tons menggu University. and the Jeongdong Theater. of revenue load carried multiplied by the distance of travel) for the transport of cargo. Opened Environmental Management Microsite Presidential Award for Contributions to Awards for Promotion of Consumer Rights at Korea’s Top HRD System Grand Prize of the 2010 Best Operation of A330 Aircraft Raising the Status of Women the 2010 National Competitiveness Awards Seoul Environmental Awards with On-Time Ratio of 99.84% In 2010, Korean Air opened sky.koreanair.com, a miKorean Air won the presidential prize for its contribuKorean Air won the Knowledge Economy Minister For the third year in a row, Korean Air won an award Korean Air won the grand prize at the 2010 Seoul EnKorean Air was awarded a prize for the “Best Opcrosite dedicated to the promotion of the company’s tions to raising the status of women at a ceremony prize at the 2010 National Competitiveness Awards for the Best HRD (Human Resources Development) at vironmental Awards. The city of Seoul gives awards to eration of A330 Aircraft” at the “A330/A340 Technolenvironmental management activities. The new site for the 15th Women’s Week. As the first signatory of and a prize in the customer-oriented service category the 2010 8th Korea HRD Awards held in February, 2010. NGOs and companies who set examples of environogy Symposium” organized by Airbus. Every two years, offers information and services related to the comthe Women-Friendly Company Agreement, Korean at the 2010 Consumer Rights Promotion Awards. The The company was awarded the top prize in the private mental protection at home and abroad. Korean Air was Airbus reviews and recognizes global airliners for pany’s environmental practices and activities such as Air has implemented various policies in support of National Competitiveness Awards recognize compasector for its excellent performance in and contribuawarded the grand prize for its various environmental excellence in their on-time ratios and stellar operata carbon calculator which allows passengers to calcuwomen. In addition to maternity leaves, the company nies that contribute to the competitiveness of the nations to the area of HRD. protection activities, including its annual global caming standards for the A330 and A340 aircraft. With an late their carbon footprint from the air travel, informaallows leaves of absence for female workers receivtion through innovations in management. Korean Air paign to plant trees to halt desertification in Mongolia, on-time ratio of 99.84% for a period of two years from tion on eco-friendly tours, and pledge forms for enviing medical treatment for sterility, and has separate was awarded the prize for its company-wide efforts to China and Los Angeles, Eco-Office drive, volunteer efNovember, 2007 to October, 2009, Korean Air was ronmental protection. rooms available for staff who breastfeed to collect achieve Service Excellence through ceaseless innovaforts by employees to reduce their own carbon footprint, ranked at the top for its operating practices of the milk at work for use at home. The company also offers tion and change such as upgrades to onboard facilities and the company’s Green Teacher Green Tour in which A330 amongst a field of 27 competitors comprising Sky Mom Classes on pregnancy, childbirth and childand equipment, the introduction of next-generation the company sends teachers overseas to do specialized the global airliners with fleets of more than 10 A330 care for staff members and their families. aircraft, the development of the Navoi International training in environmental practices. aircraft. Over the past decade, from 2000 to 2010, the Airport and various social contribution activities. company has won the prize six consecutive times, proving its excellence in the operation and maintenance of its fleet of A330 aircraft. In taking flight to the skies above, an airplane needs to be perfectly balanced in terms of weight, power and aerodynamics. Similarly, to achieve new heights in terms of sustainable growth, a company must strike just the right balance in its triple bottom lines. In protecting the earth, our one and only planet, and in giving back to society, Korean Air has achieved sustained growth and is spreading its wings to take another leap forward into a brighter future. 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 02 //////////////////// 03 CEO’s Message Dear stakeholders, I would like to express my sincere gratitude for your support In particular, we are planning to implement a company-wide and encouragement of Korean Air over the past year. In every program that will enable employees to donate time, talent or aspect of its operations, Korean Air has sought to build relamoney to people in need as part of the company’s efforts to tionships with its stakeholders while effectively managing give back to society through social contributions. The aim of economic and environmental sustainability and heeding the the program is to inspire employees to volunteer, thus spreadcompany’s social responsibilities. Included in our long list of ing the seeds of trust and care to every corner of society. stakeholders are Korean Air’s global passengers, shareholders, employees and their families, business partners, local While this program will actively encourage everyone at Kocommunities, NGOs and governments all over the world. rean Air to become more involved in volunteer activities, the I strongly believe that the first step in a company’s managecompany will also lay the groundwork for sustainable growth ment practices, in terms of sustainability, begins with a full through innovations in operating processes and procedures. awareness and subsequent fulfillment of the company’s roles We will continue to streamline processes to eliminate ineffiand responsibilities to its stakeholders. ciency while working to develop future engines of growth. At the same time, we will continue our efforts to establish a more The year 2010 marked Korean Air’s 41st anniversary, and Koflexible and dynamic corporate culture, one that will more efrean Air has made consistent efforts to grow as a leading global fectively nurture our employees’ creativity and passion while carrier over the past decades. In the meantime, we take pride attracting talented personnel to our ranks. Such talented in the fact that Korean Air has long been aware of, and has long and creative people will, in turn, contribute to the sustainable sought to fulfill its economic, social and environmental regrowth of the company. Before closing, I am proud to inform sponsibilities to its stakeholders. While our products and seryou that our first Airbus A380, newly added to our fleet, has vices, tailored to the needs of our many customers, have enabeen assigned to one of our commercial routes. We plan to bled us to gain a leading position in the global aviation industry, make the best use of this new eco-friendly aircraft and to utiit is the close collaboration with our stakeholders that will prolize its strengths improve our operating processes and the efpel Korean Air to a brighter and sustainable future. ficiency of our fleet operations. Coupled with Korean Air’s differentiated products and services, the new aircraft is expected In the early 1990s, Korean Air formulated its environmental phito bolster our operating profit, especially once we take delivery losophies and has been involved in a variety of environmental of ten new A380s that are currently on order. management activities since then, including a global campaign to plant trees, the modernizing of our fleet with the addition of ecoAs a respected corporate citizen that is effectively managed friendly aircraft, and the activities to increase our energy efficiency for long-term sustainability, all of us at Korean Air are ready Korean Air aims to increase its stature in the global aviation industry whether in our flight operations or on the ground. Korean Air was for a new year ahead as we continue to strengthen our relationships with stakeholders, including better communication a founding member of SkyTeam, an alliance made up of leading through effective management of its economic sustainability, environmental global airliners, which has been proactive in addressing environwith local communities. I would like to express my appreciastewardship and commitment to corporate social responsibilities while mental issues facing the global aviation industry. tion in advance for your support and encouragement in these endeavors. Please join with us at Korean Air as we take flight strengthening relationships with its stakeholders. We are also well aware of our corporate social responsibilities. to an even brighter future. In 2011, Korean Air intends to remain steadfast in its commitment to sustainability management practices, with social reThank you. sponsibilities standing as an essential part of such practices. Chairman & CEO Cho, Yang Ho 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 04 //////////////////// 05 Taking flight with sustainable competitiveness as a leading global carrier As Korea’s top airliner, Korean Air carries 22.74 million passengers and 1.8 million tons of freight every year to 113 destinations in 39 countries around the world. Commanding the top performances in the nation in the transport of passengers and freight, the company’s prestige continues to exalt the nation abroad. Korean Air’s aerospace business also contributes to the development of the nation’s aerospace industry, through its advanced technologies and expertise in aircraft design, manufacturing, lice nsing, reformulation, conversion, maintenance, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) and R&D in aerospace technologies. Korean Air has consistently innovated its processes to achieve higher levels of service quality, which has enabled the company to set a lofty goal for its 50th anniversary in 2019. This goal is for Korean Air to become one of the top 10 global passenger carriers transporting 20 million international passengers per year and to maintain its top ranking in the transport of international cargo with an annual transport of 2.5 million tons of cargo by 2019. 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 06 //////////////////// 07 Business Portfolio As Korea’s leading global carrier, Korean Air is involved in air transportation, aerospace, catering & in-flight sales, and hotel & limousine services. Transportation Performance ● International ● Domestic Air Transportation The cargo transport business expanded its ofAerospace As of the end of 2010, Korean Air had 128 airWe also added international routes to and from fering of highly-profitable charter flights and Korean Air’s aerospace business is growing craft in its fleet and offered scheduled routes regional airports and advanced into new marPassenger 22.74 million persons increased the number of flights on routes due as one of the top 10 global total solution proto 13 domestic and 113 international destinakets with the introduction of the Incheon-Hane14.98 million persons to the rising demand. In line with Navoi Airviders in the areas of aircraft design, manutions in 39 countries around the world. In 2010 da route. Furthermore, we introduced a new 7.76 million persons port’s strategy to become an Asian hub, we facturing, licensing production, upgrades, alone, we transported 22.74 million passenpremium service, the “Flexjet Connect” service expanded the number of routes from Southrestoration, conversion and maintenance. gers and 1.8 million tons of freight. During the through a marketing alliance with Flexjet, a U.S. east Asia and Europe to the Middle East and In the R&D sector for aircraft fuselages, we same year, we added next-generation aircraft company. The program offers passengers on Middle Asia. We also continued to develop recently completed the development of a employing state-of-the-art technologies to business trips flight connections to more than new markets while securing future engines of cutting-edge composite structure for the upgrade our existing fleet, such as Boeing’s 5,000 U.S. airports in any of ten cities in the U.S., growth. Furthermore, we developed new cusB787 and developed cargo doors for the A350, B777-300ER and the Airbus A330-200. The including New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles. tomized freight services tailored to customwhich we plan to supply to Airbus in 2011. In new airplanes were placed on various interWith as little as 24-hour notice, passengers can ers’ need, and we began an e-Freight service 2010, we extended a contract for forward national routes, including New York, Los Antake advantage of the greater convenience and to computerize our air transport cargo to entorque box panels for Boeing’s B777 and B767 Cargo 1.8 million tons geles, Mumbai and Melbourne, for the greatsavings in time by flying on high-performance 1.66 million tons hance customer satisfaction and create new Sec 48 aircraft. Besides this, we signed a er convenience of our global passengers. Bombardier business jets. 0.14 million tons market demand. number of new contracts, having recently received orders for the design and manufacture of the A320 wing structure, the Sharklet. Sales in Passenger Business (Unit: KRW in billions) 2008 5,953.3 2009 5,462.9 2010 6,343.1 Sales in Cargo Business (Unit: KRW in billions) Sales in Aerospace Business (Unit: KRW in billions) 2008 3,026.8 2008 367.7 2009 2,704.6 2009 251.7 2010 3,788.5 2010 342.9 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 08 //////////////////// 09 We also repair and manufacture about 25,000 cilities for the KSLV-2. Currently, we are preDrug Administration for its high safety standfree products to passengers on international aircraft components, performing mainteparing for the third launch of the KSLV-1 and ards. With the opening of a Food Safety Reroutes. With careful study of the feedback and nance on 100 civilian aircraft including the developing a design for a liquid rocket engine search Center at Inha University, we completthe analysis of customers’ needs, we offer a B747, A330, and A300-600. We also perform for the KSLV-2, as well as a booster tank. In ed a systematic process for the entire chain of variety of products while enhancing customer maintenance on fighter jets and transporters the satellite sector, we are developing multiproduction, from the purchase of ingredients satisfaction through strict standards of qualbelonging to the U.S. military stationed in the purpose 3A satellite structures, solar panels, to the preparation and delivery of meals, while ity control. In particular, our pre-order service Asia-Pacific region. Recently, we landed an satellite barrel structures, and a model for ensuring enhanced food safety and quality to has been instrumental in improving the effiorder for maintenance of the KC-130J, an inthe development of lunar probe structures. meet global standards. ciency of our in-flight sales. flight tanker for the U.S. Navy. In the sector for R&D of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV), we Catering & In-flight Sales Korean Air’s high standards in terms of menHotel and Limousine Service are involved in projects developing mediumKorean Air runs a profitable catering and us, food services and meal preparation were Korean Air operates KAL Hotels in Jeju City altitude UAVs (MUAV), surveillance systems, in-flight sales business. We develop menus again recognized for the sixth consecutive and Seogwipo, Korea, offering high-class sersmall-scale stealth aircraft, and R&D of highbased on customer surveys, produce meals year, from 2005 to 2010, at the PAX Readervices as a luxury hotel chain. In addition, we tech stealth capabilities. for scheduled flights at our catering center, ship Awards sponsored by ITCA. Nonetheless, operate affiliated hotels such as the Wilshire and deliver meals for passengers on Korean we will extend our efforts to improve our inGrand Hotel in Los Angeles, the Waikiki ReIn the aerospace R&D sector, we participated Air flights and other carriers. Korean Air’s flight meals with the creation of new menus sort Hotel in Hawaii, and the Hyatt Regency in the system assembly and engine develin-flight meal catering center has acquired tailored to the unique tastes of customers difHotel in Incheon. Furthermore, we have been opment of Korea’s first launch vehicle, the HACCP (Hazard Analysis Critical Control ferentiated by regions and routes. Korean Air providing a limousine bus service since 1992, KSLV-1, and developed technology for test faPoints) certification from the Korea Food & continues to promote Korean food to global which travels to and from downtown Seoul customers by offering a varied set of meal and between the Gimpo and Incheon Airports. choices imbued with a taste of Korean traditional food. In addition, we sell in-flight dutySales in Catering and In-flight Sales Business (Unit: KRW in billions) 2008 257.9 2009 235.1 Sales in Hotel and Limousine Business (Unit: KRW in billions) 2010 280.9 2008 39.7 2009 41.8 2010 40.4 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 10 //////////////////// 11 Corporate Governance A transparent corporate Korean Air’s board of directors consists of This enables the other BOD members to Directors members of executive management who gain a better and fuller understanding of the culture and ethical business 1 Cho, Yang Ho _ Chairman & CEO are leaders in the aviation industry and nontopic being discussed, thus allowing for more 2 Chi, Chang Hoon _ President & COO practices contribute to corporate standing directors who have expertise in informed decision-making. Non-standing 3 Lee, Tae Hee _ General Counsel value. Korean Air’s executive several fields. Non-standing directors monimembers are provided with offices and the 4 Suh, Yong Won _ Executive Vice President management draws on the tor and advise executive management, thus right of access to a diverse range of corporate making the management’s decision-making information including the status of the comexpertise of its members to make 1 2 3 processes more transparent. pany's operations and performances via the rational and objective decisions so company's intranet. 4 as to achieve sustainable growth Board of Directors Korean Air’s Board of Directors (BOD) deAt BOD meetings, the management delivand to enhance shareholder value. liberates and makes resolutions on issues ers reports on progress achieved on issues included in the agenda approved at the genplaced on the agenda of previous meetings. eral shareholders' meeting and on issues Management also reports to the Audit Comof significance to Korean Air’s operations in mittee and the BOD regarding the company’s Subcommittees of BOD accordance with company regulations and quarterly business results. Furthermore, the Articles of Incorporation. The board also three specialized committees operate under monitors the performances and fulfillment of the direction of the BOD in accordance with duties by the company’s executive managerules and regulations relevant to each com▶ Management Committee ment. The Korean Air BOD is comprised of mittee. These include the Audit Committee, nine members including four highly capable Management Committee, and Non-standing executives who are leaders in the aviation Director Nominating Committee. Among industry and five non-standing directors who these, the Audit Committee is composed enNon-Standing Directors Reviews and makes decisions on issues commissioned by the Board of have high-level expertise in their respective tirely of non-standing directors to ensure the 1 Park, Oh Soo _ Professor, College of Business Directors Two directors fields. Under regulations governing the BOD, committee's independence in monitoring the Administration, Seoul National University / two non-standing directors one or more accounting and/or financial company's performances and the activities of 2 Lee, Sog Woo _ Lawyer, Law firm Doo-re expert(s) acts as a standing auditor(s). the BOD. 3 Lee, Hee Beom _ Chairman of STX Energy & STX Heavy Industries Members of the BOD are given annual schedCompensation for directors is approved at 4 Lee, Yun Woo _ Former management advisor, ▶Non-standing Director Nominating Committee ules and the agendas of BOD meetings to the general shareholders’ meetings. In 2010, Daewoo Securities improve attendance and the efficiency of the the BOD held seven meetings for delibera5 Hyun, Jung Taik _ Professor, College of International BOD's decision-making processes. Senior tion and approved 38 items on the agenda. On Trade, Inha University Selects nominees for non-standing directors executives with expertise relevant to issues average, 8.7 directors were present at BOD Two directors on the agenda are asked to attend particular meetings in 2010, with an average attendance 1 2 3 / two non-standing directors meetings to provide comprehensive informarate of 79% (non-standing directors: 86%). tion related to the current matter at hand. 4 5 ▶Audit Committee Monitors the BOD’s activities and the company’s performance Three non-standing directors 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 12 //////////////////// 13 Achieving balanced growth in economic, environmental and social performances Korean Air remains dedicated to sustainably managing its environmental and social responsibilities while creating lasting economic value. Intent on creating a prosperous future and balanced growth for all stakeholders, we declared our commitment to managing the impact of our operations and practices on the environment as far back as the early 1990’s. Since then, we have been active in promoting and managing various environmentally-friendly activities such as the global tree-planting campaign to halt desertification in Mongolia and China, the adoption of fuel-efficient eco-friendly aircraft that produce less noise, and the energy efficiency campaign. We also make concerted efforts, in conjunction with our business partners and employees, to create sustainable growth for all stakeholders through labor-management cooperation and transparency in our transactions with business partners. 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 14 //////////////////// 15 Korean Air’s Sustainability Management As a responsible corporate <Create Value> Stakeholder Communication Channels citizen that seeks to be respected Shareholders & Investors Customers Employees by the present as well as future Shareholders’ meeting, Voice of Customer (VOC), Labor-management investor relations, annual family service, company committee, Ombudsman, generations, Korean Air makes Social Economic Environmental reports, company website website, real-time messenger mentoring system, Sky News, Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility consulting service, call center online network (intranet), strenuous efforts to achieve 1588-2001, sustainability company magazines, etc. balanced growth in its economic, reports, etc. environmental and social Business Partners Community performances. In addition to sustainable economic growth, the value of our sustainability Feedback on complaints received, seminars and Social contribution activities, campaigns, management lies in the fulfillment of the company’s social and environmental education sessions, ERP corporate information channels (website, reports), responsibilities to all stakeholders—customers, shareholders, employees, community programs with local communities near business partners and local communities. worksites (regular meetings, company visit days) <Vision> Sustainable development is concerned with ment opportunities. Korean Air aims to fulfill To be a respected leader in the world airline community striking a balance between economic, enviits economic responsibilities of maximizing the ronmental, and social goals to enhance the value of society, businesses, and individuals by quality of life of both current and future generproviding rapid and convenient passenger and <Mission> ations. Although these goals are of equal sigcargo transportation to all corners of the world. Excellence in Flight nificance, a compromise is required to achieve an optimal balance since each is mutually 02 Social Responsibilities dependent on the other. To this end, Korean We aim to fulfill our responsibilities as a corAir’s global transportation network contribporate citizen to benefit those directly and inSERVICE INNOVATIVE OPERATIONAL utes to the sustainable development of the directly influenced by our economic activities, EXCELLENCE EXCELLENCE EXCELLENCE world in social and economic terms. Still, including customers, shareholders, invesTo become the safest To secure new growth To minimize the our usage of fossil fuels has an impact on tors, employees, partners, and local commuglobal airline, oriented to engines through cuttingcompany’s impact climate change, and the levels of noise crenities. We provide customers with wonderful achieve greater customer edge eco-friendly fleet on climate change ated by aircraft during take-off and landing flying experiences, offer employees fair comsatisfaction operations, manufacture by reinforcing our next-generation aircraft transportation affects those residing near airports. Thus, pensation, contribute to local communities parts, and adopt ERP(*) network and improving we endeavor, as a good steward of the envithrough sharing and donating, and cooperate maintenance and ronment, to minimize the impact of our opwith partners for mutual prosperity. operating processes erations while meeting increasing consumer demand for air transportation. Moreover, 03 Environmental Responsibilities to fulfill our social responsibilities, we aim to The noise created by aircraft during take-off Employee Excellence raise the quality of people’s lives through muand landing undermines the quality of life Among our many resources, employees are Korean Air’s most valuable asset. We offer tually-beneficial and open communications of people residing near airports. The comseveral training programs for employees to foster talented global leaders who will drive with diverse stakeholders. bustion of fossil fuels causes an increase the development of the company forward. in greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, 01 Economic Responsibilities contributing to climate change. Korean Air * Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP): an integrated information system designed to aid in the efficient management of personnel and physical resources to strengthen the competitiveness of a company Air transportation promotes balanced ecocontinues to make company-wide efforts to nomic development among regions by faachieve sustainable development capable of cilitating the growth of business around the satisfying the growing demand for air transglobe. It also increases travel, tourism and the portation while minimizing the environmental conducting of business, which creates employimpact of its operations. 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 16 //////////////////// 17 Business Ethics Practicing and promoting ethical Korean Air’s Business Ethics System Incorporating an ethical Internal Inspection of mind-set in our workforce Observance of Fair Trade Regulations business practices within society Korean Air includes a “Business Ethics” secIn 2004, Korean Air’s management declared tion on its internal communication network its commitment to observing fair trade rules. eth Stre nce hics ica ngt ha En ss et ies of l awa hen in order to provide training to the employees Since then, Korean Air has adopted a volune enc th r sin t wo e en enes bu mpe rkf tire s orc regarding business ethics as well as clear tary observation program to abide by relevant co e and detailed guidelines on correct behavior rules and regulations regarding fair trade, Establish Operate an in business. Every year, the company proand set up an internal inspection system. The business ethics internal networks with vides classes in ethics for new employees and airline has also put in place a separate team other companies misconduct reporting system collects pledge forms from the employees, dedicated to promoting awareness of unfair and institutions an by which each agrees to uphold the ethical trade practices, the elimination of such pracbu Enc te ics al sin our era th e t ss age Op ess e intern r standards of Korean Air. In 2010, a total of tices, and the eradication of collusion in the bu o pra partn sin d ge sin ess ctice ers bu u an ana 1,100 new employees completed the course setting of prices. rea l m eth ics bu thica e in business ethics. Korean Air instituted a Charter of Ethics in In collaboration with domestic and internaInternal Accounting Control System 2001 to serve as a guide for ethical behavior tional organizations such as the Federation Internal Misconduct Reporting System To acquire reliable accounting information so for our employees. Since then, the company of Korean Industries (FKI) and the UN Global Since October 2002, Korean Air has adminas to enhance transparency in its managehas encouraged its employees to act in acCompact, we promote the concept and pracistered an Internal Misconduct Reporting ment practices, Korean Air developed and cordance with these higher ethical standtice of corporate social responsibilities and Educational Performances (Unit: persons) System to eradicate any possible misconduct implemented an advanced format for an inards in performing their daily duties through business ethics in society. 2009 830 such as unreasonable influence by individuternal control system to monitor the status various incentives and training programs. 2010 1,100 als, financial or other irregularities, and other of its internal operational controls on a reguinappropriate financial or non-financial deallar basis. To expand the scope of the system, ings with business partners. Not limited to monitoring is not confined to the financial <Korean Air’s Charter of Ethics> employees, a stakeholder can report any sector alone. We have expanded monitoring type of misconduct, irregularities, and even to include our overall business practices so Korean Air regards transparency and responsibility as vital to our management values. We also inefficiencies in policies and management as to detect discrepancies in and to improve respect free market principles and abide by relevant rules and regulations in our business pracpractices to the company via e-mail (personal our work processes. tices. With these principles, we strive to promote the mutual prosperity of both the company and information should be secured and fully prosociety as a whole. To this end, Korean Air has instituted its own charter of ethics as outlined betected when sending an email). After the aclow and has pledged to put it into practice. curacy of a report is ascertained, the reporter ▶ We regard customer satisfaction and safety as our highest priority. is informed of the follow-up actions taken and ▶ We make every effort to maximize shareholder value for our investors. corrections made. ▶ We respect and seek to enhance the quality of life of each and every member of our staff. Strengthening external networks to ▶ We promote joint development with our business partners, based on mutual trust. enhance ethical management practices ▶ We respect the principles of free competition and will continue to play a leading role in the development of the airline industry. In order to benchmark best practices and exchange information, Korean Air continues to ▶ We seek to contribute to the development of our country and society and to the preservation of the environment. build a network with outside entities through its ▶ We acknowledge and aim to uphold our obligations and responsibilities in accordance with the participation in meetings, seminars and traincorporate principles set forth by the company. ing sessions on ethical management practices corporate ethics, which are sponsored by the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry. 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 18 //////////////////// 19 SkyTeam’s Joint Statement on Sustainability Management Joining the global aviation The SkyTeam Alliance endeavors to meet the liance strives to set industry standards for growing demand for air travel while contributprotecting the environment, fulfilling social reindustry’s concerted efforts ing to cultural exchanges between local comsponsibilities and realizing equitable economic to achieve sustainability in munities. SkyTeam recognizes that economic prosperity for humanity. In keeping with this management and the prosperity growth must incorporate environmental prophilosophy, SkyTeam has adopted the following of humanity tection and social development, and the alprinciples: <SkyTeam’s Joint Statement on Sustainability Management> 01 03 SkyTeam is committed to SkyTeam is committed to realizing sustainable economic prosperity the protection of the natural environment. ▶We are accountable for our financial results and ▶We endeavor to implement the best available guarantee transparency in the information we technologies in fleet renewal and the most effiprovide. cient procedures and operations to reduce noise and air emissions including greenhouse gases. ▶We partner with local, national and international organizations to help build and strengthen the ▶We analyze our facilities and processes to identify opportunities for improving our environmental Launched in June 2000, SkyTeam is a global As an expression of its commitment to its socommunities we serve through employment and economic growth. performance. leading alliance of airlines. Its 14 members cial responsibilities, the SkyTeam organized ▶We act with integrity and strive to earn the trust of ▶We implement measures to reduce the environinclude Korean Air, Delta Airlines, Air France, the CSR Expert Group in 2008 and has been all of our stakeholders. mental impact of our activities and ask our supAero Mexico, Aeroflot, Alitalia, Air Europa, seeking ways to fulfill these social responsipliers and subcontractors to do the same. ▶We embrace safety, security and quality as the Czech Airlines, KLM, China Southern, China bilities as a team through regular meetings foundation for a superior level of performance in ▶We ensure all facilities and operations comply our operations. with environmental protection regulations. Eastern, Kenya Airways, Vietnam Airlines and various initiatives. With the declaration ▶We communicate with our employees to ensure and TAROM. of the Joint Statement on Sustainability Manawareness of environmental goals and objecagement, the SkyTeam will step up its sus02 tives, and support employee-driven initiatives to SkyTeam is committed to protect the environment. Today, the SkyTeam operates 14,128 flights, tainability management endeavors in the promoting social responsibility. carrying 474 million international passenfuture. ▶We offer safe, motivating working conditions in gers every day to 916 cities in 169 countries. accordance with applicable employment and labor laws. Its cargo service, SkyTeam Cargo, covers 659 ▶We strive to promote diversity and to ensure equal destinations in 132 countries. In the future, we opportunities among all staff. expect to add new members, China Eastern Air ▶We foster employee opportunities for advanceand China Airlines of Taiwan in 2011, and evenment and mobility through career enhancement tually, Garuda Indonesia, Aerolineas Argentiinitiatives. ▶We undertake to abide by all labor laws anywhere nas and Middle East Airlines, as the SkyTeam’s we operate, and request that our suppliers and routes and services continue to grow. subcontractors comply with these principles. 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 20 //////////////////// 21 2010 Key Sustainability Management Issues ➊ Economic Responsibilities ➎ Human Resources Development Korean Air posted KRW11,459.1 billion in sales and Korean Air has 16,000 dedicated employees workKRW1,119.1 billion in operating income for 2010, ing at its domestic and overseas worksites. Under ➋ Addressing Climate which are historic highs for the company. Korean the company’s HR philosophy, that “a company is Change Air will continue to improve its customer service the sum of its people,” we are building a great work[38~45p] and innovate its operating processes to further place for our employees. In addition, we seek to imenhance its business performances, while distribprove the quality of life for all employees through 184,300 tons uting to stakeholders the economic value created various benefits. Committed to promoting equal opCO2 reduction through its business activities. portunities for women, we continue to increase the number of females working in midand high-level executive management, and as expatriate work➊ Economic ➋ Addressing Climate Change ers and cabin crew members. In 2005, we signed Responsibility Korean Air’s aviation operations have an impact an agreement with the Korea Employment Promo[22~31p] on the environment, especially in terms of climate tion Agency for the Disabled (KEPAD) to promote the change, as the operating of aircraft generates CO2. hiring of disabled persons and, to this end, set up a KRW 11,460.5 At the same time, contrary to conventional thought dedicated team in 2006 to increase the employment billion ➐ Social Contribution which claims that aviation is one of the main culof individuals with special needs. [76~81p] prits in global warming, aviation’s share of the Sales world’s CO2 emissions is a mere 2% of the total. ➏ Win-Win Cooperation 4,000 persons for Still, Korean Air is dedicated to further minimizing its environmental impact and continues to inKorean Air is committed to fair transactions and win21 organizations crease the number of cutting-edge fuel-efficient win cooperation with its business partners in muNo. of ➍ Customer Satisfaction aircraft in its fleet and improve its operational eftually beneficial relationships. To promote greater [60~65p] participants ficiency in order to reduce its CO2 emissions. transparency, we disclose all information regarding our procurement processes and policies. Also, to 68 aircraft ➌ Minimizing Environmental improve our partnerships, we apply a higher-thanHigh-class standard code of ethics to facilitate transparent and Impact of Ground Operations cabin facilities fair transactions with business partners. Korean Air follows a systematic environmental management system to minimize the environmental ➐ Social Contributions impact of its maintenance and other ground operations. At all worksites, we apply higher standards Korean Air set corporate social responsibilities to the discharge of waste, chemical substances, (CSR) as one of the company’s major company-wide campaigns in 2010 and promoted various activities ➎ Human Resources wastewater, and soil pollutants, while increasing in service of the CSR concept during the year. On Development ➏ Win-Win Cooperation the number of aircraft in our fleet equipped with eco-friendly low-noise engines and complying the first workday of the year, we declared our com[66-74p] [75p] with the ICAO’s Noise Abatement Departure Promitment to the principles of CSR and all employ2,187,095 cedures (NADP). ees pledged to donate their talents to help persons Launch of the persons-hour in need. Under four themes, “donations of talent,” Education ISP “donations of caring,” “donations of hope,” and “do➍ Customer Satisfaction (Internet Supplier Portal) nations of happiness,” we are involved in a diverse Safety is the top priority of our management polirange of social contribution activities that allow emcies. Thus, we make strenuous efforts to achieve ployees to volunteer their time, talents and effort to accident-free flight operations. In addition, the any of these activities at least once a year. protection of customer privacy is the underlying principle of our customer satisfaction activities, which include communication channels for receiving feedback, top-quality in-flight services, and ➌ Minimizing Ground convenient flight schedules and on-time arrivals Environmental Impact through our global network. [48~55p] 43.7% Recycling idea 1. Economic Responsibility Entrepreneurship advances virtue in society. For instance, the equitable distribution of value created through responsible business practices enables Korean Air to contribute to the quality of life of all of its stakeholders. Committed to sustainable development, Korean Air is building a better tomorrow through transparent and responsible management practices. Introduction of Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) “enterprise Korean Air has successfully completed a three-year long ERP project in resource planning (ERP), which encompasses finance, procurement/ facilities, aerospace, catering, revenue management, management accounting and MRO. The benefits of the ERP system have made possible the closing of accounting periods from end to end, combining and standardizing the accounting of finance, materials, facilities and maintenance into a single system. With the practical use of real time and historical data, the system is expected to help us in reaching our goals of prompt decision-making, innovation, high productivity and reduced operating costs. ” action Korean Air aims to achieve sustainable growth by striking the right balance between its roles and responsibilities in terms of economics, the environment and society. While generating profitability from our air transport business, we will promote the balanced development of regional economies, strive to minimize the impact of our operations on the environment while fighting global warming, and contribute to the development of society as a responsible corporate citizen. In making these efforts consistent and continuous, we aim to improve the quality of life of our customers while providing “excellence in flight” services as the basis for all such efforts. ERP Project Director Sang Man Lee, Executive Director 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 26 //////////////////// 27 Destinations 2 cities Destinations 22 cities Destinations 15 cities CIS America Destinations 13 cities China Korea Japan Europe/Middle East Contributing to Destinations 22 cities Southeast Asia economic development through our flight services Flying around the world, we offer high-end passenger and Destinations 18 cities cargo transport services to and from 113 cities in 39 countries. In connecting cities and supporting the exchange of resources, Korean Air takes pride in contributing to the development of Destinations 15 cities the global economy. Oceania In 2010, sales revenue from passenger routes by 17%, followed by 16% growth in Southeast grew by 16% from the previous year thanks to Asian routes, 8% on American routes, 7% on recovery in the domestic and global economy European routes and 1% on routes to Oceania. as well as a resultant growth in demand. TransBy region, revenue from domestic routes grew portation volume also increased 10% due to a by a whopping 47%, while revenues from Chirobust recovery in sales for international routes. nese routes improved 27%, contributing to 6% Destinations 6 cities While our Chinese routes maintained a 26% yeargrowth in revenue, from the previous year, for on-year growth, route sales to Japan advanced overseas routes. Name Korean Airlines Co., Ltd. America | Market share in sales 36%, Market share in number of passengers 12%, Market share in cargo transport 35% Address 1370, Gonghang-dong, Gangseo-gu, Seoul, Korea 157-712 Europe/Middle East | Market share in sales 19%, Market share in number of passengers 5%, Market share in cargo transport 18% Established March 1, 1969 CIS | Market share in sales 1%, Market share in number of passengers 1%, Market share in cargo transport 1% Business Area Passenger and cargo transport, aerospace, in-flight meal service, China | Market share in sales 9%, Market share in number of passengers 14%, Market share in cargo transport 16% in-flight sales, hotel and limousine service Korea | Market share in sales 6%, Market share in number of passengers 34%, Market share in cargo transport 6% Number of aircraft 128 (as of Dec. 31, 2010) Japan | Market share in sales 12%, Market share in number of passengers 20%, Market share in cargo transport8% 13 domestic cities Flight routes 100 cities in 38 countries Southeast Asia | Market share in sales 13%, Market share in number of passengers 11%, Market share in cargo transport 15% Total 113 cities in 39 countries Oceania | Market share in sales 4%, Market share in number of passengers 3%, Market share in cargo transport 1% 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 28 //////////////////// 29 Business Environment & Risk Management Rising above the global economic <Risk Management> recession, we are taking flight to Currency Options a brighter year in 2011, backed We have taken Zero-cost Collar options by enhanced customer-oriented with major banks in and outside of Korea business strategies, increased social to hedge against foreign exchange risk arising from borrowing in foreign contribution activities, strengthened currencies. profitability, excellent potential for growth, innovation in processes and customer-oriented, strengthening social conMRO (airplane maintenance). In January, 2011, Currency Swaps improvements to efficiency. tribution activities, improving profitability, rethe three-year long ERP project was completed We have concluded a currency swap alizing the potential for growth, innovations with the successful launch of the M&E (Maintecontract worth USD90 million with HSBC in processes and improvements in efficiency nance & Engineering) ERP. One of the benefits to avoid the risk of volatility in our cash flow caused by fluctuations in interest rates throughout the organization. In line with these of the ERP System is that it allows for end-toand foreign exchange rates. The contract goals, we have set the following tasks. end accounting settlements and the amalgarenders a floating rate of exchange on mation of maintenance operations into a single USD-denominated interest payments and pays a fixed rate of interest on the KRWIn order to become more customer-oriented system. Planning for materials, equipment and 2010 Business Environments ic recovery. In addition, political instability and denominated principal. and to fulfill our corporate social responsibilihuman resources have improved significantly and 2011 Outlook an inflow of speculative funds into the Middle ties, we are working to establish a completely with the use of a digital support system that In 2011, it is forecasted that the domestic and East may lead to a sharp rise in oil prices. safe operating system, strengthen our comallows for the sharing of maintenance docuglobal economies will continue to recover on Oil Price Options petitiveness through innovations in the qualments, anywhere in the system and at anytime. the strengths of expanding liquidity, the re2011 Risks & Opportunities ity of our products and services, and increase covery in consumer sentiment, and the stabiIn 2011, Korean Air foresees new opportuniWe have taken Zero-cost Collar options with Morgan Stanley for the purchase of the level and scope of our social contribuMeanwhile, methods for forecasting the need lization of European economies. However, the ties in the growing demand for air transport, West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil tion activities. At the same time, we intend to for engine removal and repair were designed level of recovery in individual markets will be especially those arising from the Korea-U.S. to hedge against increases in oil prices in strengthen our supply management system based on established processes, thereby dependent on interest rates and the policies and Korea-European Union FTAs (Free Trade the procurement of jet fuel. to improve profitability, secure future growth improving the accuracy of maintenance enacted by governments. A recovering global Agreements), and improvements in the comengines in new areas of business and new planning. As a result, maintenance data has economy should also stabilize global demand pany’s corporate image as a high-end carmarkets, and maximize profitability through become more transparent and real time for air transportation, though the growth rier with the adoption of the new A380 aircraft Oil Price Swaps high value-added products. Furthermore, we monitoring is possible, creating an environrate may slow down slightly from the previfrom Airbus. On the other hand, we foresee a We entered into a swap contract on WTI strive to improve overall efficiency through inment for continuous improvements in mainous year. Published in March 2011, a report growth in uncertainty from rising commodity crude oil with Standard Chartered First novations in our work processes, the restructenance management. We plan to fully implefrom IATA projected 5.6% and 6.1% year-onprices due to recovery of the global economy, Bank to reduce the risk of rising oil prices in the procurement of jet fuel. turing of our organization, and cost-reduction ment the ERP system in the near future and year growth for 2011 in passenger and cargo volatility of won-dollar exchange rates due to strategies. to maximize its effectiveness through efficient transport, respectively. the North Korea risk, the likelihood of a sudutilization of data. The practical use of real den rise in oil prices due to political unrest Completed Enterprise time and historical data is expected to assist While it is predicted that the won-dollar exin the Middle East and Africa, the advance of Resource Planning (ERP) System the company in reaching its goals of prompt change rate will stabilize around KRW1,100 foreign air carriers into Korean markets and Korean Air undertook the implementation of decision-making, innovation, high productivito KRW1,150 compared to 1 USD, the North increased offerings of international flights by an ERP System in October, 2007, with the tarty and reduced operating costs. Furthermore, Korea risk remains as a variable. In 2010, the low-cost airliners. get of building an integrated framework to supwe have launched an Aviation Industry Straprice of WTI (West Texas Intermediate) crude port timely management decisions. ERP was tegic Council (AISC) in collaboration with Oraoil stabilized at an annual average of $80. In 2011 Business Strategies & Tasks launched sequentially, starting with Financial cle’s Global Development Team to ensure the 2011, oil prices are likely to rise due to growing Korean Air has set several goals for manageAccounting, and moving on to Procurement/ continued enhancement of our ERP System. demand for commodities along with economment in 2011. These include becoming more Facilities, Aerospace, Catering, Revenue Accounting, Managerial Accounting, and finally, 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 30 //////////////////// 31 Creation & Distribution of Economic Value By generating profitability through In 2010, economic recovery and improved Sales in Korean Air’s cargo service hit a lull <Economic Distribution to Stakeholders> • • • Tax Authorities consumer sentiment resulted in a considerin the third quarter of 2010, but regained • • • Shareholders/Investors sound management activities, we able increase in the transport of domestic momentum as sales grew 10% in the fourth • • • Local Communities distribute economic value equitably passengers and cargo. Thanks to this favoraquarter, traditionally a high season for air • • • Aviation Authority to our stakeholders. ble market, Korean Air achieved balanced cargo services. Nevertheless, sales growth • • • Employees growth in all areas of its business, including slowed for cargo compared to 2009 due to a • • • Suppliers air transport, aerospace, catering & in-flight return to normalcy in the cargo sector af• • • • • • • • • • • sales, and hotel/limousine services. Sales ter considerable growth in sales the previ• • • • • • grew by 22% from the previous year to reach ous year. In response, we added a number of • • • • • • ● Taxes and Dues KRW11,460.5 billion, and operating profit innonscheduled flights to aggressively capture creased by KRW976.2 billion to a record high a larger share of the highly profitable market • • • 34.1KRW billion • of KRW1,109.6 billion. for single-delivery transport of cargo. We also • • • expanded the number of flights on popular • Seat sales on the company’s passenger serroutes to increase profitability. • ● Rents 314.6KRW billion • vice gained 16% year-on-year thanks to the ● Fuel expenses 3,451.3KRW billion • • ● Corporate income tax • • • • recovery in domestic demand, and the total Although operating expenses climbed 12% • ● Material expenses 286.1KRW billion 152.1KRW billion number of passengers transported rose 10% year-on-year due to rising prices for jet fuel, • • due to a strong rebound in demand for our operating profit jumped by a stunning 732% • international routes. By route, our Chinese to KRW1,109.6 billion. As a result, the oper• • ● Personnel expenses ● Donations routes achieved the highest overall growth ating margin improved by 8.3%p year-on1,613.7KRW billion 9.1KRW billion with an increase of 26% from the previous year to 9.7%. As of the end of 2010, total as• • • year as both the number of Korea-bound and sets increased thanks to growth in current • • • • • • • • China-bound flights grew equally. In addition, and non-current assets, while total liabilities • • Japanese routes climbed 17%, Southeast grew slightly year-on-year due to a rise in ● Interest expenses • • Asian routes 16%, Europe 7%, and Oceania advance payments and accrued expenses. 565.0KRW billion ● Landing fees • • ● Facility charges 1%. By region, revenue from domestic routes In 2010, the debt-to-equity ratio improved by 276.8KRW billion 439.3KRW billion • • soared a whopping 47% year-on-year, where44.1%p to 409.1%, and EBITDAR grew 84.7% • • • • • • • • • • • • • • as revenue from international routes edged to KRW2,262.8 billion and the EBITDAR mar• up by 6%. Most notably, revenue from Chinese gin posted year-on-year growth of 6.6%p to • • • • • • routes jumped 27%, mainly owing to the ap20.1%. The fixed charge coverage ratio also • preciation of the Chinese yuan and the rising increased by 1.23x to 2.73x. 102.9KRW billion ● Employee benefits Service expenses 335.0KRW billion ● average income of Chinese consumers. • ● Ground operations services 411.0KRW billion Sales Breakdown by Business Area (Unit: KRW billion) Domestic passenger service 4.7% ● 534.3 International passenger service 50.7% ● 5,808.8 Cargo service 33.1% ● 3,788.6 Aerospace 3.0% ● 342.9 Catering/In-flight sales 2.4% ● 280.9 Hotel/Limousine service 0.3% ● 40.4 Others 5.8% ● 664.6 Total : KRW 11,460.5 billion *E  BITDAR: Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, Amortization and Rent—as an indicator of the profitability of an airliner, EBITDAR is the sum of the above expenses. coexistence 2. ENVIRONMENTAL Responsibility The normal business activities of companies inevitably have an impact on the environment. As a result, a growing number of global companies are coming to terms with their roles and responsibilities regarding the environment. Korean Air, for its part, is fully aware of the environmental impact of its business activities, such as the emission of gases contributing to global warming by our aircraft operations and the noise generated by aircraft during take-offs and landings. Korean Air Forest in Mongolia “ Near Baganuur, 150km east of Ulaanbaatar which is the capital of Mongolia, there is a forest called the “Korean Air Forest.” In collaboration with the Green Asia Network, a non-profit organization, and as a partner to the UNFCCC in the fight against climate change, Korean Air launched the forestry project to halt desertification in Mongolia and the resulting yellow sands carried by the wind throughout East Asia. In 2004, Korean Air Chairman Cho Yang-Ho and 100 new Korean Air employees planted the first trees of the forest. Since then, about 200 Korean Air employees have planted trees every spring. As of 2011, we have planted about 55,000 trees in the area. The Korean Air Forest was recognized by the City of Ulaanbaatar as the Urban Park of the Year in 2006, establishing the forest’s reputation as a local attraction. Over the past twenty years, Mongolia has suffered from the effects of climate change with 76% of its land vulnerable to encroaching desertification, which has resulted in rising damage in neighboring countries Korean Air declared its commitment to the due to yellow sand transported by the wind. New deserts contribute to this phenomenon, which has affected the health of Korea’s population and damaged the country’s industrial infrastructure. In addresscoenvironment in the 1990’s. Since then, we have been involved in various projects as part of our green ing this issue, Korean Air took the initiative to institute a global approach to counter the problem. This “Korean Air Forest” project is highly significant in that it is restoring a specific area on a sustainable longprosperity management practices, including global tree-planting projects for the prevention of term basis. It is particularly significant given the severity of the damage caused in neighboring countries desertification, the adoption of eco-friendly aircraft and the level of engagement of the local community and Korean Air’s employees in the program. For with higher fuel efficiencies to reduce GHG emissions these reasons, this project has been a model for many Korean companies seeking activities to implement as part of their global corporate social responsibilities. and noise levels, and various efforts to improve Starting on 2011, the project has expanded its scope to teenagers, introducing the concept of a “Tree energy efficiency throughout our organization. Bank” to the project. In the future, the project will evolve further as it aims to move beyond the restoraGoing forward, we will further our endeavors in tion of ecology to a program for assisting refugees escaping environmental degradation. Based on what green management for the betterment of the Korean Air has achieved over the past eight years with the Korean Air Forest project, we hope it will be environment for future generations. a model for other “protect your village, protect the planet” projects undertaken by companies as part of their activities aimed at making social contributions on a global scale. ” Ki Chul Oh, Secretary General, Green Asia Network 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 36 //////////////////// 37 Environmental Impact ● Pa s Ai • U sen r ● • U craf se ge • W of r Tr Gr o R as es ans • W tes our por • U un se d Su se t R as • S tew ce s tSer • G of R ppo e vic re es rt • W of R pa ew te ag r a e • A enh ourc pe O e ir ous es rat as eso ir an ● Po e io Korean Air has in place a Ai Ai • W ll ns Flight Operations G Ground Support Operations rc • G raf as utan ase re t Op r s • W craf te • W tes urc d M • A enh era ir ous tio s s t P • U oll e G nS ● Ca es as t Cl e The most significant impact on the enviThe conducting of aircraft maintenance and se uta ase rvi • N of R ts n s ce as aint r • U go T company-wide environmental e se ran • V tew oise sou en te e • W of R spo wa ani ● Ca rces as es rt te OC ate an • W tes our Ser ronment of our business operations stems repair entails the use of resources and chemite ng • W ri as ng S as ce v s ice •S tes erv ew ice r ce r te wa management system to minimize ● ag e ● ter from the use of fossil fuels. We know that cal substances, and generates waste oil, waste the environmental impact of its the combustion of fossil fuels not only deorganic solvents and other specified waste. The pletes reserves of natural resources, but cleaning of the fuselage and other components aircraft operations and ground also generates greenhouse gases which afresults in discharges of wastewater. Also, as support services and to consistently fect climate change. Furthermore, we know other ground support operations are also powimprove fuel efficiency and the that toxic gases generated during aircraft ered by fossil fuels, our overall ground support take-offs and landings such as NOx, CO, and operations have an adverse effect on local air abatement of noise of its fleet. HC have an adverse effect on local air quality. quality and climate change. Although noise from take-offs and landings has been significantly reduced compared to the past, it still has a considerable impact on local communities in the vicinity of airports. Dedicated to minimizing the environmental ➏ impact of fossil fuels and aircraft noise, Korean Air continues to invest in highefficiency low-noise aircraft. ➊ ➍ ➌ ➎ ➋ 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 38 //////////////////// 39 Climate Change Korean Air cooperates with the GHG & Energy Target Management System EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) Under the basic laws and enforcement deStarting on 2012, all of Korean Air’s aircraft IATA in joining industry-wide crees of the Low-Carbon Green-Growth iniflying in and out of Europe will be subject to efforts to tackle climate change tiative, the management of GHGs and energy regulations limiting CO2 emissions. Compawhile striving to reduce its CO2 targets began in April, 2010. In the program, nies will be obligated to purchase credits to emissions through fleet moderni471 energy-consuming companies accountoffset CO2 emissions in excess of levels reing for 60% of the nation’s GHG emissions (*) quired by regulation through the emissions zation and fuel-saving initiatives. are to set energy-saving targets and plans trading scheme. In response to this regulatory for implementation. The Korean government change, Korean Air set up a company-wide aims to reduce the nation’s total GHG emistaskforce with representatives from flight opsions by 30% of estimated emissions for 2020. erations, transport, fuel management, environ<Goals> By May, 2011, the 471 companies are expectment, planning and procurement in April, 2009. ed to report on their GHG emissions and reKorean Air submitted its M.R.V. plans to the 1 Zero rate of increase in CO2 emissions after 2020 cords of energy use over four years from 2007 authorities in September, 2009 and completto 2010 and are to set goals for reductions by ed the development of a GHG data collection 2 Average annual growth in fuel efficiency of 1.5% Vision and Goals no later than September, 2011, with the imsystem in 2010 for the accurate monitoring until 2020 The international aviation industry accounts joined together, and declared a lofty vision plementation of plans to begin in 2012. of related data. The company then acquired for only 2% of total CO2 emissions generated of realizing “carbon-free aircraft operations third party assurance for the system in 2011. 3 CO2 emissions 50% lower by 2050 compared by human activities. The 2% figure may be within 50 years.” In line with this statement, In responding to the EU’s Emissions Trading to 2005 insignificant; however, global airliners have we have set several other goals, including Scheme, Korean Air will apply strategic apworked consistently to minimize the environthat of reducing the rate of growth of CO2 proaches such as new operational policies for mental impact of their operations even while emissions to zero by 2020, of improving fuel reducing emissions of CO2 during flights, new meeting growing demand for air transport efficiency by an average of 1.5% every year aircraft deployment policies, and strategic use and the severity of climate change. Due to the until 2020, and of lowering CO2 emissions to of the ETS. industrial characteristics of operational ven50% of the emissions output in 2005 by 2050. GHG & Energy Target Management System ues, an effective counter to climate change To attain these goals, Korean Air aims to and a reduction in CO2 emissions requires achieve innovations in technology, while imEvery year, companies set goals and implement plans for making reductions and the government the concerted efforts of all global airliners. proving operational efficiency. monitors the results. Implementing plans for Therefore, global airliners, led by IATA, have Setting targets reductions Monitoring performances Authority – Ministry of Ministry of Knowledge Economy Environment In charge of waste (Industry/Power Generation) IATA Roadmap for Fleet modernization and Infrastructure Alternative management Ministry for food, Agriculture, Reducing CO2 Emissions technological developments improvements fuel use Forestry and Fisheries (Agriculture/Livestock) CO2 emissions Increased Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs (Transportation/Building) 250 emissions without reduction efforts Following March: Every December: Report on results Every September: Verification and Every June: Report on of implementation Setting annual corrective orders Companies notified implementation and description of reduction goals (when necessary) plans emissions (3rd party assurance) 100 ❶ ❷ ❸ ❹ ❺ 50% reduction in emissions Zero rate of increase in CO2 from 2005 levels 50 emissions by 2020 Companies who generate GHG emissions of over 125,000 tons Report, by May, 2011, the past four-year emissions records as verified by a third party, and repeat the above five steps every year 0 2005 2020 2050 (*) Criteria: companies who generate GHG emissions of over 125,000 CO2 tons and consume energy of over 500TJ, or whose plants generate GHG emissions of over 25,000 CO2 tons and consume energy of over 100TJ 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 40 //////////////////// 41 Addressing Climate Change By adopting new Introduction of New Aircraft Enhancing Efficiency through Fuel Economical Procedures for Flight Operations Alternative Fuel R&D The most effective way of tackling climate Management Korean Air follows various economical flight Since the oil price hike in 2004, the aviation eco-friendly aircraft, Korean Air change is to make consistent investment in In 2010, Korean Air spent KRW3,400 billion operation procedures. For instance, memindustry has been working to develop an alis working ceaselessly to reduce innovative aircraft technology. Korean Air purchasing jet fuel, which accounted for 32.6% bers of flight crews are trained to apply ecoternative bio-fuel for aircraft, in consideration carbon emissions and address is following a plan for fleet modernization, of the company’s overall expenses. Better nomical flight operation procedures, provided of the technological, economic, and sustainclimate change. which will phase out the old B747 and A300 management of fuel efficiency has become that flight safety or quality of service is not ability aspects of such alternative fuels. In aircraft and increase the number of high-effiimperative because of the high cost and compromised. Crew members are directed to 2008 and 2009, several airlines succeeded in ciency eco-friendly aircraft such as the A380, large volumes of fuel required as well as the use minimal engine power for taxiing in conusing a mix of conventional aviation fuel and B787, and B747-8i in order to minimize the consumption of which negatively impacts sideration of flight conditions. It is also recbio-fuel in several test flights. This proved the environmental impact of the fleet. the environment and global warming. To this ommended that pilots make less use of the efficacy of the technology, and now industries end, Korean Air set up a Fuel Management reverse-thruster while landing. These efforts are actively studying the economic feasibility Participation in the Manufacture of Team in 2004, which sets standards and plans contribute to economical flight operations and sustainability of this mixed fuel. Korean Eco-Friendly Aircraft (missions) for greater efficiency in controlling without undermining the comfort and safety Air is actively exchanging information and Korean Air is currently participating in the deaircraft performance, flight planning, operaof passengers. working with aviation associations to find velopment of Boeing’s new high-tech B747-8 tional procedures and weight management. ways of using alternative energy to fulfill our model. For the project, we are manufacturing In 2010, a savings of approximately 58,500 tons Improving Flight Planning social responsibilities as an environmentally components such as wing tip extensions, flap of fuel was achieved through consistent moniand Operational Procedures friendly corporation. track fairings for wings and other parts with toring and control of 42 missions, with a conAn aircraft’s fuel consumption varies sigstreamlined structures, and raked wing tips. sequent reduction in CO2 emissions estimatnificantly depending on weight. Therefore, The raked wing tips are key components that ed at 184,300 tons, and a 0.9% improvement in accurate calculation of the weight of passenrequire greater precision and higher techfuel consumption per ATK(*) from the previous gers and cargo in the flight planning stage is nologies than other components due to their year. The ATK (Available Ton Kilometers) is an a prerequisite to optimal fuel loading. Korean complexity. For instance, raked wing tips reindicator of the fuel efficiency of an aircraft. Air has consistently improved the procedures duce air resistance, significantly increasing and systems for accurate calculation of the energy efficiency. weight of passengers and cargo. As a result, Planning we were able to reduce the gap in the payload. Fuel Management Missions Improving fuel efficiency through better aircraft and engine performance Weight Management and Optimal Loading ▶ Regular cleaning of the inside of engines with water ▶Removal of unnecessary equipment/partsr ▶ Improving engine performance with better maintenance of ▶ U  se of disposable tableware and cups Improved accuracy of calculation of passenger/cargo weight International Cargo aircraft engine fan blades ▶ Use of light containers for luggage passenger aircraft ce W Loading adequate amounts of potable water in consideration * Annual payload gap (KG): an ▶ Monitoring aircraft and engine performances to calculate ▶ e plan vs. actual fuel flow and reflecting this data in flight planning Per h of reservations and flight hours ig ▼ ▶ Enhancing fuel efficiency with B737 winglets for t ▶ Optimizing management of center of gravity in aircraft m 3,000 2,689 2,642 2,500 2,322 2,551 2,430 1,951 Reducing flight expenses through flight planning Optimal flight speeds and economical flight procedures 2,000 Plan tion 2,027 nin ra Flexible flight speed policies in consideration of oil prices Ope ▶ Locating suitable alternate airports and shortening routes g ▶ 1,500 1,450 ▶ Rationalizing fueling regulations and flight expenses 1,545 ▶ Fuel-saving and noise abatement through optimal use of 1,013 ▶ Loading amount of fuel needed based on statistical analysis of fuel 1,000 1,049 consumption patterns by weather conditions, aircraft, and route flaps during take-off and landing 944 779 ▶ Reducing fuel-loads through accurate estimation of passenger ▶ Avoiding unnecessary use of reverse-thrusters while landing 500 813 and cargo weight ▶ Saving fuel by shutting down engines that are running ▶ Fueling in consideration of different oil prices at departure unnecessarily while taxiing 0 ▶ Using ground support facilities while on the ground and arrival airports 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 * ATK: the maximum transport capacity of an aircraft, both passenger and cargo. 1 ATK is 1km in flying distance of an aircraft loaded with 1 ton. 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 42 //////////////////// 43 Fleet Modernization Fuel Consumption & CO2 Emissions Increase Rate of increase in RTK vs. 2000 The most efficient way for Fleet Compared to Transportation Records Rate of increase in fuel consumption vs. 2000 Korean Air to address climate 80 change is to replace our fleet with 70.3 77.5 70 62.5 new high fuel-efficiency aircraft. 60 55.3 50 59.3 Korean Air is following a fleet BOEING 747 Boeing 747-400 Boeing 747-400ERF(Cargo) 40 46.7 47.6 50.5 46.0 43.1 48.4 modernization plan to phase Passenger 17 aircraft •Seating Capacity • Maximum load 117.55 tons 38.5 384/335/333/284 seats • Maximum Distance 8,415km 30 25.6 31.7 out the old B747 and A300 Cargo 24 aircraft •Maximum Distance 12,821km • Maximum Duration Slower Growth in Fuel Consumption and 20 20.8 28.4 CO2 Emissions 10 16.4 aircraft and increase the number •Maximum Duration 14 hours 14 minutes 9 hours 22 minutes In proportion to the growing demand for air 0 0.0 9.9 of high-efficiency eco-friendly -4.4 transportation following recovery in global -10 -8.1 aircraft such as the A380, B787, -20 economies, Korean Air’s transport of pas0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 (year) and B747-8i, in order to minimize sengers and cargo increased by about 77.5% BOEING 777 Boeing 777-200 Boeing 777-300 in 2010 from the previous year. At the same * RTK (revenue ton kilometers) means one ton of revenue cargo (passengers are also considered in weight) carried the environmental impact of its fleet. Passenger 28 aircraft • Seating Capacity 301/261/248 seats • Seating Capacity 376/342/291 seats one kilometer, and is the aggregate of transportable payloads for each instance of air travel multiplied by transport • Maximum Distance 12,538km • Maximum Distance 9,352/13,383km time, our continued efforts to improve fuel efdistance. • Maximum Duration • Maximum Duration ficiency resulted in only a 48.4% growth in fuel 14 hours 7 minutes 10 hours 26 minutes/ 14 hours 51 minutes consumption and CO2 emissions, reducing the stress of the added demand on the enviFuel Efficiency Improvement Intensity Ratio (Unit: liter fuel/100RTK) ronment by 29.1%. 38.00 37.53 AIRBUS 330 Airbus 330-300 Airbus 330-200 Passenger 21 aircraft • Seating Capacity 296/280 seats • Seating Capacity 256/226 seats 36.00 36.10 • Maximum Distance 9,560km • Maximum Distance 10,421km • Maximum Duration • Maximum Duration 34.76 34.56 11 hours 8 minutes 12 hours 6 minutes 34.00 34.15 33.17 32.61 33.73 33.48 32.00 32.86 31.99 AIRBUS 300 Airbus 300-600 30.00 • Seating Capacity 276/266 seats Passenger 8 aircraft 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 (year) • Maximum Distance 3,519/6,121km • Maximum Duration 4 hours 22 minutes/ 7 hours 27 minutes Aircraft CO2e Emissions 2008 2009 2010 tCO2e 11,963,784 11,718,834 12,160,338 BOEING 737 Boeing 737-800 Boeing 737-900 Passenger 30 aircraft • Seating Capacity 162/149/147 seats • Seating Capacity 188 seats 100RTK 139,328,519 133,207,452 149,310,435 • Maximum Distance 2,997/5,167km • Maximum Distance 3,758km kg-CO2e/100RTK 85.9 88.0 81.4 • Maximum Duration • Maximum Duration 3 hours 41 minutes/ 6 hours 13 minutes 4 hours 33 minutes Total 128 aircraft Passenger 104 aircraft / Cargo 24 aircraft CO2 Emissions ronment by 29.1%. Slower Growth in Fuel Consumption and the stress of the added demand on the envificiency resulted in only a 48.4% growth in fuel time, our continued efforts to improve fuel eftransportation following recovery in global consumption and CO2 emissions, reducing in 2010 from the previous year. At the same sengers and cargo increased by about 77.5% economies, Korean Air’s transport of pasIn proportion to the growing demand for air 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 -20 -10 30.00 32.00 34.00 36.00 38.00 0 0 0.0 100RTK tCO2e 37.53 kg-CO2e/100RTK 1 1 -8.1 Fuel Consumption & CO2 Emissions Increase -4.4 Aircraft CO2e Emissions 36.10 2 2 20.8 9.9 * RTK (revenue ton kilometers) means one ton of revenue cargo (passengers are also considered in weight) carried 34.15 25.6 3 3 34.76 16.4 Compared to Transportation Records 46.7 4 4 32.86 28.4 5 5 33.48 31.7 47.6 85.9 139,328,519 11,963,784 2008 6 6 one kilometer, and is the aggregate of transportable payloads for each instance of air travel multiplied by transport Fuel Efficiency Improvement Intensity Ratio (Unit: liter fuel/100RTK) 32.61 38.5 59.3 7 7 33.17 50.5 70.3 8 8 46.0 88.0 62.5 133,207,452 11,718,834 2009 Rate of increase in RTK vs. 2000 33.73 9 9 43.1 34.56 distance. 55.3 10 10 31.99 48.4 77.5 Rate of increase in fuel consumption vs. 2000 81.4 149,310,435 12,160,338 2010 (year) (year) Cutting-edge technology allows for improved productivity 20 % higher fuel efficiency The entire fuselage is covered with light carbon composite materials, a first for a civilian aircraft B747-8i . B787. • 20% higher fuel efficiency • 5 aircraft from 2013 • 13% higher economy • 10% longer distance higher fuel efficiency 30% The B747-8i is a new aircraft that Boeing has been developing since November, 2005. Its fuselage is 5.6m longer than the B747-400 with a seating capacity of 400 to 500 seats. The aircraft boasts 20% greater fuel efficiency with 10% longer range and 13% better fuel economy than the B747-400. Korean Air plans to introduce five B747-8i aircraft starting from 2013. • 30% higher fuel efficiency per seat • 10 aircraft will be introduced from 2016 • 6,000 ft (1,800 m) optimum altitude allows comfortable flight • 15,750 km maximum distance The B787 is a next-generation aircraft. It is a high-efficiency eco-friendly aircraft with more than 30% higher per-seat fuel efficiency than the B767. The B787’s entire fuselage is covered with a light carbon composite material, and the aircraft utilizes cutting-edge engine technologies. The B787-9 aircraft, which Korean Air had planned to introduce in 2011 but has been delayed by the manufacturer, will be introduced later; the aircraft performs better and with greater efficiency than the B787-8. The maximum range of the B787-9 is 15,750 km, 550km farther than the B787-8 with 30 more seats. A380 . 20% less CO2 emissions • 20% less CO2 emissions • 40% lesser noise footprint during landing and take-off • 10 aircraft introduced from 2011 to 2014 • 13,473 km maximum distance • 14 hours 48 minutes maximum duration High performance engine/cutting-edge composite materials Eco-friendly jumbo jet In June, 2011, Korean Air became the sixth airliner to adopt the A380 aircraft. The new A380 is a next-generation aircraft of fuel in carrying one passenger 100 kilometers, which is similar to the fuel efficiency of a compact car. According to Airdeveloped by Airbus. It has a full double-deck fuselage which makes it the largest super jumbo passenger jet in existence. bus, a round-trip between Seoul and Los Angeles can save 103 kilograms of fuel per passenger compared to the B747-400 Equipped with high-tech composite materials and high-performance engines, the A380 is an eco-friendly aircraft with exand reduce CO2 emissions by 327 kilograms, equivalent to the annual absorption of carbon by 33 trees. The significantly cellent fuel efficiency. About 40% of its fuselage and components are covered with cutting-edge carbon fiber-reinforced improved engine, aerodynamic structure, and performance allow for low-speed landing, reducing noise levels by half of composite materials and high quality metals. The A380 employs the GP7270 engine, which adds to the strengths of the that of the B747-400. GE90 engines while improving fuel economy, reducing noise and exhaust. The new aircraft consumes less than three liters 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 46 //////////////////// 47 Noise Abatement To minimize the noise level of Noise Abatement in Departure & Landing NADP 2 (Incheon International Airport): At ● Employing Low-Noise cially in comparison to the old jet airplanes of Procedures & Other Noise Reduction Efforts first, the aircraft climbs using a prescribed Eco-Friendly Engines the 1960’s. Starting in 2006, all aircraft manutake-offs and landings in local Korean Air duly performs noise abatement thrust for take-offs. Then, as it reaches the The ICAO first introduced noise regulations in factured since that time are required to adhere communities around airports, procedures during departures and landings prescribed minimum altitude (305m), it re1969 and has, since then, continuously raised to Chapter four standards, and all of the 128 we have instituted various as required by airports around the world to tracts the flaps and accelerates to a climbing the intensity of its regulations. Since that time, aircraft in our fleet meet Chapter four requireabatement procedures and minimize noise levels in nearby communispeed until the aircraft reaches an altitude aircraft technology has advanced steadily and ments. In particular, the A380 (equipped with a ties. We also follow the ICAO’s Noise Abateof 900m. This noise abatement procedure is high-performance engines have been develGP7270 engine), which we added to our fleet in increased the number of ment Departure Procedure and Continuous used for departures when residential areas oped, while improvements in aerodynamics June, 2011, is known to be the quietest of the low-noise aircraft in our fleet. Descent Approach in our flight operations are farther away. and departure procedures have considerably long-range jumbo jets. and employ low-noise eco-friendly aircraft to reduced the noise pollution of aircraft, espefurther minimize noise pollution. ● ICAO Noise Abatement Landing Procedure In November, 2007, we adopted the Con● ICAO Noise Abatement tinuous Descent Approach (CDA), as recomEPNdB (Effective Perceived Noise Decibels) Departure Procedure mended by the ICAO, for our flights in and out NADP 1 (Gimpo International Airport): This of Gimpo Airport, Korea. The CDA is a preCumulated certified noise values procedure involves a reduction in power or scribed procedure for descent in which the (sideline + flyover + approach, in EPNdB) ▼ thrust at or above a prescribed minimum aircraft follows a smooth and continuous glide 330 altitude (457m) and a delay in the retraction path to touchdown. This leads to significant ICAO chapter 2 limit of flaps/slats until a prescribed maximum alreductions in both noise and CO2 emissions 320 -10 titude (1,220m) is attained. At the prescribed compared to conventional methods of landing 747-200 ICAO chapter 3 limit maximum altitude above the aerodrome below, which are akin to descending a flight of stairs. 310 -10 the aircraft accelerates and the flaps/slats are ICAO chapter 4 limit 747-400 retracted on schedule while maintaining a 300 positive rate of climb. 290 A380 280 ◀ Certification date 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 Continuous descent * Source : ICAO, FAA approach Starting point of A380 vs. B744 Noise Comparison precision approach of Conventional descent descent approach Noise Footprint surface comparison (Km2) A380-800 Full NADP Runway Noise footprint A380-800 747-400 6.97 A380 • MAX CLB 3.4 50% 747-400 • Full NADP 2.9 60% ◀ 85dB contour at Incheon * The A380 carries 40% more passengers with a noise footprint surface (85dB contour) of less than 50% of the B747-400. 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 48 //////////////////// 49 Minimizing Environmental Impact To minimize the impact of our Environmental Management System Green Management Policy Korean Air has received ISO14001 certificaKorean Air revised its Environmental Policies operations on the environment, tions (an internationally recognized standard in July, 2010 to clarify its position regarding we have installed a company-wide for environmental management) in five secgreenhouse gases and low-carbon green environmental management tors – the Maintenance & Engineering Divigrowth initiatives, and to remain up-to-date system, developed a process for sion, Aircraft Manufacturing Division, Caterwith green management practices and poliing Center, Headquarters & General Division, cies arising from rapidly changing circuminstituting annual environmental and the Hotel Division – and has operated a stances in business environments. We have goals, and continue to reduce company-wide environmental management revised our Environmental Policies four times emissions of harmful gases and system since 1996. since instituting the policy in 1996. substances. <Green Management Policy> Environmental Goals In 2010, we devised a total of 112 environmental goals and achieved 96 of them. We at Korean Air are concerned about creating a sustainable future for the earth. We respect universal values as a member of global society, and we adhere to the following Green Environmental Strategy Mission Number of cases Results Management Principles as part of our efforts to fulfill our social responsibilities as a leading Aircraft GHG reduction 42 Accomplished global airline. We are committed to the following Green Management Principles which state Proactive response to GHG Climate Change mitigation 5 Accomplished that we will: regulations Energy process innovation 9 Accomplished Energy use reduction 16 Unaccomplished 1. Improve flight procedures and introduce new aircraft in order to reduce noise and emissions Environmental tour contest 1 Accomplished of greenhouse gases. Active communication on Ecoffice campaign 1 Accomplished 2. Abide by national and international environmental laws and all relevant regulations, and apply environmental issues Sponsoring and joint stricter internal standards. 3 Accomplished campaign with NGOs 3. Minimize our impact on the environment through proactive measures and improvements in our Preemptive pollutant management 7 Accomplished performance in terms of sustainability. Increasing resource recycling 2 Accomplished 4. Seek to make constant improvements in our performance in order to conserve and efficiently Reinforcing compliance Increasing waste recycling 1 Accomplished manage resources and energy. with environmental Reducing pollutant emissions 8 Accomplished 5. Conduct training and provide educational opportunities for staff to strengthen their understanding and regulations Adopting eco-friendly processes 10 Accomplished awareness of our environmental goals and to promote participation in company efforts to protect the environment. Reducing waste emissions 7 Accomplished 6. Promote mutual cooperation with partner firms to execute green management policies and activities through communication on environmental issues. 7. Share information on our green management efforts and the results with the public. 8. Endeavor to protect the natural environment and contribute to the development of local communities through international cooperation. 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 50 //////////////////// 51 Saving Energy Air pollutant emissions (Unit : TON) Korean Air monitors and analyzes the energy 44% of a total of 22,310 tons of generated consumption at 24 of its facilities/buildings, waste was recycled. Food waste generated Year SOx Dusts THC NOx Others including the Jumbos Volleyball Stadium (comfrom cabin services accounted for about 30%, 2008 19.2 11.4 10.1 45.4 8.1 pleted in 2008) and its headquarters, using an or 6,300 tons, of total waste and is incinerated 2009 19.0 11.0 11.3 43.7 7.9 energy analysis web program. The total enin accordance with relevant laws and regula2010 17.0 10.4 10.5 40.5 7.9 ergy use in 2010 stood at 42,440 TOEs(*). tions. Daily waste amounted to 921 tons, or 4% of total waste, and is incinerated at our Management of Air Pollutants Management of Water Pollutants Recycling of Resources Gimhae incinerator. Incineration generates Operations at four of our premises generate Korean Air operates 16 sewage and wasteKorean Air’s passenger and cargo transport steam, which is reused in our production proair pollutants. To minimize the environmenwater treatment plants within its various services generate waste on a daily basis and cesses. tal load of pollutants on local communities, premises. To minimize the impact of our opaircraft maintenance and manufacturing prowe adhere to internal regulations that are erations on water resources, we adhere to cesses create specified waste such as waste 50% stricter than those required by law. Our effluent standards that are 50% stricter than oil, waste paints and waste organic solvents. consistent efforts to manage air pollutants those required by law. Every quarter, enviKorean Air strives to thoroughly control and resulted in zero violations, whether monetary ronmental inspectors perform checks of all effectively recycle these wastes. In 2010, about or non-monetary, of environmental regulaenvironmental facilities to ensure complitions and sanctions for the year. We also went ance with internal regulations. They also anabeyond our goal for controlling emissions of lyze trends in the concentration of pollutants pollutants by about 14 or 15%. based on data recorded by a tele-metering system (TMS). Energy Use (Unit : TOE) 2008 43,168 2009 40,186 2010 42,440 Electricity (Unit : MWh) 2008 128,912 2009 123.330 Water supply and wastewater (Unit : TON) 2010 130,960 2008 928,256 2009 858,817 2010 870,721 Total wastes (Unit : TON) 2008 21,769 2009 20,459 Wastewater load (Unit : TON) 2010 22,310 COD 2008 2,448 Waste management (Unit : %) 2009 2,431 2010 2,170 Recycling 43.7 Outsourced 52.2 SS In-house treated 4.1 2008 1,370 2009 1,155 2010 1,441 * TOE (Tonnage of Oil Equivalent): this is a unit of energy the amount of energy equivalent to the energy released by the combustion of one ton of crude oil. 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 52 //////////////////// 53 Korean Air Chemical Management System (KCMS) Environmental Expenses (Unit : KRW million) Classification 2008 2009 2010 ▶ 4  0,000 phase-in/toxic/ Outsourcing expenses 3,611 4,035 4,550 ▶ Stock/Release, Inventory observational substances ▶ Storage, Recipient ▶ Preparations for accidents, Operational expenses 1,788 1,837 2,358 ct Ch separating restricted Legal expenses 4,607 5,249 5,341 du n Su emi Pro ibutio n Inf bsta cal substances istr atio orm nce General expenses 1,334 1,255 1,517 D orm ati Inf on ▶ Identification of hazardous Total 11,340 12,376 13,766 Hazardous ● chemical substances ▶ Constituents and amount MSDS ▶ Identification of non-phaseChemical of content Environmental Awards & Recognitions in substances and substances Substance ▶ Stock units and kg Information subject to toxicity tests conversion factor Korean Air has earned a reputation as Identification and an eco-friendly company for its diverse Environmental Expenses Countermeasures Sa fe a Ma Effici nd d y environmental management policies, The outsourcing of the treatment of waste and growth in legal expenses can be explained by na ent t an iver of ge Fas e Del ion ▶ Monitoring distribution which have included the introduction of Safe management of C Su hem ent m r at but status of chemical pollutants takes the lion’s share of our envian increase in charges for higher noise levu ri ▶ n hazardous products in bst ica an Acc f Dist atio substances within the eco-friendly aircraft, efficient flight workplace ces l o form In whole company operations and fuel use, successful ronmental expenses, and an 82.5% growth in els arising from an increase in the number of ▶ Converge stock unit into kg ▶ Distribution amount of each efforts at carbon reduction, and global operational expenses for environmental faciliflights at domestic airports. ▶ Sharing the MSDS(*) of product or substance tree planting projects in Mongolia and China. products (to avoid ▶ Checking distribution ties can be attributed to the repair and mainFor instance, in 2010, we received four redundancy) amount for each factory, awards for our voluntary carbon reduction tenance of the incinerator at the Tech Center Environmental Education department, and work place initiatives and our Eco office program, (KRW370 million) and maintenance of our In its educational programs for employees, including the grand prize at the “2010 Seoul Environmental Awards,” and the painting facilities (KRW380 million). In addiKorean Air provides diverse training in envi* MSDS: Material Satety Data Sheet Korean environment minister’s prize at the tion, 4.5% year-on-year growth in outsourcronmental protection in an effort to strength“2010 Low-Carbon Green-Growth Awards.” ing expenses was due to the increased cost of en the skills and competency of staff and to Management of Chemical Substances Management of Soil Pollution outsourcing the treatment of waste solvents enhance awareness and knowledge of our Various chemical substances are used in the Korean Air undertakes regular inspections of used in anti-icing and de-icing procedures green management policies. maintenance of aircraft, but the amounts its jet and heating oil storage facilities to deat Incheon Airport (KRW480 million). A 5.1% used are generally small. For the effective tect leakage and the consequent pollution of management of these chemical substances, the soil. Korean Air adopted the Korean Air Chemical Management System (KCMS) in 2006. At relLegal Compliance * These programs aim at instilling in our employees the basic concepts of green Basic Course management, thereby enhancing environmental awareness. evant locations, the KCMS provides easy acAs an eco-friendly company, Korean Air has cess to information regarding the storage and set internal regulations that are 50% stricter * We provide a variety of job training programs to enhance the competencies of release of chemical substances and the dithan those legally required to proactively environmental officers in our five EMS (Environmental Management System) Job Competencyrections for handling. The system is regularly control the emission of pollutants. We also building Course sectors, including environmental management, energy, and environmental technology. updated with new information regarding reviconduct annual internal and external evalusions to the Occupational Safety and Health ations of our environmental activities and the * We provide training for working-level managers involved in environmental Act and new chemical substances regulated compliance practices of our environmental Working-level pollution control, prevention, handling and management, duly following all by the National Institute of Environmental Remanagement systems, rewarding the best Course legal requirements in terms of providing specialized environmental training search (NIER). performers with promotional advantages and for specified staff. incentives. * New employees are obliged to participate in the global tree planting project On-the-job in Mongolia and China, and are also required to participate in various Course environmental protection activities. 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 54 //////////////////// 55 Environmental Protection Campaigns Korean Air’s Green Ambassadors “Mr. Greene” and “Miss Love” At Korean Air, we believe that protecting endangered species such as the Panda and the Asiatic Black Bear is the first step in protecting humanity and the planet. To demonstrate our commitment to this philosophy, the company designated a pair of teddy bears to be green ambassadors heralding the need for protecting endangered species. Named Mr. Greene and Miss Love, these 160cm-tall teddy bears dressed as Korean Air crew members were customized by the Teddy Bear Museum. In the run-up to the 16th Asian Games in November, 2010, Korean Air staged an eco-friendly campaign at the Baiyuan Airport in Guangzhou, China, where the teddy bear ambassadors were used to promote information on how to protect the environment and to encourage passengers to participate in Korean Air’s Low-Carbon Green-Growth Initiative and Green Asian Games campaign. In the future, we plan to We engage in diverse internal environmental protection The winner of the Green Teacher Green hold more global green campaigns in Tokyo, LonKorean Air hands out flower seeds, Korean Air appointed the teddy bears Tour program was awarded at Korean Air don, Madrid and other cities around the world. Mr. Greene and Miss Love as green campaigns to awaken our employees to the importance of headquarters. pine trees and wildflowers to ambassadors at Gimpo Airport. protecting the environment. Distributing Herb Growing Kits to passengers and citizens every treeDomestic Passengers on planting day. Tree-Planting Days Korean Air has distributed plant-growing kits of pine trees and wild flowers as well as flower seeds on every tree-planting day since 1998 in order to raise Eco Office Campaign Korean Air initiated “Eco Office Activities” in December, 2009, to raise awareness of the environmental awareness of the public. In 2010, global environmental issues and to fulfill its responsibilities as a good steward of the environment. All employees we provided growing kits of cherry tomatoes and signed a pledge to follow eco-friendly practices and participate in such initiatives as “No Driving One Day of the in 2011, herb kits containing herb seeds and a soil Week” which is a “Two Wheels Movement” to encourage bike-riding, saving energy at home, and other activities to mixture. Korean Air hands out the herb-growing kits reduce CO2 emissions. When employees find ways to reduce CO2 emissions, they are given EcoPoints equivalent to at the airline’s 12 boarding counters for domestic the reduction, which are accumulated over the year and then donated to environmental NGOs. In addition, we have flights at the Gimpo, Jeju and Busan airports as well initiated a Save the Paper Competition among departments as well as other environmental activities that are easily as its office building in downtown Seoul. incorporated into the everyday lives of employees. Korean Air plans to further develop “Eco Office Activities” as a key environmental platform of the company. Green Teacher Green Tour We believe that education is the key to the future, but we also recognize that it requires a span of about a hundred years for the results of education to come to full fruition. Therefore, Korean Air continues to support a Green Teacher Green Tour program in conjunction with the Korean Ministry of Environment. The program was designed for teachers trained in environmental practices to go abroad to learn about environmental best practices, and then teach their students upon returning home. Thirteen teachers in five teams were selected through a contest and sponsored on a trip around the world. After the trip, teachers wrote about what they discovered and learned in terms of ideas for best protecting the environment. The essays and ideas were published and distributed as a booklet, and students from the schools affiliated with the teachers were given the opportunity to plant trees in Mongolia. 3. SOCIAL Hope Responsibility Companies are responsible for creating value for customers and shareholders, helping employees to reach their full potential and assisting in community development. Korean Air is well aware that customer satisfaction is fundamental to its business as a transportation service provider. Satisfied customers lead to better financial results and employees are able to reach their full potential in contributing to a successful business. Consequently, corporate value is enhanced and social development is achieved when a company effectively meets the needs of its customers. From me to we, We give back to society. “aIt’svisitbeento the years since I first joined the volunteer corps, the Very Special Angels, and paid Hwaseong Orphanage. Children there used to be shy, but now we have become close enough to feel like members of the same family. I remember when I prepared meals for hundreds of people for the company’s fund-raising bazaar in 2010. The work was exhausting and laborious, but I was filled with joy in doing it. Whenever I visit the children at the orphanage, they always call me “flying aunt,” and that always makes me feel proud of myself and my job as a flight attendant. ” Happiness Korean Air gives back to society through its sustainability management practices as a way of thanking its customers for all they have done for the company. These practices include sharing with needy people and contributing to cultural development while building a better world for all. Jeong Hee Jang, flight attendant, member of Gonihoe, Korean Air Volunteer Corps 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 60 //////////////////// 61 Communicating with Customers As a leading global carrier, VOC Flow Chart Service Improvement Mechanism Korean Air strives to achieve complete customer satisfaction Customers Feedback VOC DB Monitoring through upgrades in service and to Reply On-site inspection Systematic work establish mutually beneficial process improvement Customer complaints and monitoring to prevent service-related required (through-andhandling by case relationships with its customers through follow-ups) problems and improve service VOC system (automated reply through regular communication. Communicating via Social Media Voice of Customer (VOC) Management and classification by type) In January, 2010, Korean Air launched a twitter Our voice of customer (VOC) service is Korean Frequent service both in Korean (http://twitter.com/KoAir’s key means for receiving feedback, managcomplaints Feedback reanair_Seoul) for domestic customers and ing contacts, and providing customer services. and praises Service Management and Expected Results Improvement Mechanism English (http://twitter.com/Koreanair_Home) At the moment, about 60,000 to 70,000 VOC for international customers. Social media recomments—including praise, complaints, in▶ Identify issues through VOC database ▶ Establish a system to identify, and find Systematic improvements solutions to and prevent recurrence of ▶ Register the issue as feedback task and take fers to the open online tools and media platquiries and suggestions—have been collected measures to improve problems ▶ Promote comprehensive improvements in forms through which people can share ideas, via e-mail and onboard VOC cards written in Analysis of customer demands ▶ Conduct on-site monitoring to confirm the improved results system and procedures opinions, experiences and points of view. Koeight languages (Korean, English, Simplified rean Air strives to remain up-to-date with such & Traditional Chinese, Japanese, German, popular SNS (social networking services) as French and Russian) through our nine global Twitter, Facebook and MeToday (a Korean verwebsites for Korea, North America, Southeast In 2010, the number of comments received by External Recognition of Korean Air’s sion of twitter) to take advantage of these newAsia, Oceania, China, Hong Kong, Japan, EuService Forum the VOC grew by 17% from the previous year, Service Quality (intranet bulletin board) with 19% increase in complaints and 14% Our tireless endeavors to improve our cuser-style channels of communication. rope and the CIS (Commonwealth of IndependBetter understanding of and sharing and 0.4% increases in inquiries and suggestomer service proved successful with Korean ▶ ent States). information on entertaining guests ▶ Feedback & service improvement tions, respectively. The numbers show a clear Air’s ranking as the top performer in the air evidence of the public’s higher expectations passenger transport service category of the of Korean Air. At the same time, a 25% in“2010 Global Customer Satisfaction CompeService improvement and crease in the number of messages offering tency Index (GCSI)” by the Japanese ManageEvaluation Committee praise attests to our tireless efforts to improve ment Association Consulting (JMAC). DevelNumber of VOCs the quality of our services. oped by the JMAC, the GCSI is an index used to evaluate customer satisfaction with global Complaints Suggestions Service Excellence Program companies. Since 2005, Korean Air has re2008 3,153 2008 1,397 On a quarterly basis, the Service Excellence mained at the top of the index for six years in a 2009 3,127 2009 1,467 2010 3,743 2010 1,473 program selects and rewards employees who row. In addition, the Korean Standards Assohave earned customer praise for excellent ciation named Korean Air as the top airline of Praises Others service in order to raise morale and instill a the year in its 2010 Korea Standard-Service 2008 11,154 2008 1,757 service mindset in our employees. The names Quality Index (KS-SQI) for the second year in 2009 12,509 2009 2,196 of the winners are posted on the company’s a row. We, at Korean Air, are proud of such 2010 15,671 2010 3,190 intranet bulletin board and featured as case recognition and as a global carrier, our aim Inquiries Total studies in various educational materials. is to remain at the top in terms of customer 2008 37,742 2008 55,203 satisfaction for years to come. 2009 42,165 2009 61,464 2010 47,987 2010 72,064 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 62 //////////////////// 63 Improvements in Customer Service Quality We consistently seek to offer the highest levels of safety and convenience in the industry for customers using our passenger and cargo transport services. Passenger Service ● New Website for ● Top-Class Cabin Service Visually-Challenged Persons The ‘Top-Class Cabin Service” project enKorean Air opened a new website for special ustails the unprecedented renovation of cabins, ers (www.koreanair.com/text) in March, 2010, which has changed the concept of service in with an improved user-interface made excluflight. From 2005 to May, 2011, we renovated sively for persons who are visually-challenged. ● Improving Customer ● In-Flight First Aid the interior of the cabins of 49 aircraft, inComprising mostly text, this website uses a Convenience at Incheon Airport Every aircraft in Korean Air’s fleet carries an cluding B747, B777, and A330 aircraft in our “Screen Reader” program, which reads text We offer a reservation system for customemergency medical kit (EMK), which includes fleet. To date, we have upgraded the cabins aloud. The website also features useful funcers who import or export freight through the a first aid kit (FAK), universal precaution kit of 68 aircraft, with all seats equipped with an tions for persons with other physical disabilities. Incheon Airport to allow for drop off or pick up (UPK), resuscitator bag and automated exAVOD system and power supply. In addition, without delays. When customers make reserternal defibrillator (AED), and an automatic washroom facilities and galleys have been Improving Air Cargo Transport Service vations on our cargo websites and, designate blood pressure monitor and medical bag. upgraded, considerably enhancing customer ● Special Care Service for Important Cargo a desired time of arrival, they are informed as Knowledge of safety guidelines, CPR cerconvenience. Special cargo, such as fragile cutting-edge IT to when the freight can be delivered to and tification, and training in other emergency devices, temperature-sensitive medicines, livretrieved from the airport. In case of delays measures are required of all flight attend● One-stop Boarding Service for ing beings, and ultra-large/ultra-heavy cargo, in the departure or arrival of aircraft or delays ants. In addition, Korean Air’s Emergency Smartphones account for 25% of the freight transported by stemming from ground support operations, Medical Call System (EMCS) has emergency In March, 2011, Korean Air launched a smartKorean Air. For safer and more efficient transcustomers are immediately notified via emedical personnel and nurses on standby phone application for international flight tickport of these types of cargo, Korean Air offers mail and SMS (short message service). around the clock to provide medical advice in eting and seat-booking for smartphones on a a “special care service.” Korean Air’s Special the event of in-flight emergencies, thereby rereal-time basis. When passengers purchase Care Service Team monitors these special Customer Health ducing the potential for in-flight fatalities and international air tickets, they can opt for the types of cargo from reservation through de● Transfer of Passengers decreasing the need for emergency landings one-stop check-in service, which allows livery to the owner(s), providing services cuswith Medical Conditions and rerouting. them to choose their seats anytime from 4 to tomized for the different characteristics of To ensure the safety and convenience of a 24 hours prior to departure by using a smarteach particular cargo. Furthermore, we proflight for passengers suffering from a medical ● Controlling Epidemics of phone. After check-in, a passenger merely vide an e-Track service that notifies customcondition, we decide on the feasibility of flying Contagious Diseases needs to provide identification at a given ers via email of the exact location of a cargo at based on the recommendation of a doctor. Korean Air continually monitors the potencounter at the airport to receive their tickets. every stage of transportation. Passengers cleared to fly are provided with all tial for the spread of epidemics via air travel. required medical supplies and services such In addition, Korean Air works in collaboration as portable oxygen or a flight bed. with domestic and international authorities and organizations in the event of an outbreak of disease to prevent such occurrences. 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 64 //////////////////// 65 Customer Health and Safety To ensure the highest levels of Safety Check and Safety Audits In September, 2010, Korean Air was audited curity incidents, Korean Air cooperates with safety and security, we have an for the fourth time for the renewal of its IOSA national and international security agencies exhaustive inspection and secucertification. In all four audits by IOSA, Koand organizations. We also equip our aircraft rity system in place to guarantee rean Air passed all 900 criteria, successfully with a variety of security equipment and pethe comfort and peace of mind extending its IOSA certification until Januriodically train our flight attendants in antiary, 2013. Since 2009, Korean Air has utilized terrorism drills and measures. to our passengers. the IATA Safety Audit for Ground Operations (ISAGO) to enhance safety and security involvProtection of Customer Information ing ground operators from around the world. Korean Air provides internal guidelines on the We conduct internal safety checks four to six securing of customer privacy. All of our intertimes per year following IATAs ISAGO audit net-based reservation and ticketing service guidelines, and this information is shared systems have obtained Information Security with other members of the ISAGO Pool AdviManagement System (ISMS) certification, al● sory Group. In 2010, Korean Air was appointed lowing for enhanced safety and security in usSafeNet Measures to Prevent Aircraft Accidents Flight and Ground to the ISAGO Oversight Committee. In addiing e-commerce systems. Korean Air has earned a reputation as one of Safety Management System tion, we undergo inspections by the U.S. Dethe world’s safest airlines. In particular, we Korean Air has operated a Flight Operationpartment of Defense (DOD) every two years as have been taking the lead in flight safety as al Quality Assurance (FOQA) system for 19 a DOD-approved carrier. Another inspection a member of IATA and as a member of the years, for the effective enhancement of flight is slated for July, 2011. SkyTeam Alliance, including membership safety. The system was upgraded to thirdon its board of directors, a committee and a generation in 2011, with plans for implemenPrevention of Security Incidents working group dedicated to security issues. tation later in 2011. The 3G FOQA enables the Korean Air analyzes security information With the establishment of an ICAO Safety collection of a greater diversity of information, from cities on its flight routes on a monthly Management System at Korean Air, the comthus improving analysis of flight data regardbasis. In the event of an incident, the airline’s pany has adopted the highest levels of safety ing flight safety, the quality of repairs persecurity system instantly responds by sharing standards, management processes and IT formed and fuel management. information with relevant branches, related systems in the industry. In October, 2009, we departments and national security agencies, strengthened our management of aviation Korean Air’s ground support operations is while raising the alert level of its internal flight safety by introducing SafeNet, which is an moving ahead with plans to adopt a preventive security system and instituting countermeasIT-based, company-wide system for managsafety management system, the “Ramp Operures. In preparing extensively for possible seing safety issues. Consequently, SafeNet’s ation Safety Audit Program,” and is encouragexcellent risk management performance was ing suppliers to install the system, as well. The widely recognized in 2010, with the system system is expected to be effective in detecting being selected as the most innovative secuand preventing the occurrence of lapses in rity system in the aviation industry by EtQ, the safety and security. This system will be adoptworld’s leading system developer. ed by the company as part of a more proactive approach to ground safety through its existing ground operation safety audit system. 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 66 //////////////////// 67 Employees We respect and protect human Workforce Breakdown by Gender & Average Years of Service (as of Dec. 31, 2010) we have continued to upgrade our human reto become permanent employees. In 2007, sources management policies to promote genwe adopted home-based telework as regular rights and gender equality in the Gender Office Flight Operations Engineering Etc. Total Average General Cockpit, Aviation, Production Computer-related der equality in overseas assignments and in employment, ensuring job security for peoworkplace while creating Years administration, Cabin technology, Procurement, work, Research, of Service training for cabin crew members. In Decemple who are mobility-challenged. In recogniFinance, Sales, Communication, Facilities, Catering, etc. employment. Transportation Operation management ber, 2008, Korean Air became the first Korean tion of these efforts, Korean Air was awarded Male 2,439 2,467 4,921 348 10,175 16.51 company to enter into a “Women-Friendly the grand prize at the “2007 True Company Female 2,022 3,334 36 52 5,444 10.14 Company” agreement with the Ministry of Awards” organized by the KEPAD. Total 4,461 5,801 4,957 400 15,619 14.29 Gender Equality & Family. In addition to comDisabled Workforce plying with the legal requirements of the labor International Employment * Excluding 1,633 overseas employees act, the company offers various additional As a globally competitive airline company, * Excluding executives Job Functions : Flight-booking, ticketing and transportation benefits to female workers, including pregKorean Air has expanded its overseas operaComputer-related/general administration nancy leaves for flight attendants and leaves tions, and accordingly, has recruited highly Workforce Breakdown by Age Korean Air actively supports its workforce in prevention of sexual harassment in the workfor fertility treatment. As a result, a 2007 surtalented workers in its locales worldwide. * Average age : 39.2 (Male : 42.6 / Female : 32.7) cultivating expertise and professional skills. place, we have set forth internal guidelines on vey of female university students ranked KoIndividuals are selected on merit and Korean Its annual recruitment drive creates employhow to prevent or respond to sexual harassrean Air as one of the top two companies to Air does not discriminate on the basis of nament, contributing to the number of those ment. In addition, all employees are obliged Disabled employees work for, and a 2008 survey ranked Korean Air tionality, culture, or religion, thereby contribwho are employed at home and abroad. to complete onand off-line courses on the Disabled 171 as the company most admired by female conuting to job creation in the regions in which prevention of sexual harassment at least once employees sumers. the company operates. Furthermore, Korean Respect for Human Rights a year. Korean Air prohibits forced labor and 131 Air applies standardized criteria in its hiring Under the philosophy of “a company is the child labor as stipulated by the Korean Labor Increasing the Number of Disabled Workers of both domestic and foreign staff to ensure sum of its people,” Korean Air respects huStandards Act and ILO (International Labor 2010 2011 goal Since 2000, Korean Air has endeavored to inequality of opportunity for candidates, and we 20~24 1.8% man rights and strives to enhance the quality Organization) conventions. No violations of 25~29 14.6% crease its employment of disabled persons. have a zero tolerance policy regarding child 30~34 18.8% of life of its employees. We do not discrimilabor regulations occurred during the report35~39 19.8% In 2005, the company spurred on these efforts labor and forced labor in full compliance with nate on the basis of gender, age, religion or ing period. 40~44 19.7% by signing an agreement with the Korean Emlocal labor laws. 45~49 13.0% regional background, nor do we allow dis50~54 9.6% ployment Promotion Agency for the Disabled crimination in terms of type of employment, Increasing the Number of Female Workers over age 55 2.7% (KEPAD) to promote the hiring of disabled assignment, evaluation or compensation. To Korean Air has continuously increased its empersons. While increasing the number of disaensure adherence to these policies, an omployment of female workers; as of the end of bled persons on our staff, we have expanded Overseas Employment budsman program has been implemented at 2010, women accounted for over 35% of the * Total : 1,633 the scope of positions for the disabled as well, our counseling center to address employee total workforce. The percentage of new female from flight booking, ticketing, transportacomplaints and receive suggestions. All inforemployees has remained steady at around tion, and computer-related work to general mation pertaining to counseling is kept confi58% of total new staff for the last three years. administration in order to accommodate an dential, and counselors are trained to respect Lately, the number of female crew members increasing number of disabled job seekers inthe dignity of clients and to put them at ease has increased with more women joining flight cluding the severely disabled. We also have inin dealing with underlying issues. For the crews or becoming flight engineers. Also, creased opportunities for disabled employees Japan 171 US 464 Europe/Middle East 223 China 408 Southeast Asia 314 Uzbekistan 14 CIS 39 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 68 //////////////////// 69 Human Resources Management Our employees are our most HRM System valuable asset. We help our •Enhance individual value •Offering opportunities and usefulness •Fairness employees reach their full poten•Enhance individual contribution •Objectiveness to company •Equity tial through fair evaluations and •Promote personal growth Objectives •Improve quality of life Criteria compensation programs. Cultivation, Evaluation, Compensation Company: Global Leading Carrier of the 21st Century Employees: self-realization, satisfaction, and motivation Korean Air’s Ideal Talent Korean Air’s HR Philosophy Evaluation System HR Philosophy ▶ Person of Enterprising Spirit ▶ People are the most valuable ▶ Evaluation Philosophy: ▶ Globally competent person resources of a company. Openness, cultivation and “A company is the sum of its people” is the ented individual can be summed up as an en▶ Person with dignity and service▶ It is people that enable the development underlying philosophy of Korean Air’s human terprising person with global competencies oriented mind-set development of a company. ▶ Evaluation Principles: ▶ Person of integrity ▶ Growth of a company and its Objectiveness and fairness resources management policy. As the late who possesses a service-oriented mind-set people go hand in hand. ▶ Evaluation Method: founder, Cho Choong-hoon, noted, “It is peoas well as dignity and integrity. Interactive communication ple that make a company and it is the sum of between supervisors and staff such people that enables a company to grow Personnel Management and develop.” In addition, Korean Air strives to Korean Air’s workforce is classified under Evaluation Scheme improve the quality of life of its employees and the categories of general administration, enKorean Air aims to motivate its employees to the company. Our evaluation scheme is fair to support employees in both their personal gineering, flight crew and cabin crew. Within through job satisfaction and self-actualizaand objective, and it promotes transparency and professional development by providing a each category, positions range from entrytion. We also seek to stimulate workers to as an important part of our system for the dephysically and psychologically sound working level to executive, with many requiring varywork hard and achieve more through multivelopment of human resources. Based on the environment. ing levels of expertise or professional certifilayered systems in training, evaluation and results of evaluations, we provide individual cations/standards. Korean Air’s HR system compensation customized to differing job feedback to each employee, encouraging furKorean Air’s Ideal Talent is called a Total System, in which employee functions. Our evaluation scheme focuses ther improvements in personal competencies. Korean Air pursues talented people who use cultivation, evaluation and compensation are on measuring the personal competencies of creativity and innovative thinking in dealing closely connected. individual employees and their contributions with uncertainty or adversity. Our idea of a talEvaluation Philosophy Openness, cultivation and development Evaluation Principles Objectiveness and fairness Evaluation Method Interactive communication between supervisors and staff 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 70 //////////////////// 71 Human Resources Development We invest in the fostering Customized Education System Under our strong belief that a company is the courses have been tailored for specific purposof talented people through sum of its people and that a good education es and segmented to address ever-changing customized educational programs can lead to change in people, Korean Air offers needs. The business management course is diand pursue openness in our various educational programs to cultivate the vided into a “leadership course,” “KE Core Value corporate culture in which all global competencies of its employees. Korean Course,” and “Global Competency-building Air’s Human Resources Development Center course,” each customized as to the underlying employees share Korean Air’s purpose of each course. In particular, the course is in charge of a number of company-wide incorporate vision. tegrated educational programs, including the for increasing the competencies of team leaders training of managers and special programs for has been established as a year-round program, teaching core values. A separate training center while a new course dedicated to newly-promotalso offers specialized courses in flight operaed managers has been established as well. tions, maintenance, and cabin services in order to maximize employee expertise in these areas. Core Values & Solidarity In 2010, Korean Air renamed its educational procompany’s corporate culture. We also hold vating required competencies for successfulKorean Air’s basic education system is divided grams as the Communication Excellence School, annual seminars for all executives from our ly fulfilling their job duties in a new country. In into different levels depending on the roles and and the programs have been upgraded to instill domestic and overseas operations to discuss addition to these courses, branch managers responsibilities of each position. Educational in the minds of employees the company’s core and develop business strategies and ideas for should complete additional on-the-job trainprograms are also categorized under business corporate values and visions. All newly-promoted innovation and to cooperate in achieving busiing before beginning their work in the field. management, specialized training according to employees in all positions are expected to comness goals. In addition, we have launched position, service training, and foreign language plete the course so as to ensure communication workshops for team leaders to educate them Through year-round courses for local mantraining. Recently, the business management across-the-board, trustand solidarity within the on business plans, policies and principles in a agers and hands-on training, Korean Air aims Basic Education System timely manner. to provide more educational opportunities for overseas employees. Korean Air’s training Specialized Foreign Business Management training according Service language Cultivating Global Competencies courses for new employees and service traintraining to positions training Korean Air’s programs for building global ing for overseas staff have proven effective in Global competencies are classified into courses raising the competencies of employees and Category KE Core Value Leadership course Competencyffor employees who are newly-assigned to their commitment to the company. To ensure course building international posts and courses to assist in that overseas employees receive good eduExecutives KEDP Executives’ the localization of skills and competencies. cation from the best instructors, Korean Air seminars Employees who are assigned to international runs courses to train instructors and instrucTeam Course for increasing team leaders’ Team leaders posts attend preliminary courses and orientors are selected only from those who have Courses for Foreign employees dispatched to Seoul PassMainFlight leaders competencies workshops Cargoes Cabin engers tenance operations tations. The three-month orientation courses completed the courses. employees assigned to are programmed to assist employees in cultiGeneral Specialized training Captain training Service management Beginners course for newlyAdvanced Passenger Cargo Maintenance Managers international posts Airline for newly-assigned M Management courses management management supervisors team leaders Courses for improving basic Deputy B School Communication promoted managers Managers 9 for deputy managers A Excellence English, Higher-class School Intensive Service clinic Specialized Japanese, Passenger care 12 for managers Intermediate Cargo care Managers (Newly promoted) Promotion 2010 Education Performance (Unit: person-hours) Courses for courses maintenance by Chinese, competencies (mandatory/online) 11 for assistant managers increasing specialized training to captain and other courses aircraft type 2,187,095 managers’ job Total Service working-level competencies foreign 10 for staffs languages Online 858,960 Assistant BIZ English Offline 1,328,135 managers Beginners New employee Basic Co-pilot training/ Passenger Cargo courses training maintenance orientation Entry level Airline Operations Basics Course for new employee training 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 72 //////////////////// 73 Labor-Management Wages & Welfare Relations Benefits We have maintained cooperative Korean Air’s Union Memberships Korean Air has adopted a Total Total Compensation System labor-management relations and Korean Air Labor Union Korean Air Pilots Labor Union Compensation System, which ▶ Adopting fair ▶ Offering health insurance Category have been free of labor disputes Number of members/ Number of eligible Membership rates Number of members/ Number of eligible Membership rates combines performance-based compensation system ▶ Paying reasonable level of wages (worth KRW 28.8 billion in 2010) ▶ Supporting employees in buying for 42 years. 2010 9,943 / 13,753 72 % 1,203 / 2,115 57 % wages with benefits that are closely ▶ Introducing annual salary and performance-based system private insurance policies Providing financial support 2009 9,970 / 13,801 72 % 1,251 / 2,078 60 % (amounted to KRW 990 million in 2010) in 2008 9,207 / 13,522 68 % 1,279 / 1,980 65 % related to employees’ lifestyles. case an employee or their spouse suffers from illness, accident or death ▶  ffering 25 to 35 airline O ▶ Covering full medical expenses 2007 9,281 / 13,276 70 % 1,273 / 1,829 70 % tickets per year He (over USD200) for overseas layover ges al Su thcar ▶ Providing 265 time-share Wa ppo e crew and employees on business trips * All collective agreements with labor unions or the labor-management council’s resolutions cover the entire workforce of condominium of popular rt resorts in Korea Korean Air, whether one is a member of a union or not. Support ▶ Providing discount vouchers for Livelihood ▶ Providing company-owned housing major hotels at home and abroad for Leisure Employees Support for 2,200 families Activities Labor Unions Labor-Management Communication ▶ Supporting activities Su ▶ Providing home loans of 28 in-company social clubs fo ppo through the Company Intranet Re r Pos rt ▶ Providing employees’ children with Korean Air has two labor unions, the Korean Air Pension & Equity Participation (KRW 100 million) s tire tive full tuition support for middle school, me ent Labor Union which consists of workers in cabin All employees of Korean Air have real-time acnt Inc high school and university education National Pension Scheme ▶ Providing tuition support for children service, maintenance and general administracess to corporate information such as company 2008 294 attending prominent universities ▶ Paying contribution to the overseas tion, and the Korean Air Pilots Union. Relations news, daily sales, major economic indicators, 2009 296 National Pension Scheme ▶ Providing tuition and language 2010 299 with Korean Air’s Labor Union have remained and corporate policies and regulations through ▶ Providing KRW 50,000 to education fees for children of 150,000 every month in employees dispatched to international dispute-free during collective bargaining for 42 the company’s various intranet systems such Individual Pension Plan subsidies for employees’ operations individual pension plans consecutive years as Korean Air and the Labor as the Employee Information System (KAL2008 92 ▶ Running the largest ▶ Providing tuition for employees attending company-designated Union have worked to build harmonious relaMAN), the Work Management System, and the 2009 95 corporate credit union in Korea universities/ graduate schools for and helping employees make work-related majors 2010 96 tions. Also, Korean Air’s Pilots Union has mainHANWAY system. KALMAN allows employees equity participation in the union to offer generous retirement pay tained cooperative relations with the company to monitor personal or income information or to Business performance incentives Equity Participation in Credit Union ▶ in a mutual effort to weather the economic criapply for benefits including airline tickets. KAL2008 89 ▶ Safety performance incentives sis and raise corporate competitiveness. MAN also serves as an online channel for open 2009 92 and candid communications. 2010 94 Korean Air’s Total Compensation scheme offers ▶ W  age & Incentives | reasonable financial rewards based Information Sharing & Mutual Cooperation on individual performances and capabilities. reasonable performance-based compensation Total To promote transparency, Korean Air pledges Labor-Management Culture of Sharing and welfare benefits that are closely related to ▶ R  etirement Allowance System | a system under which 2008 475 employees receive funds for retirement equivalent to to share management information as a prinKorean Air holds various special events for its 2009 483 employees’ lifestyles to help them in reaching their wages for 30 days times every year employed by ciple in the collective agreement. Accordingly, employees and their families every year. In 2010, 2010 489 their full potential. Korean Air. The introduction of a retirement pension the company immediately posts informathe company held a “Table Tennis Tournament” scheme is under consideration based on a broad consensus of its necessity, but the timing of the introduction regarding revisions to corporate rules, and a “41st Anniversary Marathon” to increase Wages and Incentives tion has not been fixed as of yet.) organizational restructuring, hiring, promosolidarity and cooperation amongst employKorean Air pays top wages and incentives in the tions, reshuffling of personnel, and retirement ees. Every year, the labor union and manageWelfare Benefits aviation industry. New employees with a bacheon its in-house website. Other than regular ment jointly participate in volunteer activities Korean Air offers employees 25 to 35 airline tickets lor’s degree are paid wages that are about 300% labor-management councils (held four times such as delivering briquettes to needy people. annually to encourage the enjoyment of leisure time higher than the legal minimum wage in Korea. a year), wage negotiations (once a year), and In the future, we intend to increase opportuniand to broaden minds in terms of global leadership. Korean Air offers every employee equal opporcollective bargaining (every two years), Korean ties for joint labor-management participation in In addition, the company offers a wide range of weltunities for advancement based on individual Air holds additional collective bargaining or volunteer activities. To this end, we are planning fare benefits including low-rental company-owned capabilities and performances, backed by the labor-management councils only if necessary. such joint activities as the cleaning up of buildhousing, tuition support for the children of employproviso that any form of discrimination related to To promote mutual cooperation between labor ings and facilities belonging to charities for the ees, medical subsidies, and support for leisure acreligion, age, gender, or academic background and management, Korean Air convenes a labordisabled, extending a helping hand to mentallytivities and post-retirement plans. is strictly prohibited. In addition, Korean Air promanagement task force team when making challenged farmers, and making Song-pyeon vides incentives based not just on that year’s changes in major policies. (rice cakes for Korean Thanksgiving) for the business performances but also on safety-relatdisabled. ed performances in order to encourage employees to remain vigilant in terms of safety. 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 74 //////////////////// 75 Health & Safety Win-Win Partnerships We operate state-of-the-art Employee Health Care Service We promote fairness in transactions Korean Air gives regular medical check-ups fitness tests and provides continuing health facilities at our Aviation Medical and offer various support programs to all employees for the prevention, early demanagement programs based on the results. Center to more effectively manage tection, and treatment of health problems. for our business partners to achieve the health and occupational safety We also run various health care programs Occupational Safety win-win partnerships. of our employees. such as first-aid training, and sponsor camKorean Air has promoted campaigns for paigns promoting vaccinations for influenza accident-free workplaces and is committed and cervical cancer. Regular monitoring of to providing healthy, accident-free workworkplaces to ensure the health and safety places for its employees. Employee concern of employees is undertaken by joint teams of and awareness of workplace safety have led <Major Achievements of Win-Win Partnerships> Fair Trade doctors, nurses, and occupational and envito voluntary activities aimed at the prevenKorean Air makes the utmost efforts to prosuppliers. The iSP system enables suppliers 1 Bill payments in cash mote fairness in its transactions and achieve to monitor the status of orders, deliveries and 2010 Health Care Programs ronmental hygienists who pay regular visits to tion of accidents. All employees duly follow workplaces. These health professionals offer given work processes and continue to immutual growth with its business partners. In payments more quickly, a and it also allows 2 Technical support and training Health Care Services practical down-to-earth advice and medical prove safety at workplaces. As result, we have strengthening partnerships with other busisuppliers to address problems through a Q&A Category (persons) bulletin board. Furthermore, managers from care and post health information onand offmaintained a low occupational injury rate of 3 Education/training and seminars nesses, we aim to spread the practice of corGeneral Medical Check-ups 14,503 porate social responsibilities so as to grow all departments make regular visits to supline for the benefit of employees. 0.07% for the past three years and the figure 4 Commodity prices-linkage system Aviation Physical Examination 2,669 continues to decline. In addition, Korean Air mutually beneficial. To this end, we collabopliers to listen to and address concerns so Physical Fitness for Cabin Crews 4,514 Health Care & Physical Examinations has reinforced its injury-prevention activities 5 Regular meetings and reward programs rate with our business partners in a variety as to reinforce mutual trust. Korean Air also Primary Health Care (outpatient care) 10,865 for Flight Attendants with the introduction of a Job Hazards Analyof businesses, not only air transportation but conducts supplier satisfaction surveys on a Transfer of invalid passengers 2,622 Through our health management programs sis, a system that encourages workers to manufacturing and services, as well. Furregular basis to identify policies and support we make every effort to ensure the health identify and address risk factors in the workthermore, our quality-oriented fair transacmeasures requiring improvement, and the and safety of our cabin crew members so as place. We also conduct risk assessments of tion programs allow for greater transparency results are reflected in adjustments to poliSafety Performance Incentives (KRW million) to secure the safety of flights and the fulfillwork processes susceptible to occupational in our purchasing policies and processes. We cies. As for financial support, Korean Air conment of duties. Korean Air issues and managaccidents and take corrective action to mitihave established a strict code of ethics as tributes to the stable management of its sup2005 134 2006 291 es a comprehensive domestic/international gate such risks and to secure safety measwell, and we invite our partners to abide by pliers by conducting all transactions in cash. 2007 191 certificate for aviation physical exams, and ures. We also offer incentives to promote this code. 2008 196 offers preventive health care to ensure safe awareness of safety violations and to prevent Green Purchasing 2009 23 flight operations. In order to protect cabin injuries. Partnerships and Mutual Growth Korean Air supports green purchasing, which 2010 300 crew members from musculoskeletal disorThe mutual growth of Korean Air and its busiis the practice of buying environmentallyders, Korean Air regularly conducts physical ness partners is integral to sustainable ecofriendly products and services. Such pracnomic growth. Thus, Korean Air continues to tices include the purchasing of cutting-edge establish and strengthen win-win partneraircraft and engines with high fuel efficiency Occupational Injuries per 100 Employees (Unit : %) Occupational Injury Rates of Korea ships through various strategic alliances. and new aircraft equipment and lightweight Occupational Injury Rates of Korean Air products that contribute to reduced fuel conWith the opening of an iSP (Internet Supplier 0.9 Portal), a website for suppliers, along with the sumption. As a responsible corporate con0.8 0.77 0.77 0.72 introduction of an ERP (Enterprise Resource sumer, Korean Air will continue to participate 0.71 0.70 0.7 0.69 Planning) system in January, 2009, Korean in the purchase of green products to promote 0.6 Air has strengthened its relationships with a culture of sustainable consumption 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.13 0.1 0.09 0.08 0.07 0.07 0.07 0.0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 76 //////////////////// 77 Social Contributions Under the themes of “sharing talent,” “sharing love,” “sharing Under our founder’s belief that companies should share their profits with the society in which they operate, Korean Air engages in make a pledge to donate time and talents and to participate in at least one volunteer activity under the four themes of “sharing talent,” from Education hope,” and “sharing happiness,” various social contribution activities locally “sharing love,” “sharing hope,” and “sharing Sharing begins with sowing •Full subsidies for operating expenses and the tuition of all we engage in a variety of social and internationally. For instance, we lend Kohappiness.” New employees were introduced the seeds of care in the mind students of Jeongseok University rean Air’s business acumen to the transport to volunteer groups and encouraged to be•Construction of a library at contribution programs. of a giver. Every employee of Inha University of disaster relief supplies and potable water come honorary members. A campaign for the Korean Air acts as a seed of care, to survivors of floods, and our 20 volunteer “donation of less than KRW 1,000 from each groups run various community engagement paycheck” was also promoted on a companyputting into action our commitment programs in the areas of academics, culture wide level. Korean Air will continue to promote to the values of CSR. Culture & Art and arts, and sports. Social contribution acsocial contribution activities in the daily lives of tivities are an integral part of our sustainability its employees, giving back to society monetar•Sponsor of Korean language management practices and play an important ily and in terms of time, talents and concern. guide service at famous overseas museums role in enhancing our corporate value in the •Flying Art Ambassador long term. Therefore, we will continue to share Online Website for Pledges to “Sharing” •Korean On-Air Program and promote the significance of social contriIn 2010, Korean Air launched an online webbution activities with all stakeholders. site for sharing, where its employees can make pledges to participate in social contribufrom to 2010 Korean Air’s tion activities through monetary or voluntary ME WE Social Contribution Activities participation. The website aims to get the atSports Korean Air set corporate social responsibility tention of employees so as to encourage par•Sponsor of the Pyeongchang (CSR) as the main theme of a company-wide ticipation in the company’s social contribution 2018 Olympic Bid Committee campaign for 2010 and implemented varidrives. On the website, employees can not only •Airline tickets for prospective professional athletes ous activities in support of this theme. Beginsign pledges but also learn about the companing with a presentation on CSR at the openny’s current CSR practices and plans through ing ceremony for the year 2010, the company a VoD service available on the website. to conducted a number of programs to direct the attention of employees to the values of CSR. Environment Each and every employee was encouraged to •Afforestation campaign at Baganuur, Mongolia •Afforestation campaign in Seeds grow roots and branch out. Kubuchi desert, China 2010 Social Contribution Volunteer Hours & Expenses •Tree Planting Campaign in Los Angeles Each branch bears the fruits of Number of Volunteers Approximately 4,000 people from 21 groups prosperity and creates a caring Volunteer Hours 8 person-hour/month mindset. A mind focused on sharing Expenses Approximately KRW 8.5 billion (company donation and CSR fund included) brings hope to those in need. Disaster Relief •Deployment of special aircraft to transport relief supplies in the event of major disasters at home and abroad 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 78 //////////////////// 79 Support of Support of Sports Activities Culture & Arts Opened the “Ilwoo Space,” a Photo/Art Gallery As a cultural ambassador in the sky, Korean Air integrates its commitment to cultural and educational development into its various corporate social responsibility activities. In line with Chairman Cho’s CSR philosophy, “we should take care of the underprivileged to build a happier society,” we actively promote various cultural and educational programs. For instance, one of our most conspicuous achievements in 2010 was the opening of the Ilwoo Space, a gallery for the exhibition of photos/fine art, in August of 2010. Located on a boulevard in the Seosomun district of Seoul, the 10m-wide window gallery with 3.7mhigh ceilings has become a local attraction, with passersby being invited in to view high quality cultural programs and art exhibitions. In the future, the gallery plans to hold various exhibitions and art lecture programs for the public. Furthermore, we sponsor Korean language multimedia guide services at world famous museums and have been heralding Korean culture and traditions in the global community. The Korean On-Air Program sponsors young Koreans in their efforts to promote and introduce Korean culture to the world. Similar to the Pyeongchang 2018 Olympic Bid Committee’s slogan, In a bid to contribute to the 10m×3.7m Opened on the ground floor of the development of Korean winter “New Horizon,” Korean Air will work ceaselessly to create a new horizon for sports and other national sports, Korean Air office building in Seosomun in August, the development of the Korean and Asian sports industries. Korean Air was the first Korean 2010, the Ilwoo Space is a10m-wide window gallery company to sponsor a male speed skating team. We also with 3.7m-high ceilings, dedicated to photo/art sponsor a table tennis team and exhibitions. a volleyball team. Sponsoring the Pyeongchang Air assigned executive members to the bid commitet 13 times, to promote the work of the committee Vancouver Winter Olympic Games, 2018 Olympic Bid Committee tee provided full support of the committees’ activiat 34 international sports events. The Pyeongchang we created the team and invited After 12 years of persistence and patience, Pyeoties over the years. 2018 Olympic Bid Committee’s slogan was “New gold medalists, Lee Seung-hoon ngchang finally won the bid to host a Winter OlymHorizon,” an indication of the committee’s comand Mo Tae-bum, to be founding pics, the 2018 Games. This winning of the bid is Our extensive global network of overseas branches mitment to winter sports and the Winter Olympics. members of the team. We also apfraught with significance. Domestically, the nation in 100 cities in 40 countries served as the regional Similarly, Korean Air will work ceaselessly to create pointed the coach of the national was rewarded for its determination and desire, and headquarters for the committees’ activities in a new horizon for the development of the Korean standing team, Kwon Soon-cheon, the games are expected to propel the country’s respective regions, while the company took adand Asian sports industries. as the coach. Korean Air also sponeconomic, social, cultural, and sports development vantage of its network of leading global carriers sors a male volleyball team and a forward. Internationally, the win literally opens a through the SkyTeam alliance to support the acKorea’s First female table tennis team. Chairman “new horizon” for the winter Olympic Games, taktivities of the bid committee. Korean Air chairman, Company-Owned Speed Skating Team Cho currently serves as the chairing them out of Europe and the Americas and placYang-Ho Cho, was inaugurated as the chairman In February, 2011, Korean Air became the first man of the Korea Table Tennis Assoing them in Asia, a region that has long been neof the Pyeongchang 2018 Bid Committee in SepKorean company to launch a male speed skating ciation (KTTA) and vice chairman of glected as a venue for the Winter Olympic Games. tember, 2009. In this capacity, he traveled a total of team. In a bid to retain the momentum of the sucthe Asia Table Tennis Union (ATTU). In sponsoring the work of the committee, Korean 509,133km, equivalent to traveling around the plancesses of Korea’s speed skating teams at the 2010 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 80 //////////////////// 81 Global Educational Business & Afforestation Efforts Relief Efforts Korean Air has been building a vast erosion Through its global tree-planting The Hanjin Group runs several academic institutes Korean Air supports the sending project, Korean Air has taken the lead of relief supplies to domestic and control forest, called the Korean Air Forest, in in global cross-border initiatives to which promote the development of human resources international locales suffering from the desert of Baganuur in Mongolia since 2004. address environmental issues. and the concept of life-long learning. disasters. Tree-Planting in Mongolia, China and Los Angeles Korean Air has been building a vast forest in the desert of Baganuur in Mongolia since 2004. Educational Business Korean Air’s parent group, the Hanjin Group, runs three academic institutes, including Inha, Jeongseok and Hanjin, in putting into Also, we have been planting trees in the “Korean Air Botanical Garden” in the Kubuchi Desert in China since 2007. As such, Korean Air has been planting trees practice its dedication to human resources development and lifelong learning. The Inha Academic Institute has Inha University, Inha Technical College, and as part of a global tree-planting project to protect and preserve our Green Planet. Since 2009, we have extended our tree-planting campaign to urban areas of the Inha University Busok Middle and High Schools under its umbrella. Jeongseok runs Korea Aerospace University and Jeongseok Aviation Technical High Los Angeles. In 2010, 11 teachers and students of the Suwon Agricultural Life Science High School, the winner of the 2009 Green Teacher Green Tour contest, School. The Hanjin Academic Institute operates an in-house university called Jeongseok University. The Hanjin Group has subsidized its academic institutes for also joined the tree-planting event along with 50 students from Neimenggu University. the past decade, providing KRW20 billion in support each year. In 2003, Korean Air built the Jungseok Information Center, a top-class e-library, at Inha University. In 2004, we led an effort to establish a global research institute at the University of Southern California for the development of aerospace engineering and related technology. The Jeongseok Academic Institute offers Category Year Afforestation Size Number of Trees Planted Participants Remarks scholarships every semester to high achievers at the Korea Aerospace University. In 2010, Korean Air provided a total of KRW1.2 billion towards scholarships 2004 1.10 ha 3,000 for 546 students. Since the graduation of the first class of 95 students in 2002, Jeongseok University has graduated a total of 3,235 graduates to date, including 2005 1.00 ha 4,500 806 with bachelor’s degrees. The Hanjin Group is actively involved in various domestic and international scholarship programs, academic and cultural pro2006 1.50 ha 4,000 grams, and welfare projects through the Ilwoo Foundation. Korean Air selects and sponsors talented students in Mongolia, Cambodia and Uzbekistan to study Mongolia 2007 1.10 ha 4,000 at Korean universities. In addition, we award prizes to young and talented photographers in the areas of art, advertising, and documentary photography through 200 sophomore Green Asia’s (Baganuur) 2008 12.00 ha 12,000 employees tree-planting the Ilwoo Photo Competition. 2009 6.20 ha 9,000 event 2010 2.00 ha 10,000 Relief Efforts As a leading global carrier, Korean Air lends its business acumen to the transport of relief supplies to survivors of disasters. In 1997, the 2011 2.5 ha 10,000 company convened a disaster relief team and regularly charters aircraft to transport disaster relief supplies to disaster zones around the world. In fact, we send Total 27.40 ha 56,500 life-saving helicopters and cargo planes as humanitarian support for the survivors of disasters. For instance, we sent cargo planes to transport blankets and 2007 200.00ha 653,000 2008 53.33 ha 167,000 potable water to refugees of the Great Sichuan Earthquake in 2008. We also made donations to help with restoration efforts in the aftermath of an earthquake in Newly promoted Communist China managers Youth League Qinghai Province in 2010. In February, 2011, we sent 18 tons of potable water to survivors of a devastating earthquake that had hit Christchurch, New Zealand. (Kubuchi Desert) 2009 31.86 ha 82,000 (50 persons) of China tree2010 31.28 ha 77,000 planting In March and April of the same year, 2,057 of our employees donated 7,768 boxes of potable water over six days and the company donated 5,000 boxes of potable Total 285.19 ha 979,000 water, 2,000 blankets and KRW0.7 billion to the Korean Red Cross to help Japanese survivors of a tsunami caused by an unprecedentedly strong earthquake. 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 82 //////////////////// 83 UN GLOBAL COMPACT UN GLOBAL COMPACT are in line with the company’s commitment to ethical and transAppendix The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative, by which corporations commit to aligning their operations and strategies parent management practices and to the fulfillment of its corin keeping with ten principles related to human rights, labor, the porate social responsibilities. We will continue to embrace and environment and anti-corruption. Korean Air joined the UN Global support the ten universally-accepted principles of the UN Global UN GLOBAL COMPACT / 2010 Awards / GRI SUMMARY / Readers’ Feedback Compact in July, 2007, because the core values of the Compact Compact that are listed below: PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: We support and respect the protection of Principle 6: We uphold the elimination of discrimination in internationally proclaimed human rights. respect of employment and occupation. Principle 2: We ensure that we are not complicit in ENVIRONMENT human rights abuses. Principle 7: We support a precautionary approach to LABOR environmental challenges. Principle 3: We uphold the freedom of association and the Principle 8: We undertake initiatives to promote greater effective recognition of the right to collective environmental responsibility. bargaining. Principle 9: We encourage the development and diffusion Principle 4: We uphold the elimination of all forms of forced of environmentally friendly technologies. and compulsory labor. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 5: We uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 10: We work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Activities Related to the UN Global Compact Classification Principles Performances Pages HUMAN RIGHTS 1. We support and respect the protection of •Compliance with UN Global Compact 10 internationally proclaimed human rights. Principles and ILO conventions 16-17, 2. We ensure that we are not complicit in •Company-wide business ethics education and sexual 66-71 human rights abuses. harassment prevention programs LABOR 3. We uphold the freedom of association and the •Upholding the freedom of association and the right to effective recognition of the right to collective collective bargaining bargaining. •Compliance with the Labor Standards Act and ILO Convention 4. We uphold the elimination of all forms of forced on forced labor and child labor and no case of violations 66-67, and compulsory labor. •Increase the number of female employees and disabled employees 72-73 5. We uphold the effective abolition of child labor. •International employment without discrimination based on 6. We uphold the elimination of discrimination in nationality, culture, religion and other personal backgrounds respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT 7. We support a precautionary approach to •Strict compliance of regulations on pollutant discharge within environmental challenges. the business premise 8. We undertake initiatives to promote greater •Company-wide certification of the ISO14001 32-55 environmental responsibility. •Greenhouse gas inventory system-building and greenhouse 9. We encourage the development and diffusion gas reduction initiatives of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. We work against corruption in all its forms, •Declaration of the Charter of Ethics and including extortion and bribery. UN Global Compact 10 Principles 16-17, •Business ethics education and whistle blowing programs 82-83 •Introduction of the Compliance Program 2011 Korean Air Sustainability Report 84 //////////////////// 85 2010 Awards GRI Summary The Korean Air 2011 Sustainability Report was compiled based on the GRI G3 Guidelines and its recommendations. We declare that the contents of this Date 2010 Awards Institution Recognitions report meet the requirements for Level A of the Application Level Table as provided by GRI. 2010.01.20 Grand prize at the Strongest Airline Brand Awards Travel & Leisure Recognized for excellence of brand image by frequent flyers and industrial experts GRI Indicators 2010.02.19 2010 Grand Prize for Most Reliable Brand in Customer Choice Chosun.com Consumer-oriented mindset, constant efforts to induce Airline category for transportation services customer satisfaction and create customer value Contents Pages Strategy & Report Corporate Economic Environmental Human Social Green Organizations Labor Analysis structure Governance Responsibility Responsibility Rights Responsibility Procurement 2010.02.23 Best HRD Award Korea HRD Association Excellence in staff education Report Information Cover 2010.03.09 2010 K-BPI – topped the airline category (12 consecutive years), Korea Management Number 1 among airline companies in the Korea Brand Korea Management Association (KMA) Association Consulting Power Index for 12th year in a row Profile 6-11 2010.03.23 2010 Brand Star Award Korea (1st in the Airline Category) Brandstock Selected best brand after consumer trend analysis Sustainability Management 14-21 2010.04.29 2010 Grand Prize at 2009 Korea Best Brand Awards Donga.com/Hankyung.com/imbc Ranked top among airline companies in terms of brand airline category (3 consecutive years) competitiveness according to brand awareness, purchases, Economic Responsibility 26-31 and preferences Environmental Responsibility 36-55 2010.05.14 2010 Korea Green Growth Brand Awards Korea Brand Management Association Increased global competencies of Korean companies through green industrial development initiatives and Green Customers 60-65 Korea Brand marketing activities Employees 66-74 2010.06.04 Certificate of appreciation Governor of Shizuoka Prefecture Honored for contributions to improving convenience for citizens of Shizuoka Prefecture and for the safety of its Business partners 75 operations and excellent customer services. Awarded in celebration of the first anniversary of the commencement of Local communities 76-81 Incheon-Shizuoka route 2010.06.11 Number 1 in the Global Customer Satisfaction Index Japan Management Ranked top in a customer satisfaction survey in the airline Appendix 83 Association Consulting category for excellent quality service (six years in a row) 2010.06.21 Certificate of appreciation for excellence of Korean Ambassador Extraordinary and Contribution to increasing the number of teachers at the maintenance for the F-4D aircraft Plenipotentiary in Japan elementary school of Tokyo Korea School Cut along the line 2010.06.25 Number 1 in the 2010 Premium Brand Index The Air Force Commendation for contributions to strengthening Korea’s (KS-PBI) – aircraft cabin service Chief of the General Staff military with its maintenance support of 150 F-4Ds, which have remained accident-free since 1988 2010.07.14 Best Reliability/Zero Delays category of the Korea Standards Association For contributions to enhanced brand management 2010 United Caterer Awards practices in Korea and for suggesting brand premium 2010.08.01 Best Reliability/Zero Delays category of the UNITED AIRLINES strategies for Korean companies Awards in terms of on-time operations, safety, and Readers’ Feedback 2010 United Caterer Awards customer satisfaction, as determined by dividing the Korean Air values your opinion of its sustainability report. Your opinions and suggestions are reflected in our sustainability management number of service routes by the number of flights activities and reports, and assist in advancing our sustainability management practices. Thank you for your time and effort in making your 2010.08.10 10 Best Airlines in the World Smart Travel Asia Selected as one of the world's top 10 airline companies voice heard. 2010.10.18 Korean Air’s safety management system won prize as U.S. EtQ Korean Air’s safety management system “SafeNet” was ‘most innovative’ selected as the most innovative practice for its excellent risk management performances and for being a model for SMS IT systems in the global aviation industry 1. Which of the following stakeholder groups do you belong to? 2010.10.20 Number 1 in KS-SQI in the Airline Category Korea Standards Association Excellence in customer satisfaction, survey of service □ Customers □ Shareholders & Investors □ Employees □ Local communities □ NGOs □ Business Partners □ None of the above ( ) (second year in a row) quality (third time since 2007) Grand prize of the 2010 Green Growth Awards Ministry of Environment Selected as Korea’s best practitioner of environmental 2010.10.24 management for its excellent performance in addressing 2. Which of the following sections do you find most interesting? (select one or more) climate change and instituting green management practices □ Report Information □ Business Overview □ Sustainability Management □ Economic Responsibility □ Environmental Responsibility □ Social Responsibility 2010 Outstanding Food Service by a Carrier in Asia PAX International Globally renowned magazine published by the International 2010.11.01 at the PAX Readership Awards Travel Catering Association 2010 LOHAS Management Awards Green Fund Selected for excellence in green management practices in 3. Which of the following sections do you think needs improvement? (select one or more) 2010.11.05 the service/finance/transportation category □ Report Information □ Business Overview □ Sustainability Management □ Economic Responsibility 2010 Korea CSR Awards Hankyoreh Selected as best practitioner of CSR among 109 Korean 2010.11.17 □ Environmental Responsibility □ Social Responsibility companies listed on the FTSE Index Korea Internet Communication Awards – Korea Internet Selected for excellence in internet-based communication 2010.12.03 4. Please feel free to share your opinions and suggestions about Korean Air’s sustainability management activities and the structure or content of this report. aviation/transportation category Communication Association with customers in aviation/transportation category ( ) Contact Information For questions or comments on this report, please contact us below: Address Facilities & Environment Department, Korean Air, 1370, Gonghang-dong, Gangseo-gu, Seoul 157-712, Korea E-mail SELAFE@koreanair.com Te +82-2-2656-5512 / Fax +82-2-2656-7447 For more details, you can contact the related departments at: Management information sungyhu@koreanair.com Business ethics mdlee@koreanair.com Corporate governance daejung@koreanair.com Financial information wonjinkim@koreanair.com Environmental management SELAFE@koreanair.com Sender Name Organization Address Recipient Facilities & Environment Department, Korean Air, 1370, Gonghang-dong, Gangseo-gu, Seoul 157-712, Korea Tel +82-2-2656-5512 / Fax +82-2-2656-7447 1 5 7 7 1 2
