sustainability report 2010 world forum Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum 1 Events that shape the world 2 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum table of contents world forum Preface 5 1. Organisation Profile 7 1.1 Our Company 7 1.2 Structure 8 1.3 The Market 9 1.4 Stakeholders 10 1.5 CSR policy 11 1.6 Recognition of CSR results 11 1.7 Memberships 11 2. People 13 2.1 Employment issues 13 2.2 Human rights 15 2.3 Society 16 2.4 Ambitions 19 3. Planet 21 3.1 Energy consumption 21 3.2 Waste 22 3.3 CO2 compensation 23 3.4 Catering 23 3.5 Ambitions 24 4. Profit 25 5. About this report 25 6. GRI table 26 Colofon 28 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum 3 Fotograaf: Lex Draijer 4 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum preface world forum Dear reader, The World Forum Convention Center in The Hague (Holland) We now consider the subject of a structural policy which is possibly one of the smallest members of the United Nations concentrates all the necessary attention on people, both Global Compact. However, being internationally oriented as internal and external. we are, we still feel we can make an impact. Along this road we will have to make choices this year. There For instance, the World Forum Ethical Program comprises are many possibilities: Will we approach this on a large scale various measures for checking choices for integrity and or on the contrary, on a very small and goal-oriented one? actually making a difference for a more sustainable society. I’m already looking forward to inform you extensively next year As part of the Ethical Program the World Forum only uses about the practical outcome of these considerations. green electricity and, among other things, is a member of the Green Meeting Industry Council and “MVO Nederland” We hope that this way we inform you, as our valued relation (CSR Netherlands, a Dutch government subsidiary). of the World Forum, with enough transparency about both our results and our plans on this crucial aspect of our People management. Although we are very enthusiastic about the road we have taken, we still see major challenges in the “People” aspect of Sincerely, the corporate social responsibility policy. Without neglecting the environmental angle of our policy we want to go deeply Michiel Middendorf into this essential aspect of responsible entrepreneurship. General Manager From the story of Anele in South-Africa to the children of the IMC weekend school in The Hague we are standing at the very beginning of this focus. Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum 5 6 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum 1. organisation profile world forum 1.1 Our company The World Forum is an international congress centre in The Hague, the city of peace and justice. Historically, The Hague, with its Peace Palace, has been the world’s location of choice to discuss international peace and justice. The city hosted its first peace conference in 1899. Since then, whenever any new development in the field of peace emerges, The Hague is looked to as a potential home for it, and over time many institutions in the field of international law and peace have come to establish themselves here. The World Forum is located at the heart of The Hague World Forum, The Hague’s international zone, and stands shoulder to shoulder with the city in providing a home for meetings on peace and justice. Each and every one of the extraordinary meetings and events that take place in the World Forum, no matter what the scale, have the potential to change the world view of those who attend them. Whether it’s an international conference on banning chemical weapons, or an illuminating discussion between two CEOs, these are events that shape the world. The conferences of the International Criminal Court (ICC) or the OPCW (Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons) held here represent dialogues at the highest levels of international relations and law. And in 2009, the World Forum successfully hosted the biggest peace conference to be held in the Netherlands since the Second World War: the UN summit on Afghanistan, with its 73 delegations from all over the world. Along with national and international conferences at the highest level, the World Forum also hosts corporate events, receptions and exhibitions. The flexibility of its multifunctional location allows the World Forum to offer a wide variety of events for any target group. The site is also home to the Netherlands’ largest theatre auditorium, where many major national and international productions are staged. Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum 7 1.2 Structure The day-to-day operations of the World Forum are handled Since October 2009, the operation of the World Forum has by General Manager Michiel Middendorf, who reports to GL been handled by GL events, a French events management events’ Managing Director, Venue Management (Jean-Eudes company with 36 conference and event centres worldwide. For Rabut) at the company’s headquarters in Lyon. over 30 years, GL events has been managing events in Europe and beyond. Today the company is active on five continents The World Forum has a total of 29 staff (22.50 FTE). and employs over 3,500 people. We furthermore employ a few interns during the year and a few temporary employees, mainly working as attendants. GL events’ takeover of the operations is entirely in line with the World Forum’s international profile. It is a natural step in the continuing rise of the World Forum’s international profile, culminating in the UN Afghanistan summit in March 2009. Organigram GL World Forum Convention Center B.V. GL World Forum Convention Center B.V. General Manager Manager Finance & Control Management Assistant/ HRM Commercial Building Manager Manager Manager Operations Finance & Control Facilities Stage Duty Technique management Parking Management Suppoosten Front Office Project Account Management Communications management Account Support 8 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum Photographer: Bert Rietberg 1.3 The Market ministerial subjects, to share their points of views or to The World Forum serves both the national and the meet. The participants of these meetings can be of national international conference and event market. The clients of the or international origin. World Forum can be divided in four markets, the Association market, the Institutional market, the Corporate market and The institutional market includes: local and regional the Cultural/Theatre market. authorities, ministries, NGO’s (Non Governmental Organisations), universities, civil services and Association market governments. By association we mean a (inter)national society of people with the same interest or discipline. The characteristics of Corporate market association conferences are that they are mainly recurrent The corporate market is made up of national and events, requested a long time ahead and hardly being international industries with companies such as Microsoft, organised again within a short period of time within the same Aegon and ING, as well as national event companies. country. Association conferences rotate between different Corporate meetings are (inter)national meetings with countries. The organisation of this type of conferences is a business goal (meetings, product launching, relation mostly in the hands of a group of initiators that form a “local events, training, incentives, etc). organising committee” (l.o.c.). This local counterpart invites the international association to hold the conference in their The corporate market mainly consists of businesses, event home country. agencies and organisers of trade fairs. The association market consists of the following customers: Culture / Theatre market labour unions, associations, federations, clubs and political The cultural relations of the World Forum are big national parties. impresarios and producers like Stage Entertainment / Joop van den Ende Theatre productions, Senf Theatre Institutional market partners, Studio 100 and Stardust. They bring national The institutional market refers to meetings on national, and international artists, musicals and other cultural European or international level. The ministerial conferences performances of top quality to the World Forum Theatre. that take place at the World Forum are mainly organised by the Dutch ministries destined for both international and national ministries. Ministries gather to exchange together Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum 9 Most of the events and conferences hosted at the World Forum 1.4 Stakeholders fall into the category of the association and institutional The stakeholders of the World Forum are the organisers, market and are governmental or UN related. The association partners, vendors, local authorities, neighbouring businesses, and institutional market include among others the ministries visitors, local residents and employees. On all issues, and associations. This is partly a result of the fact that the including those related to sustainability, we stay in constant World Forum is located in the international area of The contact with our stakeholders on the developments at the Hague and put strong emphasis on meetings around peace World Forum. At the start of each year, the stakeholders and justice. It is a recognisable and accessible zone for receive an annual report of the World Forum that outlines the international organisations in the field of peace and justice. most significant events of the past year. The stakeholders will also receive a copy of this sustainability report. 140 250 120 200 209 210 216 217 100 150 169 150 80 100 60 50 40 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 20 Number of events per year 2005-2010 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 international national culture Chart of international conferences, national conferences and cultural performances (2007-2010) 10 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum 1.5 CSR policy Green Key The World Forum’s corporate social responsibility policy Since 2009 the World Forum possesses the certificate of the is a defining feature of the organisation. Corporate social Green key, gold level. This certificate is the international ecoresponsibility and corporate citizenship is now the World label for companies in the tourism and recreation sector that Forum’s singular USP. In this sector, trust is critical, and the are seriously engaged with environmental protection in a way World Forum has to be able to bank on trust. We win the trust that can be assessed. This certificate proves that the World of our clients and partners by profiling ourselves as a socially Forum is making more of an effort for the environment than responsible and engaged business that highly values integrity, required by law and regulations. In 2010 the World Forum has ethics and sustainability. shown its capability to keep this certificate at the highest level, i.e. the gold level. The World Forum’s payoff, “Events that shape the world”, is also connected to our Ethical Program (the name used to refer to the CSR policy within the World Forum). We refer to it this 1.7 Memberships way because we want to emphasise that for the World Forum, The World Forum is a member of a number of national and CSR means much more than just attention to environmental international organisations in the field of sustainability. In issues. these networks, the World Forum is a participant in the exchange of knowledge and experience on corporate social The World Forum aims to implement its CSR policy as part responsibility, not only within its own MICE market but on a of its business strategy in 2011. wider scale. UN Global Compact 1.6 Recognition of CSR results In 2008, the World Forum became the first location in the Netherlands to sign the United Nations Global Compact. For Green Award the World Forum and its partners, respect for human rights, In 2008 the World Forum won the Green Award, the award safe working conditions and environmentally conscious for the best ‘green’ initiative. The jury lauded the World operations are paramount concerns. The endorsement of the Forum Ethical Program. The World Forum very clearly UN Global Compact is an extra incentive for the World Forum and unequivocally opted to assume its corporate social to continue to dedicate itself to a sustainable and responsible responsibility last year. The jury report was full of praise that business climate. the World Forum does not only lead by its shining example, but also provides its clients the opportunity to follow that example. Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum 11 Green Meeting Industry Council International Congress & Convention Association (ICCA) To keep on top of the latest international developments in With over 600 member organizations and companies in “green meetings”, the World Forum is a member of the Green 80 countries, ICCA has a worldwide network of meeting Meeting Industry Council, an international consultative body professionals, specialists in ever aspect of hosting and promoting the “greening” of the meeting industry. organizing congresses and conventions. ICCA offers its members unique opportunities in the fields of acquisition and In the Netherlands a few professionals have taken the customer management. initiative to found a so called ‘Dutch chapter’ of the GMIC, thus becoming the first European Chapter. The goal of this CLC VECTA Centre for Live Communication chapter is to offer her members an effective green network The CLC VECTA is a national trade organization for everyone and education, as well as to increase in a measurable way who is professionally involved in organizing, accommodating the number of green accommodations, services and business and facilitating trade fairs, congresses and events. meetings. World Forum is part of this ‘Dutch Chapter’. Meeting Professionals International (MPI) MVO Nederland MPI is an organization that is active worldwide in raising Membership in MVO Nederland (CSR Netherlands) gives convention and event organizations to a higher plane. The the World Forum access to a broad knowledge and network composition of its membership is unique: 50% planners organisation within the industry in the field of corporate social and 50% suppliers. This balance contributes, among other responsibility and corporate citizenship. things, to the professional development of the members of the organizations with whom they work. World Forum is gold Green Label Events sponsor of the Netherlands Chapter of MPI. Within the Dutch events sector, the World Forum is a proud participant in the Groene Hartlopers initiative by Green Label International Association of Congress Centres (AIPC) Events. This initiative is made up of a number of businesses The AIPC is the industry association for professional from the events sector. Our goal is to join with our industry convention and exhibition centre managers worldwide. AIPC partners in standing up for corporate citizenship and occupies a unique position amongst the various organizations sustainable development in our industry. We exchange ideas that represent the meetings industry. It is a true international with allies and competitors alike, and together we inspire organization, with representation from over 49 countries each other to set the bar higher. Like all participants of the around the world. Groene Hartlopers initiative, we want to be in the vanguard of corporate social responsibility and “put our money where our The World Forum is the first convention center in the mouth is”. For us, the bottom line is transparency, knowledge Benelux, which has completed in 2010 the AIPC Quality transfer, direct action and creating green solutions. Standards Program at the gold level. The AIPC Quality Standards Program is developed in response to ongoing Other memberships interest by members in having an industry-specific program Beside the memberships in the field of sustainability the for identifying and evaluating key areas of convention centre World Forum is also member of a few (inter)national trade performance leading to a visible, accepted and industryorganisations. This way contacts are maintained, the World specific form of recognition. Forum stays informed of the developments in the market and contributes in an important way to the promotion of The Hague and the Netherlands. The World Forum is among others a member of the following organisations: 12 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum 2. people world forum The World Forum is engaged with the people aspect in various Working part-time areas, both within and outside of the company. This means not As a company, the World Forum stands for helping employees only the people of World Forum, but people in society. to continue their career after life events such as pregnancy and childbirth. We offer employees the option to work part-time or Each year, the World Forum supports a number of initiatives work partially from home. Our goal is to allow employees the at the local and national level. Along with financial and room to strike a good balance between their work and private material support, this also means utilisation of our expertise lives, something that ultimately benefits our organisation. within the market. Education and training The World Forum offers an annual collective budget for 2.1 Employment issues education and training. We invite all our employees to draft a personal development plan each year. We then look at all Internship placements personal development plans and determine what training is The number of internship placements within the World needed and who can participate in which programmes. Forum has increased in 2010. In 2009 the 4 internship placements within the World Forum were available in the A supervisor with end responsibility can ask an employee to facilities department, project management, sales and take a training and/or coaching programme deemed necessary communication. In 2010 an internship placement has been for the proper performance of the employee’s tasks and added to the department of duty management. We have responsibilities. The supervisor and the employee then make chosen for this expansion to better satisfy the growing individual arrangements on the employee’s participation. demand from the market. For education and training costs in excess of a fixed amount, The department Finance now also a study agreement will generally have to be signed. These offers an internship placement. The agreements will usually stipulate a repayment schedule. Finance department within the World Forum has received the ECABO certificate, which actually means that they may accompany students of a MBO school, department of financial administration, as an acknowledged educational institute. This project will start beginning of 2011. Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum 13 GL Campus MPI Scholarship Program At the end of 2008, GL events launched the GL events Campus, In 2010 the World Forum has participated for the first time an internal training institute with a number of objectives: in the MPI Scholarship Program, an initiative of Meeting ■ Promoting employee motivation and participation Professionals International (MPI), who are at the same time ■ Promoting shared culture and team spirit member of the UN Global Compact. ■ Promoting integration between the various divisions and departments of GL events and creating networks In April 2010 the first MPI Scholarship Program has started ■ Developing and organising training programmes that meet in the Netherlands. This is a cooperation between the World employee needs Forum in The Hague, MPI Netherlands and the Stenden ■ Maximising the return from training & education and University in Leeuwarden. achieving internal knowledge sharing On June 24th five students of the Stenden University To achieve these objectives, GL Campus has a twofold have organised in the World Forum the MPI event ‘Next mission: coordination of all training & education plans of Generation’. The organisation of this event is part of the MPI the GL Group for optimum results and designing training educational program to involve students (the next generation) programmes for the development of expertise in the various in the conference and event industry, by giving them the GL business lines. opportunity to actively organise a MPI event for students, MPI members, press and non MPI members from the industry. At present, GL Campus offers mainly training programmes given in the French language (oriented towards senior The students that organise the event will receive an one year management, operational management and basic MPI student membership sponsored by the World Forum management), and focuses primarily on management, sales and are thus welcome to participate in all MPI events in the positions and project-oriented employees. However, there Netherlands. are now two English-language programmes available for international staff: the Management Training and the Welcome The event was organised in a Corporate Social Responsible Convention. way, which fits into the CSR policy of the World Forum. The subject of the meeting reflected how the new generation sees Absenteeism the meeting and event industry and how new media and tools Since 2010 the World Forum carefully assesses the can be integrated in the future. absenteeism. The average absenteeism this year was 2,75%. Our aim is to push this percentage further back the Because of its success the MPI Scholarship Program will be coming year. expanded in 2011 and more locations and universities will collaborate in this event. The coming year the World Forum also continues to support this initiative as one of the locations. “Kijk Mee” Day Absenteeism percentage Each year, the Municipality of The Hague organises an open 3,5% day (the Kijk Mee Dag) for primary school pupils. Under this 3% initiative, children in their last year of primary school are given 3,20% an opportunity to get a look behind the scenes at a variety of 2,5% 2,75% professions in industry or governmental or other institutions. 2% The World Forum is proud to be a part of this initiative, and gives pupils a chance to get to learn about a number 1,5% of aspects involved in facilitating a theatre performance or 1,42% 1% conference. 0,5% On March 10th the World Forum has received a few students 0% of the Meester Schaberg school in The Hague to introduce man woman average them to several aspects that come up when facilitating a theatre performance or conference. 14 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum Engagement ▲ Her Majesty the Queen attended ‘The Hague Global Child Regular updates on the developments in the field of CSR are Labour Conference’. Source: Ministry of Social Affairs provided in an electronic Ethical Program Message sent to and Employment the World Forum’s employees and partners. CSR is also a recurring agenda item in the team meeting with all World The Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment together with Forum employees. All this helps engender engagement on the the International Labour Organisation have organised this part of the employees. international conference against child labour. Her Majesty Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands has attended the closing session on May 11th. 2.2 Human rights The purpose of the two day conference was to draw attention Vendor code of conduct again to child labour and to reach actual decisions which When selecting its regular partners and vendors, the will ultimately lead to eradicate by 2016 the worst forms of World Forum considers all aspects of socially responsible child labour. The conference was attended by participants purchasing. Vendors and partners must sign a code of conduct from 80 countries. Not only governmental officials, document in which they endorse the ten principles of the representatives of employer and employee organisations United Nations Global Compact, including a commitment to were represented, but also international organisations like not deal in products that are the result of child labour. When Unicef and Unesco and NGO’s. we request our partners and vendors to sign this document, we feel we are raising awareness and getting people thinking. During this international conference a discussion, initiated by the Global Compact and Initiative Sustainable Trade, was Conference on Child Labour held about the role of the industry in fighting against child On May 10th and 11th the World Forum has hosted an labour. At this meeting a plan was presented for a network international conference on child labour, ‘The Hague Global of companies that will make a real effort in the fight against Child Labour Conference 2010, Towards a World without Child child labour and will support other companies, wherever in Labour, Mapping the Road to 2016’. the world, in this battle. Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum 15 2.3 Society NL DOET World Forum and some of its employees participate annually in NL DOET, the largest volunteer activity in the Netherlands. That day they support a project / institution in the Hague area. On March 19th 2010 seven employees of the World Forum have worked at De Zeedistel in The Hague, an institution that organises activities, to completely tidy up their garden. De Zeedistel, an institution for supporting activities, is part of Parnassia and offers help to (young) adults with psychotic disorders and elderly people with mental conditions and memory problems. On the day, we pay our employees their normal salaries to participate in activities like these during their regular working hours, so they can experience for themselves the importance of social responsibility and citizenship. It increases the social consciousness and involvement of our employees, and helps keep them motivated and inspired in their other work. IMC Weekend School The IMC Weekend School is a school for supplemental education for motivated young people aged ten to fourteen High School he learns Afrikaans and English. He is doing very who come from underprivileged neighbourhoods. At well and is highly motivated. For the past two months Anele the Weekend School locations, students follow a 2-year lives during the week in a home near his school, in a more programme of courses taught every Sunday by committed stable environment. Apart from having a sleeping place he teaching professionals who love their job. The goal is to also gets there three meals a day. In the weekend he returns help these young people expand their horizons, boost to the township where his father or brother lives. their self-confidence and develop their talents. The World Forum supports the location in The Hague by providing For more information about the project look at accommodation as well as knowledge in the field of the www.thekusasaproject.org theatre, and by offering the experience of an actual cultural performance. Foundation Haiti Contact As part of its CSR policy the World Forum has offered the The Kusasa Project Haiti Contact the possibility to set up their office within the The World Forum supports since 2010 Anele Gebuza in South World Forum since April 2010. Africa via the Kusasa Project. The Kusasa Project devotes itself to children in the Franschhoek valley. Foundation Haiti Contact was established in September 2007 by Judy Bralds, a Haitian who grew up in the Netherlands. Anele is 12 years old and was born in the Eastern Cape, but The moving forces behind the foundation have a (direct) because of economic reasons he moved 7 years ago with his relation with Haiti, are very devoted volunteers and their parents to the Western Cape, to Franschhoek. Right after they central goal is to ease up the daily life of the children in Haiti. moved there his mother died. His father is jobless and has an alcohol problem, and therefore Anele has not had a stable The establishment of the foundation was a logical result home situation these past years. after several, successful Haiti Contact Day meetings. A private initiative that since 2004 is organised in order to Anele is one of the 23 children who via the Kusasa Project has bring together the Haitians in the Netherlands. the possibility to receive a good education. At the Franschhoek 16 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum The disaster on January 12th 2010 resulted in the growth of Business and Climate the foundation and therefore they were able to offer help to In 2010, the World Forum is participating in the Dutch the people in Haiti, together with the Haitian community in the Business and Climate project, an initiative of the Municipality Netherlands. of The Hague. A few regions in the Netherlands are already familiar with this successful sustainability project, one of the For more information look at www.haiticontact.org projects of Schools for Sustainability. Within these projects, young people are asked to come up with creative solutions for Art exhibition Peace and Justice sustainability issues. Artists from the Statenkwartier have held an exposition in the World Forum from December 21st till January 4th In the Business and Climate project, students form an Called “Peace and Justice”. This exhibition was the initiative advisory group designated the “climate intervention team”. of Rens Bakker, an enthusiastic and very active woman who The team then sets about studying a number of research lives for years in the Statenkwartier. She has brought together questions within a company. The content of the student the artists and the World Forum. The cooperation between research depends on the sustainability and climate issues the World Forum and the Artists of the Statenkwartier was relevant to the specific company. unique; together they have organised this special exhibition. The question that the World Forum has put to the students is: How can the World Forum achieve better waste separation The Hague is the international city of Peace and Justice and during conferences? This question is also about helping the second UN-city in the world. The World Forum is the heart conference-goers to separate their own waste. of the International Zone and the location for international conferences. An exhibition on the theme of “Peace and By participating in this project, the World Forum hopes Justice” perfectly suits the location. to come up with new and better ways to separate waste. In addition, the World Forum is also showing its social The purpose of the exhibition was to create a dialogue commitment and helping teach students how to approach between the residents of the Statenkwartier and the a real-world case. The results of this project are shown on organisations in the international zone of the city of The page 22. Hague. The exhibition was opened on December 21st by Mayor Jozias Valid Express van Aartsen, who is himself a resident of the Statenkwartier. Valid Express was founded by Nicolette Mak in 1999. About 100 people were present, from artists, sponsors, Seeing her physically handicapped brother incapable of (international) organisations in the area to other residents. getting a job inspired her to set up this courier service. The exhibition has drawn some 1000 enthusiastic visitors It serves as a vehicle for helping the chronically sick and from the Statenkwartier and the rest of The Hague and physically handicapped to get off, and stay off, benefits. surroundings. Today, Valid Express employs sixty people, with offices in Amsterdam, The Hague/Rotterdam and Utrecht, and has six hundred clients. Valid Express believes in a world that takes its own responsibility. Where people who have bodies with issues can join forces with the business world, focusing on potential instead of limitations. For clients requiring courier services, the World Forum offers Valid Express as preferred supplier. Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum 17 Chain reaction In 2010 he has given the below mentioned presentations, The World Forum challenges its clients to be more socially lectures and workshops: conscious in their own events. And we also challenge our ■ presentation on sustainable organisation to the Event regular partners, vendors and the industry. The objective of Manager of the ING the World Forum Ethical Program is to promote corporate ■ mini-workshop ‘The motivation and reality of social responsibility and corporate citizenship at the micro responsible events’ at the theme square Nice to Meet on level. We see communicating all activities and progress in this the Event10 Fair area to the market and the world around us as an essential ■ participation in the panel at Green Inspiration On-stage part of this objective. organised by Green Label Events during Event10 with as subject CSR/sustainability and the 3 P’s It was not so long ago that just such an incentive by one of ■ workshop “CSR, it’s done like this! – Why should I work in a our clients pushed us over the line and made us go green. sustainable way as a company?” at the network event Meet That’s why we at the World Forum are sure we can pass on & Greet Sustainable The Hague, that was organised on The the “green bug” to others; because we know first-hand how Day of the Sustainability effective such a signal can be. We call it our stinging nettle theory: one little prickle is so irritating that before long you’ve Green Events Checklist just got to do something about it. The World Forum has developed a Green Events Checklist full of practical tips an organiser can use to help put on a socially Because the World Forum believes in this stinging nettle responsible event. We have developed this list to encourage theory and finds it important to share the knowledge and our clients to make their events as green as possible. experience in this field of CSR, Michiel Middendorf, General Manager of the World Forum, regularly gives presentations, CO2 calculator lectures and workshops on the subject of CRS within the event Clients of the World Forum can choose to compensate for and conference industry. their event’s CO2 emissions, either internationally (through the Climate Neutral Group) or locally in the Netherlands (through Klimaatfonds Den Haag climate fund). On the World Forum website, we provide a CO2 calculator that clients can use to calculate the emissions of their event and compensate them through the Climate Neutral Group. Event organisers preferring to compensate their event’s emissions locally can also choose to compensate them through the Klimaatfonds Den Haag by using the emissions calculator on www.klimaatfondsdenhaag.nl. 18 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum Sustainable The Hague Guide Meeting NEN – ISO 26000 The Sustainable The Hague Guide is an initiative of the On December 9th 2010 the NEN (Netherlands Standardisation Development Company The Hague. Their website www. Institute) organised the introduction seminar ‘ISO 26000: duurzaamdenhaaggids.nl shows which sustainable projects convert good intentions into good actions’ at the World Forum. there are in the city of The Hague. The World Forum is one of This international guideline on corporate social responsibility these projects. With this website they want to motivate others (MVO) was published in November. to also go ahead with sustainability. The guideline is made for organisations looking for support Good & Green Guide The Hague by putting into practice the CSR policy, based on their wish The Good & Green Guide The Hague can best be compared to contribute to sustainable development and to join a to the Lonely Planet travel guide, but only with sustainable worldwide accepted approach. ISO 26000 is meant for all addresses. Apart from Amsterdam and Rotterdam The Hague types of organisations: companies, MKB (Small to Medium is the third city in the Netherlands that disposes of such Sized Enterprises), governmental institutions and social a guide. This guide is destined to tourists and inhabitants organisations. of The Hague and shows the way to for instance biological supermarkets, environmental friendly hotels, vegetarian restaurants, fair-trade shops and theatres. The World Forum 2.4 Ambitions Theatre is also mentioned in this guide. The ambition of the World Forum in 2011 is to focus even more on the people aspect of corporate social responsibility. Of course the planet aspects are also very important, but should Events at the World Forum be seen as obvious. Impaction Symposium In 2011 a plan is being made how the World Forum can use In April the second edition of the Impaction Symposium took the people aspect as a steady motive within the full CSR policy place in the World Forum. The Impaction Symposium 2010 and company strategy. showed the participants how a good CSR policy can lead to social and financial result. During an interactive lecture they learned how these results come about and can be measured. Some successful companies illustrated this principle by showing their own practical experiences. The World Forum participates as a partner in this conference. Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum 19 Photographer: Robert Aarts 20 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum 3. planet world forum The World Forum looks after the environment whenever and The total electricity consumption of the World Forum already wherever possible. We scrutinise our energy consumption, decreased with 12% from 2008 till 2009, also due to the waste separation and compensation of the CO2 we still switch to LED lighting in a large number of areas. In 2010 produce despite every effort to reduce our emissions. the electricity consumption was reduced even further to 3.385.648 KWh. This was a result of turning off as much lamps as possible during the quiet summer period. 3.1. Energy consumption The World Forum’s first priority is to reduce our energy The consumption of central district heating in the World consumption. We then try to cover all our remaining energy Forum in 2010 compared with last year has increased from needs with green power wherever possible. Whatever CO2 22.035 GJ to 23.373 GJ. Reason is that in 2010 there have emissions ultimately remain, we compensate in full. been some very cold months and in fall (colder period) the occupancy for conferences in the World Forum was very high. In 2010 the World Forum has set up an energy team and its goal is to seriously assess the energy consumption and to reduce it wherever possible. 6.000.000 25.000 24.500 5.000.000 24.000 4.000.000 23.500 23.000 3.000.000 22.500 2.000.000 22.000 21.500 1.000.000 21.000 20.500 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 World Forum’s electricity consumption, 2008, 2009 and 2010 World Forum’s central district heating consumption, 2008, 2009 and 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum 21 Energy team Summer break The energy team set up in 2010 has taken this year the When no conferences are being held in the World Forum following measures to reduce consumption: during the summer period, we take a number of steps to ■ the central-heating boiler for the big kitchen and dressing reduce energy consumption. These include turning off as rooms in the building has been replaced by some smaller much lighting, ventilation and lifts as possible. In 2010, boilers on location, so that they can be switched on measures like these and others allowed us to reduce our separately from each other and thus the big boiler does not energy consumption in the months of July and August. have to work constantly anymore. ■ As a result of the energy scan conducted by the World Earth Hour Forum in 2009 a management system has been acquired. In 2010 the World Forum has collaborated with Earth Hour. All energy power is being measured by this system in such Each year during Earth Hour millions of people and thousands a way that per hour one can see how much energy is being of organisations worldwide show that they consider climate used. The energy power can be managed and ultimately the important and switch off the light for one hour. On March consumption will decrease. 27th the World Forum contributed hereto by switching off completely all lights in the building during one hour. Lighting All public spaces in the World Forum are equipped with LED 10:10 initiative lighting. The LED lamp is a very energy-efficient lamp, uses World Forum has supported in 2010 the 10:10 initiative. This fully 90% less energy than an ordinary light bulb and lasts fifty is a pioneering initiative to get the entire country behind one times longer. And unlike the energy saving bulb the LED lamp idea, namely: save in 2010 10% on your energy consumption is not chemical waste and can be thrown away as ordinary and reduce CO2 emission. The campaign began in England trash. A LED lamp produces yearly 120 kg less CO2 than an and has been successfully introduced worldwide from Norway ordinary light bulb. to New-Zealand and from France to Ghana. The person who participates in this initiative really makes a statement and In 2011 all niche lighting in the World Forum, which now saves 10%. consists of neon light, will be replaced by LED lighting. The World Forum supports this initiative because it believes in In the biggest auditorium of the World Forum, the World the “Stinging Nettle Theory”: it is good to stimulate others to Forum Theatre, the working lighting appeared to be be sustainable and at the same time it is important to be open insufficient. Therefore during cleaning, working or other minded and inspired by others. activities the ordinary total lighting was switched on. The working lighting at the World Forum has now been adjusted so that full lighting is not necessary anymore and 3.2 Waste the working light is sufficient. Because energy-efficient We separate the waste produced at the World Forum into the lamps have been used here, the total annual consumption following categories: will therefore be reduced. ■ Office waste ■ Paper ■ Oversized waste (pallets, doors, steel frames) Green power ■ Organic waste The World Forum uses 100% green power. All power used in ■ Glass the building for our daily operations and during conferences ■ Chemical waste (including fluorescent lighting elements) and events is 100% green power. ■ Grease trap In 2010, as part of the Business and Climate project (see 2.3), we will be taking a closer look at the World Forum’s waste process. We will investigate the developments and trends in the field of waste separation, and look for answers to the questions of how the World Forum can better separate its waste and how to involve conference-goers in the process. 22 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum The most important recommendation as a result here from is 18,49 2010 Car 18,9 2009 that separate waste bins have to be placed in the World Forum 31,04 2008 in which conference visitors can throw away their waste. In the first place we should think of waste bins for paper, 0,03 Public 0,03 plastic, green waste and other. This project will be further Transport 0,14 implemented in 2011. 4,64 Paper 5,46 Waste Management 8,81 The Active Club (sports school) and the Novotel Den Haag World Forum (hotel), both located next to the World Forum, 392,67 have been approached to examine their Waste Management Heating 370,18 415,73 Program. The World Forum has offered to help them with better separating their garbage. The garbage they produce is 0 Electricity 0 being transported by the World Forum. (not ‘green’) 1.391,45 The Novotel Den Haag World Forum has indicated that by the 0 500 1.000 1.500 end of 2011 they want to maintain a good Waste Management Program. This means that they will separate the paper from CO2 emission in ton for 2008, 2009 and 2010 the rooms, which is not happening now. The Active Club will (source Climate Neutral Group) start right now to also separate the green waste. Catering 3.4 Catering The long term catering partner of the World Forum, Maison The World Forum partners with catering company Maison van den Boer, also thinks along to improve the separation of van den Boer, an organisation that fully endorses the World waste. Therefore the waste separation of Maison van den Boer Forum’s CSR policy. In its catering offerings, Maison van den in the World Forum has been expanded. They now take care Boer selects a combination of organic, local and seasonal that porcelain and PET bottles are being separated. products and sustainable choices. In 2010 the World Forum Gusto range has been introduced in 3.3 CO2 compensation the World Forum, the own catering brand of the World Forum. As an organisation, the World Forum operates on a fully You can find herein several biological packages, so clients can climate-neutral basis by compensating its CO2 emissions. We choose for a sustainable conference and contribute this way to compensate these emissions through the Climate Neutral a better environment. Group, a worldwide pioneer in the field of voluntary CO2 compensation services. Through the Climate Neutral Group, In 2010 an intern at Maison van den Boer has examined as a the World Forum is investing in sustainable energy and final paper how to optimize waste management of the catering forestry projects. in the World Forum. Each conference and event has been evaluated extensively and the results and recommendations The World Forum also compensates an additional 10% of have been put in the final report. This report has been its total CO2 emissions locally, through the Klimaatfonds discussed by the management and is presently being Den Haag. This means that the World Forum is in fact implemented. overcompensating its emissions (110%). We compensate more than we emit. In order to offer youngsters with little schooling a better chance on the labour market, students including from the In 2010 the total CO2 emission of the World Forum was 415,83 Mondriaan College work in the kitchen of restaurant Pangea ton. This is slightly more than in 2009, when the CO2 emission at the World Forum. Here they have the opportunity to reached 394,58 ton. The main reason is the higher use of the participate in the working world and learn the skills from our central district heating. Other components like paper use, professional cooks. At present we examine if this could also public transport, car use and electricity have stayed the same be done in other fields in the catering sector. or were reduced. Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum 23 Fair Trade Restaurant Week ISO 26000: Guidance on Social Responsibility In October the Pangea Restaurant in the World Forum has ISO 26000 helps organisations set their priorities in corporate participated for the second time in a national Fair-trade social responsibility and gives recommendations on how to restaurant week. Puur! Dining out and the Foundation Max embed CSR within organisations. ISO 26000 is also intended to Havelaar organised this week to promote the use of Fair-trade introduce a uniform CSR terminology. products in the catering industry. ISO 20121: Sustainable events standard At the invitation of the Netherlands Standardisation Institute (NEN), the World Forum participated in the start-up discussions on the setting of an international standard for sustainable events. The goals of these discussions were: ■ gaining information on the set-up and status of the Sustainable Events international standard committee within ISO. 3.5 Ambitions ■ determining whether the Dutch Market has a need/interest in contributing to the development of this international Energy consumption standard for Sustainable Events and setting up a national The World Forum has set up a special energy team that will shadow committee/working group to that end. Today, in the investigate the coming years where and how the energy year 2010, the time has come for quantifiable sustainability consumption of the World Forum can be further reduced. criteria, and if these are feasible, the World Forum will be They will obtain advice on different subjects from colleagues, looking forward to following them. suppliers and specialists and aim to diminish the energy consumption drastically. In 2010 a first step has been made, ISO 16001: Energy management system but the coming years this will stay one of the most important This European norm is a powerful instrument to support points of our attention. enterprises to save energy and costs. This norm offers guidelines for all kind of organisations from small to big who The following points will be our main focus: want to improve systematically their energy performances. ■ Screening of the energy contracts ■ Replacing the management system of the building The NEN-EN 16001 gives guidelines to all organisations who: ■ The lighting plan a) Want to improve systematically their energy household ■ Placing new meters b) Want to set up, introduce, improve and/or maintain an ■ Drawing up an inventory at our long term partners about energy management system energy consumption c) Want to assure themselves that the energy household is in ■ Checking the ventilation and pump system order in accordance to the latest insights d) Wishes to show to clients, third parties, etc. Certification e) Wishes to get certification for their energy management by The World Forum follows the development in the field of third parties in accordance to the norm ISO norms related to corporate social responsibility and f) Wish to judge, evaluate their energy management against sustainable events (ISO 26000 and ISO 20121). the norm At the same time GL events is conducting a broad investigation in the ISO norm 16001. 24 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum 4. profit world forum The World Forum contributes to the national and The number of CPDs is multiplied by an expense factor local economy, particularly through facilitating multidetermined by the Netherlands Board of Tourism & day international conferences. By actively attracting Conventions (currently € 344). international multi-day conferences, we generate extra economic spin-off for hotels, restaurants, retail, transport In 2010 41 international meetings and conferences took place companies, museums and attractions. at the World Forum. This is 11 more than in 2009. 22 meetings lasted more than 1 day, 2 more than last year. The economic spin-off from international multi-day conferences (both corporate and non-profit) is calculated This shows a total number of conference visitor days of by multiplying the number of conference participants by the 39.273. This is less than in 2009. It can therefore be concluded number of days of the conference. The product is expressed that the conferences take less days on an average and/ or less in “conference participant days” (CPDs). visitors attend. If you multiply the spending factor of € 344,you come to the amount of € 13.509.912,5. about this report world forum This sustainability report is the second report about the CSR policy of the World Forum. The report contains the activities and developments in the CSR field at the World Forum in 2010. We also discuss some of our ambitions for the coming years. This report is intended for all our stakeholders of the World Forum. The World Forum publishes annually a sustainability report to inform stakeholders, clients, partners, suppliers and colleagues about the developments in this field. Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum 25 6. GRI table world forum The GRI table is based on the guidelines for sustainability We feel that the B-level of the G3-guidelines of the GRI reporting issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). apply to this report. The World Forum has no special CSR GRI is a network-based organization that has pioneered the department. It will be a challenge to improve our reporting development of the world’s most widely used sustainability level in coming years. reporting framework and is committed to its continuous improvement and application worldwide. In the table below you will find an overview of the core indicators, which you will find in this report. G3-indicator Location Page Strategy and analysis 1.1 A statement by the top decision maker within the organisation Preface 5 Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 1.1 Our company 7 2.2 Products and services 1.1 Our company 7 2.3 Operational structure 1.2 Structure 8 2.4 Location of the organisation’s main office 1.1 Our company 7 2.5 Number of countries in which the organization operates 1.1 Our company 7 2.6 Ownership structure and legal form 1.2 Structure 8 2.7 Markets 1.3 The market 9 2.8 Size of the reporting organization 1.2 Structure 8 2.9 Significant changes in the organization 1.2 Structure 8 2.10 Awards during the reporting period 1.6 Recognition of CSR results 11 Reporting parameters 3.1 Reporting period 5. About this report 25 3.2 Date of the most recent report 5. About this report 25 3.3 Reporting cycle 5 .About this report 25 3.4 Contact for questions about the report Colofon 28 3.5 Process for determining the contents of the report 3.6 Definition of the report 5. About this report 25 State any possible limitations to the scope or definition 3.7 Not applicable of the report 3.8 Foundation for reporting Not applicable Explanation of the consequences of possible reformulations of 3.10 Not applicable previously supplied information 3.11 Significant changes with regard to previous reporting periods Not applicable 3.12 GRI table 6. GRI table 26 Policy and actual practice with reference to the involvement of Extern Assurance will only take place 3.13 extern Assurance of the report in the financial annual report. 26 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum G3-indicator Location Page Management, obligations and involvement 4.1 The organisation’s management structure 1.2 Structure 8 Indicate whether the chairman of the highest administrative body 4.2 1.2 Structure 8 also has a managerial function 4.3 Independence of Board of Management 1.2 Structure 8 4.4 Shareholder feedback mechanism Not applicable 4.13 Associated memberships 1.7 Memberships 11 4.14 List of stakeholders 1.4 Stakeholders 10 4.15 Stakeholder identification 1.4 Stakeholders 10 Approach of the involvement of interested parties, among which 4.16 1.4 Stakeholders 10 its frequency Economic performance indicators EC 1 Direct economic values Environmental performance indicators EN 3 Direct primary energy consumption 3.1 Energy consumption 21 EN 5 Energy saved due to savings and efficiency improvements 3.1 Energy consumption 21 Initiatives for the benefit of energy-efficiency or on sustainable EN 6 energy based products and services, as well as decrease of the 3.1 Energy consumption 21 indirect energy consumption and the already realised decrease Initiatives for reducing the indirect energy consumption and EN 7 3.1 Energy consumption 21 already realised reduction Social performance indicators Total number of employees according to type of work, LA 1 1.2 Structure 8 labour contract Percentage of the total number of employees represented in LA 6 formal joint arbo-commissions of employers and employees who Not applicable contribute to the control and advice about arbo-programs Injury, occupational disease, drop out days and absenteeism LA 7 2.1 Employment issues 13 numbers and the number of deaths work related per region LA 10 Training per employee 2.1 Employment issues 13 HR 2 Supplier screening on human rights 2.2 Human rights 15 HR 6 Child labour 2.2 Human rights 15 SO 1 Impact on communities 2.3 Society 16 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum 27 Colofon Text Linda van Wijngaarden Design The Key Agency, Amsterdam Contact For more information or questions about the Corporate Sustainability Report of the World Forum, please contact Linda van Wijngaarden at: linda.vanwijngaarden@worldforum.nl World Forum World Forum Churchillplein 10, 2517 JW The Hague T +31 (0)70 306 63 66 F +31 (0)70 306 62 53 E info@worldforum.nl I www.worldforum.nl 28 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum
