Communication on Progress 2010/11 (Global Compact Charter) Rémy Cointreau Social and Environmental Responsibility (SER): a 360° deployment As part of the ratification and application of the Global Compact Charter, Rémy Cointreau is maintaining its commitments relative to its aim to be the ambassador of good practices in this global commitment in the field of human rights, working standards, the environment and the fight against corruption. As a member of the Forum des Amis du Pacte Mondial in France Association (Forum of Friends of the Global Compact in France) for several years, Rémy Cointreau respects and regularly shares the charter's ten principles with its employees and partners. The idea of social and environmental responsibility is thus diffused throughout the company, as well as up and downstream of its perimeter, to its customers, suppliers and stakeholders. Our environmental and social concerns are fully coherent with our value strategy and economic performance objectives. Our specific requirements in France are also applied internationally, no matter which geographical area is concerned. Our SER policy therefore aims to have the support of all our stakeholders, in France and overseas. They work beside us and implement a strict procedure taking our commitments into account. Their involvement and mobilisation have now reached 360° support. The discussion we have continued throughout the year has enabled us to design our new SER 2013 plan for the next three years. It confirms our commitments in an economy which is environmentally responsible and careful. Convince by example Our SER policy is historically based on discussions of the company's ethical values. Indeed, the impact of our activities has always been at the centre of our concerns. For three years, we have noted a development in global stakes relative to sustainable development. This is why our aim has been to adapt our policy to these new demands. More than just an adaptation, we are taking up an alignment in anticipation of regulatory orientations by adopting measures which conform to them even before they come into force. 1 In France, the “Stratégie Nationale du Développement Durable” (National Sustainable Development Strategy) forms the basis of a method of sustainable development based on a green, fair trade economy, emitting very little greenhouse gas and including human and social dimensions. To achieve this more just and integral development, nine challenges have been defined. We have incorporated them into the Group's strategy and SER plan 2013. Within the context of the Grenelle Environment Round Table, our objectives are to meet the needs of future edicts currently in preparation. We intend to comply immediately no matter what the applicable thresholds may be. The priority edicts include two which we have identified for the Group. The first concerns certification of SER indicators by an external third party whose identification is in progress. The second, applicable on 31 December 2012, is relative to the Carbon footprint. In view of this prospect, Rémy Cointreau has set up an annual update of the carbon footprint and a plan to reduce CO2 emissions in its SER 2013 plan. It has led us to promote action plans encouraging ecodesign packaging. The new projects take three progress themes into consideration, relative to the greenhouse effect, water and recyclability. Several energy consumption optimisation plans are in effect. They have led to a substantial reduction in carbon emissions. The Rémy Cointreau Social and Environmental Responsibility Charter (SER) confirms its commitments relative to sustainable development, defined since it joined the International Global Compact Charter in 2003 and based on six main themes : 1. Wine-growing 2. Supplier Relations 3 Quality/Safety/Environment 4. Marketing and commercial ethics 5. Human Resources 6. Stakeholders and Sustainable Territorial Development 2 Respect of Global Compact principles and their diffusion to our employees and partners is fully covered by these six commitments: Themes Commitments Associated Global Compact Principles Wine-growing Develop growing methods which Principles 7, 8 and 9 respect the environment Supplier Relations Involve our suppliers in our social Principles 1, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9 and environmental commitments and 10 Quality/Safety/Environment Guarantee the high-end nature of Principles 7, 8 and 9 our products, with a permanent demand for quality, safety and environmental conservation Marketing and commercial ethics Support the international Principles 1 and 2 development of our trademarks by promoting responsible communication and consumption of our products Human Resources Implement practices which Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 guarantee social equity and the and 6 professional development of employees Stakeholders and Contribute to the sustainable Principles 1 to 9 Sustainable Territorial development of regions in which Development Rémy Cointreau is present by sharing our commitments and experience in the field of Social and Environmental Responsibility Action taken as part of our SER policy is the subject of our Annual Report 2010/2011 (chapter on Social and Environmental Responsibility ) which also includes the management chart presenting actions undertaken over the past three years as part of the SER 2010 plan, as well as the objectives of the SER 2013 plan. This document, available at the end of July, will be available on our website and diffused to all our stakeholders. The 2010/2011 annual report also presents all the Sustainable Development indicators with the gradual introduction of international GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) indicators 3 Rémy Cointreau SER action plan: objectives, results and prospects WINE-GROWING Our commitment : To implement and promote growing methods which are economically competitive and respect the environment, in association with traditional know-how (application of the most advanced baselines relative to integrated farming) In accordance with its SER 2013 commitments, Rémy Cointreau is continuing its work to make progress in the conservation of natural resources. This is reflected in the permanent study of practices promoting integrated agriculture which is based on employee training as much as on controlling quantities of phytosanitary products. On this last point, Rémy Martin Domains have been integrated agriculture certified since 2007. The relations maintained between Rémy Cointreau and its suppliers also testify to these efforts. This integral procedure confirms the Group's commitments relative to social and environmental responsibility. Integrated farming : Look for natural alternatives to using pesticides... As part of the fight against grape worm which ravages vines, the Cognac site has chosen a natural alternative to pesticides. This is sexual confusion of butterflies. This technique significantly limits butterfly reproduction and, therefore, the birth of predatory caterpillars. Note that this non-chemical combat is an innovative technique in Charente. ... and optimise the use of phytosanitary products The site is continuing the optidose experiment begun two years ago. This programme defines the means of optimising recourse to pesticides when it becomes inevitable. In February 2011, it also joined the network of DEPHY ECOPHYTO farms as part of the ECOPHYTO 2018 plan. This plan, introduced after the Grenelle Environment Round Table, meets the ambitious objective of reducing the use of phytosanitary products by 50% by 2018. The network of DEPHY ECOPHYTO farms should be able to produce high-quality references and show that sustainable cropping systems, economical in pesticides yet economically highperforming can be developed. 4 To conserve biodiversity, the phytosanitary products spread are inoffensive to fauna and flora. In 2010/2011, their use was reduced by 22% relative to the recommended doses. Finally, over the past 5 years, the number of soil and leaf analyses has increased by 71% to promote better management of soil fertilization. 2011, international year of the forest This year, the Cognac site has dedicated 3 hectares of its non-wine-growing land on the banks of the Charente to an experimental wood or alluvial forest project. Management of this project must conform to specifications defined by the Natura 2000 charter, which encourages gentle forestry management practices. To conserve the quality of land and water in connection with the Ligue de Protection des Oiseaux (Bird Protection League), Rémy Martin has opted for long-term crops which promote the development of ecological fauna and flora. Furthermore, it does not use chemical herbicides or nutrient products. This initiative resonates with the international year of the forest, which promotes sustainable management, conservation and forest development. Wine-growers at the heart of our social and societal concerns Rémy Cointreau is continuing its actions to support, train and upgrade wine-growers in the Fine Champagne Alliance. This year, they are mainly developing comprehension and formalisation of the baseline documents required by various regulations. The Bureau National Interprofessionnel du Cognac (Cognac National Interprofessional Office) introduced an environmental self-diagnosis questionnaire in December 2010. The aim is to promote the understanding of current regulations and help wine-growers comply with them. In partnership with a training organization, the Cognac site is taking part in this information action by introducing training in the regional environmental self-diagnosis questionnaire. 5 QUALITY/SAFETY/ENVIRONMENT Our commitment: to guarantee the high-end nature of our products by continuously investing in research, permanently demanding quality, food safety and industrial safety, and monitoring environmental conservation actions. QSE certifications, a significant challenge on production sites With this year of QSE investments of around 4 million euros (GRI indicator equivalence: EN30), the work done by intersite safety, environment and quality commissions continues to bear fruit. No nonconformities were detected during the follow-up audits or renewal of ISO certifications. The one held for ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 at Angers had a very positive result. Apart from obtaining renewal of the certification, several strong points were mentioned. Internal communication, personnel responsibility in terms of safety and its participation in project completion were particularly appreciated. The same applied to Reims under the heading of the ISO 22000 follow-up audit. The report was favourable and included positive comments intended to enhance internal communication (progress plans, employee information), verification and traceability activities, respect of internal audit schedules and personnel professionalisation. The audit held at Cognac under the heading of ISO 9000 and ISO 22000 baselines, was given very satisfactory observations concerning resources devoted to supplier audits, the quality of supplier audit grids and assessment of internal auditors by those audited. Indeed, the Cognac site is moving towards an integral Food-Environment Quality-Safety policy. This constitutes a major innovation in so far as the quality system is now seen in a global fashion. Anticipating regulatory orientations by taking steps to conform to them before they even go into force is a procedure which applies particularly to the Quality-Safety-Environment section. Carbon Footprint and reduction of CO2 emissions, inspiring progress... Concerning CO2 emissions, for example, this year the Group has decided to make the Carbon Footprint an annual event on scopes 1 and 2 which cover energy consumption, kilometres covered using company transport, emissions linked to coolant fluids and homework travel. 6 The measurement of CO2 emissions scopes 1 and 2 (in accordance with standard NF ISO 14064-1) has been verified by an independent expert. The level of assurance required was judged reasonable and the quantification method used is the ADEME Carbon Footprint, version 6.1. Carbon emissions of CO2 on scopes 1 and 2 recorded a reduction of -13% and -11% respectively for the group, representing a reduction of nearly 500 tonnes of CO2 in 2010/2011. The energy item helped this improvement with a saving of 300 tonnes of CO2 this year. Rémy Cointreau included the following five main themes in its plan to reduce carbon emissions: professional travel, eco-design of packaging, reduction in the consumption of natural resources, product transport and the use of renewable energies. In practice, using videoconferencing helped reduce CO2 emissions by 35% (i.e. 300 tonnes) in employee travel. Concerning packaging, 100% of new projects since 2010 have taken the eco-design approach, taking into consideration three progress themes concerning the greenhouse effect, water and recyclability. The reduction of around 2.2% in the average weight of packaging in France and reduced use of cardboard (-90 tonnes) and plastic (-28 tonnes) have helped reduce CO2 emissions by 1000 tonnes (GRI indicator equivalence: EN26). Within the context of a collaborative project with Rennes university, Rémy Cointreau is carrying out research this year to obtain a Carbon Footprint for its entire logistics chain. It will be possible to measure the carbon footprint of certain products along the entire chain. ... and cost optimisation Reduction of CO2 emissions also depends on a cost optimisation procedure. Eco-design is closely linked to the idea of value optimisation . This procedure takes place while preserving the product's visual quality and guaranteeing that of the liquid. The development of certain methods for applying stoppers has divided their carbon footprint by up to ten. 7 Carbon emissions reduction plan The indicators shown for the Group recorded a fall over the past 4 years:  -8.31% for electricity, mainly due to the continuous fall in energy consumption at Reims and Angers  -11% for gas, from 12.2 million kWh in 2007/2008 to 10.8 million this year  6.6% reduction in CO2 emissions through optimising energy consumption (heating and air-conditioning temperatures, lighting, deployment of the Green IT project) Rémy Cointreau works to optimise its resource consumption while maintaining employee comfort. This is reflected in a 6.6% reduction in CO2 emissions in 2010/2011, representing a saving of 85 tonnes of CO2 for the Group (GRI indicator equivalence: EN16) On the Cognac site, efforts have mainly concentrated on technical and behavioural themes. For technical, we can mention :  the study of centralised management to help lower temperature settings when personnel are absent. The launch phase will go into effect in 2011/2012  the sun plan , which plans to change lighting technology for a method which consumes less energy  the heat insulation plan , applicable from June 2011, to building renovation combined with the systematic implementation of energy diagnosis before and after the work In Angers, a dedicated task force meets every two months to monitor an energy consumption optimisation plan. This has resulted in a 10% fall in electricity consumption recorded each year for the past two years. For example, the Carré Cointreau (tour circuit) spotlights have been replaced with energy-saving lights (LEDs). At Group level, the Green IT project, in its workstation optimisation section, has led to the computers being replaced with lower energy-consuming machines, leading to a reduction of 60% consumption in watts per computer. Concerning behaviour, sensitization actions are continuing to grow. The Cognac site now diffuses energy flashes every month by email. In Angers, an awareness initiative has been implemented on the theme of ecoaction during an open day operation for employees families. It helped mobilise personnel on this subject by showing them in a film which was presented at the start of this day. 8 Conserve natural resources and the environment Concerning the conservation of natural resources, Rémy Cointreau is directing various actions to reduce its water and paper consumption. Water consumption was reduced by 36% from 122 000 m3 to 78 000 m3 in 5 years. Centralising printing centres has helped to reduce paper consumption a great deal. from 5 000 000 pages printed per year, we have reduced to 3 180 000 pages and following this action, ink consumption has been reduced by one third. Add to this the dematerialisation of supplier invoices to significantly reduce paper consumption. Furthermore, Rémy Cointreau is still maintaining a partnership with the Office National des Forêts (National Forestry Commission) to support an afforestation project. Under this heading, the group is financing a programme to plant oaks on forty hectares in the State forest at Senonches in the Eure-etLoire department of France. The degree of sorting and upgrading of waste is constantly increasing. More than 90% of waste was sorted this year and more than half upgraded. Safety, a progressive procedure for risk prevention and training. To guarantee its commitment to safety and comply with regulatory developments, prevention and training are permanent, mandatory actions. This year, QSE training represented 3139 hours and 3.1 million euros were spent on safety. For prevention, for example, the Angers site has been asking for workshops this year, on the theme of vigilance, via the weekly production of monitoring sheets covering near-miss accidents. It is continuing to work on workstation ergonomics on the packaging lines and on road safety prevention campaigns including windscreen and tyre diagnosis on employees vehicles. This year, all the maintenance staff at Reims have been trained in the new regulatory requirements concerning electrical risk. On the other hand, administrative staff received training in working on screen to reduce the risks. 9 SUPPLIERS Our commitment: To involve our suppliers in our social and environmental commitments, check their real involvement and support them in their progress procedure. The Group's commitments in terms of social responsibility are dictated by those which bind them to the Global Compact. They are consequently part of a responsible development procedure relative to suppliers. These are now involved in strict procedures to ensure that they are respected. The benefit of our SER procedure is to be communal, participative and integrated into the purchasing policy. Indeed, commitments to the Global Compact Charter are included in every new contract between Rémy Cointreau and a supplier. New supplier approval: towards greater equity This year, the Group has decided to revise its SER charter by strengthening the act of purchase with a purchasing code of conduct applicable to every employee. This document, finalised at the end of 2010, strengthens Rémy Cointreau's commitment to the Global Compact. It thus recalls the principles according to which the Group works only with suppliers who respect internationally recognised social and environmental standards and commercial usages. Among others, it includes aspects linked to conflicts of interest through stricter equity rules governing its choice of suppliers. Inspection of supplier-partners: an objective procedure Upstream of the inspection procedure, Rémy Cointreau has created a self-diagnosis grid which is sent out to all its suppliers. Successfully meeting social and environmental commitments is then assessed through audits. They are carried out internally by the purchasing department or an international organisation. They take place after drafting of an assessment grid or risk map. They validate approval or lead to an action plan being drawn up. 10 MARKETING AND COMMERCIAL ETHICS Our commitment: To support the international development of our trademarks with the promotion of responsible consumption and implementation of a marketing and commercial ethic which is irreproachable in its principles and transparency, diffused by partner distributors and an efficient Consumer service. Deploy responsible communication systems... Promote responsible communication and consumption by sharing Rémy Cointreau's SER policy commitments. This is why, in 2004, the Group drafted an ethics charter to define the basic principles. Effective application of these principles is monitored by the Responsible Communication Committee (RCC) which groups competent legal, marketing, sales and publicity sectors for each field concerned. The RCC ensures that no communication project defined by Rémy Cointreau and its trademarks is diffused unless it meets the Charter principles in full. Regulatory developments and the emergence of advertising verification offices demands vigilance. For this reason, this year, operating and control procedures have been updated to ensure greater awareness of its teams and partners. ... to encourage controlled consumption A commitment of this type necessarily generates discussion on the possible effects of the products consumed on health and the environment. Therefore, Rémy Cointreau is taking part in work done by the ADEME and the AFNOR on environmental labelling to improve consumer information. The group is working on ecoassessment and the global life cycle of its products sold in France. This ecoassessment is the stage preceding a significant reduction in environmental impact. It is also based on ecodesign for packaging which is also part of our carbon emissions reduction scheme. Loyal to its ethical values, Rémy Cointreau recommends responsible consumption to its customers and partners. Indeed, the Group is careful of the quality of its products and the consequences of their consumption. Rémy Cointreau is a member of several organisations working on research and discussion on alcohol. The Group's SER policy also includes an educational section. The group encourages its trademarks to promote consumption based on risk management. Under this heading, many alcohol tests are offered to consumers, including at tastings and on tour circuits. Develop its scoring system to measure sales performance and ensure high-quality customer service The sales performance assessment procedure carried out by distributors and their Group subsidiaries was strengthened in 2010. New scoring criteria, such as order management, were added to the model started in 2009 by the customer service department. The result is that 90% of marketing processes are now covered against 70% last year. This innovative initiative maintains the Group in a continuous progress procedure. It enables the Group to meet its customers' requirements. This year, the main improvement actions concerned delivery quality. 11 STAKEHOLDERS, SUSTAINABLE TERRITORIAL DEVELOPMENT Our commitment: To meet the requirements of stakeholders, share our experience of sustainable development at territorial level in areas in which Rémy Cointreau is installed, with solid actions for local sustainable development. Encourage the adherence of all stakeholders. To provide better support for associations, business clubs or professional organisations in their progress procedures, Rémy Cointreau takes part regularly in company tours, discussion workshops or symposia to present its SER procedure. For example, in Cognac, the Group supports the waste processing work at Revico, which, for the second year in succession, is producing green energy by reprocessing regional winegrowing effluent. Rémy Cointreau also takes part in operations involving local associations : those of “Altère Entreprise”s, the “Club des Dirigeants Responsables de l'Ouest” or the “Club Carbone Pays de Loire”. Through this exchange of experience, the Group is continuing its work in several training schools and centres in Western France. It also takes part in task forces on sustainable development, presented by various professional organisations such as the Bureau National Interprofessionnel du Cognac (BNIC) or the Colbert Committee. This logic of sharing also leads the Group to respond to requests from international organisations looking for methods of improvement in this domain. This year, this applies to carbon footprint management. As part of the Carbon Disclosure Project 2010 (CDP) survey, Rémy Cointreau has naturally replied to the request and shared its experience. The same applies to requests the Group receives from ethical bodies. Rémy Cointreau continues to support the 2nd Chance foundation which provides support for those in a situation of great precarity in a realistic, sustainable professional project: qualifying training, companies creation or takeover. Since 2005, the group has listed 94 dossiers processed at Cognac, representing nearly 110 000 euros in financing awarded by the foundation. The number of dossiers drawn up is constantly increasing: 33 dossiers processed in 2010 versus 15 in 2009. The procedure for sharing experience is not limited only to companies and organisations. For a long time Rémy Cointreau has implemented a labelling and quality process, notably based on the Carré Cointreau. The Carré Cointreau at Angers is a shopwindow for the trademark. It includes a discovery tour based on the history of Cointreau for VIPs or the general public. The group's commitments to SER are, on this occasion, presented to encourage responsible consumption, particularly at tastings. Rémy Cointreau thereby helps raise public awareness. The Group's quality procedure applied to the company tour was rewarded this year with the quality tourism label at Angers. 12 HUMAN RESOURCES Our commitment: To guarantee social equity and development of our personnel, promote their acceptance of the company strategy and involve them in the Group's public actions, within the context of Rémy Cointreau's founding values of listening and dialogue. Equity for all In an international environment, one of the main issues in human resource management is to guarantee the same social equity for all. Rémy Cointreau's HR policy takes this international dimension into account while adapting it to local specifics. Principles common to all the Group's activities are defined in this area. Firstly the skills development and training section which plans to facilitate employee development, with employees being in charge of their own development. It takes the form of a three-year skills development plan combined with an action plan. This procedure targets managers in the widest sense. Secondly, the remuneration and bonuses section which plans to include a comparative analysis involving local salary scales. Concerning social dialogue, meetings with personnel representatives are continuing. On the occasion of the social plan which was introduced on the Reims site in April 2010, this dialogue led to a voluntary early retirement plan over two years, instead of the restructuring plan for 39 jobs which had been planned initially. Developing a public procedure This year, the cost of improving working conditions was 2.2 million euros. Diagnosis of the psychosocial risk held in Cognac last year, has been extended to Angers also. The objective is to assess well-being at work and identify stress factors. With a high participation rate, a very large majority of collaborators stated that they were satisfied or even very satisfied with their working conditions. Among the points for improvement, the diagnosis noted professional development for labourers. For those with the greatest desire for development, Rémy Cointreau plans to extend the field for development of their job. Actions were taken on diversity and the creation of Regards Croisés , an internal newsletter on the subject. Concerning the integration of handicapped workers, the Group encourages upgrade actions. The Cognac site recruited 25 handicapped workers for a legally required minimum of 20. Other initiatives were held in favour of diversity such as simulated recruitment. Launched at the end of 2010 in Cognac, in partnership with the Job Centre, its objective was to create jobs for priority unemployed who have often been cut off from the working world for some time (seniors, those receiving minimum benefits). This method of recruitment based on aptitude was based on an aptitude test followed by a test of suitability for working in a team. This project concerns 50 people who could go on to obtain permanent contracts. 13 Rémy Cointreau pays strict attention to the recruitment of young people, whether on dayrelease, apprenticeship or on courses. Day-release students represent between 3% and 4% of the workforce. This commitment is intended to help apprentices succeed in obtaining their diploma. Trainees are welcomed and supported by a charter which commits the Group in terms of duration, remuneration and training. Courses, a lever for development and success Courses represent a real motivation factor for the company. The number of hours this year totals 14 560 (GRI indicator equivalence: LA10). Active training courses reinforce everyone's ability to incorporate the Group's development issues. The E-learning course begun in Cognac meets managers' needs to master English. This is an original initiative which is well supported, with 50% of employees stating that they would like to continue. The Heracles programme begun in 2008 for packaging personnel recorded an excellent attendance rating with 97% of personnel following the entire course. The Mulot Project launched in October 2010 provides labourers with a computer qualification. It was also well supported. Rémy Cointreau also emphasises its efforts in career development. Widely deployed, the Career training passport is one of the leading actions of the year. It meets the legal obligation to provide solid information about the employee's career path. Training is only one development lever. Job changes or developments, tutoring, coaching or lectures are also part of it. For this purpose, this year we set up a new tool your development library , accessible via the Intranet. This development library is designed to provide personnel with books and their ten page summaries. Available in english and french, the themes are based on business and performance , job excellence and management and development . The subjects adhere perfectly to our commitments. 14 Conclusions and prospects: Rémy Cointreau's Social and Environmental Responsibility is an intimate part of the company's daily life. It meets Group objectives by guaranteeing irreproachable product quality, and supports our international stature and trademark image, while respecting social and environmental commitments with respect to all Rémy Cointreau stakeholders. Incorporated into working methods and communications, it also involves stakeholders, particularly suppliers, upstream. Constant discussions with stakeholders, particularly major regional and national players, confirms the fact that Rémy Cointreau is perceived as an active contributor to regional sustainable development. Evolving regulations and notation by ethics agencies and organisations are a real source of progress which Rémy Cointreau wishes to take part in, for greater coherence, legibility and transparency. Our role as good practice ambassador is particularly important to us because it confirms our commitment to the Global Compact and involves us in a responsible development process. Christian Lafage Sustainable Development Director Appendices examples of indicators monitored as part of the implementation of Rémy Cointreau's social and environmental responsibility policy (GRI indicator equivalence). Objectives and Actions management chart: report on plan SER 2010 / SER 2013 15 REMY COINTREAU INDICATORS LINK WITH THE GRI INDICATORS (GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE) REMY COINTREAU INDICATORS (France) G R I INDICATORS YEAR YEAR YEAR CSR AGREEMENT INDICATORS AERA INDICATORS 2008 / 2009 2009 / 2010 2009 / 2010 47 78 39 Labor pratices and WINE MAKING Employees training LA10 persons persons persons decent work SUPPLIERS AND RESPONSIBLE CSR notation of the key suppliers -100% 100% Human rights HR2 PURCHASING RCC meetings (Responsible 2 2 1 Product Responsability PR6 Communication Committee) Total number of incidents of non SALES compliance with regulation and None None None Product Responsability PR7 AND MARKETING voluntary codes ETHICS Fines for non compliance with laws and regulations None None None Product Responsability PR9 Customers satisfaction -17/20 16/20 Product Responsability PR5 Total workforce (World) 1 512 1 571 1 621 France 55% 52% 49% 10% 10% 9% Labor pratices and Europe (except for France) LA1 22% 19% 20% decent work America Asia 13% 19% 22% Labor pratices and HUMAN Rate of absenteeism 3,8% 4,2% 4,3% LA7 decent work RESSOURCES 20 760 19 140 14 560 Labor pratices and Average hours of training LA10 hours hours hours decent work Percentage of employees receiving Labor pratices and regular performance and career 100% 100% 100% LA12 decent work development reviews Incidents of discrimination None None None Human rights HR4 REMY COINTREAU INDICATORS LINK WITH THE GRI INDICATORS (GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE) REMY COINTREAU INDICATORS (France) G R I INDICATORS YEAR YEAR YEAR CSR AGREEMENT INDICATORS AERA INDICATORS 2008 / 2009 2009 / 2010 2010 / 2011 Carton consumption saved --90 tonnes Plastic consumption saved --28 tonnes Glass consumption saved -100 tonnes -Environment EN26 Scope 1 : 3 700 tonnes eq.C02 Scope 1 : 3 320 tonnes eq.C02 C02 emissions -Environment EN16 Scope 2 : 4 330 tonnes eq.C02 Scope 2 : 3 913 tonnes eq.C02 C02 emissions saved related to energy 182 tonnes éq.C02 92 tonnes eq.C02 85 tonnes eq.C02 Environment EN18 C02 emissions saved related to vehicles -3,5 tonnes eq.C02 300 tonnes eq.C02 Environment EN18 4,47 3,34 3,18 Paper consumption million sheets million sheets million sheets C02 emissions saved related to glass -100 tonnes eq.C02 1000 tonnes eq.C02 Environment EN18 comsuption reduction C02 emissions saved related to paper 7,1 tonnes eq.C02 7,5 tonnes eq.C02 1,1 tonnes eq.C02 Environment EN18 QUALITY / SAFETY / consumption Total weight of waste 2 360 tonnes 2 130 tonnes 2 270 tonnes Environment EN22 ENVIRONMENT Waste sorting 89% 92% 93% Environment EN22 Quantity of the non sorting waste 250 tonnes 170 tonnes 160 tonnes Environment EN22 Waste recovering 42,0% 46,7% 51,3% Environment EN22 Energy consumption (electricity) 13 580 MWh 12 700 MWh 12 720 MWh Environment EN3 / EN4 Energy saved (electricity) 290 MWh 880 MWh -Environment EN5 Energy consumption (gas) 11 480 MWh 11 260 MWh 10 870 MWh Environment EN3 / EN4 Energy saved (gas) 720 MWh 220 MWh 390 MWh Environment EN5 Water consumption 88 180 m3 81 230 m3 79 710 m3 Environment EN8 Water effluents -28 290 m3 27 210 m3 Environment EN21 Polluting load of water effluents 5 950 eq. inhabitants 5 200 eq. inhabitants 5 310 eq. inhabitants Environment EN21 Labor pratices and Training of the employees in the safety 800 persons 860 persons 404 persons LA10 decent work Fines and penalties for non compliance with the None None None Environment EN28 environmentlaws and regulations QSE Investments 3,4 million of euros 3,9 million of euros 4,0 million of euros Environment EN30 OBJECTIVES AND ACTION PLAN Theme Objectives 2008/2011 Actions 2008/2009 Actions 2009/2010 Actions 2010/2011 SER plan 2013 Objectives Maintain the Integrated •Maintain the Integrated farming •Actions to provide information for •Biodiversity conservation (plantation •AHVE qualification of Cognac WineWine-growing farming qualification in the qualification at Cognac Cognac wine-growers of forest plots) growing domains Cognac wine-growing •Organisation of courses in •Biodiversity : protection of bees •Reduction in the use of phytosanitary •SER awareness of Cognac winedomain and apply it to the Integrated farming products : introduction of natural growers (AHVE collective certification) Reims domain alternatives •Environment training operations for Cognac wine-growers Quality, Carbon Footprint and •Management indicators for paper •ISO 22000 certification for Reims •Carbon footprints France (scopes 1 •Annual carbon footprints scopes 1.2 Safety reduction of CO2 emissions consumption •Ecoassessment and product ecoand 2) •Plan to reduce CO2 emissions Environment •Implementation of software to design •Plan to reduce CO2 emissions including personal travel, consumption Reduction in consumption measure the environmental •Change to the light-weight including travel, energies, ecodesign of natural resources, product ecodesign, of natural resources impact of packaging Champagne bottle of products and reduction in product transport and use of renewable (energy, water, paper, •Training Product Development •Energy plan at Angers and Cognac packaging energies board) teams •Actions to inform and train personnel •Monitoring and optimisation of water (reduction in the consumption of consumption Product eco-design natural resources, prevention and •Studies of environmental product safety) labelling Responsible SER supplier scoring •Identification of key suppliers •Selection of a new SER audit firm •Update of the purchasing code of •SER audits and scoring for suppliers suppliers and •Creation and use of a grid for •Progress plan audits and monitoring conduct •Collection of environmental information SER monitoring and audits rapid risk detection •SER supplier scoring •Creation of an SER self-diagnosis linked to product eco-design managers •Progress plan audits and grid for suppliers monitoring •SER supplier audits (internal auditors or an external organisation) Marketing and Implementation of a Validation of communication •Validation of communication •Promotion of responsible •Validation of communication commercial responsible Communication campaigns by the Responsible campaigns by the Responsible communication and consumption campaigns by the Responsible ethics meeting the charter's Communication Committee Communication Committee •Development of Customer Communication Committee commitments • Measuring customer satisfaction satisfaction scoring actions (sales •Development of measurement of survey performance and service quality) customer satisfaction •Signature of the UDA charter (France) Human Encouragement in •Signature of the agreement on •Employee information on diversity via •Employee skills development plan •Development of actions linked to Resources professional construction diversity and production of an the theatre •Diagnosis of psychosocial risk equity, diversity, professional training and career path internal publication on this theme •Investment of funds in ISR company (evaluation of well-being at work and and development for employees. Development of savings plans identification of stress factors) commercial, economic and •Internal newsletter Diversity financial culture and the •Creation of the Career Training luxury culture passport and development library Professional development •Support for active association actions Stakeholders Incorporation of •Diffusion of the SER Charter and •Support Altère Entreprises of SER themes: Carbone club in the • Support provider for structures working and sustainable stakeholders eco-action supports •Participation in the creation of the Pays de Loire, Club des Dirigeants for sustainable development at regional, Territorial • Support for the 2nd Chance Western managers' club Responsables de l'Ouest (Western national and international level Development Foundation • Support for the 2nd Chance managers' club), Altère Entreprise •Support for the ETIC schools Foundation association (Poitou-Charentes) network (Poitou-Charentes) : •Support for the 2nd Chance participation in an operation to Foundation provide information on sustainable •Obtention of the Quality Tourism development via the theatre label for the Cointreau site (Angers)
