Each journey is made... with you as our destination Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20 2010 with you as our destination Contents CEO’s Address............................................. 04 Society........................................................ 36 Culture........................................................ 37 38 Attica Group................................................ 06 08 Athletics...................................................... 39 History........................................................ 09 10 Solidarity.................................................... 40 44 Management................................................ 11 Other activities............................................ 45 46 Shareholder Structure................................. 11 Financial Information.................................. 12 13 Thank you letters......................................... 47 48 Awards........................................................ 14 Cop Attica Group......................................... 49 50 Gri G3 Attica Group .................................... 51 54 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Evaluation Form................................ 56 Vision and Strategy...................................... 16 17 Human Resources and the Market.................. 20 Our personnel.............................................. 21 22 Corporate Governance.................................. 23 Audit Committee........................................ 23 Internal Audit Department........................... 23 Corporate Announcement and Shareholder Support Services............... 24 Our partners................................................ 24 Environment................................................ 26 At Sea......................................................... 27 28 Land........................................................... 30 Recycling................................................... 32 Sustainable Development............................ 33 34 02 with you as our destination Yes, I loved the sea! I saw it extend from the cape far into the horizon, lost into the sky like a sapphire slate, smooth, silent and I strived to learn its secret. I saw it, sometimes angry, beating the shore with its froth, mount the pebbles, catch inside the caves, booming and sounding, as if it wanted to reach the heart of the earth to quench its ﬁres. And I, drunk, ran to play with it, make it angry, force it chase me, feel its foam on me, as we taunt chained animals (...) And when I would see a ship raise its anchor, leave the harbor and sail the open seas, (…) I was promised other lands, diﬀerent people, riches and joys. And night and day, my soul would have no other desire but to travel. The sea (excerpt) The Words from the Prow Andreas Karkavitsas 03 with you as our destination CEO’s Address We find ourselves in the midst of a deep economic crisis, which is constantly shaking the foundations of several stable structures of a society “in which, by which and for which we live and operate. In this context, we, the people of the Attica Group have made a crucial strategically significant choice to stand before society with a sense of responsibility and gravity. Improving the quality of our services, adding greater value to the overall offered product, as well as building a stronger bond with all those who place their trust in us daily, have become our main and primary concerns. The continuous development of our activities and the improvement of our fleet culminated in 2009, with a ship building agreement with Daewoo Shipbuilding and Marine Engineering of South Korea, for two new ultra modern car-passenger ferries. In 2010, the launching of the first ship called Blue Star Delos, signals Attica Group’s ongoing effort to provide high standard transportation services, with modern, new and fast ships and to contribute, during an era of global and domestic economic crisis, towards the development of our islands to the benefit of both their residents and their visitors. The Group, faithful to the values that render it a responsible social partner or otherwise “Operation Active Citizen”, has set as its goal the practical adherence to the principles of the Global Compact, having made an official commitment to implement them. The Social Responsibility Program titled “With you as our destination” which we have embraced and have been implementing for five consecutive years with consistency and responsibility, is the most representative and reliable example of our activities in the sectors of the environment, local communities, employees and market. During 2010, the concept of voluntarism and social contribution to local communities embodied everything the Group deservingly represents. The “Sun Protection” program traveled to four destinations of the non-profit line, combining free check ups with informative speeches to the residents of Donoussa, Schinoussa, Koufonissi and Iraklia islands. Students of the primary schools of Amorgos gave life to two beaches of the island with voluntary cleanings, while crews and office personnel offered once more this year hope to the residents of small islands, which the company services, by supporting the “Attica Group Blood Bank” through voluntary blood donation. Acts of solidarity and responsibility are recognized by citizens of the world as acts of humanity, sensitivity and social justice. Under this light, we shall continue to contribute, focusing our interest on the social wellbeing and the cohesion of local communities. Petros M. Vettas Chief Executive Officer Αttica Group • History • Management • Awards 06 with you as our destination Attica Group Attica Group is a Marfin Investment Group subsidiary and the parent company of the shipping companies Superfast Ferries and Blue Star Ferries. The fleet of Attica Group consists of 13 car-passenger ferries operating ferry routes between Greece and Italy, and to the Cyclades, the Dodecanese and Crete. The head offices are located at 123-125, Syngrou Avenue and 3, Torva Street. In more detail: a) In the Adriatic Sea, Attica Group operates 4 SUPERFAST ferries (SUPERFAST I, SUPERFAST II, SUPERFAST VI, SUPERFAST XI), which carry out daily year round itineraries between the Greek ports of Patras & Igoumenitsa and the Italian ports of Ancona & Bari. During the summer months there is also a connection from the island of Corfu to Bari-Italy. b) Attica Group is active in the domestic market with 8 BLUE STAR ferries and 1 SUPERFAST vessel, carrying out year round itineraries to the following destinations: • Piraeus-Heraklion with SUPERFAST XII • Piraeus-Chania with BLUE HORIZON • Piraeus-Syros-Tinos-Mykonos with BLUE STAR ITHAKI • Piraeus-Paros-Naxos-Ios-Santorini with BLUE STAR PAROS or BLUE STAR NAXOS • Piraeus-Syros-Paros-Naxos-Santorini & Amorgos (Katapola/Aigiali)-Iraklia-Schinoussa-Koufonissi-Donoussa-Astypalaia with BLUE STAR PAROS or BLUE STAR NAXOS • Piraeus-Patmos-Leros-Kos-Rhodes & Syros-Santorini-Amorgos (Katapola) with BLUE STAR 1 & BLUE STAR 2 • Piraeus-Kalymnos-Kos-Rhodes-Astypalaia-Nissyros-Tilos-Kastellorizo & Thessaloniki–Sigri(Lesvos)-Chios-Karlovassi (Samos)-Kalymnos-Kos-Rhodes with DIAGORAS • Rafina-Andros-Tinos-Mykonos with Superferry II Since April 2010, the company services the connecting route between Furthermore, the building of the second vessel, BLUE STAR PATMOS, is Piraeus and Chania in Crete, with BLUE HORIZON, a luxurious vessel continuing at an intensive pace in the same shipyards, and it shall be with a cruising speed of 23 miles per hour. It can carry 1,505 passengers, ready to serve domestic routes in the first three months of 2012. This 580 of them in 184 cabins, and has garage capacity for 900 cars or 130 investment, which is unique for Greek domestic lines (the total cost of the trucks plus 70 cars. By deploying BLUE HORIZON at the Chania route investment is approximately €137 million), is part of Attica Group’s ongoing and establishing SUPERFAST XII for the Heraklion route, Attica Group effort to provide high standard transportation services, with modern, new consolidates its presence in Crete, by servicing two of the largest ports of and fast ships, and to contribute during an era of global and domestic the island, making a significant contribution towards the increase of economic crisis towards the development of our islands to the benefit of passenger numbers during a period of deep economic recession. both their residents and their visitors. In November 2010, the first of the two new Group vessels was launched in All of the Group’s vessels are certified by the International Safety Management the Daewoo Shipbuilding and Marine Engineering Co. Ltd (DSME) Ship Code ISM in accordance with SOLAS requirements, for the safety of Yards of South Korea. The new vessel, BLUE STAR DELOS will be human life at sea, and in accordance with the international standards ISO deployed in the Cyclades routes in the summer of 2011. 9001:2008 (International Quality Management Standard) and ISO 14001:2004 (Environmental Management Standard). The ISO 9001:2008 BLUE STAR DELOS is an ultra-modern vessel, with a cruising speed of 26 and ISO 14001:2004 certifications were issued by the American Certification miles per hour, 145.9 m length, 23.2 m width, 2,400 passenger capacity, Agency “ABS Quality Evaluations”, part of the international Group of 32 cabins for passengers (122 beds) and a garage for 427 cars or for 57 Companies, American Bureau of Shipping (ABS). The certification according 10-meter trucks and 148 cars. The vessel shall have comfortable shared to the new Quality Management Standard ISO 9001:2008 took place in areas for passengers and all the necessary amenities in order to offer 2009 and stands as recognition of the high standard services provided by luxury traveling year round, regardless of weather conditions. the Group. 07 with you as our destination In the summer of 2010, Attica Group certified the SUPERFAST I, SUPERFAST II, SUPERFAST VI, SUPERFAST XI, SUPERFAST XII & BLUE HORIZON vessels according to the International Standard ISO 22000:2005 Food Safety Management System. This certification proves in practice that the receipt, processing and sale of foods is based on strict hygiene regulations set by this international standard, ensuring that the Group’s ships provide safe foods to passengers. Finally, the contractor implements on BLUE STAR 1, BLUE STAR 2, DIAGORAS, BLUE STAR PAROS, BLUE STAR NAXOS & BLUE STAR ITHAKI ships the International Standard ISO 22000:2005 Food Safety Management System. Goody’s restaurants on BLUE STAR 1, BLUE STAR 2, BLUE STAR PAROS, BLUE STAR NAXOS & BLUE STAR ITHAKI ships also have the ISO 22000:2005 Certification. Attica Group, with a fast and ultra modern fleet at its disposal, fully understands the essence of a comfortable and pleasant trip. A full range of amenities and services are offered on board our vessels: • Spacious cabins • Aircraft type seats • PURE technology cabins (Available on SUPERFAST XI & SUPERFAST VI) • Restaurants, Bars and Cafés, offering delicious meals and moments of relaxation • Bars and Cafés on deck • Pool • Casino • Shops for on board shopping • Wireless internet connection • Coin telephones and ΑΤΜs • Personal DVD Players • Disco • Reserved space for pets Attica Group, through Blue Star Ferries, was responsible for changing the conditions of travel in the wider area of the Aegean, combining responsibility and reliability with elegance and comfort. Together with Superfast Ferries, which holds the leading position in the Adriatic Sea market and Crete, it provides high quality services, respecting the needs of its partners, employees and, above all, its passengers. 08 with you as our destination History ATTICA HOLDINGS S.A. with distinctive title Attica Group was established in 1918 and its current name was given by a decision of the Ordinary General Meeting of shareholders of 03.06.2004 (GGI S.A. & LLC 6333/18.06.2004). The Company is classified, according to the classification of the Economic Operation Sectors (STAKOD 2003) of the NSSG, under code 741.5 on Holding Companies Activity Management. The Company’s registered offices are in the Municipality of Athens, Attica, 123-125, Syngrou Avenue & 3, Torva Street, 11745 Athens, tel. 210 8919500, fax 210 8919509. The Company is registered in the Companies Register of the Ministry of Development, Department of Companies and Credit, with registry number 7702/06/Β/86/128. Its operation in the passenger shipping sector through subsidiaries began in 1993. In 1999, Attica Group acquired 38.8% of the shares of ATHEX-listed Strintzis Lines Shipping S.A., which it increased to 48.6% the following year. On the same year, in 2000, it changed the company’s trade name to Blue Star Maritime S.A. and created the Blue Star brand. The Blue Star fleet's renewal started in mid-2000 and was completed in June 2002 with the purchase of five new generation Blue Star car-passenger ferries. On 3 October 2007, the ownership status of Attica Group changed when MARFIN INVESTMENT GROUP SA (MIG) directly and indirectly acquired 51.64% of the share capital and voting rights from the Company’s old reference shareholders. On 23 October 2007, MIG SHIPPING S.A. (100% subsidiary of MIG) submitted a mandatory Public Offer for acquiring all shares of Attica HOLDINGS S.A., as well as those of subsidiary company Blue Star Maritime S.A. On 2 January 2008, the Public Offer procedure ended, which resulted in MIG and its 100% subsidiary MIG SHIPPING S.A. holding in total shares representing 91.1% of the share capital of Attica HOLDINGS S.A. and together with Attica HOLDINGS S.A. 84.45% of the shares of Blue Star Maritime S.A. In September 2008, the Company’s headquarters were transferred and all services would now be carried out from the new offices at 123-125, Syngrou Avenue & 3, Torva Street, 11745 Athens. The Company’s registered seat was also transferred to the Municipality of Athens. In October 2008, the newly built RoPax Superfast I, 24 knots speed, with a capacity of 950 passengers, 140 trucks and 100 cars was delivered. The vessel was deployed in the Patras – Igoumenitsa – Bari route in the Adriatic Sea. The Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of 02.12.2008 approved the merger, according to the provisions of article 68 (par. 2) – 77a and 78 of C.L. 2190/1920, of articles 1-5 of Law 2166/1993, and in general the commercial legislation, as applicable, through the absorption of Blue Star Maritime S.A. and 100% subsidiary Superfast Ferries Maritime S.A. by Attica HOLDINGS S.A.. The said merger of the three SAs was approved with decision number Κ2 15054/23.12.2008 of the Ministry of Development. As a result of the merger, Attica Group issued 37,440,020 dematerialized common registered shares, with a nominal value of €0.83 each, which it distributed to the shareholders of merged company Blue Star Maritime S.A., according to the determined exchange ratio. 09 with you as our destination Therefore, the total share capital of Attica Group amounted to € 117,539,371, divided into 141,613,700 dematerialized common registered voting shares, with new nominal value of €0.83 each. The (direct and indirect) holding of MIG after the above merger amounted to 86.4%. On 25.06.2009, Attica Group announced the signing of a shipbuilding agreement with shipyards Daewoo Shipbuilding and Marine Engineering Co. (DSME) of Korea, for the building of two ultra modern car-passenger ferries. The total investment amounts to approximately 137 million Euros for both ships. The delivery of the first ship will take place in May 2011 and of the second ship within the first three months of 2012. The new vessels will have a cruising speed of 26 knots, with a total length of 145.9 meters, passenger capacity for 2,400 people and 427 cars, or 57 10-meter trucks plus 148 cars. In October 2009, the newly built RoPax SUPERFAST II was delivered, with features similar to the SUPERFAST I and it was also deployed in the PatrasIgoumenitsa-Bari route in the Adriatic Sea. In January 2010, the Company’s Share Capital increase was completed with the payment of cash and a pre-emptive right for old shareholders. 20,810,300 new shares were issued, with sale price €2.00 per share, and €41.6 million were drawn in total. Therefore, the Company’s share capital amounted to €134,811,920 divided into 162,424,000 dematerialized common registered voting shares, with a nominal value of €0.83 each. In February 2010 SUPERFAST V which operated in the Adriatic Sea was sold. On 20 November 2010, the first of the two new Group vessels, ordered in June 2009, was launched in the Daewoo Shipbuilding and Marine Engineering Co. Ltd Ship Yards of South Korea. The new ship, BLUE STAR DELOS, will be deployed in the Cycladic islands in the summer of 2011. Attica Group has 13 car-passenger ferries, all registered in the Greek ship registry and it operates in the passenger shipping sector in the Adriatic Sea, at the Greece-Italy routes, as well as domestic routes in Greece. According to the NSSG classification (STAKOD 2003) the Group’s main operation falls under sector 611.0 “Maritime and coastal transport . In more detail, the Group’s ships now operate in a) the Adriatic Sea, on the Patras – Igoumenitsa – Ancona and Patras – Igoumenitsa – Bari routes, with four SUPERFAST vessels and b) the Greek domestic routes, in the Cycladic islands and the Dodecanese, with seven BLUE STAR vessels, on the Piraeus – Heraklion, Crete, route, with SUPERFAST ΧΙΙ and the Piraeus-Chania, Crete, route, with BLUE HORIZON. with you as our destination Management The current structure of the Board of Directors (hereinafter the “BoD”) of the Company is the following: Full name Capacity Haralambos S. Paschalis Chairman Non-executive Member The business address of BoD members is the Company’s headquarters at 123-125, Syngrou Ave. & 3, Andreas E. Vgenopoulos Vice-Chairman Non-executive Member Torva Str., 11745 Athens. Petros M. Vettas Managing Director Executive Member Michalis G. Sakelis Director Executive Member The above BoD was elected by a decision of the Ordinary General Meeting of 17.06.2010 and its Spyridon H. Paschalis Director Executive Member term ends on the second year after its election (i.e. with the Ordinary General Meeting to be convened up to 30.06.2012). Theofilos Aristeidis G. Provolos Director Non-executive Member The Company’s sole administrative and management body, in accordance with its Articles of Areti G. Souvatzoglou Director Non-executive Member Association, is its Board of Directors. The Company's supervisory body is the Audit Committee. Markos A. Foros Director Independent-Nonexecutive Member Therefore, top administrative executives of Attica Group under the meaning of the Regulation Alexandros Th. Edipidis Director Independent-Non(I.R. 809/2004, par. 14.1 Annex I) are all the members of the Board of Directors as well as the executive Member Audit Committee. Shareholder Structure On 29.11.2010, date that the Extraordinary General Meeting decided on The Company declares that it does not know of the existence of any agreethis Increase, the Company’s share capital amounted to €134,811,920 ment, which could bring about changes to the Company’s control, if impledivided into 162,424,000 common registered voting shares, with a nominal mented in the future. value of €0.83 each. Based on the shareholder list information on 29.11.2010, the holders of shares and voting rights above 5%, according to Also, the Company does not own own shares and its subsidiaries do not Law 3556/2007, as well as Sivet Holding Inc., which is controlled by the own Company shares. Company’s Managing Director, Mr. P. Vettas, were the following: It is noted that Marfin Investment Group Holdings S.A., which directly and Shareholder list information of 29.11.2010 ATTICA S.A. Holdings (Law 3556/2007) indirectly holds 88.8% of the Company’s voting rights, announced to the Extraordinary General Meeting its intention of maintaining the (direct and Shareholders Number of Shares % Voting rights % indirect) percentage of its participation a) up to the completion of the (Law 3556/2007) MIG Shipping S.A 126,332,636 77.78 Company’s share capital increase and the listing of its new shares in Marfin Investment Group ATHEX and b) for a six month period after the start of trading of the new Holdings S.A. 17,924,723 11.03 144,257,359 88.81 shares, according to paragraphs 4.1.4.1.1. and 4.1.4.1.2., item e, of the Sivet Holding Inc. 1 6,755,944 4.16 6,755,944 4.16 ATHEX Regulation. Other shareholders 11,410,697 7.03 11,410,697 7.03 Total 162,424,000 100 162,424,000 100 In addition, according to unit 5.2.2 of Annex II of Regulation 809/2004 of the EU Commission, it is known to the Company that SIVET HOLDING INC., 1 Sivet Holding Inc. is a company controlled by the Managing Director, Mr. Petros Vettas. a company in which the Managing Director of Mr. Petros Vettas has interests, will participate with a total percentage of participation of 4.16% in the share capital increase. with you as our destination Financial Information ATTICA HOLDINGS S.A., with distinctive title Attica Group is purely a Holdings Company and as a holdings company it has no activity. The company, through its subsidiaries, is mostly active in passenger shipping and the provision of tourism services. Attica Group is classified, according to the classification of the Economic Operation Sectors (STAKOD 2003) of the NSSG, under code 741.5 on Holding Companies Activity Management. The Group’s main operation is covered by sector 611.0 “Maritime and Coastal Transport”. The shares of ATTICA HOLDINGS S.A. are listed in ATHEX with the code Attica. The Company is registered in the Companies Register of the Ministry of Development, Department of Companies and Credit, with registry number 7702/06/Β/86/128. Its term was initially set at 90 years to be extended with decision dated 19.03.1992 of the Extraordinary General Meeting (GGI 3526/13.07.1992) for one hundred more years and expires on 27.10.2108. The Company’s initial share capital amounted to GRD18,300,000 fully paid up through contribution in kind and cash, divided in 183,000 shares, with a nominal value of GRD100 each. The ATTICA HOLDINGS S.A. Group is consolidated with the total integration method into the Financial Statements of MARFIN INVESTMENT GROUP HOLDINGS S.A., which is domiciled in Greece and its total holding in the company on 30.09.2010 (direct and indirect) amounts to 88.8%. The total depreciation for the nine months of 2010 has been integrated into the cost of goods sold and the administrative expenses as follows: Statement Of Comprehensive Income Of Attica Group The total turnover of the Attica Group in the 01.01-30.09.2010 period amounted (in euro thousand) 01.01-30.09.2010 01.01-30.09.2010 to €221.2 million versus €246.3 million in the corresponding nine months of 2009. Turnover 221,241 246,266 More particularly for the nine months of 2010, the turnover originates from Domestic Gross profit 31,741 62,969 % of turnover 14% 25.57% shipping by 60.3%, (versus 54.6% in the nine months of 2009) and from the Adriatic Profit/(loss) before tax, financial Sea by 39.6% (versus 45.2% in the nine months of 2009). and investment results -9,565 18,351 % of turnover -4% 7.45% Profit/(loss) before tax -20,563 2,577 EBITDA in the nine months of 2010 amounted to €10.7 million versus €39.3 Income tax -3,066 -411 million in the corresponding period the previous year. Profit/(loss) of period after tax -23,629 2,166 Important factors that negatively affected the results of the nine months of 2010 of Distributed to: the Group were the increase of the price of fuel and the decrease of transportations Parent company owners -23,629 2,166 Minority rights due to the economic crisis which our country is going through as well as the very Other comprehensive income after tax 6,499 5,868 intense competition. Cumulative total income after tax -17,130 8,034 Profit/(loss) after taxes per share (in Euro) -0,1 0,02 Profit/(loss) before tax, financial, investment results EBITDA Per geographical area in the nine months of 2010 is as follows: €11.90 and depreciations and amortisations (EBITDA)* 10,679 39,258 million. It comes from Greek Domestic shipping, €1.0 million from the Adriatic Sea % of the turnover 5% 15.94% and €2.2 losses from other activities. Note: Any divergences in the total from the sum of the individual figures are due to rounding offs. Source: Interim Consolidated Financial Statements for period 01.01-30.09.2010 prepared by the Company based on IFRS, not audited overviewed by a Certified Auditor-Accountant. The Group’s losses after taxes amounted to €23.6 million versus €2.1 million in the *Source: “Data and Information”, published pursuant to decision 4/507/2009 of the BoD of the Securities and Exchange Commission nine months of 2009. with you as our destination The total depreciation for the nine months of 2010 has been integrated into the cost of goods sold and the administrative expenses as follows: Break Down Of Depreciation Of Attica Group (in euro thousand) 01.01-30.09.2010 01.01-30.09.2009 Depreciation of ships 19,519 20,266 Depreciation of administrative costs 725 681 Total 20,244 20,907 Note: Any divergences in the total from the sum of the individual figures are due to rounding offs. Source: Interim Consolidated Financial Statements for period 01.01-30.09.2010 prepared by the Company based on IFRS, not audited overviewed by a Certified Auditor-Accountant. The interim company and consolidated Financial Statements of period 01.0130.09.2010 were prepared by the Company based on the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and were not audited-overviewed by a Certified Auditor Accountant. The main investments made by the Group in the period 01.01.2010-30.09.2010 pertain to the distribution of €26,131 thousand from own cash for the financing of part of the construction of the two ordered passenger-car vessels from the DSME shipyards of South Korea (BLUE STAR DELOS and BLUE STAR PATMOS). According to decision dated 29.11.10 of the Extraordinary General Meeting of Attica Group, a capital increase with the payment of cash was decided, with the issue of 29,236,320 new shares and a pre-emptive right for old shareholders, at a ratio of 9 new shares for every 50 old shares. The selling price of the new shares was set at €0.83 per share. The Company’s share capital will increase up to the amount of €24,266,145.60 with the payment of cash and with the issue and distribution of up to 29,236,320 new common dematerialized registered voting shares of the Company, with a nominal value of €0.83 each, and selling price €0.83 per share for old shareholders at a ratio of 9 new shares for every 50 old shares. with you as our destination Awards Attica Group • In 2004 Attica Group, the parent Company of Superfast Ferries and Blue Star Ferries was voted “Best Company of the Year for Passenger Shipping” by the Lloyd’s List Shipping Awards. • In 2005 Attica Group, the parent company of Superfast Ferries and Blue Star Ferries was honored for the “invaluable contribution to tourism and the national economy of the country”, during a special ceremony at the opening of the 36th International Exhibition of the Tourism industry XENIA 2005 . Blue Star Ferries • Superbrand 2005 and Superbrand 2006 in the category “Tourist Services”. • Elected “Best shipping company of the year” for 2005 and 2006 by the readers of Voyager magazine. • “Best company of the year for Passenger Shipping” in the Lloyd’s List of Shipping Awards 2006. • «Silver Ermis Award», of the Ermis PR unit for the social responsibility program titled “Sun Protection” Ermis Awards 2010. • “Best Communication Strategy for 2010, “Efkranti” awards, organized by magazine “Shipping Chronicles”, in cooperation with the Association of Shipping Economists of Greece ( ENOE ) . BLUE STAR 1 and BLUE STAR ITHAKI were given awards by the Swedish magazine ShipPax Information for their design and exceptional aesthetics, confirming that there are many reasons to choose to travel with Blue Star Ferries, apart from speed and quality of service. Superfast Ferries • “Most popular domestic and international shipping company in Greece and Cyprus” readers awards Condé Nast Traveller Awards 2009 In September 2002, Superfast Ferries and Blue Star Ferries were the first passenger vessels to receive ISO 14001 certification for Environmental Management from the American Certification Agency “ABS Quality Evaluations”, part of the International Group, American Bureau of Shipping. EFKRANTI AWARD 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Vision & Strategy 16 with you as our destination Corporate Social Responsibility Vision & Strategy For Attica Group this is the 4th consecutive annual Sustainability Report and the 2nd issued according to the guidelines of the GRI/G3 International Sustainability Reporting Initiative. Since the beginning of the operation of companies Blue Star Ferries & Superfast Ferries in the passenger shipping sector, servicing domestic and international lines, the Group has adopted and promoted fair business practices. By integrating the United Nations Global Compact principles in business strategy, a structured and focused plan of actions has been drawn up, which is implemented in the pillars of the Market and governance, Sustainable Development, employees, the environment and local societies. With the sustainable development as our destination The CSR program of the Group, titled “With you as our destination”, puts people first. Our continuous and consistent efforts aimed at integrating Corporate Social With the environment Responsibility into the culture of all Group holdings and carry out our business as an as our destination “Operation Active Citizen”. During the last decade, Attica Group, through Superfast Ferries and Blue Star with you as our destination Ferries, has supported Parents Associations, Charities and Non Profit Organizations, With the local societies Metropolitan churches, Cultural and Athletic Clubs, the Medical community etc. in as our destination order to facilitate and support their work and activities. It also supports local societies by responding to requests from various bodies, and at With the market and governance the same time implements Corporate Social Responsibility programs, which were as our destination prepared in order to meet the needs of the local societies of our islands. With the employees as our destination The Group has always stood by the islanders, proving an important bridge, and even on occasions an essential lifeline by providing transportation for patients who needed to be transferred to Athens, by going to destinations not included in its scheduled itineraries. At the same time, it has also supported a number of organizations and associations in the sectors of health, education and culture, by providing free or 50% discount tickets, or other discount tickets, for their transportation. The CSR program of Attica Group is not a piecemeal approach to the issue with isolated actions here and there. It is characterized by continuity, stability and consistency. The following pages present in detail the Group’s most important CSR practices and initiatives for 2010, and the last pages present the correlation of the content with the GRI – G3 indicators. The indicators may be economic, environmental, social etc., but they could never depict the recognition and gratitude of a young islander who looks at the sea and dreams. 18 Human Resources and the Market • Our Personnel • Corporate Governance • Our Partners with you as our destination Our personnel Attica Group implements policies that reinforce the personal growth of Our Group’s core belief is that its employees are the most important asset our staff; realizing that these are the people that, through their work in our for its growth, contributing significantly towards the implementation of its offices and particularly on board our ships, show their commitment, strategic goals and choices. For us, it is a basic, vitally important choice contributing to the provision of high quality services and towards mainto provide our staff with a high quality of life and access to healthcare in taining the company’s reputation. case of accident or illness. The Group’s Administration offers an insurance program for its office-based staff, which includes life insurance and medical Our Internal Code of Business Conduct and Ethics states in writing the coverage. This program also includes the employees’ families spouses basic principles and rules that govern all business activities of Attica and children. Group, based on international best practices, beyond the existing legal and regulatory obligations. The Administration and Staff of Attica Group Today, 1,216 people work for Attica Group. 253 are office-based and 963 and its companies are bound to respect these principles in carrying out work on board our vessels. Our office-based staff mainly consists of their duties and to recognize, acknowledge, accept and support the 10 women compared to men; there are currently 138 women and 115 men. universally accepted principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the fields of human rights, labor, environment, and business activity The majority of our staff have higher education degrees. The average age within the market. of our office-based staff is 42.7 for men and 37.3 for women. On board average age is 38.7 years. The Department of Human Resources is responsible for monitoring the implementation of the Code. The Department seeks to: • Include the Code in the information package given to all new employees. • Obtain a signed declaration of acceptance and commitment to abide by the principles of the Code from all employees, whenever issued or amended. Distribution of Human Resources Distribution of office-based employees per workplace Data 2010 per educational level Data 2010 Univercity education 61 Technological education 117 Land 253 Secondary education 71 Sea 963 Primary education 4 0 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 50 100 150 with you as our destination A fundamental axis of every company’s growth and prosperity is the careful selection and subsequently the growth and development of its Human Resources. There is a predefined recruitment process and policy, which outlines and defines the actions required for the selection of the best candidates by merit, and also for their better development. This ensures that workers have the skills, capabilities, abilities and effectiveness necessary to their position, according to the principles and culture of our Group, and also that we are able to meet the challenges and demands of our times. In 2010, 6 new employees joined forces with the existing staff to further promote the dynamic growth of our company. Believing in the ongoing training of our people, a total of 1,344 hours of further training and specialization seminars were conducted in 2010. In 2008, for the first time, we implemented a Performance Management System for the Administrative Staff of Attica Group. A similar Evaluation System is being implemented for our onboard staff, with performance appraisal conducted at two hierarchical levels. This Performance Management System is developmental in nature, and the purpose of the exercise is to identify the strengths and the weaknesses of staff, in order to develop their individual performance in general, by capitalizing on their skills and improving their weaker points. This evaluation procedure aims to create better professionals and more efficient employees. The entire Administrative staff of Attica Group participates in this evaluation process and soon this system will be linked to our Compensation and Benefits System. The Group would like to know the views and opinions of its employees, and believing that Human Resources are its most important asset, it is interested in the level of satisfaction of each employee. In order for employees to freely express their opinion, and also to have the option of producing measurable statistics, but mostly useful conclusions, the Department of Human Resources carries out each year an anonymous and voluntary “Staff Opinion Survey”. Specifically, the first “Administrative Personnel Opinions and Satisfaction” survey took place in December of 2008 with 86% participation, and the second in December of 2009, with 69% participation. A similar survey was carried out in November 2010 for the first time for our Group’s seamen, with a 73% participation. with you as our destination Corporate Governance The Group places particular emphasis on a policy of transparency in all corporate activity and transactions. Within this framework, it fully applies the principles of Corporate Governance, as these are stated in the provisions of Law 3016/2002, as applicable, and Law 3693/28.8.2008 article 37, which are adopted by companies listed in organized stock markets, both in the structure of the Board of Directors and in its organization. Within the scope of Corporate Government principles: • There are 3 executive members, 4 non-executive members and 2 independent non executive members in the nine-member Board of Directors of the Company. • The responsibilities of Chairman and Managing Director do not fall to the same person. • In the Company’s Internal Rules of Procedure, as drawn up and implemented, there is a full description of the tasks and duties of all the organizational units of the company and the Group. • An Audit Committee was established and operates according to the provisions of L. 3693/2008 nr. 37, as per the decision of the General Meeting of 16/06/2009. • There is an Internal Audit Department in operation, as well Corporate Announcement and Shareholder Support services. Audit Committee The General Meeting of shareholders, in order to ensure the legitimate and safe operation of the Company at all times, as well as the restriction of financial and legal risks, decided in implementation of the existing legal framework and the provisions on corporate governance aiming at transparency and the coordinated supervision of the auditors’ works, to establish an Audit Committee. The members of the Committee are three (two non-executive and one independent non-executive member) and were elected during the General Meeting which took place on 17 June 2010. The Audit Committee reports to the Board of Directors. The Committee primarily aims to support the Board of Directors in performing its supervisory duties, to ensure transparency in all the corporate activities and to fulfill obligations and responsibilities towards the shareholders and the supervisory authority. Internal Audit Department The Internal Audit Department operates as an independent body of the Company and is supervised by the Audit Committee. The Department’s main objective is to conduct efficient audits of the operations and approved procedures of all the organizational units of the Company and the Group, in order to ensure their smooth and efficient operation within the framework of the adopted strategic policy and the achievement of the qualitative and quantitative stated objectives. The Internal Audit Department’s main duties are: • To plan the annual schedule of audits, as well as the individual schedules and their implementation seeking to determine and protect the observance of policies and procedures, as well as the effective and legal operation of the Company and the Group’s subsidiary Companies. • To provide the Administration with the necessary information regarding the efficiency of operations and the maximization of the Company’s performance. • To study the range and quality of the internal audit system and to propose more efficient procedures for its improvement, in order to reach its business objectives. To monitor the implementation and the continuous compliance with Internal Operating Regulations and the Articles of Association, in order to identify and evaluate any possible operational risks in a timely fashion. • To control the implementation of the legislation related to the Company and in particular the legislation on companies and stock markets. • To control the Company’s organizational structure and operational status. The Internal Audit Department operates on this procedural basis and conducts effective controls in order to evaluate the Company’s operational efficiency. Its purpose is to develop a climate of communication and cooperation with the other Departments – Services, so that the development of the audit culture ensures the protection of the Company’s interests and the acceptance of the Internal Audit as a tool for providing assistance to those being audited. with you as our destination Corporate Announcements Service The main duty of this Service is to ensure the Company’s compliance with the obligations regarding the provision of information to investors and the supervisory authorities, as stated in the existing institutional framework. Additionally, the Division is responsible for the Company’s communication with the Stock Exchange Authorities, the Media and any other competent bodies. The Corporate Announcements Service is responsible for planning and publishing all announcements related to investors. Shareholder Support Service The Service is responsible for the immediate and equal information of shareholders and for supporting them in exercising their rights based on the law and the Articles of Association. The Service ensures the timely information of investors about all important information, and specifically regarding issues arising from the Company’s corporate actions, corporate issuances and distribution of dividend. In addition, the Service provides information regarding the Company’s General Meetings, as well as their decisions. Our partners International routes The Sales Network of Attica Group for international routes expands across the world and is supported by 4 offices that belong to the Group (Athens, Thessaloniki, Crete and Germany) and by 24 Premium Sales Agents in the main markets and port agents at the departure ports. Attica Group is a full member of the International Union of Railways (UIC), the International Common Tariff System of Railways (former TCV now NRT) and other associated railway organizations (such as the EURAIL, the INTERRAIL, etc.), the International Rail Transport Committee (CIT), the Central Clearing Bureau of Railways (BCC), the European Statistics and railway Information Organizations, etc. Today the International Union of Railways has 200 members from 91 countries from 5 continents, through which our services are available. The reservation system of Attica Group is linked to the International Reservations Networks. More than 20,000 travel agencies are connected online to these networks, offering direct integrated services. The Group aims to identify new markets and meet new challenges in order to expand its collaborations and increase sales. Our experienced personnel, after careful strategic planning, using a variety of marketing tools, is in communication with its partner networks, informing and guiding them regarding commercial policy, as well as keeping them up to date with the company’s activities and new products. Simultaneously, by investing in new technologies and means of communication, the Group promotes online ticket sales through its website, www.superfast.com, as well through the websites of its partners, achieving ever increasing sales each year. It also participates in the main Tourism and Transportation trade fairs in Europe, promoting the programs and services it offers. Domestic Lines Attica Group, via Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries, has an active presence in the Greek Ferry Lines. The Domestic Sales Network of the Group is well developed. In every port of departure there are travel agents, who are connected online to the central reservation system, whilst through the CRS systems (ForthCRS, Ferryscreen, Start), more than 20,000 travel agencies in Greece and abroad are able to place reservations via the Group’s central reservation system. Through the corporate websites www.bluestarferries.com and www.superfast.com, the Group has an additional channel of communication with its customers through which online reservations and ticket purchases can be made. 24 Environment & Sea 26 with you as our destination Environment Attica Group, via Superfast Ferries and Blue Star Ferries Companies, places particular importance on environmental issues and the aspects that are most likely to be affected by their operation. The Group’s companies evaluate the environmental issues identified on an annual basis and aim to minimize the impact of their operations on the environment. The most important of these issues are: emissions, discharges into the sea, waste disposal management, land pollution, use of raw materials and resources and the environmental demands of local communities. The Group's environmental consciousness is inseparable from our commitment to providing superior customer service and satisfaction of our passengers. The policy objectives of the Group are: • To continue to invest in new technologies and to apply environmentally friendly methods. • To minimize the negative impact from engine operation, through their timely and proper maintenance. • To encourage its staff, both on board and office-based, to adopt environmentally friendly methods and to develop their environmental conscience, through proper information and training. • To actively participate in organizations which promote the principles of environmental safety and protection. • To participate in international research and development programs which promote efficiency, responsibility and reduction of pollution in the shipping sector. • To be kept up to date with regard to environmental issues and to adopt appropriate new practices. At Sea The Attica Group fleet is one of the most modern fleets in Europe, with Most of the water used onboard is desalinated, via special boilers. Only newly built ships that meet all international regulations for the protection low consumption light bulbs are used onboard the Groups’ vessels, apart of the environment. The most important is the convention MARPOL 73/78 from emergency lighting. The warm air for heating in common areas and of the International Maritime Organization (IMO). hot water used for sanitation purposes is generated via the heat exhaustion from the main engines through the specially designed installations. Examples of the implementation of strict environmental operation criteria are: Via the human resources department, Attica Group trains its employees in • The fuel used in the Group's vessels comply with national and internabest practices to minimize impact on the environment. tional regulations. • The oily bilge water residue, which is discharged in the sea, meets the Each ship has designated officers who are responsible for the implementation 15 ppm limit set by the international regulations. of the environmental measures adopted. At the offices, there are qualified • The antifouling paints are non-toxic, and non-poisonous for marine engineers and designated officers who monitor performance and set the organisms. This is another practice, which was adopted before it became guidelines for the general and specialized environmental training needed. mandatory under international regulations. On-board and office-based staff systematically participates in environmental • All chemicals used in ships are environmentally friendly. emergency exercises, in cooperation with the local authorities. • The use of substances that cause ozone depletion is prohibited. Any chemical additives in use must be environmentally compatible. 27 with you as our destination Superfast Ferries and Blue Star Ferries are the first Greek companies in the passenger shipping sector which received the ISO 14001:1996 Environmental Management certification. The Group’s ships have been certified based on the same standard. The efficiency and enforcement of the company’s Environmental Management is monitored by the American Certification Body “ABS Quality Evaluations” of the international Group of Companies, American Bureau of Shipping. In 2006, the Group’s companies and ships were certified according to the new environmental management standard ISO 14001:2004. Superfast Ferries and Blue Star Ferries are active members of HELMEPA, the Hellenic Marine Environment Protection Association, a non-profit, non-governmental organization that aims to cultivate environmental awareness and concepts of safe operation in the shipping sector, through information, advertising and publicity. Attica Group continuously promotes the provision of information through contributions to specialized publications, and has an ongoing concern about environmental issues. In 2008 began recording of the ecological footprint of its ships. The Group initially calculated the consumption of diesel fuel and lubricants and engine and boiler room emissions (carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide, methane, nitrous nitrogen, nitrogen dioxide and suspended particulates). The second phase involved calculation of the overall footprint, which apart from emissions and diesel fuel consumption, includes the materials used by the Hotel Division (sheets, soaps, chemicals, textiles, carpets, edible raw materials, water, food and drinks packaging). The results of the annual recording of the footprint are evaluated by the Group with the ultimate purpose of reinforcing the efforts of the company’s preventive environmental policy. Cooking Oil (lt) 10,000 8,645 8,000 6,000 5,375 4,000 2,000 0 2009 2010 Cooking Oil Collection When used oils cannot be used anymore, instead of being disposed of as waste, with all the well known environmental implications, they can be collected in order to produce, after proper processing, biofuels and biolubricants which are environmentally friendly and are responsible for much lower levels of pollution damage than conventional ones. The Group, and more specifically Blue Star Ferries vessels, generated 5,375 liters of waste cooking oil during 2009, which was disposed of in an environmentally appropriate way. In 2010, there was a 32.7% increase compared to 2009, collecting in total 8,645 liters. 28 Environment & Land Ανακυκλώνοντας τις μπαταρίες αφήνουμε το περιβάλλον να ανθεί. Recycling the batteries we permit environment to blossom. with you as our destination Recycling The protection of the environment is one of the most important issues faced by modern society, and is, in consequence, one of the greatest challenges for Attica Group. Therefore, the Group recycles various materials it uses in order to reduce waste volume and its impact on environment. Paper recycling The main priority in this direction is paper recycling in the offices of the documents are printed every day, resulting in a huge waste of paper. At Group. Nowadays, the protection of forests, and thus of the biodiversity, the same time, companies continue to print advertising leaflets, which is crucial, but wasting paper unfortunately continues to be a daily pracusually end up in common garbage and not in recycle bins. tice. If we consider that in order to create a ton of paper we need to sacrifice 17 large trees, years old, and that 93% of business waste is paper, In Attica Group we seek to reduce total paper consumption with daily then we can comprehend how paper recycling can “turn a new page” and make a difference towards a new, viable future. practices such as double-sided printing. At the same time, new initiatives are being evaluated to further increase the quantity of paper that can be Today, computers play an integral part in our lives and contribute signifisent for recycling and to reduce required quantities of printed advertising cantly to the reduction of paper consumption. However, a large number of material. With regard to data, in 2008 we managed to recycle 17,574 liters of paper, while in 2009 we managed to recycle 31,712 liters of paper. According to the Group’s available data, 36,290 liters of paper were recycled in 2010. All this paper is sent for recycling via the non-profit organization “Klimaka”, thus supporting its charitable work. Apart from paper recycled by the Group, many of our advertising leaflets have been printed on chlorine-free paper, which consists of wood pulp fiber from certified controlled cultivations (Forest Stewardship Council Certified). The Group uses this type of paper to print the annual Report of Sustainable Development (2007 – 2008 – 2009 2010), small cards with useful tips on dealing with climate changes as part of everyday practices, which are distributed onboard and via the Group’s partner agencies, as well as other corporate leaflets and beach ashtrays. Recycling Electronic Devices During 2010, 49 electronic devices were collected from the Group's vessels and offices, which were delivered to the recycling organization. Paper (lt) 40,000 Batteries 36,290 Battery recycling 35,000 (kilos) 31,712 800 The Group, in cooperation with company AFIS (battery recycling), has placed 30,000 special battery recycling bins in all offices and vessels for all battery types up to 700 25,000 600 575 593 1,500 grams, whether primary (single use) or secondary (rechargeable). In 2008, we managed to collect 147 kilos of batteries from ships and offices; in 2009, 575 20,000 17,574 500 kilos of batteries were collected and sent directly for recycling, whilst in 2010, 400 593 kilos were collected in total. 15,000 300 10,000 200 147 Recycling of Used Ink Cartridges 5,000 100 We cooperate with non-profit company EPANA with regard to the used ink 0 0 cartridges recycling program. 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 In 2010, 422 items were recycled from the Group’s offices and ships. with you as our destination Sustainable Development The reckless destruction of the environment and the systematic shrinking we have been able to actively demonstrate that we have made a substantial of our natural resources create a new reality which every organization, contribution to the preservation and protection of our natural resources. company and individuals should oppose by any possible means. We aim to Under this light, Attica Group adopts practices and actions that focus on be more than a simple ferry company, and within a short period of time, sustainable development and improvement of the quality of life. Promoting the Use of New Technologies In order to promote the use of new technologies, we offer a 50% discount for all hybrid cars on our Adriatic Sea routes. Alternative – Environmental friendly ways to travel We promote alternative and environmentally-friendly ways to travel, by offering travel packages combining “Train and Ferry” for destinations in Europe. Beach Ashtrays The Group continues to actively participate in the effort to keep our beaches clean, with two main activities. For the fourth consecutive year, the Group prints and distributes recyclable beach ashtrays, through the magazine Traveller’s Icons, as well as at its agencies in Athens, Thessaloniki and Heraklion, onboard all ships, during the voluntary coast cleaning campaigns organized by the Group in Amorgos, and by hand to hand distribution on the beaches of the islands. In total, in 2007, 2008 and 2009, Attica Group printed 570,000 beach ashtrays and in 2010 it printed 208,500. Leaflets with Useful Tips for Planet Protection The Group reprinted leaflets with useful tips for dealing with climate change by making small changes in daily routines which are distributed onboard and through the partner agencies. Pan-Cycladic student competition with subject: “The water” Our Group, concerned about issues of environmental education, especially when the persons involved are students and youth, supported the Pan-Cycladic competition on the subject of “The water”. The competition was addressed to students of kindergartens and primary schools of the Cycladic islands and it included: a. Group collage project b. Poem c. Painting d. Photography Attica Group undertook the expenses for the competition’s informative poster and the publication of a 2011 calendar which included the awarded works. Optimization of Recycling and Waste Removal Attica Group supports the program for improving the recycling and the removal of the waste of the Municipality of Heraklion, which is carried out in cooperation with the Crete TEI, by undertaking the issue of the printed information material. The program aims to maximize the results of recycling, thus making the city of Heraklion cleaner by reducing the volume of the waste and improving its removal. with you as our destination “Giving Life to my Coast” The “Giving Life to my Coast” program is the continuation of the actions a symbolic message of awareness for preserving the natural beauty of the which Blue Star Ferries implemented in 2009 in Naxos (Grottas & Greek coastline, thus contributing not only to the protection of the natural Ag. Georgios beaches) and Heraklion, Crete (Amoudara beach) and cultural wealth of Greece, but also to the creation of a viable future. With the message “Giving Life to My Coast”, the company undertook a On Sunday, June 6th, the children of the Primary Schools of Aigiali and beach cleaning initiative in Amorgos this summer, demonstrating once Tholaria, fully equipped together with members of company Blue Star more its commitment to making a significant contribution to the protecFerries cleaned the beach at the Bay of Aigiali, while at the same time a tion of the Greek coastline. second group of children from the schools of Katapola and Arkesini cleaned beach Kalotaritissa. The two groups and those adults who particiCompany members invited the students of the last grades of the primary pated voluntarily, came together on the beach of Kalotaritissa in a festive schools of the island, in order to jointly convey through their actions celebration next to the sea. The cleaning activities of the beaches of Amorgos, one day after the World Environment Day, conveyed the message of a society that is concerned and takes initiatives for a sustainable development and bright future. Society • Culture • Athletics • Solidarity • Other activities 36 with you as our destination Society For Attica Group, which travels to the Aegean daily, the support of local societies is a priority, as regards the full spectrum of its activities: social care, environment, culture, sports, education, health, and even more so when the final recipients are the children and the young people who reside on our islands. An important initiative in the context of social contribution is the systematic response to numerous requests for donations or direct sponsorships of societies from the islands of the Aegean and other places in Greece. Either free tickets or discounts are provided to groups and individuals. Some of the main associations which the Group supported in 2010 are listed in the following unit. Culture In the context of its social contribution, the Group systematically responds to requests for donations or sponsorships for cultural and social societies of islands. These requests reach the company on a daily basis, and are followed by the thank you letters, which are our reward. Within this framework Attica Group has enthusiastically responded to numerous requests made by cultural groups in Cyclades, Dodecanese and Crete, thus supporting local traditions and the preservation of the unique cultural characteristics of each place. Among these Groups, Organizations and initiatives, the following stand out: • “Kyrveia” event in Ierapetra, Crete • Ermoupoleia, Syros • Naxos Cultural Organization • Aperathitikos Association of Naxos • Sculpture Museum of Perantinos, Paros & Mykonos • Cultural Festival of the Municipality of Rethymnon • 1st International Film Festival of Patmos • Cultural Center of Patmos • Dance Association of Naoussa, Paros • AMES NIREAS Paros • Dance Group of Young people and friends of Patmos • Cultural Festival of the Municipality of Exomvourgo, Tinos • Foundation for Culture and Fine Arts P. & M. Kydoniaios, Andros • National Music School of Thera • The Society of Tilians, “Nea Omonoia” • Sowing Festival, Paros • The Theatre of the Southern Aegean • Naval Museum of Crete • B.& E. Goulandri Foundation, Andros • Arkesini Association, Amorgos • Cultural Association of Naoussa, Paros • Hellenic Society for the Environment and Culture • The Friends of Santorini for the “Sustainable Aegean” program • Cultural events, Megisti Municipality • Anima Syros • Cultural events, Thera Municipality • Medieval Festival of Rhodes 37 with you as our destination Among the numerous requests of cultural associations across Greece to which we responded by offering tickets to support their raffles, the following stand out: • Symiotes Group of Nafpaktia • Folkloric and Field Club “Semeli” • Cultural Association “En Patras Kerkyraion o Ag. Spyridon” • Cultural Association of Keramians, Ag. Vassiliou Rethymnon “Ag. Panteleimon” • Cultural Association of Neapolitans “ta Vatika” • Cultural Association of Cretans of Fthiotida • Cretans Association of Ag. Anargyroi • Cultural Association of Kalymnians in Attica • Euxeinos Club of Pontians of Corfu • Hellenic Institute of Naval Technology ELINT • Association of Agronomists in Achaia-Kefallonia & Zakynthos • Municipal Enterprise of Cultural Development Patra (DEPAP) • Cultural Association of Create “Agios Vassilios” • Association “Kerkyraiki Maskarata” • Cultural Association of Ag. Anna, Ilia “O Profitis Ilias” • Non-profit company “Epalxeis” • Association “Catholic Holy Chapel of Ag. Apostoloi” • Cultural & Educational Association of Diakopto “Nea Pnoi” • Cultural Association of Pentalofos • “Life Routes” Association 38 with you as our destination Athletics Attica Group has a long tradition of community service in the area of Sports and in support of the efforts of the groups and associations of the local island communities. The Group’s support, apart from giving free or discount tickets, also includes direct financial aid. Recognizing the important role which sports can play in developing the tourism market and by supporting the organization of sports events with international audiences in our country, as well as the promotion of fair competition, we have sponsored: • “Kolossos Rhodou” Athletics club, with a renewed sponsorship • Chania Water Sports Club for the 2010-2011 season of the A1 National League. • Paros Yacht Club • “Diagoras Rhodou” Athletics club, • Cretan Association of Basketball Clubs with a renewed sponsorship for the 2010-2011 season. • “Kydon” Athletics Club • “HERAKLION OAA” Athletics club, • Sports Center of the Municipality of Ermoupoli with a renewed sponsorship for the 2010-2011 season. • Ag. Nikolaos Sailing Club • The Association of Marathon Runners of Crete • “Chania” Athletics Club • Heraklion Sailing Club • “Kissamikos” Athletics Club • AMES NIREAS of Paros • Pan-Hellenic Sports club for women “Kallipateira” • ATHL. E.S.H. Heraklion • “Promitheas” Athletics Club of Patras • “Filinos” Athletics Club, Kos • The IFDS Disabled Sailing 2009 World Championship • Women’s Football Team “Krisses” Rethymnon • RIAR – Epirus – Corfu tour of non-profit organization • “Foinika” Sports Club, Syros Registro Italiano Alfa Romeo. • Gerhards Football Academies • International riding competition of the Hellenic • Syros Yacht Club Equestrian Federation 39 with you as our destination Solidarity Supporting the program “Agoni Grammi Gonimi” For the 4th consecutive year, Attica Group focused on local island communities, by supporting the non-profit organization “Diadrasi”, as GRAND SPONSOR, within its program “Agoni Grammi Gonimi 2010”. The notable and acclaimed artists who make up the team have managed to open new creative paths with the cooperation of the islanders in the sector of theater, music, sports, etc., proving that there are no remote areas – only fertile productive processes. “Diadrasi” travels to the remote islands in the Aegean Sea, implementing a cultural and entertainment program for students and local people. The program “Agoni Grammi Gonimi 2010” reached the residents of Iraklia, Astypalaia, Thirasia, Kastellorizo and Amorgos. This initiative brings artistic expression to people who live in remote areas and have no access to such activities, and at the same time provides entertainment during the difficult long winter months. Solidarity “Blood Ties” The program “Blood Ties” was started in September of 2009 and it has been specifically designed to become an established tradition within Attica Group. Every day, hundreds of people need blood. Attica Group regards blood donation as an act of responsibility, contribution and solidarity with other people in need, and hopes that within the next few years “Blood Ties” concept will have become an institution. The voluntary blood donation of the employees of Attica Group continued for the 2nd year, supporting with continuity and consistency our Group’s commitment to offer everything it can. The “organized blood donation days” of 2010 took place in March and October in cooperation with the Athens General Hospital “G. Gennimatas”, with office-based and on board employees giving once more a strong message of sensitivity and selflessness. The Blood Bank that was created meets demands for residents of remote islands which the Company services in the Cyclades and the Dodecanese, and at the same time covers emergency needs both for Group employees and for their families. We have already responded to 23 cases to date requiring blood immediately. 41 with you as our destination 42 with you as our destination Solidarity “Sun Protection” program The “Sun Protection” program is the continuation of the action which Blue Star Ferries implemented in 2008 in the islands of Amorgos, Tilos, Nissyros and Astypalaia. The Group, in cooperation with the “Melampous” Melanoma Prevention and Treatment Organization, organized free check-ups and informative speeches with the purpose of informing islanders enjoying the Greek sun regarding the risk of prolonged exposure and methods of prevention. During the months of May and June 2010, Blue Star Ferries and the medical team traveled to the small islands of the Cyclades Donoussa, Schinoussa, Koufonissi & Iraklia. During its visits to the islands, the “Sun Protection” team, in cooperation with the resident doctors of the islands, carried out detailed check-ups for skin moles. In total 170 persons were examined, adults and children, and many more attended the speeches where the population heard about the indicated prevention methods, which help receive the beneficial solar radiation and eliminate health hazards. For this purpose Blue Star Ferries distributed informative leaflets to islanders with references to the indicated methods of self-examination. Leaflets were also distributed to the company’s central and port agencies and the domestic line ships of Attica Group through the term of the summer. The further implementation of the program in year 2011 is planned. 43 with you as our destination Deck log Written by a number of the “Sun Protection” team am Ira kl ia 24 /6 an d for thi s ye ar . La st tri p an d las t isl to de pa rt at 17 .30 We we re sc he du led on 00 .01 . str ike the sh ip sa ils bu t be ca us e of the l. It is ful l to its fun ne an d we , ist s, ch ild ren on va ca tio n, Isl an de rs, to ur s us off the sh ip an d it dr op all to ge the r bo ar d at Na xo s at 05 .00 at Pa ro s at 04 .00 , 06 .30 . an d at Ira kli a at ow ne r br igh t an d wa rm . Th e ho tel Th e su n is an d we s wh ich ar e up hil l, tak es us to the ro om rm ato sc op es . su itc as es an d de sle ep ily ca rry ou r ag ain to se t up do wn hil l A qu ick co ffe e an d d wh ere we isl an the cli nic . Th is is the y ve th e mo st fri en ds . Th e fir st eld erl ha d –b or n in be ex am ine ma n wh o ca me to g us , he se nt gr ee tin 19 24 aft er sil en tly jui ce , y fro m the co ffe e sh op wi th or an ge a bo . Gi or gis , e ar e fro m Mr wa ter , co ffe e. Th es ge t ho t so on ing to sa id the bo y. It’ s go u‘l l be thi rst y… an d yo k. tha nk yo u in Gr ee Th is is ho w we sa y 44 with you as our destination Other activities The Municipalities and Local Authorities are the institutionalized bodies that address and handle all issues of the local communities, supporting the preservation of traditions and covering the needs of local people. Attica Group has offered sponsorships to many municipalities, for the organization of conferences and scientific workshops for the locals etc. The Group has also supported a number of environmental groups and associations, such as the Aegean Wildlife Protection Association “Alkioni”, the Hellenic Ornithological Society and the Hellenic Marine Environment Protection Association “HELMEPA”. For expatriate Greeks in Europe in order to promote the Greek language and by extension the Greek culture, we sponsored the granting of tickets to the following Clubs and Associations, we present indicatively: • Greek music concert by D. Savvopoulos in Germany • Greek Community of Verne • Concerts by Michalis Tzouganakis in Frankfurt and Berlin • Greek week festival in Gwatt Zentrum in Switzerland • “Knossos” Cretan Association of Frankfurt and Suburbs • Parents Association of Feuerbach, in Germany • “O Morias” Association of Peloponnesians in Belgium • International Organization of Expatriates AHEPA • “I Estia” Association of Greeks in Lausanne, Switzerland • Greek Center and Community of Brussels • Greek Orthodox Church and the Greek community of Geneva • Hellenic Community of Adlerian psychology • Greek Community of Wiesbaden • Hellenic-German chamber of commerce and industry • International Charity Bazaar of Luxemburg • Hellenic-Belgium Chamber. • International Charity Bazaar “Profitis Ilias”, Greek Orthodox Church in Frankfurt We also participated as sponsor in the Hellenic Christmas evening organized by the Greeks of Germany, as well as the 49th Greek celebration organized in Huizingen of Belgium for the Greeks of Belgium, Netherlands and Luxemburg. In order to promote tourism in our country and by extension encouraging new investments: We support the “Routes of the Olive Tree”, realized every year by the Chamber of Commerce of Messinia with the purpose of presenting the Messinian products and the Messinian tourism product to professionals and the broad public in order to promote tourism and culture. Specifically in the sector of health we have supported, among others: • Paros Health Center, the National Instant Aid Center • Hellenic Society for the Protection and Rehabilitation of Disabled Children ELEPAP • Hellenic Red Cross of Rhodes • Center for the Occupational Rehabilitation of People with Special Needs • Hellenic Red Cross of Kalymnos • To Hamogelo tou Paidiou Society • KEEPA Orizontes • Social Welfare Volunteers EES • Aegean Team • CO.AS.IT Charity Society of Italians • Society for the Psychosocial Health of Children and Teenagers (EPSYPE) • Society of parents and friends of children with special needs “STORGI” • Society Pigi Zois – Promotion of voluntary blood donation • Pan-Hellenic Society of women with breast cancer “Alma Zois” and friends of persons with Thalassemia • Association of Therapeutic Horse Back riding • Friends of People with special needs “Filoxenia” and “Ergastiri” • Body of Social Welfare Volunteers of the Hellenic Red Cross • Centre of Life, support for people living with HIV/AIDS • Voluntary Blood Donation Torch Relay 45 with you as our destination The program of Attica Group has a long history. From 2005 to December 2010, Attica Group has offered a particularly large number of discount and free tickets, whereas every year it supports through direct sponsoring cultural and athletic associations, non-governmental organizations, Municipalities, Communities and Associations. Travel benefits: 2009 Free travel for 12,285 people and 2,596 vehicles. The value of the total number of tickets was: 478,514€ 2010 Free travel for 15,490 people and 3,469 vehicles. The value of the total number of tickets was: 617,153€ 2010 617,153 2009 478,514 0 Value of free tickets(€) 200,000 400,000 600,000 800,000 Direct sponsorships: In 2009 the Group gave in total 186,279€ In 2010, despite the international economic recession and the global restraint in spending, Attica Group gave in total for direct sponsorships the amount of 158,264€. In conclusion, it should be emphasized that Attica Group will continue the ongoing implementation of the Corporate Social Responsibility program in 2011, adhering to all its commitments towards sustainable development and vigorously supporting local island communities, and young people in particular. 46 with you as our destination Thank you letters The work of Attica Group brings us closer to the local communities and island residents in the Aegean. In 2010 only, BLUE STAR FERRIES made 896 public service itineraries and 2,593 journeys to our smaller, remote islands. By our actions, we have not and do not aim to substitute for the State or regional infrastructure planning. We just wish to be an integral part of the local communities, of the places we travel to every day. We do not want to just be a bystander, who focuses solely on corporate development. This is why, every time a small, simple “thank you note” reaches our offices from Municipalities, Communities, Associations and Non-Governmental Organizations, it gives us great pleasure and satisfaction, and encourages us to continue our work in the same manner. with you as our destination with you as our destination Communication on Progress (COP) Global Compact Attica Group, within the framework of its Corporate Responsibility Program, is committed since the beginning of 2009 to the Global Compact of the United Nations, which encourages companies to adopt 10 universally accepted principles for the sustainability of the environment, human rights, labor conditions and the fight against corruption, via universal implementation of the principles in all international activities. The Global Compact is the largest global initiative in corporate responsibility, with thousands of participants from more than 100 countries and its primary goal is to build and promote the social legitimacy of companies and markets. The Global Compact is a purely voluntary global initiative with two primary goals: • That these 10 principles should become the main trend governing business activities all over the world. • That the initiative should act as a catalyst for action in support of the millennium development objectives of the United Nations. Global Compact Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Attica Group respects and protects human and labor rights and its Internal Code of Business Conduct and Ethics declares in writing the acknowledgment and support of these rights. Page 21. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Attica Group does not violate any human rights and the Internal Code of Business Conduct describes in writing the relations between colleagues, Administration and Suppliers. Page 21. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Attica Group defends the right of the employees to participate in organized unions and this is clearly stated in the Internal Code of Business Conduct. Page 21. 49 with you as our destination Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Attica Group opposes any form of forced or compulsory labor and this principle is clearly stated in the Internal Code of Business Conduct. Page 21. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Attica Group opposes any form of forced or compulsory labor and this principle is clearly stated in the Internal Code of Business Conduct. Page 21. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Attica Group has, since 2008, implemented a Performance Management System, which is an evaluation system for administrative and on-board staff. Lastly, the Group has adopted a specific recruitment procedure and policy, defining all the necessary actions for selection on merit of the best candidates and maximization of professional development. Page 22. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Attica Group has adopted a preventive environmental approach. Page 27, 28, 32, 33. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Attica Group has undertaken specific initiatives for the reinforcement of environmental responsibility and implements programs aimed at that objective. Page 27, 28, 32, 33, 34. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Attica Group encourages the development and use of environmentally friendly technologies, such as is the offer of 50% discount off the transportation fees for all hybrid cars in the Adriatic Sea route, the use of low power consumption light-bulbs throughout its vessels and premises, etc. Page 27, 33. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Attica Group is opposed to any form of corruption, as clearly stated in the Internal Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and also in its corporate governance policy. Page 21, 23, 24. 50 with you as our destination GRI G3 Indicator Table The Corporate Responsibility Report of Attica Group is based on the Guidelines GRI / G3 applied for the composition of sustainability reports. The GRI instructions are a sum of principles and indicators, with a wide range of technical and specialized guidelines, notes and annexes, depending on the sector, which were formed through the international cooperation of multiple interested parties and are evaluated within the composition of these sustainability reports. More specifically, these reports are based on the GRI Sustainability Report Publication Framework and disclose all conclusions and results extracted during the reporting process concerning the commitments, strategic policy and administrative methods of the organization. The Framework is applied to all organizations, of any size, type or geographical location, and it is already in use as a foundation for the publication of sustainability reports by thousands of international companies, associations and organizations, in all sectors. The Report refers to the period 2010 and records the performance of Attica Group in the sectors of corporate governance, environmental policy, human rights, personnel and society at large. 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, CEO’s Address Page 4 chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 * Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Corporate Social Responsibility Page 17 Vision & Strategy 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Attica Group Page 7 2.2. Primary brands, products and/or services. Attica Group Page 7, 8 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating Attica Group Page 7 companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Attica Group Page 7 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries Attica Group/Our Partners Page 7 & 24 with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Attica Group/History/Management Page 7, 9, 10, 11 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of Attica Group/Our Partners Page 7 & 24 customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. History/Management Page 10, 11, 12, Our Personnel/Our Partners 13, 21, 24 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, Management Page 13 or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Awards Page 14 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. CEO’s Address Page 4 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. Corporate Social Responsibility Page 17 Vision & Strategy 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). CEO’s Address/Corporate Social Page 4, 17 Responsibility Vision & Strategy 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Evaluation Form Page 56 3.5 * Process for defining report content. CEO’s Address/Corporate Social Page 4, 17 Responsibility Vision & Strategy * Partial indicator coverage 51 with you as our destination Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. GRI – G3 Attica Group Page 51, 52, 53, 54 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the COP Attica Group Page 49, 50 report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also, explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement. 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the Corporate Governance Page 23 highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive Corporate Governance Page 23 officer (and, if so, their function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of Corporate Governance Page 23 members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or nonexecutive members. 4.4 * Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or Corporate Governance Page 23, 24 direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, Corporate Governance Page 24 senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of Corporate Governance Page 23, 24 interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the Corporate Governance Page 23 highest governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, CEO’s Address/Corporate Social Page 4, 17, 21 and principles relevant to economic, environmental and social performance Responsibility Vision & Strategy/ and the statues of their implementation. Our Personnel 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is CEO’s Address/Corporate Social Page 4, 17 addressed by the organization. Responsibility Vision & Strategy 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, International Routes Page 24, 28 or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Environment & Sea 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) International Routes Page 24 and/or national/international advocacy organizations. * Partial indicator coverage 52 with you as our destination GRI G3 Indicator Table Economic Performance Indicators EC1 * Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, Attica Group/ Page 7, 46 operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community Other Activities investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. Our Personnel Page 21, 22 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided International Routes Page 24 primarily for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement. Domestic Lines EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, International Routes Page 24 including the extent of impacts. Domestic Lines Environmental Performance Indicators EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Environment & Sea Page 28, 32 Environment & Land ΕΝ2 * Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Environment & Land Page 32 EN3 * Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Environment & Sea Page 27 33 Environment & Land EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Environment & Sea Page 27 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Environment & Sea Page 28 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products Environment & Sea Page 27 33 and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Environment & Land EN8 * Total water withdrawal by source. Environment & Sea Page 27 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Environment & Sea Page 27 EN18 * Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Environment & Sea Page 27, 28 EN20 NO, SO and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Environment & Sea Page 27, 28 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Environment & Sea Page 28, 32 Environment & Land EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Environment & Sea Page 28, 32, 33 Environment & Land EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, Environment & Sea Page 27 34 and extent of impact mitigation. Environment & Land Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. Our Personnel Page 21, 22 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. Our Personnel Page 21, 22 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary Our Personnel Page 21, 22 or part-time employees, by major operations. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our Personnel Page 21, 22 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Our Personnel Page 21, 22 LA10 * Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. Our Personnel Page 21, 22 * Partial indicator coverage 53 with you as our destination LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued Our Personnel Page 22 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Our Personnel Page 22 development reviews. LA13* Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Our Personnel Page 21 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Human Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements Our Personnel/Code of conduct Page 21 that include human rights clauses, or that have undergone human rights screening. HR5 * Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association Our Personnel/Code of conduct Page 21 and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. HR6 * Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, Our Personnel/Code of conduct Page 21 and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. HR7 * Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced Our Personnel/Code of conduct Page 21 or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Society SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess Culture, Athletics, Solidarity, Page 37 46 and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, Other Activities operating, and exiting. SO3 * Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies Our Personnel Page 21, 23 and procedures. Corporate Governance Product Responsibility PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, Attica Group Page 7, 8, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys Attica Group/Awards Page 7, 8, 14 measuring customer satisfaction. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related Our Personnel/Code of conduct Page 21 to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. * Partial indicator coverage EVALUATION FORM with you as our destination OF 2010 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Aiming at the continuous development of the corporate social responsibility actions implemented by the Attica Group, please take a few moments to fill in the following questionnaire. Your opinion is especially important to us. In which category of the Attica Group participants to you belong: Employee Local Society Participant Associate Non governmental Organization / Society / Association Customer Media Shareholder/Investor Other Supplier Please note your overall impression about the following units of the Report: Excellent Good Average Poor Corporate Governance Attica Group and CSR Development of Actions for employees Development of Actions for the support of local societies (culture, athletics, social care, etc.) Development of Actions for the environment Report Information Please note your overall impression from the Corporate Social Responsibility Report Excellent Good Average Poor There is balance between the units The texts are complete The content is comprehensible It includes all the subjects it should Would you like to make any other comments/recommendations? .................................................................................................................................... .................................................................................................................................... Personal Details (optional): Full name: Organization: Address: Tel: e-mail: Please mail this questionnaire to: ATTICA GROUP, attn. Mrs. Christina Grigora, address: 123 125 Syngrou Ave. & 3, Torva Str., 11745 Athens, Greece ✂ or by e-mail to: grigora@attica-group.com or by fax to: +30 210 89 19 829. *All information will be used by the Group to evaluate the Report through a statistical analysis. Personal details are protected as stipulated by the law on personal confidentiality. The Greek version of the Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 was printed in a chlorine free paper from wood ﬁber pulp (FSC certiﬁed). The English version is only available on line. ATTICA GROUP: 123 125 Syngrou Ave. & 3, Τorva Str., 11745 Αthens, Greece, Tel.: +30 210 891 9500, Fax: +30 210 891 9509, www.attica-group.com
