Building beyond tomorrow One of our most important business goals is to maintain our position as a leader – one of the best – in our industry. We regularly receive recognition for our leadership around the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and sustainability agenda. 2010 was no exception as we received a number of high-profile awards. Achieving awards during one year is commendable, but we deem our continual levels of high performance and progress to be more important. What’s inside? What’s inside? ................................................................................................................................................................... 2 A message from our CEO................................................................................................................................................. 3 About us............................................................................................................................................................................. 5 CSR and sustainability strategy ...................................................................................................................................... 7 Governance.......................................................................................................................................................................14 Energy and climate ......................................................................................................................................................... 17 Client service excellence.................................................................................................................................................25 Green buildings ............................................................................................................................................................... 32 Community commitment ................................................................................................................................................ 41 Workplace, wellbeing and diversity............................................................................................................................... 47 Early successes in 2011...................................................................................................................................... ............ 55 LaSalle's Global Sustainability Platform................................................................................................................... .... 57 External stakeholder feedback responding to Ceres............................................................................................ ..... 60 About this report................................................................................................................... ........................................... 63 Data summary ................................................................................................................................................................. 63 GRI content index ........................................................................................................................................................... 65 Feedback form ................................................................................................................................................................ 72 Contact us........................................................................................................................................................................ 73 ©Copyright Jones Lang LaSalle IP, Inc A message from our CEO Commercial real estate is now generally recognized as pivotal in the fight against global environmental challenges including climate change and the consumption of increasingly scarce resources. The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) estimates that, globally, buildings are responsible for more than 40% of energy use, one-third of greenhouse gas emissions and 30% of raw material use. From a socio-economic perspective, real estate shapes our towns and cities, and is a defining characteristic of society in general. It is where we work, where we live, and it creates jobs and investments for people from every walk of life. As a business, we have a duty to respond to these challenges and opportunities. We define Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as the actions we take to promote and protect the environmental, social and economic interests of future generations. A critical aspect of our role as a corporate citizen is to contribute to the sustainability and prosperity of the world over the long term. In that context, we are proud to present our latest annual CSR Report. Our view of CSR has our role and duties as a good corporate citizen at its heart, but it extends far wider. We also recognize and embrace our opportunity to partner with clients and collaborate with competitors and others across our industry in addressing those environmental challenges in which real estate is a key factor. In the pages that follow, we focus on Jones Lang LaSalle’s immediate responsibilities reporting within the widely-regarded GRI Reporting Framework for CSR while also highlighting examples of our participation and leadership in broader initiatives across our sector. The five global strategic priorities we have set for ourselves as a Firm (which we call our G5), underpin our business strategy and create a platform for us to take action in response to sustainability challenges. The first and fifth of these priorities are most closely aligned with CSR: • G1: Build our leading local and regional market positions. Our market presence in virtually every major city in the world allows us to establish our business as the leading source for energy and sustainability real estate advice that can help clients transition to the sustainable economy while continuing to deliver them successful business results. • G5: Connections Differentiate by connecting across the Firm and with clients. Seamlessly linking our employees, businesses, geographies and technologies helps us to communicate and integrate our CSR efforts throughout our businesses around the world, maximizing opportunities to create new services and embedding sustainability into the heart of our operations. As a part of our commitment to create real value in a changing world, we are determined to hold ourselves accountable for the social, environmental and economic impacts of our operations, and are committed to developing policies, business practices and services that will drive continuing positive change in our industry. As a global organization, we also believe that respecting and actively supporting internationally agreed upon standards will inure to our success. Accordingly, we have continued to commit ourselves to the United Nations Global Compact and its principles regarding human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. As a professional services firm, Jones Lang LaSalle has a philosophy that adopts our clients’ CSR challenges as our own. The CSR strategy we have developed therefore addresses both the direct operational impacts of our own business as well as the real estate impact from our clients’ activities. We are proud of the progress that we made in 2010 on our CSR agenda. In particular, we placed significant emphasis on establishing internal support for our CSR strategy, which led us to set measurable corporate targets for the first time. We also developed a global network of CSR contacts, led by our Chief Operating Officers around the world, who are now integral to our strategy and have assumed ownership and oversight for delivering targets. In 2010 (and early 2011) Jones Lang LaSalle was also: • Selected as one of the ‘World’s Most Ethical Companies’ by the Ethisphere Institute for the third consecutive year • Named ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for the second time • Honored as one of the FORTUNE 2011 ‘World’s Most Admired Companies’ for the third time (Note: the real estate category was suspended in the 2010 listing; the 2011 listing was published in March 2011) We will maintain, without fail, our commitment to putting the interests of our clients first, to promoting teamwork and collaboration across our operations, and to conducting our business ethically and with respect for environmental, social and economic concerns. We recognize that corporate disclosure plays a key role in this regard, promoting transparency and accountability to our stakeholders, which in turn will drive continued improvements in our performance. It is to this end that our CSR Report tells the story of our achievements and challenges throughout 2010. Our CSR activities will always be ‘a work in progress’, but we believe reports such as this can inspire efforts toward being first for our people, first with our clients and shareholders, and first in the communities where we do business. Thank you for your interest in Jones Lang LaSalle. Colin Dyer Chief Executive Officer and President A message from our Chairman of the Board As part of its oversight of the Company’s operations, the Jones Lang LaSalle Board of Directors is regularly engaged with management in discussions about the efforts the Firm is making in all elements of its sustainability agenda. We are proud of what has been accomplished so far, and enthusiastically encourage the Firm to continue its excellence progress. Being a socially responsible company, with a focus on doing what it can to make the world a better place, is the right thing to do for our clients, our people and our shareholders. 4 About us Jones Lang LaSalle is a leading financial and professional services firm specializing in real estate. We offer comprehensive, integrated real estate and investment management expertise on a local, regional and global level to owner, occupier and investor clients. Across our three geographic business segments – the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), and Asia Pacific – we deliver a complete array of real estate services. We are an industry leader in property and corporate facility management services, with a portfolio of approximately 1.8 billion square feet worldwide. Our fourth business segment – LaSalle Investment Management (LaSalle) – is a wholly-owned member of the Jones Lang LaSalle group and one of the world’s largest and most diversified real estate investment management firms. LaSalle manages $43 billion of private and public property equity investments. Americas EMEA Asia Pacific 68 Offices 59 Offices 56 Offices 7 Countries 26 Countries 13 Countries Data qualification notes: Number of countries and offices are as of March 1, 2011 We are incorporated under the laws of the state of Maryland as a publicly owned and traded organization, governed by a board of directors. Shares of Jones Lang LaSalle are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: JLL) and our global headquarters is in Chicago, Illinois. As of December 31, 2010, we had 185 corporate offices worldwide and operations in more than 1,000 locations in 60 countries. Our employee count surpassed 40,000 in 2010. 2010 2009 Professional non-reimbursable employees 15,500 13,800 Directly reimbursable employees 24,800 22,800 Total 40,300 36,600 Data qualification notes: Reimbursable employees include our property and integrated facilities management professionals and our building maintenance employees. The cost of these employees is generally reimbursable by our clients. The source of the above figures is our global financial consolidation system, which uses 40,300 as our 2010 year-end employee total. This figure differs from that of our people management system, which uses 38,800 as our 2010 year-end employee total. This results from different definitions of headcount. We have used the latter figure to normalize our carbon footprint because the disaggregation better represents employee count in our corporate offices. This also explains the variance between the figures above and employee totals in the workplace figures. 5 In 2010, we generated record-setting revenues totaling $2.9 billion across our four business segments, which resulted in an 18% increase from 2009. In June 2011, we merged with the London-based international consultancy King Sturge, which added 1,600 colleagues to our corporate family. Key financials and statistics The following financial highlights should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes, as well as the ‘Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations’ included in our Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ending December 31, 2010. 2010 2009 2008 Revenue (in millions) $2,925.6 $2,480.7 $2,697.6 Net income (in millions) $153.5 ($4.1) $83.5 Earnings ($ per diluted share) $3.48 ($0.11) $2.44 EBITDA (in millions) $319.9 $139.9 $233.4 2010 revenue by service line 2010 revenue by market For further financial and other information about Jones Lang LaSalle, visit http://www.joneslanglasalle.com. For more about LaSalle Investment Management, visit http://www.lasalle.com. 6 CSR and sustainability strategy The pace of economic, societal and environmental changes continues to present our business with significant risks and opportunities. A robust understanding of where we can have the biggest impact sits at the heart of our CSR strategy. The business case for CSR During 2010, our CEO and President, Colin Dyer, prepared a paper that addresses how CSR contributes to our business success and enables us to generate more revenue and profits. Key points of his case include: • Retaining experienced, talented professionals is less expensive than replacing them frequently and places less stress on the business • There is a significant opportunity to build a profitable energy and sustainability business while also improving the environment • It is a business imperative to look like the clients we serve, as today they are more likely to want to see diversity within their business partners • We can create shareholder value by spending money on charitable events and allowing people time to contribute personally, giving employees another reason to stay with us • Companies on the Ethisphere Institute’s annual ‘World’s Most Ethical Companies’ list have consistently and significantly outperformed the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (as indeed our own stock has done) • We have proven metrics showing that strong corporate governance increases profit by reducing certain direct costs (View the paper at: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr/SiteCollectionDocuments/CSRBusinessCase.pdf) Given the focus on these key value drivers, it is not surprising to find in our 2010 global Employee Engagement Survey that 74% of our staff responded favorably when asked if he or she felt positive about our commitment to CSR. We expect this percentage to increase as our CSR program matures and as awareness-building initiatives are enhanced through efforts such as this Report. 7 The cornerstone for excellence in our CSR and sustainability strategy Jones Lang LaSalle’s Global Sustainability Commitment We are committed to creating and contributing to a more sustainable environment. Jones Lang LaSalle’s service capabilities and position as an industry leader give us the opportunity to drive change that minimizes the impact of commercial real estate on the environment. That means making careful decisions that protect and enhance the environment while serving the economic requirements of a successful business enterprise. Buildings generate 40 percent or more of greenhouse gas emissions in developed countries. We will help reduce emission levels significantly by taking a leadership position to promote change in our industry. We will apply our global project management capabilities to the more than one billion square feet of property we manage, delivering leading sustainability solutions to investors and occupiers throughout the world. And we will reduce the environmental impacts of our own operations. We will deliver real value in a world where energy management and sustainability are assuming ever greater importance to our clients and our own people. We commit to: 1 Lead the transformation of the property industry by reducing the environmental impact of commercial real estate: • Constructing new buildings using technologies and best practices that move toward a zero carbon impact • Lowering energy consumption in existing buildings through sustainable renovations and management improvements 2 Increase our investment in energy and sustainability expertise by: • Increasing our number of accredited professionals (LEED®, BREEAM, ABGR, Green Star, etc.) to 1,000 by end 2012 • Expanding our benchmarking tools to measure industry performance (Jones Lang LaSalle Upstream’s Third Dimension, the Jones Lang LaSalle ESP, and client E and S-Score ratings) • Leveraging our procurement power to drive supply chain compliance with ENERGY STAR and green products into our managed buildings and construction management projects • Establishing a Sustainability University to educate our teams with best-practice training and technical expertise 3 Reduce our carbon footprint through our ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’ initiative, which focuses on energy conservation, water conservation, emissions reduction, solid waste reduction, recycling and recycled material use • Measuring our carbon footprint and continuing to reduce our impact • Occupying sustainable certified space (LEED®, BREEAM, ENERGY STAR, etc.) where possible and following our leading Alternative Workplace Strategy practice advice that reduces the individual employee per square foot real estate footprint • Reducing the CO2 impact of corporate travel by investing in communication and technology tools, and flexible work practices • Engaging and educating our people to create permanent sustainable behavioral change 8 Two key pillars for delivering our commitment We have established a CSR and sustainability strategy that is focused on two primary drivers: (1) the Energy and Sustainability Services (ESS) we provide to clients, and (2) our internal ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’ program, which seeks to reduce our own operational impacts. Together they form a powerful strategy that has the potential to create a significant legacy in our industry. Leading provider of Energy and Sustainability Internal Sustainability Program: ACT: ‘A Cleaner Services to the real estate sector Tomorrow’ Our Energy and Sustainability Services (ESS) teams work As our Global Sustainability Commitment established, to create a more sustainable property industry. We we aim to develop leading standards and embed change at the corporate and portfolio level by improvement practices in our own offices and then delivering sustainability strategies and technical help our clients do the same in their real estate. implementation plans to property companies, investors, occupiers, government authorities and homebuilders. Our To drive this vision, in 2008 we established the ACT advice covers all stages of the property lifecycle including program which focuses on a range of sustainabilitydevelopment, acquisition, management, refurbishment and related initiatives, including emissions reductions, disposal. water conservation, materials re-use and recycling. Jones Lang LaSalle’s global service offer includes Energy As part of the overall initiative, we formed a global and Sustainability Services across all its key markets, team of experts to develop baseline performance enabling us to provide comprehensive integrated measures to assess the company’s sustainability sustainability and real estate advice and implementation, impacts. The team also identifies and champions which can be grouped into four main categories: organizational and operational changes locally that Sustainability Consulting; Building & Portfolio Assessments will enable us to meet our corporate CSR goals. In our and Benchmarking; Refurbishments, New Developments CSR survey, we learned that the ACT program is and Certifications; and Energy Services, Sustainable utilized in 54% of countries in which we operate, Operations (including Performance Measurement & accounting for 87% of revenue generated in 2010. Reporting). Although we view both pillars as critical to our CSR and sustainability strategies, we are aware that the potential positive impacts of our Energy and Sustainability Services advice can be substantially greater than the positive impacts of our own direct activities and operations. 9 Jones Lang LaSalle operational Client impacts impacts (direct) (indirect) In 2010, our global ESS team comprised 116 dedicated full-time employees across all three regions. However at Jones Lang LaSalle, we also consider sustainability to be part of every employee’s role and responsibilities, so thousands more are actively tackling sustainability challenges. Outcome of materiality assessment We have been mindful to distinguish between direct impacts of our operations, and indirect impacts arising from actions taken on behalf of clients. According to this matrix, our focus is on the issues in the ‘dark red’ background as these were found to be most important to Jones Lang LaSalle’s business and in our external environment (e.g. regulatory and peers’ activity). Our key material issues – both direct (in white type) and indirect (in black type) – have been defined as follows: Materiality matrix KEY: Climate change management Issues Energy management Client satisfaction Community impact Employees equality & diversity Material issues HIGH Employees training and benefits Ethics and governance Occupational H&S Occupational H&S Emerging issues Energy management Low risk/opportunity issues Impacts Jones Lang LaSalle operational Supply chain labor standards impacts (direct) Importance to Jones Lang Sustainable procurement Transport Client impacts (indirect) Waste management MEDIUM Water management Climate change management LaSalle Pollution Waste management Water management Community impact Sustanable procurement Biodiversity Pollution LOW Biodiversity Supply chain labour standards Transport LOW MEDIUM HIGH Influence of external drivers 10 We were able to cluster certain issues to arrive at five key material issues, as follows: • Energy and climate • Client service excellence • Green buildings • Community commitment • Workplace, wellbeing and diversity The following table shows our most material CSR themes. These form the basis for the topics we subsequently address in this Report. Material issues CSR themes covered in this Report Direct impact on Indirect impact of our Jones Lang LaSalle services to clients Energy and Energy efficiency; greenhouse gas Yes Yes climate emissions reduction; renewable energy Client service Ethics; client satisfaction; innovation; Yes Yes excellence sustainability thought leadership and research Green buildings Property lifecycle; building certifications Yes Yes and assessments; green leases; sustainable retrofits Community Charitable contributions and Yes No commitment investment; volunteering; vendors Workplace, Employee satisfaction and Yes No wellbeing and engagement; diversity and inclusion; diversity health and safety; training and development Process to define material impacts We recognize the importance of focusing our reporting on CSR issues that have the greatest impact on our business, as well as those of greatest concern to our key stakeholders (see page 12 for further details on our stakeholders). As such, we have developed a methodology to identify material CSR issues for the purposes of target setting and reporting. The methodology – based on external materiality standards such as AccountAbility’s materiality test – involved the following: External drivers: • A desktop review of mandatory CSR reporting legislation in all country operations • Research into the CSR strategies of our peers in the real estate, professional services and financial services sectors Internal drivers: • Analysis of our corporate policies in areas such as environment, health and safety and ethics, to determine the level of internal commitment 11 • A global sustainability and CSR survey of Directors, which gauged senior leaders’ perspectives on CSR risks and opportunities, as well as its drivers We held a workshop with internal stakeholders representing sustainability and communications disciplines within Jones Lang LaSalle to review the quantitative scores and to arrive at a final materiality conclusion. We are confident that our process has identified the most important CSR issues facing our business. In our first year of conducting this assessment, we focused primarily on internal stakeholder perspectives. In future years, we would like to incorporate a more in-depth engagement with clients and shareholders. Our stakeholders Strong stakeholder relations underpin virtually every successful business. Our success is in large part related to our extensive network of stakeholder relationships across the real estate sector. We define stakeholders as individuals or groups who can affect or be affected by the actions of Jones Lang LaSalle’s business. As part of our materiality process, we mapped our key stakeholders to understand the nature of our relationships. The following diagram identifies a range of stakeholders, whereby those that fall into the middle (indicated by ‘1’) are considered primary stakeholder groups. From this analysis we have prioritized three stakeholder groups: clients, shareholders and employees. The Report is intended for these groups and we engage with them by using a variety of channels including face-to12 face meetings, advisory panels, online surveys, research publications, blogs and Facebook. Through these activities, we continue to learn a lot about important CSR issues and we utilize this to influence our CSR strategy and corporate decisions. The following examples provide a snapshot of how engagement with our stakeholders in 2010 has influenced corporate decision making: Jones Lang LaSalle’s Leadership: As part of Employees: Our global Employee Engagement Survey our materiality process, over 300 Directors of the gives us a detailed insight into our employees’ Firm responded to a survey to give their satisfaction and motivations and enables fulfilment of perspectives on sustainability and CSR, including our global strategy for renewed growth. which issues were of most importance to the Company as well as clients. Clients: We regularly conduct surveys with clients and Shareholders: Our investor relations program incorporates the wider industry to understand the latest trends and feedback directly from shareholders, which is received in drivers. The CoreNet Global and Jones Lang LaSalle quarterly earnings calls and town hall meetings. Please see Corporate Occupier Survey is one such initiative that our Proxy Statement for more information serves to shape industry opinion and helps us to (http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/InvestorPDFs/JLL2011Pro develop a more tailored service offer for our clients. xyFinal.pdf). Further to this, through our engagement with Ceres, a U.S. network of investors, environmental organizations and public interest groups, we received suggestions on how to improve our CSR Report. Sustainability and CSR survey of Directors In 2010 we conducted a global survey of our Directors to ascertain how they were engaging with sustainability and CSR. With 307 responses, we gained several significant findings. One of the most informative was how Directors ranked six different CSR drivers relative to the value created for the overall business. The results showed that ‘demonstrating competency to our clients’ and ‘attracting, developing and retaining talent’ are the drivers perceived as creating the most value, with 53% and 47% respectively stating that these were important or very important to the business. Selections of other key results are: Director survey highlights – reflecting on CSR in our own operations 83% consider day-to-day CSR issues ‘often’ or ‘always’ in our own offices 22% have a personal development or performance objective related to our internal CSR initiatives Business ethics/corporate governance and investment in our people are the most important issues for sustaining the continued success of Jones Lang LaSalle Demonstrating competency to our clients (namely, ‘walk the talk’) is ranked as the highest CSR driver, or that which creates the most value 13 Governance Jones Lang LaSalle is committed to promoting the highest standards of corporate governance. Transparency and accountability are core features of our approach and we remain focused on the highest standards of governance and ethics in all our business dealings. Corporate governance We comply with the corporate governance laws of the world’s most stringent regulatory authorities. These include the New York Stock Exchange, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and financial services authorities in the UK, Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore and Australia, among other countries. The following section provides details of our governance structure, including how it relates to CSR. Over the years, we have developed metrics showing that strong corporate governance increases profitability by reducing significant direct costs that can result from lapses in governance or ethics. Even as our revenues have tripled over the last seven years, for example, our insurance premiums – an important market-based indication of the level of enterprise risk – are actually lower than they were seven years ago, even before taking inflation into account. This is consistent with data published by the Ethisphere Institute, which shows that the stock performance of those companies included in their list of the ‘World’s Most Ethical Companies’ has been significantly better than that of companies listed in the S&P 500 Index. The Board of Directors Our Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for overseeing our business. The Board elects our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating and Financial Officer, as well as other senior officers. The management team, with the Board’s oversight, is responsible for conducting the Company’s business to enhance its long-term value. The Board currently has 11 directors, eight of whom are independent directors. Jones Lang LaSalle has separated the roles of Chief Executive Officer from that of the Chairman of the Board, who is one of our independent directors. Shareholder advocacy groups generally consider this as best practice. Sustainability and CSR governance The Board of Directors takes an active role in the oversight of the Company’s CSR efforts. Jones Lang LaSalle’s global Chief Operating and Financial Officer, Lauralee Martin, serves as the main Board member responsible for sustainability and CSR matters. She issues regular reports on our global CSR strategy and performance. Both the Global Energy and Sustainability Services (ESS) Board and Global Operating Committee feed directly into our Board of Directors. These groups are in place to deliver our Global Sustainability Commitment and Environmental Policy, the latter of which can be found on our website (see http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr/Pages/default.aspx). The Global ESS Board is the main governance body responsible for developing and implementing a consistent global Energy and Sustainability Services offering. The Board is made up of regional heads of ESS and is led by the global Chairman of ESS. Our internal CSR programs are governed by a Global Operating Committee chaired by the Global Chief Financial and Operating Officer. The Committee, which coordinates its enterprise risk activities with our Internal Audit function, has also recently adopted the governance of CSR initiatives. 14 Energy and Sustainability Services and CSR governance overview Key Jones Lang LaSalle Formal committees Nominating Compensation Board of Directors Committee Committee Externally focused Governance Audit Lauralee Martin Internally focused Committee Committee (Global COO and CFO) Support functions Executive Sponsor Global ESS Board Global Operating LaSalle Global Sustainability Chair – Dan Probst Committee Sustainability Committee University Chair – Lauralee Martin Chair – Lynn Thurber Sustainability Building & Refurbishments; Energy Carbon Chief Global Consulting Portfolio New Developments; Services; Operating Footprint ACT Assessments; Certifications Sustainable Operations Network Officer Committee Benchmarking Network Network of ESS leads in other business lines/countries “Over the past few years we have developed a strong global governance platform for both our Energy and Sustainability Services and the global ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’ program. Together, these provide the necessary accountability mechanism to advance our leadership agenda.” Dan Probst Chairman, Energy and Sustainability Services Sustainability governance in LaSalle Investment Management LaSalle’s sustainability initiatives are led by the 21-member Global Sustainability Committee. Chaired by the nonexecutive Chairman of LaSalle with the sponsorship of the CEO and Global Management Committee, the Committee consists of senior leaders from across the globe in all areas of the business, ensuring that we remain up-to-date on all aspects of sustainability, and that we share our knowledge and practices Company-wide. This Committee advises on how to achieve the highest environmental, social and governance (ESG) standards. For a 15 list of the Committee Members go to: http://www.lasalle.com/Sustainability/Pages/GlobalSustainabilityCommittee.aspx LaSalle’s Global Management Committee recently approved a policy document (see www.lasalle.com/Sustainability/Pages/OurCommitment.aspx ), which outlines LaSalle’s position regarding sustainability and responsible investing and states that we are committed to meeting the sustainability needs of our clients and our responsibilities as corporate citizen. 16 Energy and climate Energy saving measures in buildings represent the greatest potential for our clients to reduce carbon emissions and save money. We have a significant opportunity to make a meaningful impact on climate change while also generating profits for our shareholders. Energy and climate risks directly impact our own operations, whether because of rising fuel prices or due to legislative changes. And these risks continue to increase. The material risks that we face as a business are discussed in our Annual Report to Shareholders and include references to climate change risks. (http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/InvestorPDFs/JLL-2010-Annual-Report.pdf#pagemode=bookmarks&page=1) Buildings are responsible for 40% of carbon emissions worldwide and climate change is recognized as one of the greatest challenges facing humankind. Acknowledging this challenge, Jones Lang LaSalle became a signatory to the Cancun Communiqué on Climate Change in 2010. Along with over 1,000 other businesses, we made a public statement in support of a comprehensive international framework to tackle climate change. For further information go to http://www.cancuncommunique.com. We recognize the complexity of the climate change challenge and that government action alone cannot provide the urgent solutions required. For this reason, we continue to invest significant resources into developing energy and carbon management services for our clients, alongside efforts to manage our own footprint. This section explores in more detail the proactive steps we have taken to help mitigate the risks of and create opportunities from climate change and our energy management business. Energy and climate Achievements Challenges Our clients’ carbon footprint  Establishing an accurate and robust energy and carbon baseline has been a significant challenge  Documented $128 million in energy savings and due to the complexity and scale of our office reduced 563,000 tons of greenhouse gas portfolio. This has been further complicated as we emissions, saving more than ten times our own work to understand what a meaningful reduction carbon footprint for our clients figure would look like in the context of our own  Over 1,250 managed properties (totaling over 230 operations. million square feet) with ENERGY STAR ratings  While we have been successful in engaging our  LaSalle’s pilot energy savings effort identified a employees on energy and carbon reduction, we total of $3.6 million in potential savings for assets have much more to do in terms of identifying the in North America right technical and engineering opportunities for  LaSalle committed 137 global assets to the energy efficiency improvements – and the payback Greenprint Index – the first carbon footprint index that each improvement might have. of Greenprint Foundation Renewable energy  Launched Solar Power Solutions team where two MW of solar systems have already been installed or are in development, resulting in aversion of 2,400 metric tons of CO2e per year 17  480MW of installed or consented wind capacity in the UK, which averts 685,000 metric tons of CO2e per year Our own carbon footprint  Documented 45,100 metric tons of CO2e, which equates to 3.51 metric tons of CO2e per corporate office employee  Achieved a disclosure score of 80/100 for our 2010 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) submission, which aligns us with S&P 500 companies that have been included in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) and is a score higher than competitors in the S&P 500 listing 2011 CSR targets • Deliver carbon savings for clients that exceed ten times our own global footprint • Continue reducing energy consumption/carbon footprint in our own corporate offices Improve the accuracy of carbon data metrics; Implement energy efficiency initiatives in our corporate offices; and Revise office standards to move toward a best-in-class occupancy strategy Energy management for our clients As we manage approximately 1.8 billion square feet of real estate for clients, the greatest contribution we can make to mitigate climate change is to reduce the energy and carbon generating activities on behalf of our clients. An integral part of our Energy and Sustainability Services offering is in helping clients develop comprehensive energy management programs that align with their broader business strategy and in providing measurable savings and results. Our holistic approach considers not just how facilities are built, operated and maintained, but their location and employee behaviors as well. Responsible and effective management of energy is the most cost-effective climate strategy, and as more clients (and more of our own people) see economic and environmental value in measuring and improving energy usage, then we can expect the savings to continue rising. For example, our impact for U.S. clients in 2010 is equivalent to removing over 100,000 passenger vehicles annually from the road; saving CO2 emissions from more than 60 million gallons of gasoline consumed; and reducing CO2 emissions from the electricity use of 68,000 homes. The following table is a cumulative overview of our U.S. energy management successes since 2007: 18 2010 2009 2008 2007 Total Energy savings $128m $100m $95m $38m $361m Greenhouse gas (GHG) emission 563,000 tons 465,000 tons 438,000 tons 133,000 tons 1,599,000 tons reduction Kilowatt-hour savings 912m 836m 790m 210m 1,836m Date qualification notes: Energy savings, GHG emissions reduction and kilowatt-hour savings come from our year-end ENERGY STAR analysis and are then extrapolated for Jones Lang LaSalle’s U.S. managed portfolio. GHG emissions savings have been calculated using eGRID conversion factors. Energy savings have been calculated using average unit costs. Effects of weather were ignored on the whole, but data from ENERGY STAR is normalized for weather. 25 years of energy conservation at One Front Street, San Francisco One Front Street has been a pioneer in energy conservation for over 25 years. This 650,000 square foot, Class A office tower was built in 1979, and currently carries the ENERGY STAR label with a score of 94, establishing it as one of the most energy-efficient commercial buildings in the United States. Jones Lang LaSalle assumed management of this signature asset in 1996 and continued the pursuit of energy conservation programs in partnership with the building’s owner, Invesco. We have been instrumental in implementing better energy management and conservation such as: Applied reflective coatings on roofing systems and installed window tint and window blinds Installed state-of-the-art building automation system Replaced old and inefficient chillers with new efficient ones and pneumatic controls with direct digital controls Installed lighting controls and sub-metering system Replaced incandescent lighting with fluorescent or halogen bulbs Retrofitted energy efficient motors and ballasts to electronic style To support our energy management efforts, we continue to develop industry-leading technology platforms that help clients reduce their environmental footprint and energy costs. A new platform, OneView Energy and Sustainability Analytics (OVESA), was launched in December 2010. OVESA will support our ESS teams in managing our clients’ ever-increasing volumes of sustainability data by providing the analytical tools to interpret and report data in line with external standards such as the GHG Protocol and the Carbon Disclosure Project. See the Client Excellence section for more information on OVESA. For further information on our how our Energy and Sustainability Services teams help our clients manage and reduce their own impacts, visit http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/EnergyandSustainability.aspx. 19 LaSalle Investment Management – tracking energy savings for our clients In the United States, LaSalle is leading a pilot effort to encourage energy and sustainability improvement upgrades and savings for assets. A database tracks all sustainability upgrades for each asset – including cost, simple payback, and resulting energy and operational savings – and will be updated bi-annually. It will serve as a resource for information sharing and client reporting, as well as a means to track the broader energy and operational savings achieved by the Firm. From our first collection effort, we estimated spending $6.3 million on sustainability upgrades with an estimated annual savings of $1.8 million. Furthermore, we have identified $3.1 million in additional upgrades with the potential to save $1.6 million annually. Benchmarking the real estate industry’s carbon emissions Since Jones Lang LaSalle’s acquisition of Upstream in 2007 – a leading UK consultancy specializing in sustainability and real estate – we have become a leader in providing carbon and energy benchmarking services to clients in Europe. The wealth of data developed is of significant value in understanding sector trends. We are able to communicate information on environmental performance to clients that can, considering the number of organizations that are now taking part, significantly shape the performance of the real estate sector. Here are some key statistics on our benchmarking service: Benchmarking statistics  1,300 properties benchmarked in total  Properties submitted by 40 companies from 40 countries across all regions  32 million square feet of floor area benchmarked annually  Over 16 million square feet of shopping centers and retail parks assessed annually  Over 12 million square feet of offices assessed annually Greenprint Foundation Greenprint Foundation is a benchmarking initiative that has been jointly developed with the support of Jones Lang LaSalle. Formed in 2009, Greenprint is revolutionary in terms of its owner and investor-focused membership, its global scale, and its emphasis on carbon measurement and reduction in line with the current Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Our role is unique as the only real estate services firm among the founding members, and our involvement provides revenue opportunities as well as a seat at the table with top owners and investors. Charles B. Leitner, CEO of Greenprint Foundation commented: “Amidst an explosion of wide-ranging environmental initiatives, it has been difficult to find a common starting point to measure and benchmark carbon emissions across the worldwide property industry. With the help of Jones Lang LaSalle, Greenprint Foundation has launched its Carbon Index to establish that starting point and advance the industry’s efforts to reduce energy usage and carbon emissions while building value.” Both Jones Lang LaSalle and LaSalle Investment Management submit properties to Greenprint’s carbon footprint index – the Greenprint Index. LaSalle was the largest contributor of assets in the first Index with a commitment of 137 global assets. 20 Renewable Energy Solutions In 2010 we announced the establishment of our Renewable Energy Solutions practice, offering advice to clients across a range of renewable technologies including photovoltaic (largely U.S., but increasingly Europe), onshore wind and biomass. Our comprehensive capabilities in renewable energy allow us to provide local and worldwide solutions designed to meet each client's unique objectives. This builds on the extensive support we have been providing to clients since 2007, especially in the UK where we have provided advice and action across a significant number of onshore wind and biomass energy projects. The table below provides an overview of the projects in which we have been involved since 2007. In terms of installed or consented renewable projects, total estimated GHG emissions averted are 686,187 metric tons of CO2e per year. A further 4.92 million metric tons per year could be averted assuming all remaining projects that we have advised on achieve planning consent. Total averted Total capacity metric tons Overview of renewable energy advisory services (2007-2010) (MW) CO2e/year Wind Installed and operational 161 229,680 Wind Consented 320 456,507 Wind Planning 1,450 2,068,546 Wind Feasibility 600 855,950 Biomass Planning 525 1,997,217 Solar Installed or consented 2 2,378 Total 3,058 5,610,278 Data qualification notes: The information contained in the table above relates to our UK and U.S. renewables advisory services provided between 2007 and 2010. Metric tons CO2e/year has been calculated using government kWh to GHG emission conversion factors. The calculations assume that all installations are fully operational, 24 hours a day and 365 days a year and that the average capacity is 30% for onshore wind, 80% for biomass and 25% for solar. The total metric tons CO2e/year averted figure should be read as that which we have contributed to through our UK and U.S. renewables advisory services. Jones Lang LaSalle does not own or operate any renewable energy installations. Supporting the renewable energy sector in Scotland We were appointed to provide advisory services to The Wind Energy Group of Companies (under the majority ownership of the AES Corporation) in 2010. Jones Lang LaSalle acted as lead consultant, directing a multidisciplinary team of environmental and engineering advisors for the development of a 40-turbine wind farm development on a 25,000-acre estate in the north of Scotland. The appointment illustrates our increasing involvement in the renewable energy sector in the UK, and in particular Scotland, where the major renewable resources (wind, hydro, and wave) are located. 21 Understanding our emissions and reporting performance One of Jones Lang LaSalle’s largest sources of emissions is estimated building-related carbon (Scope 3 or ‘other indirect GHG emissions’ according to the GHG Protocol), which is energy obtained on our behalf by our landlords in the offices we occupy. This means we have less direct control over these emissions and it will require us to work more closely with our landlords. Jones Lang LaSalle’s global carbon footprint was approximately 40,500 metric tons CO2e in 2009 and 45,100 metric tons CO2e in 2010. While it is disappointing to see our total absolute emissions increase by 11%, some of this increase is due to growth in the business and our activities. This is shown by the fact that when total emissions are normalized by employee, the increase is 5% from 2009 to 2010. A similar increase occurred in our leased space; when emissions are normalized by rentable square meters, we saw a 3% increase of buildingrelated carbon. The three biggest sources for the absolute increase were: business travel; electricity bought by Jones Lang LaSalle; and the Mobile Engineering Services fleet. Business travel is one of our most challenging areas to reconcile with business objectives, including maintaining active relationships with our clients. However, that does not diminish from the daily efforts that are being made to reduce energy consumption in our buildings and our continued commitment to lessen our impact in 2011 and beyond. As an example of where growth has been a significant contributor to our overall footprint, the gasoline consumption from the Mobile Engineering Services (MES) fleet was 11% of total emissions in 2009 and 15% of total emissions in 2010. In absolute terms, the impact of this business increased. However, from year-end 2009 to year-end 2010, the business in fact grew 58% in the number of work orders, yet despite this the MES teams reduced emissions per technician, achieving 17.4 metric tons CO2e per technician in 2009 and 16.9 metric tons CO2e per technician in 2010. A shared services model was fundamental to this success, and although these reductions only relate to fleet gasoline consumption, the MES business has a redressing and larger impact when it comes to energy savings for clients. Internally, we have started to more deeply analyze building emissions per employee and per square meter. Part of the challenge in doing this is that we are the sole obtainer of the energy we consume in only a handful of properties. We aim to report on our efforts in this regard in the future, including being able to show our performance trend in a meaningful way. Reducing our own carbon footprint ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’ helps to identify, introduce and advance new sustainability and energy management initiatives in our offices around the world. It also aims to engage employees in the sustainability discussion. Previously comprised of a largely volunteer network, we formalized our operational commitment in 2010 through a more structured network and performance measurement process. 22 Our Carbon Footprint Network, a component of ACT, has continued its efforts around carbon data collection, methodology and how to encourage reductions in those offices with poor energy performance. Our internal proprietary web-based Portfolio Energy & Environmental Reporting System (PEERS) allows for entry of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions on a site-by-site basis. Integral to PEERS are the carbon equivalencies, unit conversions and local emissions rates that comply with the GHG Protocol and other tracking requirements. We documented over 170 ACT initiatives to reduce energy use and GHG emissions in our offices during 2010, which contributed to limiting our carbon footprint to 45,100 metric tons CO2e. These types of initiatives have been implemented each year since 2008, many of which have grown to be a part of our standard operating procedures; and therefore, some have been excluded from our 2010 figure. Examples of activity include: Country Local examples Upgraded to more energy efficient lighting (from T8 to T5 electronic ballasts); video conferencing Singapore is encouraged to reduce air travel Achieved ‘greening’ of company vehicle fleet by switching to more fuel efficient models, which Germany led to 17% savings of CO2 Nine local green teams established to champion sustainability initiatives, including participation United States in Earth Day In 2010, there were several important enhancements to the ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’ program and our internal energy management. Firstly, Jones Lang LaSalle again supported Earth Hour across the world. Secondly, colleagues in the U.S. participated in the ENERGY STAR pledge for the third year where the total impact of our commitments saved 1,035 metric tons and over $175,000 in energy costs (see http://www.energystar.gov). We also elevated our employee engagement initiatives with the publication of an e-book, showcasing best practices under the ACT banner, which can be viewed at: https://delphilil.am.joneslanglasalle.com/apps2/subsites/act/. Greening our IT We have a particularly strong program when it comes to incorporating sustainability into our IT practices. As is the case with all large professional services firms, IT is a significant contributor to our overall carbon footprint. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, office equipment accounts for 16% of energy use in a typical commercial office building. Earth Hour On March 27, 2010, Jones Lang LaSalle joined tens of millions of individuals and hundreds of cities across the world that pledged to turn off their lights in support of Earth Hour. Earth Hour is an initiative that the World Wildlife Fund began in 2007 and has grown to include nearly 1200 cities and towns across 80 countries. With a portfolio of approximately 1.8 billion square feet of office space worldwide managed on behalf of owners and occupiers, Jones Lang LaSalle also managed the implementation of the Earth Hour program for many of its clients. Turning off the lights for one hour of operation at all of Jones Lang LaSalle’s managed buildings, in the spirit of the Earth Hour pledge, reduced energy use by more than 1.4 million kilowatt-hours, equating to approximately 4,600 tons of greenhouse gas emissions reduction. 23 Green IT at Jones Lang LaSalle Across our global operations, we have established a best practice IT sustainability program to reduce energy consumption from technology and to facilitate increased connectivity between different parts of the business, thereby reducing the need to travel. As part of this program we have: • Increased the number of PCs with high energy-efficiency credentials through revised procurement policies (e.g. ENERGY STAR) • Enabled power management on all PCs and laptops • Developed a reuse and redeployment strategy for equipment, including 2068 PCs since Q1 2008 • Ensured an ecologically-safe equipment disposal program is in place, which has resulted in 3047 units recycled since Q1 2009 • Used our server capabilities more efficiently through server virtualization • Increased the use of Microsoft Live Meeting by over 4750% and audio conference calls by 42% since Q1 2008 to reduce the need for travel By year-end 2010, we achieved a global average where two-thirds of all PCs were energy efficient models. Since January 1, 2008, nearly 900 PCs have been replaced with energy efficient models, resulting in 6,480 tons of CO2 savings and over $800,000 in energy savings. Although this is great progress towards making all our PCs energy efficient, our goal for year-end 2010 was to increase the percentage to 100%, which we have not reached. Since January 2008, CO2 savings from these actions and others is equivalent to the energy use of 945 homes for one year or the consumption of 1,250,000 gallons of gasoline. 24 Client service excellence Jones Lang LaSalle is committed to a creating a corporate culture that embraces strong principles of business and professional ethics at every level and strives to provide innovative solutions to clients. Jones Lang LaSalle is a client-driven organization. It is our aim is to be a leader in the real estate sector in all markets where we operate. Our globally-coordinated investments in research, technology, people and innovation, combined with our span of worldwide offices, enable us to develop, share and continually evaluate best practices from across our organization. These attributes allow us to promote a culture of internal communication, connectivity and integrity that is unparalleled in our industry. As a result, we are able to deliver the same consistently high levels of service and operational excellence wherever our clients’ needs exist. Client service excellence Achievements Challenges Client excellence in sustainability services  As we grow around the world, we are faced with meeting local and market demands, while also  Commissioned by 196 clients for energy and needing to maintain consistency in our global sustainability work in 2010 capabilities. We aim to tackle this challenge  Increased number of dedicated sustainability through continual knowledge sharing and our professionals (i.e. ESS staff) from approximately governance structures. 95 to 115  In striving to be the leading service provider of  Won 28 sustainability awards across our three Energy and Sustainability Services, we need to regions stay one step ahead of our stakeholders when it Ethics comes to delivering innovative and technologicallyadvanced solutions.  Ethics Inside® certification renewed by the Ethisphere Institute  Maintaining a strong culture for ethics and collaboration is inherently challenging as we  Named to the Ethisphere Institute’s list of the pursue a growth strategy, which includes organic ‘World’s Most Ethical Companies’ for the third expansion through hiring and acquisitions. straight year  Trained 4,000 employees or roughly 10% of total staff in Jones Lang LaSalle’s anti-corruption ethics policies and procedures  Investigated a total of 77 integrity concerns, with 52 cases resulting in disciplinary or other corrective action Thought leadership and innovation  Produced 22 thought leadership papers and research outputs related to sustainability  Actively involved in 38 sustainability industry bodies and 12 public policy positions relating to sustainability  Received 88 submissions for the ‘da Vinci Awards’ in our Innovation Program, with 27 selected as 25 finalists and nine winning submissions 2011 CSR targets • Achieve external recognition for sustainability leadership Providing high-quality services to clients Our investment in sustainability resources, as shown by the growing number of dedicated ESS staff and tools, demonstrates our commitment to providing clients with industry-leading expertise in emerging subject areas. In Energy and Sustainability Services, we increased the number of those working on sustainability and energyrelated projects by approximately 20 people in 2010. This reflects the rising number of mandates from clients, and how sustainability is increasingly critical to business leaders today. Using technology to advance our sustainability services offer The OneView Energy and Sustainability Analytics (OVESA) online technology platform has been designed to support Jones Lang LaSalle’s existing portfolio of Energy and Sustainability Services (ESS). OVESA helps our ESS teams manage an ever-increasing volume of sustainability data on behalf of our clients, and provides them with the analytical tools that allow them to interpret and report that data. OVESA was launched in late 2010 with an initial release in February 2011, driven primarily by the impending introduction of European legislation focused on mandatory carbon reporting, as well as the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme in the UK. Future releases will further develop the platform for the Americas markets and build upon the survey functionality that can support our building sustainability assessments service offer. 26 ‘Ethics Everywhere’ We are firmly committed to maintaining the highest standards of ethics and integrity in all of our business dealings and strive not to compromise our ethics in the pursuit of financial gains. Our Code of Business Ethics (see http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/InvestorPDFs/JLLCodeofEthics.pdf) outlines our commitment. We are proud of, da Vinci Awards At Jones Lang LaSalle, we are committed to delivering innovative solutions to clients. In 2003, we launched our ‘da Vinci Awards for Innovation’ to inspire true innovation in our best practice, knowledge and processes among our employees, thus ensuring we keep ahead of the competition and deliver valuable results for clients. The Awards and the submissions underlying them are vital for us to stay competitive. In 2010 we received 88 submissions, with nine winning submissions, including the Empire State Building model for an energy efficient building retrofit. The Review Committee judges all submissions on seven criteria including: projected or demonstrated results; sustainable breakthrough improvement; and increased client satisfaction. When evaluating submissions, the Committee looks for ideas that can help win new business, be shaped into a service offering, increase revenue or save money. and are determined to protect and enhance the global reputation that we have established for ethical conduct. We also take pride in how our employees perceive our commitment to ethical business decisions and conduct. In part this is due to our focus on ethics’ training and education. In 2010, we gave in-person training to over 4,000 employees (or roughly 10% of total staff) in anti-corruption ethics policies and procedures. We require that all employees reaffirm their commitment to our Code of Business Ethics when submitting their annual performance objectives, which is part of the process for determining bonuses. This understanding of how ethics should be “in all in that we do” was evident in our global Employee Engagement Survey where 97% of most engaged units (94% of all) agreed that “I understand my responsibilities under the Code of Business Ethics.” 27 Extract from our ‘Ethics Everywhere’ Annual Report We now have more than 40,000 employees worldwide and there are many thousands of clients, vendors, contractors and suppliers with whom we work. No company of Jones Lang LaSalle’s size will ever be entirely free of ethics investigations or violations. However, we believe that our organization as a whole continues to demonstrate a high level of ethics awareness and compliance. After increasing (somewhat predictably) during the Global Financial Crisis, the number of ethics investigations we conducted during 2010 was 23% lower than in 2009 as they returned to more historically normal levels. Our ability to substantiate and take action over the allegations that were raised increased in 2010 to a high of 68%, which is another positive development. We are grateful that the number of ethics matters that came to our attention involving our clients remained extremely low, which we believe strongly reflects our client-first culture. The continued success and excellent reputation of the Firm absolutely depends on the manner in which we conduct ourselves. Acting with integrity and the highest ethical standards is not only good policy, it is good business. Our ‘Ethics Everywhere’ program is designed to promote the highest ethical standards by which all our employees must conduct themselves in every business situation. As evidence of the quality of the program, we are proud to have been named to the Ethisphere Institute’s ‘World’s Most Ethical Companies’ list in 2010 for the third year running. Ethisphere’s analysis includes reviewing codes of ethics; litigation and regulatory infraction histories; investments in innovation and sustainable business practices; and corporate citizenship. “Jones Lang LaSalle’s promotion of a sound ethical environment shines within its industry and shows a clear understanding that operating under the highest standards for business behavior goes beyond goodwill and ‘lip-service’ and is intimately linked to performance and profitability.” Alex Brigham, Executive Director of the Ethisphere Institute Ethics also extends to our compliance with local and international laws and regulations, including those relating to competition, the environment, marketing, communications, advertising, promotions and customer privacy. During the past five years, there have been no legal actions taken against Jones Lang LaSalle for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust or monopoly practices. Furthermore, there have been no significant monetary fines or nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations (including environmental laws). In addition, for the first time we are publicly disclosing in this Report the results from our ‘Ethics Everywhere’ annual report that we already provide to all colleagues within our Firm. The report discloses the nature and results of the allegations of unethical conduct that we have investigated internally. 28 Promoting innovation Innovation is promoted in numerous forms throughout the Firm, and giving employees time and space to develop and express their ideas is crucial to our business. The ‘da Vinci Award for Innovation’ is a great example of how we reward our people for their innovation and for the value they create for Jones Lang LaSalle. Shaping policy from the front Because we are a diverse global organization that includes differing viewpoints, our political activities and lobbying activities are minimal and limited to supporting specific industry issues that would clearly benefit our business and our shareholders. As any lobbying efforts are managed on a highly decentralized basis, we do not centrally track relevant expenditure. We were involved in 12 formally-recorded public policy engagements in 2010 – almost all related to climate change and energy. The following table details examples of where and how we have been involved in public policy or industry initiatives related to sustainability. Public policy Industry initiatives Americas • Herman Bulls, President of Public Institutions • A member of our Energy and Sustainability at Jones Lang LaSalle, appeared on a panel at Services team formed a coalition of investor the White House before high-ranking members owners and corporate tenants to address of the Environmental Protection Agency and obstacles to green leased space Department of Energy. His comments were in • Representatives from our Project and favor of federal incentives and support for Development Services team served on a energy efficiency and renewable energy in U.S. Green Building Council committee to set commercial buildings LEED® standards for hotels and for Retail• Endorsed an open letter to U.S. government EBOM leaders calling for strong energy policy that • Contributed to the Facility Management emphasizes energy efficiency and clean Association of Australia’s ‘An Operational energy sources Guide to Sustainable Facilities Management’ Asia Pacific • Provided support to the Shopping Centre • Implemented WWF’s Earth Hour for Portfolio Council of Australia on the impact of the New Asset Management and Integrated Facilities South Wales Solar Bonus Scheme on retail Management (IFM) clients EMEA • Responded to the British Council of Shopping • Participated in le Grenelle Environnement Centres’ consultation on the UK government’s (French Environment bill) working groups on Recast of the Energy Performance of sustainable real estate value Buildings Directive • Actively involved with the Better Buildings • Involved in the municipality of Uden’s Partnership in the UK sustainable area development in the • Associated with Deutsche Gesellschaft für Netherlands Nachhaltiges Bauen (DGNB) – the German • Responded to the British Property Sustainable Building Council Federation’s consultation on the UK government’s Carbon Reduction Commitment (CRC) legislation 29 Industry collaboration We have close relationships with many leading industry organizations, including numerous green building councils worldwide that actively contribute to influencing public policy. In 2010 we were engaged with at least 40 industry sustainability initiatives, although the actual number we have been involved in is likely to be much higher, so this number represents those that we have formally recorded. Examples of our involvement in important industry initiatives: • In 2009 we were appointed as consultants to lead the development of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement (CRESS). In doing so, we have facilitated engagement sessions in Canada, China, the Netherlands, Australia and India. • We were appointed by EPRA (European Public Real Estate Association) to develop best practice sustainability reporting guidelines for listed property companies (both the GRI CRESS and EPRA guidelines will be publicly available from Q3 2011). • We continue to support the United Nations Global Compact, which is a call to action to companies everywhere to voluntarily align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption (see http://www.unglobalcompact.org). • LaSalle Investment Management continues to be a signatory to the United Nations’ investor initiative – Principles for Responsible Investing (PRI). Our alignment with this global mandate marked an important commitment by the Firm to begin a process over time wherein ESG criteria became integral to the investment decision criteria of the business. LaSalle has since submitted our first UNPRI Report, which documents our 2010 accomplishments. Sustainability thought leadership and research We invest heavily in research to guide the real estate investment strategy of our clients. Some 300 research professionals at Jones Lang LaSalle cover market and economic conditions around the world. Sustainability is a key focus and in 2010 we published four global papers: 30 • ‘Global Sustainability Perspective’ • CoreNet Global and Jones Lang LaSalle’s ‘Global Corporate Occupier Sustainability Survey’ • ‘Climate Change Disclosure – Are you ready?’ • ‘The Business Case for Corporate Social Responsibility at Jones Lang LaSalle’ At a regional level, our research papers ranged from topics such as ‘Mandatory Disclosure Legislation’ in Australia to ‘40 Ways to Green the Workplace’ in the Americas to ‘Future-proofing real estate for climate change resilience’ in the UK. For a full list of thought leadership outputs and awards please see http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr/Pages/default.aspx. We launched the Jones Lang LaSalle Green Blog in 2010 to comment on topical issues, where we posted 130 blogs and established an audience of 39,000 unique readers (see http://www.joneslanglasalleblog.com/greenblog/?cat=26). We have also established a presence on Facebook (see http://www.facebook.com/pages/Jones-Lang-LaSalle/107943512567352). Global Sustainability Perspective In December 2009, Jones Lang LaSalle launched the Global Sustainability Perspective (GSP), a web-based publication that provides quarterly updates on sustainability trends in real estate to over 40,000 clients around the world. Our aspiration is for the GSP to become the primary platform for energy and sustainability intelligence and thought leadership in the real estate sector. The GSP had 28,900 unique website page views in 2010, resulting in it being ranked in the top 20 most accessed parts of the global Jones Lang LaSalle corporate website. To see our latest GSP go to: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/Global-Property-SustainabilityPerspective.aspx. 31 Green buildings Green buildings are more than just energy efficient and low carbon. They are sensitive to local habitats, they protect the health and wellbeing of building users and they use sustainably sourced and manufactured materials. As a world leader in real estate, the success of Jones Lang LaSalle is closely entwined with the evolution of the green building agenda. While our focus is predominantly on our clients’ real estate portfolios, we are also committed to ensuring that our own office space has the smallest possible impact on the environment. The following section highlights some of our efforts in regards to green buildings in 2010 and how we have incorporated sustainability aspects into various stages of the property lifecycle. Green buildings Achievements Challenges Building certifications and assessments  One main challenge is to capture and articulate sustainability-related information outside our  Reached 624 accredited professionals, of which dedicated ESS teams. In some cases, our 585 are LEED® Accredited Professionals; this is sustainability practices are widespread across an increase from 575 at end Q4 2009 various business units, but there is still progress to  Occupy 17 out of 158 corporate offices surveyed be made in learning about the broader impact we that have a green building certification are making in non-dedicated sustainability teams.  Our ESS teams worldwide implemented energy  Managing our own portfolio in terms of space and sustainability improvements on 442 existing utilization and sustainable building fit-outs is an buildings and 27 new buildings, which includes ongoing challenge, not least because of the size adherence to green building certifications or and coverage of our office network. We have labeling schemes developed best in class fit-out standards in some Sustainable retrofits countries, but we have not yet established these standards worldwide. Our target for a best-in-class  Continued involvement in the development of occupancy strategy will provide more consistency LEED® standards, including LEED® for Retailin our approach to portfolio management. EBOM  Launched Tetris Projects in the UK, where we ensure that sustainability is integrated into the fitout process Green leases  Established green lease language for inclusion in our OneView Lease Administration platform 32 2011 CSR targets • Assess new corporate accommodation using local green building standards, and incorporate green fit-out standards into all new offices • Conduct Jones Lang LaSalle Green Tenant Module for all U.S. corporate offices greater than 10,000 square feet by end 2011 • Achieve 1,000 energy and sustainability accredited professionals (LEED®, CEM, BREEAM, Green Star, etc.) by the end 2012 Our Real Estate Services and the property lifecycle Our green building services continue to differ across the world as we prioritize the concerns of our local clients and communities. However, a constant in each region is that the lifecycle of a building is addressed through our services – beginning with the strategy and planning, through to construction, occupation, refurbishment, and ending with a sale. This ‘property lifecycle’ underpins our green building services and, in many ways, everything we do that is sustainability-related at Jones Lang LaSalle. 33 Each sustainability service network complements the property life cycle. It is in the interest of our clients and the environment, that we are invested in the long-term lifecycle of each building: • Our involvement in the planning and strategy phase ensures sustainability is addressed early on, often resulting in more consideration being given to environmental impact and avoidance of costly retrofitting solutions. • Our work in building assessments and benchmarks can give clients context to the performance of their buildings, often highlighting improvements to reduce cost and energy consumption. • Where refurbishments are required, or new development opportunities arise, we are on hand to ensure that an asset can continue to perform well in the market. • Once the building is operational, often the hardest work is yet to come, which is why we provide services such as performance monitoring and green lease advice, ensuring that each asset runs to its full potential. ESS service networks We will not achieve sustainable real estate unless sustainability is incorporated at every stage of the ‘property lifecycle’. Our Energy and Sustainability Services (ESS) Board addresses this goal, featuring four service networks designed to develop globally-consistent service offerings with appropriate regional variations. • Sustainability Consulting: Planning, strategy and reporting services • Building & Portfolio Assessments and Benchmarking: Up-front building assessment services (LEED® gap analysis, SPA, Green Globes, NABERS etc.) and benchmarking services • Refurbishments, New Developments, Certifications: Green building certification, refurbishment or new development related services • Energy Services, Sustainable Operations (including Performance Measurement & Reporting): Sustainability performance monitoring, measurement, energy services, and green lease advice or transaction management services The value of green buildings The growth in demand for green buildings – in part driven by the expansion of certification schemes such as LEED® and BREEAM – has led to a burgeoning retrofit and redevelopment industry. The sector’s appetite for repositioning and upgrading assets has created significant opportunities for our business. The recent Jones Lang LaSalle and CoreNet Global survey found that much of this demand is coming from corporate occupiers that are keen to rent sustainable office space that aligns with their own CSR commitments. CoreNet Global and Jones Lang LaSalle’s ‘Global Corporate Occupier Sustainability Survey’ CoreNet Global and Jones Lang LaSalle’s annual survey is a leading indicator for occupier sentiment with regards to sustainability. Conducted in Q4 2010, it revealed that the corporate real estate industry is refocusing its efforts on reducing the environmental impacts of buildings around cost control. Other key findings were that: • Sustainability is a critical business issue today for 64% of respondents, and 92% consider sustainability criteria in their location decisions 34 • The number of respondents willing to pay more for green leased space jumped from 37% in 2009 to 50% in 2010 • 31% of executives ranked employee productivity and health as their top sustainability concerns, and an additional 11% rated employee satisfaction as the most important factor Leading the way with green building certification We have a strong track record in helping owners and occupiers achieve targeted LEED® levels, and in several cases our teams have helped clients attain certification levels beyond their original goals. If an organization’s specific focus is pursuing LEED® certification, for any or all existing buildings, we conduct comprehensive LEED® gap assessments. Using the LEED® scorecard, our team applies a consistent measurement process to determine the needed steps for a building to become Certified, Silver, Gold or Platinum. Through our project and facility management experience, we can accurately project the feasibility, time and expense required for the desired certification level. In 2010 we had notable successes with new building projects, including our work on the Bank of America Tower at One Bryant Park in New York, the first office tower to achieve LEED® Platinum certification (see our website for more details http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/pages/energyandsustainability.aspx). Such achievements ensure our name continues to be associated with the highest standard of green buildings. We continue to progress our expertise in green building certifications and accreditations having reached the following crucial milestones in 2010: • 585 LEED® Accredited Professionals • Over 130 completed LEED® projects in the U.S. totaling more than 50 million square feet • 51 completed LEED® projects internationally (advisory services) • Over 1250 properties with ENERGY STAR ratings in the U.S., representing over 230 million square feet of real estate • Managed over 150 ENERGY STAR labels for properties in the U.S. There were also projects that we worked on that resulted in greater efficiencies and improved performance for our clients with the highlights including: • Advised on the largest six-star Green Star rated office development in Australia at Docklands in Melbourne • Worked with Accenture to deliver its first triple-accredited facility in the world in Bangalore • Highest BREEAM-rated building in the UK: Innovative Logistics • Achieved first Energy Certificate for Euro Commercial Properties in Sweden Data qualification note: the figures stated above are cumulative and do not relate to 2010 performance alone. We have also driven many firsts in green buildings around the world. For a full list of where we have been first in green building achievements, please see our website: http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/pages/energyandsustainability.aspx During 2010 alone, we achieved the following: 35 • In the U.S., we managed 113 buildings that had received ENERGY STAR Labels totaling 38.6 million square feet. • 300 properties had a year-over-year reduction in weather-normalized site energy intensity • Implemented energy and sustainability improvements in over 400 buildings . By tapping the global experience and capabilities of the Energy and Sustainability Services team combined with Project and Development Services (PDS) we are able to offer on the ground LEED® expertise across the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific. At Jones Lang LaSalle our involvement as LEED® advisors and consultants allows us to capitalise on our PDS history and experience where we consider the whole life-value of products and solutions. LaSalle is also actively involved in green building certifications (for more detail visit: http://www.lasalle.com/Sustainability/CaseStudies/Pages/CaseStudies.aspx.) The case studies that follow are just a few examples of our involvement. Nisshinbo sustainable retrofit in Amsterdam Nisshinbo is a leading Japanese multinational that specializes in real estate among other business lines. It has a strong commitment to CSR and to improving the sustainability performance of its real estate portfolio. The client commissioned Jones Lang LaSalle to carry out a sustainable retrofit on an office building in Amsterdam to improve its energy performance rating from a G-Label to an A-Label, thereby enhancing the building’s marketability to tenants and reducing operational energy costs (A-Label is yet to be achieved). Based on our initial sustainability assessment, we delivered all technical aspects of the retrofit, including: • Adding an energy recovery system in the air-handling units • Installing thermal energy storage • Changing the standard light fittings into high-frequency fittings • Installing counter flow heat exchangers • Applying modifications to the overall control system Launching Tetris Projects: Sustainable fit-out and refurbishments In 2010, Jones Lang LaSalle launched Tetris Projects in the UK, a wholly-owned subsidiary delivering a full turnkey service for fit-out and refurbishment projects. Tetris specializes in projects under 50,000 square feet and was a direct response to the growing demand among investors and occupiers for upgraded and refurbished commercial stock. 36 Tetris applies a robust methodology to ensure sustainability best practice is integrated into the fit-out process using the Ska Rating environmental assessment tool for sustainable fit-outs, developed by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). All Tetris fit-outs can work towards industry-recognized Ska certificates and in doing so will tackle a range of sustainability issues. Interior fit-out for Green Library in Thailand As part of Jones Lang LaSalle’s role on a CSR initiative for HSBC and with the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration (BMA), our Project and Development Services team in Thailand delivered an interior fit-out project management for the Green Library at Rom Klao Public Park in Samutprakarn Province. At this public library, we employed a range of technologies in compliance with LEED® principles: • Heat-reflecting features have been installed on the roof, as the building depends on a large amount of natural light coming through double-glazed glass panels • Recycled materials have been used to create shade to protect the building from heat, and the interiors feature recycled furniture • In the building interiors, air-conditioners work at low speeds while lights automatically react to levels of natural light • An underground reservoir collects rain water, and an automated watering system irrigates trees and plants • Decorative materials are made from long-lasting materials Training our employees on green building trends Jones Lang LaSalle’s Sustainability University educates our people and clients with best practice training and technical expertise, including presentations from subject matter experts from around the Firm on green building topics and trends. The University focuses on the development and introduction of standards of excellence, therefore promoting the delivery of services to our clients such as LEED® certification projects and Green Globes portfolio sustainability management. The University also offers training sessions on LEED® Accreditation and the application of LEED® principles. In 2010, we recorded a total of 6 sessions for 55 colleagues on LEED® Accreditation alone. The University aims to increase the number of Accredited Professionals across the firm to over 1,000 by year-end 2012. As of year-end 2010, we had already achieved the following numbers: 37 ‘Green Guide’ and acquisition checklist by LaSalle Investment Management LaSalle has developed a guide for our portfolio to educate our asset managers about a variety of low or no-cost sustainable operational best practices. LaSalle’s ‘GreenGuide’ was developed to help reduce energy and water consumption, increase recycling efforts, and reduce the overall carbon footprint of our managed real estate assets. In so doing, we anticipate that a further benefit of these efforts will be reduced operating expenses, increased valuations, and more competitive properties in their respective markets. For a copy please visit: http://www.lasalle.com/Sustainability/Pages/GreenGuide.aspx. When acquiring a new property, LaSalle utilizes an environmental acquisition checklist adapted to specific country and regional requirements in order to evaluate property environmental performance. This checklist for certain investments may also include a benchmark (e.g. LEED®) gap assessment for select acquisitions. Greening our own office portfolio It is the intent of Jones Lang LaSalle to create work environments that reflect our corporate culture. We seek an environment that is effective, efficient and collaborative and we use marketplace best practices to help us achieve our goals relative to work space utilization. Our office occupation strategy also seeks to minimize our impact on the environment. By looking at both materials and processes, we are greening our space in a multitude of ways that also make sound commercial sense. Factors that we consider include: • Designing open environments that can accommodate the changes needed in our dynamic industry as well as encouraging collaboration • LEED®-rating potential • Preference for natural light and reused materials • Building location and its impact on employee commuting In 2010, the Americas region implemented new corporate occupancy standards that incorporate sustainability values. The Americas Occupancy Committee, which reports to our regional Chief Operating Officer, now looks at sustainability issues in the underwriting of every expansion, renewal and new space decision. 38 Fit-out standards in our U.S. corporate offices In seeking general contractors to fit out our U.S. offices, Jones Lang LaSalle’s Project and Development Services professionals incorporate questions about green construction practices into their Request for Proposals (RFPs). Some strategies that have been considered include: • Diverting a minimum of 50% and as much as 95% of all construction waste from landfill • Requiring general contractors to provide and enforce a Construction Internal Air Quality Management Plan during construction and before occupancy • Sourcing materials locally whenever possible. As an example, we have specified all new lighting standards, the fixtures for which are all manufactured in the U.S. • Specifying furniture, carpet, ceiling tiles and other standards to include recycled content • Sourcing certified wood for veneers in our designs whenever possible • Striving for low volatile organic compounds (VOCs) content in adhesives and sealants, paints and coatings, carpet systems, wood and laminate adhesives, and furniture • Developing specifications to ensure that 70-90% of all office equipment is ENERGY STAR rated Our office fit-outs are just one example of how we leverage our core competencies on internal projects, allowing us to develop innovative tools and practices (that set industry benchmarks) before transferring them to clients. . Experts in green leases We have invested extensively in personnel, assessment tools and technology to support green leasing. Our network of leasing and sustainability experts, along with leading edge tools such as our Green Facilities Assessment Tenant Module, OneView Lease Administration Database and Portfolio Energy & Environmental Reporting System (PEERS), position Jones Lang LaSalle to help clients maximize environmental and savings benefits on their leased portfolios. This expertise is also seen in our Investment Management business. In 2010, LaSalle developed the internal Global Green Lease Guidelines for its regional teams to use when negotiating tenant contracts at our direct investment assets. These guidelines mutually and beneficially promote the acceptance and implementation of ESG issues for both LaSalle and our tenants. We also apply this knowledge to Jones Lang LaSalle’s own occupied portfolio. Through abstraction into our OneView database, the Lease Administration team captures green leasing conditions available in each of the leased and subleased properties in our portfolio. Leases with green % of leases with green Total leases lease language lease language Europe, Middle East & Africa 123 51 41% Americas 93 47 50% Asia Pacific 76 0 0% 292 98 34% 39 Green lease for Deutsche Bank Deutsche Bank Corporate Real Estate and Services asked Jones Lang LaSalle to help drive a green lease that incorporated as many of the bank’s global sustainability goals as possible. Our team drew from our best practices in sustainability initiatives to help implement a green leasing strategy. We secured a lease with terms and conditions enabling flexible space takedown, design freedom with limited restoration requirements, and sustainable infrastructure/operational controls including: • Evaluation and selection of replacement equipment with highest ENERGY STAR ratings • Reduction of waste through recycling and documentation of disposal, including audit rights and purchase of renewable and recycled content materials • Monitoring of indoor air quality with quarterly landlord reporting • Landlord quarterly provision of actual utility usage data and billing documentation • A green cleaning program involving landlord / tenant partnership The new lease incorporates an impressive nine of Deutsche Bank’s eleven overall global sustainability goals and has been recognized as a model for proactively building sustainable features into a leased property that might not otherwise exist. 40 Community commitment With approximately 40,000 employees in over 60 countries around the world, Jones Lang LaSalle is a global business. Wherever we operate, we are committed to being a responsible member of the community, supporting a range of programs and activities to deliver positive impact at a local and regional level. While the services we provide are key to the continued success and growth of our business, it is also the reputation that we develop at the individual community level that is important to maintaining our position as a leader in real estate services. We recognize the significant impact that our business activities can have on local communities – through the direct and indirect employment we create, to the payments we make to vendors (suppliers) and taxes we pay to governments. An increasingly important part of this impact also comes in the form of our voluntary cash and in-kind contributions. Our community strategy is intentionally decentralized so that we can address the local needs of the communities, capitalizing on the talents and interests of our diverse workforce. We have made a conscious effort to broaden the nature of our charity partner relationships to such an extent that we now provide in-kind support (e.g. IT, office furniture, staff time or real estate advice) as well as cash contributions. Community commitment Achievements Challenges Charitable contributions and investment  The majority of our community initiatives are locally driven, which we believe allows our  At least $1.9 million spent globally on charitable employees to affiliate and to contribute in a way initiatives that is meaningful in each country, city or market.  Donated at least $50,000 to international disaster This, in turn, makes it difficult to understand the full relief efforts, including Haiti and Pakistan financial impact of our contributions and efforts  At least 534 days given to volunteering projects (in from around the world. We are working to develop work time) by employees a more cohesive approach for learning about various initiatives, so that we can improve our Vendors (supply chain) coverage relating to community commitment.  Achieved 21% of spend on office and kitchen  Other than IT-related equipment and services, our supplies with known environmental credentials supply chain is run predominantly at the local  Reached two-thirds of PCs having high energy level. Developing a globally consistent efficiency credentials through revised procurement procurement standard that incorporates policies sustainability has been challenging and remains ‘a work in progress’. 2011 CSR targets • Measure and assess community activity by spend and participation globally. Link activity with relevant local community objectives where possible • Integrate and document sustainability criteria into the procurement process for pre-selected consumable goods where we have centralized control 41 Making a global impact In 2010, we spent at least $1.9 million on charitable initiatives, which accounts for 0.07% of our global 2010 revenue. This figure includes at least $50,000 of donations for disaster relief that we made from a central budget. Our employees also donated at least 534 days of work time to volunteering projects around the world. Given that we are not currently able to collect data on charitable contributions and volunteer days from our decentralized operations, the actual figures are likely to be much higher. Disaster and emergency relief efforts Significant political, social and environmental change in a number of our markets occurred in 2010. Natural disasters affected a number of our offices and clients, while political and social uprisings in the Middle East led to an unprecedented change in the operating context for several emerging real estate markets. We remain sensitive to local conditions to protect our employees’ and clients’ interests as best we can. We closely monitor staff travel plans out of concern for the safety of our people. For our clients, when a natural disaster occurs, we offer our services to assist where we can by contacting landlords to assess the condition of damaged properties. Following the Haiti earthquake, we made an immediate $25,000 donation to the World Food Programme (WFP), the food aid arm of the United Nations. Our colleagues in the United States have also made personal commitments to help the Haitian people, submitting requests to the U.S. Matching Gift program for contributions totaling just under $27,000. We committed to match each donation, up to a total of $250 per employee. Supporting local communities Our community engagement programs in EMEA, the Americas and Asia Pacific are extremely varied and inspiring, as illustrated by some of the examples listed here. We have a strong culture of community investment and engagement and regularly use our real estate expertise, financial resources and our employees to deliver positive impact in the communities where we do business. Americas  Jones Lang LaSalle Charities, a tax exempt entity allows us to collect tax deductible donations from employees, aggregate them, and direct them for charitable purposes.  Jones Lang LaSalle and fellow firm, CB Richard Ellis, teamed up to raise over $20,000 in support of the family of local Norwood High School hockey player Matt Brown, who suffered a spinal cord injury in a high school hockey game.  During January 2010, in support of the ‘Step Up for Kids’ Program, Jones Lang LaSalle employees participated in ‘running’ the stairs in Chicago’s Aon Center for a cause that benefits the Children's Memorial Hospital. Participants ran up 1,632 stairs (80 floors) and raised a total of nearly $450,000.  Employees from our Philadelphia office, as well as family and friends, pitched in for the 3rd Annual Philly Spring Cleanup in April 2010. The group was part of over 8,000 volunteers that signed up to clean 234 42 official sites. EMEA  Employees in Portugal are active contributors to an institution with which they annually participate in social activities, such as building and painting works for local communities.  In the UK, the English business encourages programs such as the ‘100 Days’ initiative, which has become a key part of the Firm’s approach to employee volunteering. Jones Lang LaSalle is also a longstanding member of the Business in the Community initiative and an active participant in its ProHelp scheme, a network of 1,000 professional firms whose volunteers donate time and expertise to community groups and voluntary organizations. The UK’s 2010 charitable contributions amounted to £105,000 during 2010.  In Hungary, instead of giving Christmas presents to fellow employees and clients, individuals used the money for donations. They also collected furniture and IT equipment to donate to charity, while encouraging clients to do the same.  In June, a team of 24 Jones Lang LaSalle employees, alumni and friends from the Netherlands participated in the 2010 Alpe d'HuZes initiative in support of the Koninging Wilhelmina Fonds (the Dutch cancer research fund), raising $185,000.  A team from our Warsaw office completed the 2010 Warsaw Marathon raising over $14,000 for the city’s Litewska Children’s Hospital. 43 Asia Pacific  In Australia, we have a Workplace Giving Program that automatically deducts funds from the salaries of employee participants each month and divides the funds equally between the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (RSPCA) and Cancer Council Australia. Also in Australia, 22 staff donated blood to Red Cross Corporate Blood Donations, resulting in 66 lives being saved in 2010.  Our staff in Greater China donated over $26,000 to the Red Cross Society of China to support the recovery efforts for the Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture after the earthquake in 2010.  In August 2010, Jones Lang LaSalle and St James’ Settlement, an organization that serves the community in need, partnered to sponsor an outing for children to a local attraction called Life in Noah's Ark in Hong Kong. Jones Lang LaSalle donated over $1,800 and 20 employees volunteered their time during the outing.  Employees in India participated in a range of community activities throughout the year including: planting trees, sponsoring children’s education and taking time away from work to teach underprivileged children. Our global CEO in India All members of staff are encouraged to give their time throughout the year to help those in our communities; and during a visit to our Gurgaon office in India, our Global President and CEO Colin Dyer proved to be no exception. Colin took time out to visit children of the Salaam Baalak Trust – a charity whose aim is to bring children into mainstream education. The 'Jones Lang LaSalle Painting Workshop' allowed Colin and other members of the Jones Lang LaSalle team to interact with children from Arushi (a female child shelter run by the Trust) and to help them create inspiring pieces of ceramic art. We donated computers and supported the Trust in establishing a computer learning lab at Arushi. Colin also sponsored the salary of an IT teacher for one year to teach computer skills to the children. Better together with King Sturge In 2010, King Sturge held its fourth annual Property Triathlon, which attracted 2,200 participants, a record number for the event. Now one of the largest triathlons in the UK, the event is open to all affiliates of the property industry. The triathlon is a great way for people of all ages to compete, exercise and, most importantly, raise money for charity. In 2010, over £130,000 was raised. King Sturge celebrated its 250th anniversary in 2010. To commemorate such a milestone, King Sturge raised over £500,000 through its 1760 Charity Appeal for two charities Orchid and The Children’s Trust. One of the main events included the 1760 Staff Day, which was held across UK and European offices. Employees participated in auctions, dress-down days, car-washing and ironing services to raise money. Two great histories and traditions have now been merged into one Firm and we look forward to integrating our achievements and challenges in next year’s Report. 44 Helping clients understand their own community impacts Our community involvement does not stop at voluntary charitable giving. Our Upstream Sustainability Services team in London has been instrumental in establishing a leading UK house builder sustainability benchmark, NextGeneration, with the support of WWF-UK and the Homes and Communities Agency. NextGeneration is a membership-based organization, consisting of 12 of the UK’s top 25 homebuilders and has been running since 2007. The Report of the 2010 benchmark focused on UK home builders’ progress in respect to the creation of sustainable communities, and found that the industry needs to consider how to integrate sustainable communities’ concepts into design and construction practices, as well as facilitating longer-term community engagement by increased monitoring of legacy as judged by its residents. The full report can be viewed here: http://www.nextgenerationinitiative.co.uk/ckfinder/userfiles/files/Next%20Generation%20Report%202010%20FINALv2.pdf. NextGeneration is one of many examples of community-related advice we provide to clients; others include community strategy and socio-economic performance appraisals. Working with our vendors (suppliers) At Jones Lang LaSalle we see our supply chain as an integral part of our community. With a global vendor database of 30,000 companies, the economic multiplier is clearly significant. We do not have specific policies that require local sourcing nor do we always stipulate preferred vendors, but many are locally-based small and medium-sized enterprises. We are committed to improving the sustainability of our procurement practices and those of our vendors. We are currently deploying our OneView Strategic Sourcing module to find, leverage and better manage our vendor relationships. Each current or prospective vendor must answer three questions on CSR and their responses drive a score that is tied to our supplier records globally. Furthermore, we assign a rating to each individual supplier contract to identify the level of sustainable content delivered in that supplier’s products or services to our clients. We also have criteria (energy and sustainability being one) to consistently rate vendor performance. These scores and criteria form the basis for a vendor recognition program that began in 2010 and will also count toward recognition awards for those who have achieved outstanding results in energy and sustainability. Vendor Code of Conduct Jones Lang LaSalle expects that each of its vendors—meaning any firm or individual providing a product or service to Jones Lang LaSalle or indirectly to our clients as a contractor or subcontractor—will share and embrace the letter and spirit of our commitment to integrity. While vendors are independent entities, their business practices may significantly reflect upon us, our reputation and our brand. Accordingly, we expect all vendors to adhere to the Jones Lang LaSalle Vendor Code of Conduct. We expect our vendors to comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations regarding hazardous materials, air emissions, waste and wastewater discharges, including the manufacture, transportation, storage, disposal and release to the environment of such materials. We post our Vendor Code of Conduct on our public website in some 15 languages (see http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/InvestorPDFs/jll_vendor_code_of_conduct.pdf). 45 Procuring green office supplies During 2010 we identified the top three items procured in our corporate offices by spend. We identified these as office supplies (e.g. paper); kitchen supplies (e.g. staff refreshments and food purchased for catering); and printing equipment (e.g. printer toner). Our procurement of environmentally-friendly office and kitchen supplies accounted for 21% of our total spend on kitchen and office supplies in 2010. We also analyzed our stock of printers – and what percentage was considered environmentally friendly. Of 1768 printers, 927 have some degree of an environmental credential such as an ENERGY STAR certification. During 2010, the Americas Office Services team took the lead on including sustainability requirements in the Request for Proposal (RFP) process relating to office supplies. This helps to inform bidders that sustainability will be a key component in the decision-making process and will be considered as a component of ‘best value criteria’. The RFP required that the vendor has a corporate environmental policy and offers an extensive selection of green products. 46 Workplace, wellbeing and diversity We aim to foster a work environment that values the richness of our differences and reflects our diverse world. By cultivating a dynamic mix of people and ideas, we enrich our Company's client service capabilities, the lives of our employees and the communities in which we operate. We strive to be the employer of choice in our industry. We promote a work environment that attracts, welcomes and retains highly talented and diverse individuals. We encourage and enable them to succeed, treating our people fairly and rewarding their contributions. Given that we operate in 60 countries, we intentionally leave workplace initiatives decentralized so they can conform to different cultural norms and so we can establish programs that will best incorporate the different parts of our diverse workforce. The following section provides a snapshot of our efforts in regards to workspace, wellbeing and diversity. Workplace, wellbeing and diversity Achievements Challenges Diversity  The Employee Engagement Survey revealed that more support was needed around  Women make up 34% of our global workforce and organizational change, and that growth and 25% of our Directors; three women sit on the Board of development needs could be managed more Directors, one of whom is the Chairman of the Board effectively. As a result, managers were given  The Chief Diversity Officer in the U.S. reports directly individual reports that summarized the survey to the Americas CEO outcomes in local markets. From these, action Employee satisfaction and engagement plans were developed to address issues raised corporate-wide and locally.  71% of respondents to our global Employee Engagement Survey agreed that “Overall, I am  One challenge is to ensure that our training extremely satisfied with this Company as a place to practices are shared worldwide. Given work” Sustainability University’s roots in the U.S., we extended its reach to every region by building a  56% of the countries that Jones Lang LaSalle operates dedicated intranet site where recordings and in utilize the ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’ program; and presentations can be accessed. We also plan to the countries that actively support ACT account for increase the number of in-classroom and web87% of global revenue based workshops in each region. Training and development  We spent at least $7.1 million on overall staff training and development  Our Sustainability University attracted a total of 1194 attendees for its monthly Sustainability Sessions, LEED® accreditation webinars and other training Health and safety  Benchmarked for the first time the number of our campaigns (69) that promote safe working and healthy lifestyles around the world 47 2011 CSR targets • Expand ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’ with annual written plans of key goals and activities for each country where possible • Achieve higher rates of global participation in our Sustainability University by end 2012 • Actively promote and capture safe working practices and healthy lifestyles • Achieve an incremental improvement on the 74% of those who feel positive about our commitment to CSR by end 2012 Diversity in our business Diversity is not only a strategic priority for Jones Lang LaSalle, it is a part of our value system. It means creating a culture in which people succeed upon merit and different points of view are valued. It is not about a gender or ethnic-based quota; it is about leveraging the value that each of our employees brings to work. Ultimately, it is about increasing the talent pool from which we recruit and unleashing the full potential of our employees to better serve our clients and shareholders. We have developed a strategy that is aimed toward: • Attracting, developing and retaining top diverse talent at all levels of our Firm; • Creating an inclusive environment that enables all employees to reach their full potential; and • Expanding our relationships with minority and women-owned businesses through our vendor diversity initiatives Changing the Face of Property In 2010, Jones Lang LaSalle launched ‘Changing the Face of Property’, a UK initiative aimed at improving recruitment and retention within the real estate industry through better education, information and support. Recognizing the industry-wide need to increase ethnic, social and gender diversity, we invited a number of other leading property companies – now a core group of seven – to join us in working together to create a strategy for the future. The group has identified a set of initial objectives that include working closely with universities and the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) to open the door to a more diverse workforce. In some aspects of diversity, we have made substantial progress. For instance, most of our country operations are now led by local leaders, which was not the case ten years ago. Within our operations in China, Japan and India, for example, diversity has meant hiring and promoting more nationals into the highest leadership positions. In many respects, however, the composition of our workforce reflects the lack of diversity in the property industry generally. For example, in the UK business only 2% are non-white and less than 15% are female. We are pleased to see the percentage of women in our business grow. Globally, women comprise 34% of our workforce and 25% of our Director population. However, we remain focused on also ensuring that women enjoy successful and long careers and form part of our senior management team, and continue encouraging people from a diverse range of backgrounds to join our business. 48 Diversity in Action – 2010 Summit The Diversity and Inclusion Summit was a structured one-day event, sponsored by the Procter and Gamble (P&G) account team and Jones Lang LaSalle’s Diversity and Inclusion Council. Held in Cincinnati, Ohio in April 2010, the event demonstrated Jones Lang LaSalle’s and P&G’s shared commitment to creating a culture of diversity and inclusion, and to cultivate sourcing and partnering opportunities with diverse suppliers. Over 185 employees, suppliers and P&G representatives attended the summit, which provided the foundations for further diversity and inclusion efforts where we hope to accelerate the execution of our Diversity and Inclusion strategy by deepening accountability, strengthening our culture of inclusion and increasing the diverse representation of talent at all levels of the Company. Diversity at Board level Not only do we advocate a diverse employee and management team, but diversity within our Board of Directors enables Jones Lang LaSalle to champion varying perspectives – and to better understand the global world in which we operate. We have three female members of the Board, one of whom serves as Chairman. Out of eleven total members, two are non-white. The age of Board members ranges from 48 to 73 years old. 49 Chairman of Board Sheila Penrose Jones Lang LaSalle’s Chairman of the Board, Sheila Penrose, is making headlines as an ambassador for diversity in business. In an early 2010 issue of Diversity Executive magazine, Sheila discussed the benefits of having a diversity and inclusion strategy as a core value of an organization. She said: “Business can be a real value in a society, not only in the pure economic sense of providing employment, but by developing people’s skills and leadership capabilities to their full potential and making a contribution that is truly satisfying.” Outside of the Firm, Sheila shares her expertise in a variety of roles as the co-founder and co-chair of Corporate Leadership Center (CLC), a not-for-profit businessacademic forum that offers executive development for top leaders. In this role, Sheila consults with major corporations and academic institutions to assist in developing women and minorities into leadership positions. For the full article, see: http://www.diversityexecutive.com/article.php?article_id=868&start=0&page=1. Employee engagement and satisfaction It is important to the development of our business and fulfillment of our global strategy for renewed growth that we address the needs and concerns of our employees. We conduct regular surveys to understand how our employees view the future of the business. In the most recent survey conduced in 2010, we achieved an average global response rate of 74%, representing a 25% increase from our previous global Employee Engagement Survey. This is significantly higher than the normative response reported by Kenexa, the outside firm we engaged to conduct the survey. With such a strong response rate we can trust that the results are an accurate reflection of employees’ opinions. Despite high levels of employee engagement, the survey also revealed ways in which we can improve in this area and increase the effectiveness of our management teams. Once the results of the Survey were shared with members of our Global Executive Committee, then individual reports were distributed to managers across each country. Local leaders analyzed the survey results and identified areas for improvement based on the less favorable outcomes, such as expressing a need for better opportunities to advance in the Company. 50 The Employee Engagement Survey results show that we emerged from the downturn as a strong and united firm, with about 90% agreeing that “Jones Lang LaSalle has an outstanding future” and that they can see “a clear link between their work and the vision and objectives of the Firm.” It was encouraging that our commitment to ethical business practices and CSR were key contributors to this confident view of our future. Colin Dyer, CEO and President, Jones Lang LaSalle As another measure of employee satisfaction, we reported a 19% turnover during 2010, while we also recorded 3,088 new starters in the Firm. Employee engagement through our ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’ platform A large component of our internal sustainability program, ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’, relates to our employee engagement efforts. ACT encourages behavioral change among employees in contributing to a more sustainable workplace. Much of the program is led by champions on the ground who generate concern for our sustainability impacts through conversation with colleagues, managers and local green teams. ACT was used to demonstrate our sustainability expertise and to reflect that we ‘walk the talk’ by 54% of Jones Lang LaSalle’s operations in 2010. When ACT is compared against revenues from each country, the countries that utilize ACT account for 87% of our global revenue. Our internal sustainability efforts are therefore embedded in the largest revenue-generating operations. We have a great opportunity to demonstrate our competencies to clients through the ACT program, which in turn enables business and helps in sharing best practices. 51 ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’ communication channels We provide a variety of communication channels to capture the imagination of our employees around the globe. Our global intranet, ‘Connect’, acts as the first port of call with links to tools, templates, policies, case studies, and other resources such as our Sustainability University. One of the best channels is our e-Learning Portal, which is a walkthrough virtual tour of the home, office and commuting, demonstrating that the simplest things can make a difference. To view the portal, see: http://www.asiapacific.joneslanglasalle.com/ACTivelearning/index.html In 2010, we published an ACT e-book that provided an overview of our sustainability initiatives from around the world. The Green Office Guide is another example of sharing best practice ideas on sustainability around the office. For the Green Office Guide, go to: http://www.joneslanglasalle.eu/EMEA/EN-GB/Pages/The_Green_Office_Guide.aspx or to see the e-Book: https://delphilil.am.joneslanglasalle.com/apps2/subsites/act/. Recruitment and retention Retaining experienced, talented professionals over the long term is far less expensive than having to replace them frequently. It places less stress on our business, on our client relationships and on the employees who must backfill vacant positions. And, obviously, the best companies – who we want to be our clients – seek to have the best people working with them (and will often pay a premium for their services). Career development Our aim is to establish an effective workforce, instilling a desire for excellence, a willingness to take on individual responsibility and to be flexible, and an acceptance of the importance of team cooperation. Our employees are generally required by their professional bodies to undertake Continuing Professional Development (CPD) as part of their qualification for ongoing professional status. We support the development needs of all staff through a range of approaches including: in-house seminars on technical and topical issues within the real estate, financial and related industries; enabling staff to attend similar events run by other organizations; formal training programs for personal development and technical advancement; and supporting membership of wider professional organizations. Equally, our employees review their own progress and revise performance objectives every half-year. The following graph shows what percentage of employees take part in this process. International Leadership Development Program Our International Leadership Development (ILD) program was re-launched in 2010. The program is designed to provide cross-cultural business understanding to employees seeking international career development experience, offering them the opportunity to build strong connections globally while delivering instant value to participating businesses. ILD enables top performers to spend a year working on an international assignment. 52 Host countries and businesses participate by identifying a short-term vacancy in an important position. Opportunities that have already been identified for 2011 include positions within the International Desk (iDesk) in Washington DC, Project and Development Services in the U.S. and Australia, the International Capital Group based in London, Global Hotels in New York, and in growth markets such as China. Training and development At Jones Lang LaSalle, our approach to training and development focuses on the forward momentum of the Firm by driving a high-performance team culture that delivers superior client service through global people practices. It is our intent that our global practices will attract, reward, develop and retain diverse top talent. With that in mind, the Global Human Resources (HR) Organization continues to be committed to striving toward excellence. With these values at hand, we spent $7.1 million on staff training and development in 2010. Talent development is one of six key priorities defined by Global HR, which include: • Implementation of an enhanced performance management tool • Promotion of a career growth agenda • Management and implementation of succession plans for identified key positions • Increasing diversity in the Director pipeline In addition to these HR-centric activities, Jones Lang LaSalle’s Sustainability University offers a training platform and development opportunities for those around the Firm who want a basic or sophisticated understanding of sustainability. Formed in 2008 as part of our Global Sustainability Commitment, the University continues to go from strength to strength – in 2010 alone, over 1,000 employees attended training sessions. Sustainability Sessions are held monthly and feature a range of topics from energy management, to an update on the Energy and Sustainability Services business, to a focus on internal programs. We record these sessions so employees can access the material through our corporate intranet Participation in Jones Lang LaSalle’s Sustainability University Program Attendance Sustainability Sessions 918 LEED® accreditation 55 Miscellaneous sustainability training 221 Employee benefits and compensation Jones Lang LaSalle is delighted to have won another pension award in the UK. The Jones Lang LaSalle Retirement Benefits Scheme won the prestigious award for Small Scheme of the Year 2010, where ‘Small’ includes assets up to £250 million. The global Employee Engagement Survey revealed scores that were lower than the global benchmark when asked about satisfaction with benefits. Similarly, lower percentages (relative to the global benchmark and other 53 questions asked) also resulted when employees responded about being paid fairly for their work or feeling that compensation plans reward outstanding performance. However, the intent of the survey is to learn of these challenges, so that we can address and improve in weaker areas. In next year’s Report, we look forward to demonstrating progress made around these concerns. Maintaining a safe and healthy working environment We believe that the best health and safety solution is also the best business solution. All incidents involving injury or damage are preventable and no process in any of our workplaces is too urgent that we cannot find a safe way of carrying out that process. This also includes support for a work-life balance, and improvements such as deskside ergonomic assessments to ensure our employees are content in the workplace. Our health and safety policies are driven regionally – and most of the time on a country by country basis. However, in 2010 we benchmarked, for the first-time, the number of campaigns around the world that promote safe working and healthy lifestyles. This amounted to 69 total initiatives and the table below provides just a few examples of the health, safety and wellbeing initiatives we have implemented. Country Example of wellbeing initiatives Employees have access to discounted gym membership, and yoga classes are held in a number India of offices across India. Education sessions were held in seven out of ten offices during 2010, including first aid courses. France In additional, we offer eyesight tests and also annual safe driving training sessions for company car owners. A health bonus called ‘Your Rewards for Health’ is paid based on completion and results for health-related activities. Also, our U.S. health benefits program provides 100% coverage for United States preventive care in all our medical plan options. Coverage includes immunizations, health screenings and routine physicals for all adults and children enrolled in our plans. In England, we regularly run a Cycle2Work scheme supported by the Department of Transport in association with a leading bicycle retailer Halfords. The scheme encourages employees to United Kingdom undertake a healthy and sustainable way of living, allows the Company to receive tax benefits from the salary sacrifice arrangement, and enables employee taxpayers to benefit and save up to 50% off the cost of a new bike. Labor standards and labor relations We have strong policies against forced or compulsory labor; and against child labor. Our employees are not members of any labor unions with the exception of approximately 990 directly reimbursable property maintenance employees in the United States. This amounts to 2.5% of our total global employees. Jones Lang LaSalle has always maintained a healthy relationship with union employees, supported the right to exercise freedom of association, and observed and complied with the provisions expressed in collective bargaining agreements. 54 Early successes in 2011 The following section depicts our achievements so far this year. We look forward to reporting on each initiative in more detail – as well as others from the year – in our next CSR Report. Energy and climate Achievements so far • Named by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as 2011 ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year. This is the second straight year we have won the award, and the third time overall. • We sponsored the Empowerhouse team and provided expertise from our Project and Development Services group to build houses in the 2011 Solar Decathlon, an event hosted by the U.S. Department for Energy that takes place at the National Mall in Washington DC. Our employees also donated $19,000 to this initiative. Client service excellence Achievements so far • Included among 100 leading global companies on the Ethisphere Institute’s annual list of the ‘World's Most Ethical Companies’; it is the fourth consecutive year in which Jones Lang LaSalle has been chosen. • Recognized as a leader in sustainable real estate advice in a report by independent analyst firm Verdantix with 60% of respondents stating they are certain or likely to mandate Jones Lang LaSalle to advise them on the sustainability aspects of real estate projects over the next 18 months. • Launched first application for iPhone® in 2011, which provides quick and extensive access to a range of Jones Lang LaSalle news, research, our Green Blog and other resources. • Named as lead sponsor to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Cities program in May 2011 (see http://www.us.am.joneslanglasalle.com/UnitedStates/EN-US/Pages/cdp-cities.aspx). This partnership enhances our CSR commitment and gives us a lasting, major role in the development of sustainable cities. • LaSalle Investment Management submitted its first Report, documenting our 2010 accomplishments, to PRI (Principles for Responsible Investment), the United Nations’ investor initiative. • Participated, for the first time, in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, which acts as an objective global benchmark for tracking the sustainability performance of leading sustainability-driven companies worldwide. 55 Green buildings Achievements so far • In February 2011, LaSalle became a partner with the Green Rating Alliance and completed 29 European Green Rating™ assessments to date. The aim of the Alliance is for real estate companies to exchange best practices and to provide solutions to the property industry. • Following on from a time utilization study conducted in 2010, we will be entering into a desk sharing environment to maximize space efficiency in the UK. While this will shift how we use our space, it presents us with an opportunity to transform our working environment. • A new ranking of the ‘Greenest Companies’ in real estate by Commercial Property Executive and MultiHousing News places Jones Lang LaSalle number three across all categories, above all of our serviceprovider competitors. Community commitment Achievements so far • In May 2011, we honored our vendors in our Suppliers of Distinction Awards. This is an industry-first recognition program for corporate real estate firms. One of the award categories is for energy and sustainability. • We donated 100 million yen, or $1.25 million, to the Red Cross in support of the Japanese earthquake and tsunami relief efforts. • In Dubai, employees raised $2,850 for the Al Noor Training Center for Children with Special Needs by participating in the Standard Chartered 10K Run during May 2011. • In the UK, we expanded our longstanding membership of Business in the Community to become a London partner in its ‘Business Action on Homelessness’ program, alongside existing commitments to pro-bono work, volunteering and environmental initiatives. Workplace, wellbeing and diversity Achievements so far • Recognized by The Chicago Network as one of the top five performers among Chicago's 50 largest publicly reporting companies for percentage of women directors, executive officers and top earners in its 2010 Census Progress Report. • For the third year in a row, the National Safety Council (NSC) has recognized Jones Lang LaSalle for its safety record through an Occupational Excellence Achievement Award. • In May, our Polish business won a ‘Mama w Pracy’ (Mom at work) award in a competition that recognizes companies with a positive and extraordinary approach to women and mothers. • We continue to attract best employer awards and listings around the world. Notable examples include: Ireland winning second place in the ‘Best Workplaces in Ireland’ list for 2011 (third consecutive year on the list) and our global recognition on FORTUNE’s ‘World’s Most Admired Companies’. 56 LaSalle’s Global Sustainability Platform About LaSalle LaSalle Investment Management (LaSalle) is a global real estate investment manager investing in private and public property equity investments on behalf of pension funds, endowments, foundations, sovereign wealth funds, other institutional investors and high net worth individuals. At year end 2010, LaSalle had investments in a diverse set of property types and in private and public real estate companies across 19 countries worldwide. Our business activities are organized around the three major regions: Asia Pacific; Europe and the Middle East; and North America. LaSalle’s sustainability philosophy and Guiding Principles Our primary responsibility in all of our activities is to deliver superior investment results for our clients. We believe that environmental, social responsibility and corporate governance (ESG) best practices will enhance the performance of our clients' investments. LaSalle's operating philosophy with respect to ESG is to set policy and strategy at the global level, and empower the regional and local teams to develop initiatives and priorities appropriate for each country. We are committed to the following Guiding Principles: • Reduce the environmental impacts of our business operations, in conjunction with our parent company Jones Lang LaSalle. View the expansive efforts of our business at http://www.lasalle.com/Sustainability; • Reduce the environmental impacts of our clients’ properties, monitor the effects of climate change on those properties and improve investment performance; • Deliver the best solutions to our clients through meeting and/or exceeding the requirements of environmental laws and regulations; • Drive thought leadership and innovation on sustainable property investments; and • Collaborate with clients, tenants, property managers and other service providers to ensure the best sustainable solution to the management of properties while maximizing investment performance. LaSalle’s Global Sustainability Committee LaSalle’s sustainability initiatives are led by our 21-member Global Sustainability Committee (GSC). The GSC is chaired by the non-executive Chairman of LaSalle with the sponsorship of the CEO and Global Management Committee. The committee members are from all areas of the business and all parts of the world, and include senior business leaders, as well as LaSalle’s global General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer and global Sustainability Officer (see: http://www.lasalle.com/Sustainability/Pages/GlobalSustainabilityCommittee.aspx). Members of the GSC are responsible for disseminating the sustainability policies, procedures and strategies developed by the Committee and, with the regional senior management, are responsible for developing local initiatives, implementing best practices and integrating sustainability in all activities aligned with investment performance and client contractual obligations. LaSalle’s ESG Policy In 2010, LaSalle developed its global ESG Policy, which can be viewed at http://www.lasalle.com/Sustainability/Pages/OurCommitment.aspx. The policy is in line with our belief that ESG factors can have a positive impact on investment performance to varying degrees across companies, sectors, 57 regions, asset classes and timeframes and should be considered when evaluating real estate securities, real estate-related investments and the management of real estate assets. LaSalle’s sustainability industry involvement and accomplishments LaSalle’s commitment to sustainability is evident through both the organizations in which we participate and the responsible investment initiatives that we implement throughout the life cycle of our investments. The broader components of our sustainability platform are shown below. For examples of our sustainability accomplishments for select investment assets, go to: http://www.lasalle.com/Sustainability/CaseStudies/Pages/CaseStudies.aspx. • United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI): In July 2009, LaSalle Investment Management became a signatory to the UN’s PRI investor initiative (www.unpri.org) and we have since submitted our first PRI report, which documents our 2010 accomplishments. LaSalle’s alignment with this global mandate marked an important commitment by the Firm to begin a process over time wherein ESG criteria become integral to the investment decision criteria of the Firm. As part of our PRI alignment, we have made a commitment to report on our progress toward the six principles of responsible investing. • Greenprint Global Pilot Portfolio: In June 2010, we committed 137 global assets to the Greenprint Index – the first carbon footprint index of the Greenprint Foundation (http://www.greenprintfoundation.org). The Foundation is comprised of several of the larger global investment managers and includes Jones Lang LaSalle’s CEO, Colin Dyer, as a founding member of the Board. The organization’s primary focus is on the energy (carbon) reduction of the portfolio assets of its founding members. LaSalle’s contribution to this pilot Index represents our first meaningful step toward measuring and encouraging energy reduction in our global portfolios. • Green Rating Alliance: In February of 2011, LaSalle became a partner with Green Rating Alliance. To date, we have completed 29 European Green Rating™ assessments. The aim of the Alliance is for real estate companies to join forces and exchange best practices to bring concrete solutions on sustainability to the property industry. The Green Rating™ assessment, available in 12 countries across Europe, is a decision-making tool which offers a new approach to assessing and improving the environmental performance of buildings. LaSalle’s acquisition checklist for responsible investing When acquiring a new property, LaSalle utilizes an environmental acquisition checklist adapted to specific country and regional requirements in order to evaluate property environmental performance. For certain investments, this may also include a benchmark (e.g. LEED®) gap assessment for acquisitions. The results of these environmental analyses are included in the acquisition underwriting, which is subsequently presented to the regional investment committees as part of the overall investment decision reviews. LaSalle’s GreenGuide for sustainable property operations We have developed a guide for our portfolio and asset managers to educate them about a variety of low or nocost sustainable operational ‘best practices’. LaSalle’s GreenGuide was developed to help reduce energy and water consumption, increase recycling efforts, and reduce the overall carbon footprint of our managed real estate assets. In so doing, we anticipate that further benefits will include reduced operating expenses, increased valuations, and more competitive properties in their respective markets. The guide can be viewed at: http://www.lasalle.com/Sustainability/Pages/GreenGuide.aspx. 58 LaSalle’s Green Lease Guidelines In 2010, we developed the internal global Green Lease Guidelines for our regional teams to use when negotiating tenant contracts at our direct investment assets. These guidelines mutually and beneficially promote the acceptance and implementation of ESG issues for both LaSalle and our tenants. 59 External stakeholder feedback – responding to Ceres Jones Lang LaSalle is a member of the Ceres Company Network. As a member, we are committed to making public our CSR mission and values, regular sustainability reporting, a rigorous multi-stakeholder engagement process and continuous performance improvements. Ceres reviewed an outline of our draft 2010 CSR Report and provided feedback on our sustainability performance and disclosure. The structure of this feedback is based on the key expectations laid out in ‘The 21st Century Corporation: The Ceres Roadmap for Sustainability’, in the areas of governance for sustainability, stakeholder engagement, disclosure and performance. The following sections provide an overview of all feedback received from Ceres in their September 2010 memorandum entitled 'Analysis of Jones Lang LaSalle’s sustainability strategy, performance and disclosure’, as well as our response. What Ceres told us Our response Governance “Consider opportunities to institutionalize As we consider it is a topic of sufficient importance, we have made reporting on the Board’s involvement in the Company’s sustainability matters a regular part of the full Board agenda rather than a part of one of sustainability efforts by including specific its Committees. Lauralee Martin, our Chief Operating and Financial Officer and a language in the charter of one of its Board member of our Board, is the liaison between the Board and our ESS group and CSR Committees.” teams. “Link executive compensation and We have initiated dialogue within our senior management team regarding the linkage of sustainability criteria.” executive compensation and sustainability criteria, and will update on progress in our next Report. Certain aspects of our sustainability program, such as promotion of our environmental and ethics matters, are specifically included in the annual performance goals of particular executives, and the achievement of these and other objectives determines their annual incentive (bonus) compensation. “Clarify how sustainability factors are Our mandatory annual Form 10-K disclosure recognizes environmental liabilities and considered in decision making across the climate change as part of other internal operating risk factors. In particular, it Company; e.g. enterprise risk management acknowledges that 1) we may face liability with respect to environmental issues processes.” occurring at properties that we manage or occupy; and 2) that the burden and cost to the Firm of climate change disclosure and carbon reporting will increase over time. These two drivers underpin our efforts to reduce our own and our clients’ carbon footprint (and therefore help to manage potential exposure to liability and compliance costs). Our Form 10-K also describes how our Global Operating Committee is responsible for overall enterprise risk management, which covers various aspects of sustainability and CSR issues, including environmental and ethics risks. Stakeholder engagement “Consider opportunities to educate its Our CEO and Investor Relations team regularly meet with investors and analysts to investors on the business opportunities and discuss a range of issues, including CSR. In December 2010 we published a paper ROI associated with sustainability through entitled ‘The Business Case for Corporate Social Responsibility at Jones Lang LaSalle’. its analyst calls, AGMs and investor Written by our CEO, the paper outlines how CSR adds value to our business and how presentations.” our strategic areas of focus create long-term shareholder value. “The Ceres stakeholder team could be used In determining the material CSR issues for this Report and our broader CSR strategy, to help Jones Lang LaSalle determine its we engaged with Ceres to gain feedback on our material issues. We have noted that it material sustainability priorities, provide would be preferable to include more external stakeholder feedback (outside Ceres’ feedback on key environmental and social employees) in future materiality assessments, and at an earlier stage in the reporting issues and policies.” process. “Include a more detailed stakeholder map We have included a stakeholder map in this year’s Report. It details the nature of our that lists out its various constituency key stakeholder relationships, including those that we deem to be a priority. groups, including details on how these groups have been engaged on sustainability issues and results of the engagement.” 60 Disclosure “Provide more balanced discussion of some In this year’s CSR Report we have addressed specific challenges encountered in of the challenges that it faces with regards relation to our material impact areas. On our website, we will also detail our thoughts on to its sustainability vision.” broader industry challenges. “Include discussion about other Our materiality process did not specifically identify water, waste and hazardous materials environmental impacts (besides energy and as a material impact. However, the process did identify ‘green buildings’ as a material GHG emissions) including water impact, which incorporates design considerations such as water, waste and materials. consumption, waste and hazardous materials.” “Externally verify material sustainability We have chosen not to externally verify our CSR Report this year. We recognize the disclosures.” value of conducting external third party assurance or verification, however our priority is to establish a robust strategy and effective reporting systems and processes that have a chance to be properly tested before any external verification. Operations “Set an aggressive, quantifiable and longWe have put significant resources into establishing strong systems and processes to term target to reduce its internal GHG enable the measurement of our own GHG emissions as well as those within our clients’ emissions as well as the emissions of its real estate portfolios. We anticipate that our baselines will be sufficiently robust and client portfolio.” reliable to set a quantifiable GHG emission reduction target in the near term. “Set supplemental targets on energy Similarly to the Ceres feedback point on quantifiable GHG targets above, we recognize, efficiency and renewable energy.” first and foremost, the importance of establishing an accurate baseline before committing to targets and have therefore prioritized, again, establishing robust systems and processes in anticipation of target setting in the near term. “Consider setting a target to get a certain To help our clients achieve a greater proportion of LEED®-certified buildings in their percentage of owned and managed real portfolios, we have increased efforts around growing the number of our own Accredited estate portfolio certified to LEED® or best Professionals with a goal to reach 1,000 by end 2012. For our own space, we also strive available green building standards.” to occupy sustainable certified space (LEED®, BREEAM, ENERGY STAR, etc.) where possible. Both these goals are noted in our Global Sustainability Commitment. “Set aggressive goals to reduce waste Our materiality process did not specifically identify waste as a material impact of our across owned and managed portfolio.” direct operations or our client’s operations. However, in both our owned and managed portfolios, we are committed to providing solutions that reduce waste disposal to landfill. “Put in place a policy that explicitly We are signatories to the UN Global Compact. As part of this commitment, we adhere to recognizes the human rights of its workers its ten principles, including those relating to human rights and labor (Principles 1 to 6). and partners across the enterprise.” Please see our GRI content index for references to sections of this Report that demonstrate our management approach to addressing all UN Global Compact Principles. We do not have a policy dedicated to human rights, although many aspects of our Code of Business Ethics relate to the various rights of our employees. Our views on child labor and forced labor of any kind can also be found in the Code. Supply chain “Include reference to sustainability as a part References to sustainability are now included in our Vendor Code of Conduct, which is of its Vendor Code of Conduct.” available in multiple languages on our website. “Disclose its tier one and two suppliers, as Each current or prospective supplier (vendor) to Jones Lang LaSalle must answer three well as the high-level results of its supplier questions on CSR. Their responses drive a score that is tied to their supplier record ratings.” globally across our Company. Energy and sustainability also constitute one of six criteria we use to consistently rate the performance of our suppliers. Scores across these criteria form the basis for a supplier recognition program that we began in 2010. We have not disclosed results of these ratings, but can look to do so in the future. “Consider options to work with suppliers to Further to the above, we have a special recognition award for suppliers (vendors) that help address their own real estate-related have achieved outstanding results in energy and sustainability. We also ask that all suppliers adhere to the Vendor Code of Conduct and expect our suppliers to comply with 61 footprint and impacts.” all applicable environmental laws and regulations. Products and services “Disclose more aggregated information on In this year’s CSR Report we have included data which shows our Energy and the uptake of Energy and Sustainability Sustainability Services market penetration. We are also investigating ways in which to Services and the impact on clients.” report the impact of our services on clients – such as through averted CO2 emissions and cost savings – and hope to provide more of this information in the future. “Set a revenue target for the Energy and We are striving to have Energy and/or Sustainability as a factor in all of our service Sustainability Services business.” offers, and to have it recognized as a differentiator by our clients. “Develop a vision on how to engage with We are expanding our Strategic Consulting capability globally to provide additional clients on a broad range of environmental services around regeneration, infrastructure, water, etc. to address the broader issues beyond energy, potentially including sustainability needs for our clients. water and waste management.” “Disclose timelines and milestones relating We are sponsor to the Cleantech Open Programs in the United States and China, which to Jones Lang LaSalle’s Global focus on identifying and supporting the commercial success of new technologies that are Sustainability Commitment focus on helping us move toward a lower carbon/zero carbon world. developing new buildings with a zero carbon impact on the environment.” “LaSalle Investment should set a target to In the U.S., LaSalle is leading a pilot effort to track energy and sustainability reduce energy consumption across its real improvement upgrades and savings for assets. A database tracks all sustainability estate portfolio.” upgrades for each asset – including cost, simple payback, and resulting energy and operational savings. Transportation and logistics “Think through how sustainable We are working with several clients to roll out electric vehicle charging stations into transportation issues could be addressed in offices and retail space in the United States. managed assets and client portfolio.” Employees “Create programs to engage employees on The ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’ program is our flagship employee CSR engagement sustainability issues outside the initiative. In 2010 we developed an e-book providing an overview of ACT-related activity workplace.” across the Firm’s offices and in employees’ homes. We have also set a corporate target to expand our internal employee engagement program with annual written plans that will facilitate closer engagement with our people on CSR matters. For the past several years, Jones Lang LaSalle has run Earth Hour through the ACT platform, where one of the main goals is to ‘choose to support Earth Hour at home with our friends and families’. “Provide more details on whether and how In a recent survey of our Directors, we learned that 22% have some form of a CSR sustainability has been integrated in objective incorporated into their individual performance management plan. While there is employee goal setting and performance no requirement that CSR issues are part of employee objective setting, it is clear to us evaluation.” that the growing prominence of our Energy and Sustainability Services (ESS) means that more and more staff will have some form of interaction with our CSR agenda, whether this is through ESS solutions provided to clients or through actions taken to mitigate our own operational impacts. In addition, as part of our annual performance review and bonus determination process, every employee is required to re-certify their commitment to the Code of Business Ethics. The Code specifies that in the event of an ethics violation, everyone is subject to disciplinary measures, including a reduction or elimination of any annual bonus and up to termination of employment. 62 About this report Scope and boundary of report This Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report presents our engagement in the material social, economic, environmental and governance matters that confront our Firm. It also documents our performance during the financial year ending December 31, 2010. The Report serves as an update from our last publication in May 2010. We plan to publish an annual update of this Report. The Report comprises the global reach of our real estate services across three principal business segments: the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific. This Report also reflects the activities of LaSalle Investment Management (LaSalle), which is a global business and represents our fourth principal business segment. External assurance We have chosen not to undertake a formal external assurance for this Report. However, we have applied strict procedures in regards to the compilation of facts and data, and are confident that our Report represents a true and fair reflection of our performance at the time of publication. As our CSR efforts evolve, we will explore the possibility of seeking external assurance for future reports. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Jones Lang LaSalle has elected to report in line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 sustainability reporting guidelines. GRI is recognized as the leading sustainability reporting framework. In preparing this Report, we have also utilized the GRI’s Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement (CRESS), which provides sector-specific guidance to companies involved in construction and real estate activities. We have been actively involved in the development of CRESS and believe this to be one of the first reports prepared in line with its guidelines. A detailed GRI content index can be found towards the end of this Report. For further information about the GRI, visit http://www.globalreporting.org. 63 Data summary The following table provides an summary overview of data presented in this report. Data qualifying notes for specific indicators can be found throughout the report. 2010 2009 Energy & climate Client energy savings (million kWh) 912 836 Client energy savings ($m) 128 100 Client GHG emissions reduction (metric tons CO2e) 563,000 465,000 Corporate office GHG emissions GHG Protocol Scope 1, 2 & 3 (metric tons CO2e) 45,108 40,482 Corporate office GHG emissions intensity (metric tons CO2e / corporate office employee) 3.5 3.3 Corporate office GHG emission intensity (kgCO2e / m2 / year) 118 115 Client properties submitted to Jones Lang LaSalle environmental performance benchmark (million sq ft) 32 Not available Client excellence Number of industry initiatives related to sustainability in which Jones Lang LaSalle has been involved 38 Not available Number of thought leadership papers 20 Not available Number of sustainability awards 28 Not available Number of Energy & Sustainability Services employees 116 Not available Number of Energy & Sustainability Services clients 196 Not available Ratio of Energy & Sustainability Services clients to employees 0.6 Not available Number of public policy positions and participation in lobbying relating to sustainability 12 Not available % employees who believe Jones Lang LaSalle shows a commitment to ethical conduct (%) 85 No 2009 survey % employees who feel leadership is committed to providing high quality services to external clients (%) 85 No 2009 survey Ratio of ethics investigations to number of employees – see next page for details 0.0019 0.0027 Ratio of actions taken against ethics violations to total number of investigations see next page for details 0.68 0.65 Green buildings Number of buildings where performance improvements have been achieved through Jones Lang LaSalle’s 442 Not available Energy and Sustainability Services team (new and existing buildings) Total number of employees achieving green building accreditation (cumulative to date) 624 Not available Community commitment Corporate charitable initiative spend ($m) 1.86m Not available Green office and kitchen supply spend ($) 0.71m Not available Green office and kitchen supply spend (% of total spend) 21 Not available Workplace, wellbeing & diversity Employees by gender (% female) 34 Not available Directors by gender (% female) 25 Not available Board members by gender (% female) 27 Not available Employees by age (% under 25) 7 Not available Employees by age (% 25-34) 34 Not available Employees by age (% 35-44) 25 Not available Employees by age (% 45-55) 22 Not available Employees by age (% over 55) 12 Not available Employee turnover (%) 19 Not available % employees who can see a clear link between their work and the vision of Jones Lang LaSalle (%) 72 No 2009 survey % employees who feel the people they work with cooperate to get the job done (%) 82 No 2009 survey % employees who received performance and career development reviews (%) 83 No 2009 survey 64 ‘Ethics Everywhere’ data summary Type of concern investigated 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Improper employment practices or behavior, including 39 43 18 30 14 22 unprofessional conduct (whether by managers or between employees) Employee theft, personal conflicts of interest or other 16 21 15 8 12 7 employee fraud (including expense account and timecard fraud) Improper vendor payments or conflicts of interest, or 6 6 8 4 12 11 other improper conduct to or by vendors Improper client payments or conflicts of interest, or 0 0 4 4 8 20 other improper conduct to or by clients Inappropriate use of the Internet or a business 3 8 3 8 3 5 computer Inappropriate entertainment 0 0 2 0 2 1 Compliance with competition laws/broker requirements 1 2 0 0 2 3 Falsification of books and records 5 2 1 0 1 0 Illegal drug use at work; inappropriate use of alcohol 1 3 1 2 1 0 Employment health or safety issues from ethics 4 1 0 0 0 5 perspective Privacy issues 0 0 1 0 0 1 Miscellaneous matters (including non-ethics matters 2 14 10 8 10 6 referred to HR for resolution) Total number of investigations 77 100 63 64 65 81 Total number of employees (approximate at 40,000 37,000 36,000 33,000 25,000 22,000 December 31, and rounded to nearest 1,000) Ratio of investigations to number of employees .0019 .0027 .0018 .0019 .0026 .0037 Action taken 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Terminations of employment 4 26 8 13 9 8 Job changes or transfers; changes to procedures 8 5 1 2 7 3 Employee arrests and criminal matters referred to 1 1 0 6* 3 2 prosecutors (in addition to termination of employment) Formal warnings, deferred promotions and/or reduced 5 10 4 2 3 8 bonuses Matters referred to a government agency or other legal 2 0 1 0 0 1 actions taken Additional ethics awareness training sessions 32 23 26 19 16 8 Total 52 65 40 40 38 30 Ratio of actions taken to total number of .68 .65 .63 .63 .58 .37 investigations Data qualification note: Number with asterisk (*) includes one ex-employee from a 2006 investigation and one matter involving a non-employee 65 GRI content index The following table outlines our compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement (CRESS) guidelines (2011). Based on this analysis we believe that this report achieves GRI Application Level ‘C’. This assessment has not been externally verified by GRI. Please note that GRI disclosures identified as ‘not material’ have not been listed in the table below. Furthermore, a number of indicators – whilst material – have not been reported due to the unavailability of data. A full list of GRI disclosures can be found on the GRI website. Key: Fully reported Partially reported Profile Disclosures GRI disclosure Status Where to find it Strategy and analysis 1.1 CEO statement A message from our CEO Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization About us 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services About us 2.3 Operational structure About us 2.4 Location of headquarters About us 2.5 Countries of operation About us 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form About us 2.7 Markets served About us 2.8 Scale of organization About us 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period About us regarding size, structure, or ownership Inside front cover 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period A message from our CEO 66 Report parameters Report profile About this report: 3.1 Reporting period Scope and boundary of report About this report: 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Scope and boundary of report About this report: 3.3 Reporting cycle Scope and boundary of report 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Contact us contents Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: • Determining materiality CSR and sustainability strategy: • Prioritizing topics within the report Process to define material impacts • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report About this report: 3.6 Boundary of the report Scope and boundary of report About this report: 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Scope and boundary of report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities About this report: that can significantly affect comparability from period to Scope and boundary of report period and/or between organizations 3.10 Effects of any re-statements of information provided in None in reporting period earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in None in reporting period the scope, boundary, or measurement methods GRI Content Index 3.12 GRI Content Index GRI content index Governance, commitments and engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure Governance 4.2 Indication whether the Chair of the highest governance Governance body is also an executive officer 4.3 Number of Board members that are independent and/or Governance non-executive Directors 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to Contact us: Communicating with our provide recommendations or direction to the highest Board of Directors governance body 67 Stakeholder engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the CSR and sustainability strategy: organization Our stakeholders 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders CSR and sustainability strategy: with whom to engage Our stakeholders Performance indicators Economic Economic performance Economic value generated and distributed, About us: including revenues, operating costs, employee Jones Lang LaSalle annual EC1 compensation, donations and other community Report 2010 (financial investments, retained earnings, and payments to statements and supplementary capital providers and governments. (Core) data) Financial implications and other risks and Carbon Disclosure Project 2010 EC2 opportunities for the organisation's activities due to submission climate change. (Core) Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit plan Workplace, wellbeing and diversity: EC3 obligations. (Core) Employee benefits Environmental Energy Energy and climate: Understanding Direct energy consumption by primary energy EN3 our emissions and reporting source. (Core) performance Energy and climate: Understanding Indirect energy consumption by primary source. EN4 our emissions and reporting (Core) performance Energy and climate: Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency EN5 Reducing our own carbon footprint improvements. (Additional) Energy management for our clients Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and Energy and climate: Renewable EN6 reductions in energy requirements as a result of energy solutions these initiatives. (Additional) Energy and climate: Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption EN7 Reducing our own carbon footprint and reductions achieved. (Additional) Energy management for our clients Emissions, effluents, and waste 68 Energy and climate: Understanding Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas our emissions and reporting EN16 emissions by weight. (Core) performance Energy and climate: Understanding Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions our emissions and reporting EN17 by weight. (Core) performance Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Energy and climate: EN18 and reductions achieved. (Additional) Reducing our own carbon footprint Energy management for our clients Energy and climate: Understanding Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from our emissions and reporting CRE3 buildings. (Core) performance Products and services Green buildings: Initiatives to enhance and mitigate environmental Leading the way with green EN26 impacts of products and services, and extent of building certifications impact mitigation. (Core) Our real estate services and the property lifecycle Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonClient service excellence: ‘Ethics EN28 compliance with environmental laws and everywhere’ regulations. (Core) Social performance: Labor practices and decent work Employment Total workforce by employment type, employment About us LA1 contract, and region, broken down by gender Workplace, wellbeing and diversity: (Core) Diversity in our business Workplace, wellbeing and diversity: Total number and rate of new employee hires LA2 Employee engagement and turnover by age group, gender, and region. (Core) satisfaction Labor / management relations Percentage of employees covered by collective Workplace, wellbeing and diversity: LA4 bargaining agreements. (Core) Labor standards and labor relations Training and education Average hours of training per year per employee by Workplace, wellbeing and diversity: LA10 gender and by employee category. (Core) Training and development Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of Workplace, wellbeing and diversity: LA11 employees and assist them in managing career Career development endings. (Additional) 69 Percentage of employees receiving regular Workplace, wellbeing and diversity: LA12 performance and career development reviews, by Career development gender. (Additional) Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown Workplace, wellbeing and diversity: of employees per employee category according to LA13 Diversity in our business gender, age group, minority group membership, Diversity at Board level and other indicators of diversity. (Core) Social performance: Society Community Operations with significant potential and actual SO9 negative and positive impacts on local Community commitment communities. (Core) Corruption Percentage of employees trained in Workplace, wellbeing and diversity: SO3 organisation's anti-corruption policies and ‘Ethics Everywhere’ procedures. (Core) Actions taken in response to incidents of Data Summary: SO4 corruption. (Core) ‘Ethics Everywhere’ data summary Public policy Public policy positions and participation in public Client service excellence: Shaping SO5 policy development and lobbying. (Core) policy from the front Total value of financial and in-kind contributions Client service excellence: Shaping SO6 to political parties, politicians, and related policy from the front institutions by country. (Additional) Anti-competitive behavior Total number of legal actions for antiClient service excellence: ‘Ethics SO7 competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly Everywhere’ practices and their outcomes. (Additional) Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total Client service excellence: ‘Ethics SO8 number of non-monetary sanctions for nonEverywhere’ compliance with laws and regulations. (Core) Social performance: Product responsibility Product and service labelling Type and number of sustainability certification, Green buildings: Leading the way rating and labeling schemes for new with green building certifications CRE8 construction, management, occupation and redevelopment. (Core) Marketing communications 70 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Client service excellence: ‘Ethics PR7 marketing communications, including Everywhere’ advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. (Additional) 71 Feedback form This Report demonstrates our commitment to CSR. We have taken action at a global and local level to address our five material impact areas, but to continue driving change through an open stakeholder dialogue we would like to invite feedback on the content of this Report. We will use it constructively to inform our CSR strategy and future reporting. We value the feedback that our stakeholders have to offer us and will use it constructively to inform the future reports and the development of our CSR strategy. We have created a feedback form which can be found at http://www.joneslanglasalle.com/csr to capture stakeholder view and opinion on our CSR reporting and strategy. 72 Contact us We encourage our stakeholders to contact us for more information about CSR at Jones Lang LaSalle, to give suggestions on how we can develop our CSR program, and to learn more about our sustainability services. Please contact: Dan Probst Sarah Nicholls Global Head of Energy and Sustainability Services Corporate Consultant Jones Lang LaSalle Jones Lang LaSalle 200 East Randolph Drive 22 Hanover Square Chicago, IL 60601 London W1S 1JA +1 312 782 5800 +44 20 7399 5244 dan.probst@am.jll.com sarah.nicholls@eu.jll.com www.joneslanglasalle.com www.joneslanglasalle.com Communicating with our Board of Directors Shareholders and interested parties may communicate directly with our Board of Directors. If you wish to do so, please send an e-mail to boardofdirectors@am.jll.com, which our Corporate Secretary will forward to all Directors. If you wish to communicate only with our non-executive Directors, or specifically with any Director individually (including our Chairman of the Board, who serves as the Lead Independent Director, or the Chairman of any of our Committees), please note on your e-mail. Alternatively, you may send a communication by mail to any or all of our Directors, or specifically to any or all of our non-executive Directors, care of our Corporate Secretary at the address of our principal executive office set forth above, and our Corporate Secretary will forward it unopened to the intended recipient(s). COP YRIGHT © JONES LANG LASALLE IP , INC. 2011. This publication is the sole property of Jones Lang LaSalle IP , Inc. and must not be copied, reproduced or transmitted in any for m or by any means, either in whole or in part, without the prior written consent of Jones Lang LaSalle IP , Inc. The infor mation contained in this publication has been obtained from sources generally regarded to be reliable. However, no representation is made, or warranty given, in respect of the accuracy o f this information. We would like to be informed o f any inaccuracies so that we may correct them. Jones Lang LaSalle does not accept any liability in negligence or otherwise for any loss or damage suffered by any party resulting from reliance on this publication. 73
