SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 A sculpture that produces energy When kids play on the sculpture they activate the integrated LED lights. The sculpture won the JEC Innovation Award for 2010 Photo: 3XN Sustainability is a driver for business and innovation Table of contents 8 Key activities in 2010 10 Our sustainability approach 12 Sustainable urban planning 22 Diversity and our people 24 CO2 accounts 26 Research and education Photo: Scanpix / Morten Larsen Introduction Sustainability drives innovation to work side-by-side when it comes to sustainable As we experience an increasing demand for sustainable solutions. solutions across business lines and regions, sustainability Being a member of the UN Global Compact and the creates new business opportunities and drives innovaUN Caring for Climate underlines our engagement and tion. commitment to working with sustainability. Our comIt forces us to think differently and provide solutions mitment to these international principles reminds us that that integrate renewable energy, take due consideration working with sustainability is an ongoing process in which of climate change, and reduce water consumption. It also we can always improve our performance. invites us to find solutions that are healthy, responsible, and inviting for users and surrounding communities alike. Yours sincerely Our multidisciplinary set of skills is a prerequisite to deliver sustainable solutions to our customers. Our many competent employees in engineering, environmental sciences, social sciences, economy and planning have Lars Peter Søbye, President, CEO Worldwide consultancy services COWI approaches challenges set by customers from every angle in order to provide consultancy services – from economic analyses through environmental impact assessments to designing major bridges Economics, management and planning Economic analyses and tools Financial analyses and law Evaluation and impact assessment Organisational development and social studies Communication and policy advice Transport planning and modelling Public transport and ITS Spatial planning and urban development Water and environment Health, safety and environment Water supply and wastewater Water and natural resources management Environmental impact assessment and monitoring Solid waste management Contaminated sites Strategic environmental consultancy Geographical information and IT GIS and IT 3D visualisation and modelling Maps and geodata products Mapping and data capture Surveying Property rights and land administration SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 | OUR BUSINESS | 7 Industry and energy Industry Energy Oil and gas Bridge, tunnel and marine structures Bridges Tunnels Structures for infrastructure Offshore wind farms Marine, coastal and geotechnical engineering Operation and maintenance Risk management and analysis Service life design Buildings Building design Sustainable and green buildings Fire engineering Hospitals and health care Project management consultancy High-rise Master planning and urban development Refurbishment and retrofit COWI’s broad palette of consultancy services means that we can tackle professional challenges from a range of vantage points Railways, roads and airports Roads and highways Railways Light rails Metros Airports Photo: COWI Key activities in 2010 During 2010, COWI experienced an increasing interest in sustainable solutions that integrate social, environmental and economic considerations in the final product New management board To realise our ambition, sustainability has been selected We define sustainability as integrating social, environmenas one of the six pillars in COWI’s overall future strategy. tal and economic considerations in the final product. This means that all business units and regions are To promote sustainability in our business activities, defining how sustainability can work as a business COWI established a Sustainability and Climate Change differentiator in their markets. Management Board. The Board ensures an overall coordination of relevant business initiatives across Business related results business units and regions. The Board consists of top During 2010, COWI focused on climate change adaplevel management as we believe it is important to anchor tation, climate mitigation, sustainable buildings and decisions related to sustainability at the highest possible sustainable urban planning. Within all four areas, we level in the organisation. have positioned ourselves as strong consultants and have won assignments in all our international regions. Integrated in our strategy The Sustainability Report 2010 highlights how urban It is COWI’s ambition that sustainability is an integrated development has successfully integrated sustainability part of everything we do. Both internally and externally. as a business differentiator. The report highlights how Sustainability in Salman Bay The master plan for Salman Bay in Saudi Arabia is one of the projects in which COWI is integrating sustainability and promoting it through innovative design as well as education and awareness through research centres and collaborative Annemarie Meisling community projects. Group Sustainability Director Customers are interested in sustainable solutions that give a return on investment in the long run sustainability has been integrated in projects in Sweden, With this initiative we hope to inspire more women to Norway, Denmark, Saudi Arabia, China and Serbia. become managers as we believe diversity is important at all levels in the organisation. Network activities on sustainability To push the sustainability agenda internally in COWI, The hotline on business ethics is working well a number of meetings have been held in COWI’s COWI’s hotline on anti-corruption and business ethics sustainability network. In 2010, the meetings focused has been open since 2009. The hotline can be used by on sustainability in marine projects, concrete structures, employees and other stakeholders to report on unethical tunnels and infrastructure. The network consists of close behaviour such as corruption, financial fraud and discrimito 100 employees from various departments who are nation. important change agents. In 2010, the hotline was used five times, and it served its purpose well. Launch of supplier code of conduct The hotline has been approved by the Danish Data COWI wishes to collaborate with suppliers who promote Protection Agency and as such meets the highest a healthy environment, good working conditions and an standards of data protection of employees. honest conduct of business. In 2010, COWI developed a supplier Code of Conduct Reducing our own footprint which has initially been sent to all Danish suppliers. COWI In COWI we are continously working to reduce our CO2 will be in dialogue with the suppliers to ensure compliemissions and environmental footprint. The COWI offices ance with the policy. in Denmark and Norway have published CO2 accounts which help keep track of performance. Women in management During 2010, COWI continued its endeavours to increase UN Global Compact the number of women in management positions under COWI’s sustainability report is also used as communithe initiative ‘Charter for more women in management’, cation on progress to the UN Caring for Climate and the which is supported by the Confederation of Danish UN Global Compact. COWI has been a member of the Industries. COWI Group President and CEO, Lars-Peter Global Compact since 2006. Søbye, served as mentor for a female manager in The report and additional information on sustainability Danish pension fund ATP. In turn, one of COWI’s female in COWI can be found at www.cowi.com/sustainability. managers was mentored by the CEO of ATP. Our sustainability approach We work to integrate considerations of people, planet and profit in all areas where we have an influence ESS OU SIN R P U OUR OUR PLANET PLE B Environment Climate change EO B Water Cradle-to-cradle PEOPLE Diversity PROFIT Health Anti-corruption OUR OUR Safety business ethics ES ITI SO CI SO CI AC IL ET Y R F OU Integrating sustainability This report highlights some of the results COWI achieved COWI wishes to integrate sustainability, so it becomes during 2010 in the four areas. an integrated part of everything we do. This means You can read more about sustainable business on integrating it with our business activities, in relation to our page 12, our people on page 22, our facilities on page employees, in the management of our facilities and in our 24, and our activities relating to our society on page 26. interaction with society. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 | OUR APPROACH | 11 Our main influence lies in the work we perform for our customers Policy for sustainable development We wish to further contribute to sustainable development In the COWI Group we will take into account environmenthrough constant improvement of our services, through tal and social aspects in connection with the tasks we our operation and through dialogue and co-operation perform for our customers. We consider this a fundamenwith the world around us. tal obligation for both the companies in the Group and for In the COWI Group we will direct our employees’ attenour employees. tion to and enhance their knowledge about environmental The COWI Group considers the adherence to local legisand social conditions in order to further the consideration lation and international conventions a matter of course. for sustainable development in all of our activities. Photo: Niels Aage Skovbo SUSTAINABLE URBAN planning Sustainable urban planning means integrating social, environmental and economic considerations in our final solutions. COWI works with sustainable urban planning all over the world sustainable urban planning Roskilde, Denmark Brøset, Norway Helsingborg, Sweden Integrating music and Developing a carbonIntegrating renewable culture in urban planning, neutral neighbourhood, energy and street life, page 15 page 15 page 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 | OUR BUSINESS | 13 six examples of projects in sustainable urban planning Belgrade, Serbia Salman Bay, Saudi Arabia Zhangjiagang, China Using the river for Developing affordable Designing environmenheating and cooling, housing for citizens, tally-friendly EcoCities, page 16 page 8 and 17 page 16 Mette Mogensen Architect and R&D Manager SS OU SS OU INE R INE R US P US P cities for the future OUR OUR PLANET PLE PLE B Environment Climate change EO B PLANET EO Water Cradle-to-cradle PEOPLE Diversity PROFIT PEOPLE PROFIT Today more than half of the world’s inhabitants live in Health Anti-corruption OUR OUR Safety business ethics ES ES ITI ITI urban areas, so it is important that we design CI ET Y our cities FA C SO IL SO CI ET Y IL FA C OUR OUR and urban areas in a sustainable way sustainable urban planning The good city is a healthy and sustainable place where Mette Mogensen, one of COWI’s experts in sustainable people feel welcome and can explore new things. urban development, explains COWI’s approach: “We promote a new form of sustainable thinking. Back Listening to the user in the 1990s, sustainability was about growing your own People like to experience cities at a leisurely pace. Over food in the backyard and feeling guilty if you drove your the past 50 years, however, traffic congestion, high-rises car to work. But sustainability should not be about spendand parking lots have forced out the plazas and squares ing less, eating less and holding your breath. It should be where people once congregated. about doing things in a smarter way. In our Generation When COWI develops urban areas we emphasise the 2.0 of sustainability we want to make a positive difference importance of listening to the people who will be living in to society instead of doing less harm. Obviously, new the city and its buildings. We invite citizens to be involved technology, renewable energy, smart grids and electric throughout the design and implementation process. cars are integrated into the solution in order to make it Diversity and access for everyone are also important easier for people to make the right choices.” focus areas. Blog on urban development Sustainability has to be fun Mette Mogensen is blogging on sustainability and urban It is important that sustainability is not seen as a heavy development. Find her Danish blog on byudvikling. burden. If you want to promote sustainable living, it should wordpress.com. be easy and accessible for the people visiting and living in the cities. Sustainability means considering all relevant social, environmental and financial aspects of the project A street full of life The H+ project in Helsingborg is one of Sweden’s largest urban development projects. COWI is part of a team developing one of the main streets called Bredgatan. The street has its own vision to be creative, sustainable and full of life. A strong environmental agenda supports the vision and requires the area to integrate renewable energy, support a healthy lifestyle and include green areas where possible. Facts: 1,000,000 m2 Photo: Kanozi architects SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 | OUR BUSINESS | 15 Music and sustainability Musicon is a former industrial area in Roskilde, Denmark, which is being transformed into a cultural and musical centre. Sustainability is considered during construction, operation and maintenance. It will be integrated in relation to surfaces, materials, remediation of soil and water, lighting and roads. Sustainable transportation and green zones are part of the development. Facts: 15,000 m2, 650 residential houses, 2,000 cultural jobs. Photo: COWI A carbon-neutral neighbourhood So far it is still a field, but residents in the proposed Norwegian suburb Brøset will be able to live sustainably without having to give up modern conveniences. The plan for the new settlement is based on a sustainability approach which challenges the idea that sustainability is synonymous with privation and restrictions. Instead, modern technologies will make it possible for everyone in Brøset to live a sustainable life. Facts: 195,000 m2, 2,700 new homes, a school for 500-600 pupils, a nursing home, day-care facilities and assisted living facilities. Photo: Trondheim Municipality SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 | OUR BUSINESS | 16 Using the river for cooling and heating In the future, the Danube River will be an important source for recreation as well as district cooling and heating. Even though the river runs through central Belgrade, Serbia, a vast harbour and industrial area prevent residents and tourists from accessing the waterfront. The project, which is a collaboration between COWI Liebeskind and Gehl Architects, will change that by opening for commercial and residential development. Facts: 4.7 km2 Photo: Studio Daniel Libeskind EcoCities in China Some 300 million Chinese will move from rural areas to the city during the next ten years. Environmentally-friendly EcoCities are springing up all over China and share an aim to make cities liveable with as little pollution as possible. COWI is working with the municipalities in Zhangjiagang and Huoxian to set achievable environmental targets that can make a big difference for the cities. Energy efficiency is a key parameter for the success. Facts: 60,000 residents, 30,000 jobs. Photo: Stig Stasig Nathan Cox Head of Department Master Planning It is our multidisciplinary skills that enable us to deliver sustainable services Planning for climate changes Multidisciplinary approach sustainable urban planning Planning for the adverse impacts of climate changes Working with sustainable urban development requires a becomes increasingly important in urban development multidisciplinary approach. It is one of COWI’s strengths projects. This includes taking into account the risks of that we can provide in-house expertise in a large number increased water levels, flooding, massive rainfalls and of very different areas. drought. According to COWI’s Head of the Master Planning Carbon neutrality is a priority for many of our customDepartment in Bahrain, Nathan Cox, sustainability and ers and our solutions integrate the reduction of CO2 multidisciplinary skills are interdependent. emissions through solar energy, geothermal heating, wind “In undertaking a major project like Salman Bay in Saudi power and other renewable sources of energy. Arabia, we drew upon our many in-house specialists in the disciplines of master planning, urban design, landscape The environmental footprint architecture, transportation, environmental science, marine The layout and design of buildings and local infrastructure engineering, public health, engineering and architecture. It’s have important implications on the environment. An been critical to the project’s success that the complemenenvironmental assessment is part of all sustainable tary disciplines work side by side.” urban planning projects. COWI also looks for solutions that create a positive impact on the environment. If, for example, contaminated soil is found on a development site, COWI will look for ways to remediate it as an integrated part of the project. Affordable housing, Salman Bay, Saudi Arabia COWI was honoured with the ‘Best Master Planned Community’ at the 2010 Bahrain Affordable Housing Summit for the Salman Bay project. The success story stems from establishing an understanding of the client’s needs early in the project and achieving those interests as our own success criteria. Sustainability is integrated from the outset. COWI is delivering what is good for the client who is driven to respect the environment and to deliver what is required by the community. Facts: 14 km2, iconic tourist attractions, five-star hotels, marinas, private islands, around 90,000 inhabitants. Photo: Stig Stasig Kristian Kolstrup Project Manager Economics Management and Planning We need to be more specific about the financial benefits of sustainable solutions Sustainable solutions pay off in the long run The visual effect sustainable urban planning Is it more cost-effective to locate residential houses on The computer programme is based on aerial photos the east or the west side of the river? From an environof the area, adding a visual element to it. Just like a mental point-of-view, where should we locate office computer game, the user can shift focus and look at buildings? various parts of the urban area in question. The user can There are always a number of ideas on the table during also click on a building or a road and move it to another an urban planning process. Where should homes be location and explore if the change will minimise environlocated and how can they mesh with existing or planned mental costs. The costs relate to areas such as electricity, infrastructure? heating, drainage, sewage, climate change adaptation, COWI has developed an urban planning programme wind, humidity, temperature, groundwater levels, risk of that helps investors and city planners try out various flooding, the need to clean contaminated soil etc. options and create a match between the economy, the environment and the overall vision of the project. Financial feasibility The financial benefits of our sustainable solutions need Makes communication easier to be clearly articulated and defined. If not, there is a The tool calculates the economic consequences of difrisk that they will not be prioritised during an economic ferent scenarios. For example, it can calculate how costs downturn. “It is important that sustainability is seen and environmental benefits vary depending on the mix as a ‘need to have’ and not a ‘nice to have’. We can of residential areas, offices, retail and cultural institutions. only achieve this by being very clear about the financial “The customer appreciates having this information at a benefits such as a less expensive energy bill in the long very early stage,” says Kristian Kolstrup, Project Manager run,” says Kristian Kolstrup, Project Manager, Economics, in COWI. “We make the planning process easier as the Management and Planning. parties involved have a common language when discussing various solutions. We see that the tool minimises the risk of misunderstandings.” Climate change adaptation The tool has been used to estimate the costs of climate change adaption in an urban setting. This included how to place the roads in order to allow for rainwater to flow towards the sea and how to best protect the buildings from rising sea levels and heavy rain. Photo: COWI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 | OUR BUSINESS | 19 Marine project The tool has been used on a harbour area in Denmark. It helped the developer and the investor design the site in the most cost-effective way taking due consideration of the environment. The tool provided the parties with a common language and a unified set of data, which aided the collaboration. Photo: Peter Sørensen Calculating the sustainable profit The model is as easy to use as a computer game. Users navigate an aerial photo, and new parts of the urban area become visible. They can click on a building and move it to another location, and the costs and environmental implication of the change are automatically calculated. Photo: COWI A carbon neutral house The Green Lighthouse is Denmark's first public carbon neutral house, located at the University of Copenhagen Photo: Adam Mørk / Velux Diversity helps us to deliver more innovative solutions Lone Hass Executive Vice President People Relations and Responsibility SS OU SS OU INE R INE R US P US P DIVERSITY means BUSINESS OUR OUR PLANET PLE PLE B Environment Climate change EO B PLANET EO Water Cradle-to-cradle PEOPLE Diversity PROFIT PEOPLE PROFIT Diversity is a competitive advantage. By actively building Health Anti-corruption OUR OUR Safety business ethics ES ES ITI ITI diverse teams, we secure the best results for CI ET our customers Y RF AC SO IL SO CI ET Y IL FA C OU OUR diversity AND OUR PEOPLE Diversity has many faces in COWI. We are aiming to pipeline of successors. It is the goal that the pipeline for improve the gender balance and work towards a high top level managers matches the gender balance in the degree of cultural diversity. We are also focusing on business area. There is still room for improvement in this mixing people with different competencies and eduarea for COWI, and we therefore need to maintain a focus cational backgrounds. on women in management in the coming years. Diversity is a business parameter A new transparent career system “In COWI we are working to increase the level of diversity, In 2010, COWI implemented a new career system. Four because we believe that everyone should have equal distinct career paths have been defined including line opportunities and because it makes simple business management, project management, specialists and sense,” says Lone Hass, Executive Vice President. business development. Each career path clearly defines “We want our customers to reap the benefits from the what is expected of the employee at the various levels. many different skills we have in the organisation, and we The transparency in the system makes it easier for all experience that our solutions improve when we bring our employees, regardless of their gender, cultural background workforce’s diversity to the table.” and education to navigate in the system and define where they want their career to take them. Succession planning It is COWI’s goal that the gender balance in the management group reflects the gender balance among the employees. In order to improve the gender balance, all top level managers have to include women in their Employees and successors in the COWI Group 2010 Being mentored by a CEO 2010 2009 As part of COWI’s focus on women in management, our Head of Department for Hospitals and Employees in % Men 67% 68% Health Buildings, Helle Gaub, entered into a Women 33% 32% mentorship arrangement with the CEO of the Danish pension fund ATP. Helle Gaub met Successors in % Men 72% 75% with the CEO on several occasions and Women 28% 25% discussed her path in the career system. “The meetings helped me define what is needed to take the last steps towards a During 2010, the share of female successors in the COWI Group top level managerial position. Both in increased by three per cent to 28 per cent. As such we are getting closer to our goal of ensuring that the number of female successors terms of skills and mind-set.” Similarly, reflects the number of female employees, which was 33 per cent in COWI Group President and CEO, 2010. Lars-Peter Søbye, served as a mentor for a female manager in ATP. Photo: Ulrik Jantzen SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 | OUR PEOPLE | 23 Charter for women in management COWI has signed the ‘Charter for more women in management’, and according to COWI Group President and CEO, Lars-Peter Søbye, there are a number of business advantages in having a more diverse management group. “Our decisions and solutions are often better when we bring our workforce’s diversity into play. This includes education, gender, ethnical background, age, technical skills and so forth.” Photo: Stig Stasig More women than men in COWI China All managers in the Chinese office are women.“To keep a mixed gender balance and secure diversity in the management group, we probably have to look for men to match the very competent women we have in management positions today,” says Managing Director Mads Jensen Møller. Photo: Morten Larsen Barbro Sørlid Engh Senior Vice President Environmental and Social Planning and Managing Director SS OU SS OU INE R INE R US P US P Greening our facilities OUR B PLANET Environment Climate change Water Cradle-to-cradle EO PLE OUR B PLANET EO PLE PEOPLE Reducing our own CO2 emissions is a win win Diversity PROFIT PEOPLE PROFIT Health Anti-corruption OUR OUR Safety business ethics ES ES situation. It is good for the environment and CI ET it SO C ITI IL SO CI ET IL ITI C Y FA Y FA saves money at the same time OUR OUR Environmental certification in Norway CO2 accounts Reducing our CO2 emissions continues to be a high priority in COWI. To keep track of our performance, two The major offices in Norway are certified with the of the biggest regions in COWI have developed CO2 Norwegian ‘Environmental Lighthouse’ certification. This accounts. More regions will follow. means that each of the certified offices has appointed a person to ensure continuous improvements in the areas Decreasing CO2 emissions in Denmark of working environment, procurement, waste, energy, The offices in Denmark are working actively to reduce transportation, emissions to air and water as well as their carbon footprint, and 2010 saw significant reducaesthetics. tions in their CO2 emissions. The total amount of energy for heat and electricity has decreased by 11 per cent from Calculating CO2 emissions in Norway 2009 to 2010, reducing the equivalent CO2 emission with In 2010, COWI Norway prepared its first CO2 account 240 kg per employee or 525 tonnes in total. In COWI's showing the amount of CO2 per employee. COWI headquarters in Lyngby, the reduction is even higher per Norway will continue to prepare CO2 accounts in the employee, mainly due to a transition to LED lighting. future in order to compare performance from year to year. Improvements in the area of transportation Electric and hybrid cars lead the way In 2010, 145 equivalent tonnes of CO2 were saved on The Norwegian offices are working actively on reducing transportation compared to in 2009. The reduction is their CO2 footprint. In 2010, 25 per cent of the cars partly due to a slight shift from car to train, and it correaquired for common use were electric or hybrid cars. The sponds to savings of 65 kilos per employee. office is also using video conferencing to a higher extent Air travel continues to be the biggest challenge in in order to decrease CO2 emissions related to air travel. COWI Denmark as it accounts for around 50 per cent of They are also working to reduce the use of paper, by the total CO2 emissions. having two-sided printing as default, and is focusing on a high quality source separation of waste. Recycling and water All in all, recycling in COWI Denmark has increased by 35 per cent, water consumption has decreased by 2 per cent, and the overall equivalent CO2 emission per employee has fallen by 6.5 per cent from 3.88 tonnes in 2009 to 3.63 tonnes in 2010. Going green helps us save money SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 | OUR FACILITIES | 25 Environmental consciousness in Oman The Muscat office recycles paper, reviews use of concrete and other high CO2 materials and develops in-house expertise in low energy design. Externally, the Oman office lobbies for statutory energy savings directives and participates in organisations where they can make a difference such as the Environmental Society of Oman. Photo: Stig Stasig Climate impact per employee in Denmark Climate impact per employee in Norway, tonnes CO2* Tonnes CO2 5.0 2010 4.5 4.0 4.41 Electricity 0.704 3.88 Air travel 0.489 3.5 3.63 Cars 0.377 3.0 Number of employees 783 2.5 2.0 1.5 *The Norwegian figures are based on the recommended CO2 factors 1.0 given by the Norwegian authorities. *The figures for electricity and cars cover the three main offices, Oslo, 0.5 Fredrikstad and Trondheim. An average from these three locations is 0.0 used as a basis for COWI Norway. 2008 2009 2010 Stig P. Christensen R&D Director SS OU SS OU INE R INE R US P US P SUPPORTING EDUCATION OUR OUR PLANET PLE PLE B Environment Climate change EO B PLANET EO Water Cradle-to-cradle PEOPLE Diversity PROFIT PEOPLE PROFIT Engaging in research and development helps Health Anti-corruption OUR OUR Safety business ethics ES ES ITI ITI COWI deliver cutting edge knowledge to its CI ET Y SO FA C IL SO CI ET Y IL FA C OUR OUR customers Smart grid collaboration resEARCH AND EDUCATION COWI is a knowledge-based company, and we depend on the latest research in our areas of work. As a result, The smart grid collaboration consists of 32 groups from we support collaboration with universities, students and leading universities, research institutions, energy compaother companies on a variety of topics. The support nies and the Danish Ministry of Science, Technology and comes directly from our business areas or through Innovation. It is a EUR 16 million investment and COWI COWIfonden (the COWIfoundation), which is a majority A/S is contributing with some EUR 135,000. owner of COWI A/S. The COWIfoundation Intelligent energy systems An objective of the COWIfoundation is to support COWI is taking part in a large-scale Danish research research and development in the engineering sector. project on intelligent energy systems, also called smartThis is accomplished through support to projects that lie grids. The purpose of the collaboration is to come up within our professional disciplines and areas of operation. with a solution on how to increase the use of renewable These include engineering, environmental, economic energy, reduce greenhouse gases and make Denmark and social sciences. In 2010, the COWIfoundation less dependent on fossil fuels. provided EUR 193,000 to support 15 different projects. The smart grid solution integrates two-way communication between energy-producing companies and consumers. It will enable the system to increase the use of renewable energy when it is available and make consumers pay a higher price if they use energy during peak hours. It is a natural choice to support research institutions and universities, as we depend on the latest research Engaging children in science and technology Stimulating children’s interest in science and technology is a long-term investment in our future employees. In 2010, COWI sponsored the First Lego League, which is a robotics programme for 9 to 16-year-olds. It is a competition to get children excited about science and technology and encourage their talent for finding innovative solutions. The competition also teaches children valuable skills for their future careers and is quite popular with 15,000 teams in 50 countries. Photo: Stig Stasig SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 | OUR SOCIETY | 27 Engineers without borders The COWIfoundation supported the NGO Engineers Without Borders. The mission of the NGO is to improve quality of life in disadvantaged communities through education and implementation of sustainable engineering projects. Recent projects include water and sanitation in Haiti, building a primary school in Sierra Leone and reconstructing a bridge in Liberia. Photo: Stig Stasig Earthquake assistance to Haiti Images from the earthquake in Haiti touched us all. Two COWI employees, Randi Jahnsen and Jan Andreassen, wanted to help the victims and were immediately granted leave from COWI to work for the Norwegian Church Aid in Port Au Prince for a total of six months. In Port Au Prince they assisted within their field of expertise by coordinating water resources and improving sanitation facilities. Photo: Arne Grieg Riisnæs Sustainability At www.cowi.com/sustainability you can read more about sustainability. You can also contact Annemarie Meisling, Group Sustainability Director CVR-nr. 32 89 29 73 Photo: 3XN
