GRI* Table 2010 Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC 1. Strategy and Analysis 1 1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the yes Sustainability Report 4-5, 8-10 organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy 1 2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. yes Sustainability Report 8-10, 25-26 8 Annual Report 83-84 2. Organizational Profile 2 1 Name of the organization. yes Annual Report Cover 2 2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. yes Annual Report Cover, 10-16 2 3 Operational structure of the organization, including yes Annual Report 58-61, 106-107 main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2 4 Location of organization’s headquarters. yes Annual Report 106-107 2 5 Number of countries where the organization operates, yes Annual Report 99-100 and names of countries with either major operations Sustainability Report 26-29 or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2 6 Nature of ownership and legal form. yes Annual Report 53 2 7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, secyes Annual Report 65, 99-100 tors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2 8 Scale of the reporting organization, including: yes Annual Report Cover – – Number of employees – – Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net ­r evenues (for public sector organizations) – – Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) – – Quantity of products or services provided 2 9 Significant changes during the reporting period regaryes Annual Report 82-83 ding size, structure, or ownership, including: www.coop.ch/medien – – The location of, or changes in operations, including (Medienkonferenzen / Bilanzmefacility openings, closings, and expansions dienkonferenz 2010 / Dokumenta– – Changes in the share capital structure and other capital tion zum Download, page 18-21) formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) 2 10 Awards received in the reporting period. yes Annual Report 13, 25 3. Report Parameters Report Profile 3 1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for informayes Sustainability Report Cover tion provided. 3 2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). yes Sustainability Report Cover 3 3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) yes Sustainability Report Cover 3 4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its yes Sustainability Report 67 contents. Annual Report Cover * T he GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) is an international organiza° Status: Information available: yes tion drawing up generally recognized guidelines for sustainability Information partly available: (yes) reporting. This overview shows where the present report gives Not relevant to the Coop: irrelevant / none information on GRI criteria. Information missing: no 1 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2010 | GRI Table | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC Report Scope and Boundary 3 5 Process for defining report content, including: yes Sustainability Report Cover, – – Determining materiality 5, 10-12 – – Prioritizing topics within the report – – Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report 3 6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsiyes Boundary of the Sustainability diaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See Report: GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. Sustainability Report Cover; Deviations: footnotes 55-56, 58-59 Boundary of the Annual Report: Annual Report 99-100 3 7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary yes Sustainability Report Cover of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3 8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, yes Annual Report 82-83 leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3 9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calcu(yes) Sustainability Report 55-56 lations, including assumptions and techniques under(footnotes) lying estimations applied to the compilation of the www.coop.ch/report Indicators and other information in the report. Explain (Sustainability Report 2009, 37) any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3 10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of inforyes Annual Report 82-83 mation provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3 11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in yes Sustainability Report 55-56 the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI Context Index 3 12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosuyes www.coop.ch/gri-ungc res in the report: – – Strategy and Analysis 1.1 – 1.2 – – Organizational Profile 2.1 – 2.10 – – Report Parameters 3.1 – 3.13 – – Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 – 4.17 – – Disclosure of Management Approach, per category – – Core Performance Indicators – – Any GRI Additional Indicators that were included – – Any GRI Sector Supplement Indicators included in the report Assurance 3 13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking yes Annual Report 55, 57 external assurance for the report 2 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2010 | GRI Table | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC 4. Governance, Commitments, Engagement Governance 4 1 Governance structure of the organization, including yes Annual Report 53-57 committees under the highest governance body resSustainability Report 6 ponsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or www.coop.ch/principles organiza­t ional oversight. (Strategy and organization / Internal organization of sustainability) 4 2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance yes Annual Report 54 body is also an executive officer. (and, if so, their ­f unction within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) 4 3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, yes Annual Report 54-55 state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4 4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide yes Annual Report 57 recommendations or direction to the highest goverwww.coop.ch/organe nance body. (Genossenschaft / Statuten) 4 5 Linkage between compensation for members of the yes Annual Report 57 highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4 6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to yes Annual Report 55 ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4 7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise yes Annual Report 53-55 of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4 8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, yes Sustainability Report 5, 8-9 codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, www.coop.ch/principles environmental, and social performance and the status (Guidelines / Business principles) of their implementation. 4 9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeyes Sustainability Report 9-10 ing the organization’s identification and management of ­e conomic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4 10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s yes Annual Report 55 own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitments to External Initiatives 4 11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary yes Sustainability Report 8-9, 25-26 7 approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 4 12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and yes Annual Report throughout the text social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which Sustainability Report 22-23, 28, the organization subscribes or endorses. 65-66 4 13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associayes Sustainability Report 5, 29-30 tions) and/or national/international advocacy organizawww.coop.ch/stakeholder tions in which the organization: – – Has positions in governance bodies – – Participates in projects or committees – – Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues – – Views membership as strategic 3 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2010 | GRI Table | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC Stakeholder-Engagement 4 14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. yes Sustainability Report 11-12, 25-26 www.coop.ch/stakeholder 4 15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders yes Sustainability Report Cover, 11-12 with whom to engage. 4 16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including yes www.coop.ch/stakeholder frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4 17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through yes Sustainability Report 11-12, 25-26 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has www.coop.ch/stakeholder responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 5. Disclosures on Management Approach 5 DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC yes Sustainability Report 8-9, 13-14 5 DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN yes Sustainability Report 8-9, 13-16, 53 7, 8, 9 www.coop.ch/principles 5 DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA yes Annual Report 44-45 3, 6 Sustainability Report 8-9, 14, 48 www.coop.ch/arbeitgeber www.coop.ch/principles 5 DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR yes Sustainability Report 26-30, 67 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 www.coop.ch/principles (Guidelines) 5 DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO yes Sustainability Report 15, 61-63 10 5 DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR yes Sustainability Report 16, 18 www.coop.ch/principles (Quality assurance) Performance Indicators > Economic Aspect: Economic Performance 5 EC1 C Direct economic value generated and distributed, yes Annual Report 69 including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. 5 EC2 C Financial implications and other risks and opportuyes Sustainability Report 28, 53, 63 7, 8 nities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. 5 EC3 C Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan yes www.coop.ch/arbeitgeber ­o bligations. (Gesamtarbeitsvertrag) 5 EC4 C Significant financial assistance received from governyes Sustainability Report 14-15, 54 ment. www.coop.ch/co2-vision www.coop.ch/energiesparen 4 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2010 | GRI Table | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC Aspect: Market Presence 5 EC5 A Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared yes Annual Report 44-45 6 to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. 5 EC6 C Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on localyes Sustainability Report 18-19 ly-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. www.coop.ch/principles www.coop.ch/naturaplan (Regionale Bio-Produkte) 5 EC7 C Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior no Reason for omission: management hired from the local community at signifiNot material because, out of a cant locations of operation. total of 53 559 Coop employees, only 2 991 work abroad, of which only a small number are Swiss. Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts 5 EC8 C Development and impact of infrastructure investments yes Sustainability Report 63-65 and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. 5 EC9 A Understanding and describing significant indirect eco­ yes Sustainability Report 62-64 nomic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Performance Indicators > Environment Aspect: Materials 5 EN1 C Materials used by weight or volume. no Reason for omission: 8 Not available, although a project looking into packaging (weight, volume) is underway; information will be reported in 2012. 5 EN2 C Percentage of materials used that are recycled input yes Sustainability Report 13, 59-60 8, 9 materials. www.coop.ch/report (Sustainability Report 2009, 12) Where possible, Coop opts for recycled materials in its range: over 50% of the paper range is made of recycled paper, while carrier bags and mineral water bottles are made entirely of recycled PET. Aspect: Energy 5 EN3 C Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. yes Sustainability Report 55-56 8 5 EN4 C Indirect energy consumption by primary source. yes Sustainability Report 55-56 5 EN5 A Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improyes Sustainability Report 54-57 8, 9 vements. 5 EN6 A Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable yes Sustainability Report 19-20, 54-55 8, 9 energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 5 EN7 A Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and yes Sustainability Report 18-19 8, 9 reductions achieved. 5 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2010 | GRI Table | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC Aspect: Water 5 EN8 C Total water withdrawal by source. yes Sustainability Report 56 8 As the respective municipality has jurisdiction over water supplies, Coop sources 100% of the water required directly from the municipalities. 5 EN9 A Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of none water. 5 EN10 A Percentage and total volume of water recycled and irrelevant reused. Aspect: Biodiversity 5 EN11 C Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, none Not relevant for Coop because or adyescent to, protected areas and areas of high bio­ sales outlets and production diversity value outside protected areas. facilities are located only on land earmarked for this purpose in spatial planning. 5 EN12 C Description of significant impacts of activities, proyes Sustainability Report 28-30, 63 8 ducts, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 5 EN13 A Habitats protected or restored. none 5 EN14 A Strategies, current actions, and future plans for manayes Sustainability Report 62 8 ging impacts on biodiversity. www.coop.ch/report (Sustainability Report 2009, 10) 5 EN15 A Number of IUCN Red List species and national consernone vation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Aspect: Emission, Effluents and Waste 5 EN16 C Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by yes Sustainability Report 54, 56 8 weight. 5 EN17 C Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by yes Sustainability Report 19, 56 8 weight. 5 EN18 A Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and yes Sustainability Report 14-15, 54-57 8, 9 reductions achieved. 5 EN19 C Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. no Reason for omission: Not material because Coop only uses modern refrigerants such as R-404A or CO 2 and these are nonozone depleting. 5 EN20 C NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type no The feasibility of recording and weight. further significant air emissions is being examined. The first data for transport by truck were recorded in a test phase. 5 EN21 C Total water discharge by quality and destination. yes Sustainability Report 56 In accordance with Swiss legislation, all waste water goes into the public sewage system. 5 EN22 C Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. yes Sustainability Report 59-60 8 5 EN23 C Total number and volume of significant spills. yes There were no unplanned releases in the reporting period. 6 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2010 | GRI Table | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC 5 EN24 A Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated yes Sustainability Report 59-60 8 waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. 5 EN25 A Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value none of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. Aspect: Products and Services 5 EN26 C Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of proyes Sustainability Report 16, 18, 22-23 8, 9 ducts and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 5 EN27 C Percentage of products sold and their packaging materiyes Sustainability Report 59-60 8 als that are reclaimed by category Aspect: Compliance 5 EN28 C Monetary value of significant fines and total number of yes The environmental laws and regunon-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with envilations were observed during the ronmental laws and regulations. reporting period; there were no fines or sanctions. Aspect: Transport 5 EN29 A Significant environmental impacts of transporting yes Sustainability Report 18-19, 56, 58 8 products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Aspect: Overall 5 EN30 A Total environmental protection expenditures and no investments by type. Performance Indicators > Human Rights Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices 5 HR1 C Percentage and total number of significant investment irrelevant In the countries in which Coop agreements that include human rights clauses or that operates, no human rights probhave undergone human rights screening. lems were identified in the retail sector. 5 HR2 C Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors yes Sustainability Report 26 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. 5 HR3 A Total hours of employee training on policies and no procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Aspect: Non-discrimination 5 HR4 C Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions yes There were no cases of discriminataken. tion and therefore no measures in this regard in the reporting period. Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 5 HR5 C Operations identified in which the right to exercise yes Sustainability Report 26 1, 3 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Aspect: Child Labor 5 HR6 C Operations identified as having significant risk for yes Sustainability Report 26, 28-29 1, 5 i­ncidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. 7 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2010 | GRI Table | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor 5 HR7 C Operations identified as having significant risk for inciyes Sustainability Report 26, 28-29 1, 4 dents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Aspect: Security Practices 5 HR8 A Percentage of security personnel trained in the irrelevant organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Aspect: Indigenous Rights 5 HR9 A Total number of incidents of violations involving rights none of indigenous people and actions taken. Performance Indicators > Labor Practices & Decent Work Aspect: Employment 5 LA1 C Total workforce by employment type, employment conyes Annual Report 70-71 tract, and region. Number of part-time workers in 2010: 9 305. 5 LA2 C Total number and rate of employee turnover by age (yes) Annual Report 70-71 6 group, gender, and region. A breakdown by age group, gender and region is not currently available; information will be reported in 2012. 5 LA3 A Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not yes Sustainability Report 48 6 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by www.coop.ch/arbeitgeber major operations (Gesamtarbeitsvertrag) Aspect: Labor / Management Relations 5 LA4 C Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaiyes Annual Report 45 1, 3 ning agreements. Sustainability Report 48 5 LA5 C Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant opeyes www.coop.ch/arbeitgeber rational changes, including whether it is specified in (Gesamtarbeitsvertrag) collective agreements. Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety 5 LA6 A Percentage of total workforce represented in formal no joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. 5 LA7 C Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and yes Sustainability Report 51 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. Work-related illnesses: none; Workplace-related deaths: none; Working days lost owing to workrelated accidents: 28 816. 5 LA8 C Education, training, counseling, prevention, and riskyes www.coop.ch/report control programs in place to assist workforce members, (Sustainability Report 2007, 45) their families, or community members regarding serious www.coop.ch/nachhaltigkeit diseases. (Alle Themen / Mitarbeitende & Gesellschaft / Arbeitgeberin) 5 LA9 A Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements yes www.coop.ch/arbeitgeber with trade unions. (Gesamtarbeitsvertrag) 8 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2010 | GRI Table | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC Aspect: Training and Education 5 LA10 C Average hours of training per year per employee by yes Sustainability Report 51 employee category. 5 LA11 A Programs for skills management and lifelong learning yes Sustainability Report 49-52 that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. 5 LA12 A Percentage of employees receiving regular performance yes Annual Report 44-45 and career development reviews. Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 5 LA13 C Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of yes Annual Report 54-56, 71 1, 6 employees per category according to gender, age group, Sustainability Report 51 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. 5 LA14 C Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee no Reason of omission: 1, 6 ­c ategory. proprietary business data Performance Indicators > Product Responsibility Aspect: Customer Health and Safety 5 PR1 C Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of yes www.coop.ch/report products and services are assessed for improvement, (Sustainability Report 2009, 50) and percentage of significant products and services www.coop.ch/principles categories subject to such procedures. (Quality assurance) 5 PR2 A Total number of incidents of non-compliance with none regula­t ions and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Aspect: Product and Service Labeling 5 PR3 C Type of product and service information required by yes www.coop.ch/foodprofil 8 procedures, and percentage of significant products and www.coop.ch/principles services subject to such information requirements. (Guidelines) 5 PR4 A Total number of incidents of non-compliance with reguno lations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. 5 PR5 A Practices related to customer satisfaction, including yes Annual Report 22 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Aspect: Marketing Communications 5 PR6 C Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and volunno Reason for omission: tary codes related to marketing communications, incluNot material because Swiss laws ding advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. already set narrow limits in terms of what constitutes ethically impeccable and “honest” advertising. Therefore, Coop has not usually set down in writing any rules over and above those laws. 5 PR7 A Total number of incidents of non-compliance with no regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Aspect: Customer Privacy 5 PR8 A Total number of substantiated complaints regarding no ­b reaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. 9 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2010 | GRI Table | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC Aspect: Compliance 5 PR9 C Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance yes The laws and regulations were with laws and regulations concerning the provision and observed during the reporting use of products and services. period; there were no fines or sanctions. Performance Indicators > Society Aspect: Community 5 SO1 C Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and yes Coop does not have any such practices that assess and manage the impacts of opeprogrammes, as the relevant rations on communities, including entering, operating, areas are covered in full by Swiss and exiting. legislation. Aspect: Corruption 5 SO2 C Percentage and total number of business units analyno Reason for omission: zed for risks related to corruption. Not material because the countries in which Coop operates achieved good results in the Transparency International Corruption Index. 5 SO3 C Percentage of employees trained in organization’s antiyes www.coop.ch/principles corruption policies and procedures. (Guidelines / Business principles) The principles apply to all Coop employees. 5 SO4 C Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. yes There were no cases of corruption 10 and therefore no measures in this regard in the reporting period. Aspect: Public Policy 5 SO5 C Public policy positions and participation in public poliyes Annual Report 8-9 10 cy development and lobbying. Sustainability Report 29-30 www.coop.ch/stakeholder 5 SO6 A Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to none 10 political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior 5 SO7 A Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive none 10 behav­i or, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Aspect: Compliance 5 SO8 C Monetary value of significant fines and total number of yes The laws and regulations were non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws observed during the reporting and regulations. period; there were no fines or sanctions. 10 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2010 | GRI Table |
