Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Content 2 9 16 22 34 37 Identity Priority Relevance Essence Communication Evaluation and strategy 2011-2012: How to read the energy performance this report of buildings To help us maintain consistency and stay in line with our new policy of sustainable development, this year we have taken our Sustainable Message Background and issues Fighting deprivation Incorporating Strengthening Reporting process Development Report a step further and for 2010 it is structured around from the Chairmen and social exclusion environmental and social the dialogue the Group’s four fundamental principles: Relevance, Essence, Communication risks into our ﬁnancing with our stakeholders Providing a range Auditor’s Report and Evaluation. This new approach – a reﬂection of our ongoing efforts activities Our strategy for of products and services Adapting our services in the area of sustainable development – enables us to focus (a) on how sustainable development suited to all our customers to the diverse needs Developing a relationship Table of indicators we integrate sustainable development into the everyday exercise of our of our customers Investing in a socially of trust with our customers responsible manner banking activities and (b) on how we guide our customers in their own Our key indicators Controlling energy consumption in our own Supporting Table for correspondence sustainable development processes, all the while maintaining the quality buildings the development of green Conducting our business of reference systems of the information we provide with regard to our direct impact. growth responsibly Glossary Consequently, this report is organised as follows: Acting as a responsible • section one details our new strategy on sustainable development; business • section two focuses on our major priority for 2011-2012: the energy performance of buildings; • the other sections of the report cover the programmes put in place for each of the four principles that guide the way we approach sustainable development. To make it easier to understand, deﬁnitions of certain of the terms or expressions featured in the body of the report are set out in more detail in the glossary on page 46. As we have done since 2008 and to limit our direct impact on the environment, we have again not printed any hard copy versions of our Sustainable Development Report 2010 this year, preferring instead to opt for an electronic version only. This version is available from the Dexia website at www.dexia.com. 1 Evaluation Communication Essence Relevance Priority 2011-2012 IDENTITY AND STRATEGY Identity and strategy Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 2 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 IDENTITY AND STRATEGY Message from the Chairmen The ﬁnancial crisis has had a profound effect on the way our customers go about their business, conﬁrming sustainable development as one of the major elements of their expectations. Anxious to develop a lasting relationship of trust with them over the long term, we moved to strengthen Priority 2011-2012 our position in the summer of 2010 by adopting a new framework and thereby renewing our commitment to sustainable development. This aim is part of the continuity of Dexia’s long-established commitment in this area, demonstrated by its support over many years of the major international initiatives on sustainable development, and in particular the United Nations Global Compact. In 2009, we embarked on a far-reaching transformation of our company, refocusing on our Relevance traditional business lines and investing in our main commercial franchises. As part of this process, we have redeﬁned our sustainable development offering around one essential question: what is the best way to assist and guide our customers in their own sustainable development endeavours as we continue to carry out our profession as bankers? We have clariﬁed our approach by basing it around four fundamental principles shared by the whole of the Group: Relevance, Essence, Communication and Evaluation. Jean-Luc Dehaene Pierre Mariani Essence Chairman Chief Executive This commitment constitutes the backbone of our new policy on sustainable development and of the Board of Directors Officer crystallises our aspirations in this area: to bring added value to all of our stakeholders – and our customers in particular – through our products and our services and by the example we set in the way we conduct ourselves. Our aim has been to focus our new approach in a highly operational manner by selecting a priority theme for action in 2011-2012: “the energy performance of buildings”. Communication Over the past few years, Dexia has introduced numerous programmes in the area of the energy performance of buildings. As part of these initiatives, we have developed a range of innovative products and services, such as the “photovoltaic panels” insurance cover provided by Dexia Insurance Belgium. This policy won the Decavi Innovation Trophy in 2010. There was also the integrated offering for the energy refurbishment of heritage buildings, developed by Dexia Crédit Local in partnership with Promodul. Today, our aim is to strengthen our positioning on this topical issue which is of interest to all of our customers, both private and public. Evaluation 3 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 IDENTITY AND STRATEGY Our strategy for sustainable development In 2010 we began thinking about the way we should tackle sustainable development so that we can ensure it is fully in line with the Group’s new aims. As a result, a new framework was adopted that reafﬁrms our commitment and refocuses our approach Priority 2011-2012 to what we consider to be most essential issue of all: integrating sustainable development as part of our profession as bankers. Compliance policy Supplier charter of ethics Update to the policy Update on financing to the policy the arms industry Refocusing our approach Development of Social on financing the arms industry Diversity charter Management Principles in the company Relevance RENEWING OUR COMMITMENT Policy on financing By redefining Dexia’s strategy for sustainable the arms industry development in 2010, the Group’s Management Code of Ethics Group sustainable Board reiterated our long-standing commitment development strategy in favour of promoting this area, highlighted by Internal Realignment of the Group the signing of major international agreements and Social Management Equator Principles Update to the Equator Guidelines on funding sustainable development incorporating them into our internal policies and Principles procedure Principles procedure the energy sector strategy documents. Ensuring these undertakings are Essence complied with is the subject of regular in-house monitoring within the company. It was with this in mind that Dexia Bank Belgium joined the Global Compact network in Belgium as soon as it was created in November 2009. 1998 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Bringing together a hundred or so Belgian companies and organisations that have signed up Communication to the Global Compact, the aim of the network is to promote the exchange of ideas and best practices for incorporating the ten principles of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption within the company. Evaluation Declaration by the financial Internal document services sector on climate change External commitment 4 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 IDENTITY AND STRATEGY Our strategy for sustainable development Priority 2011-2012 ADJUSTING OUR STRATEGY TO THE TRANSFORMATION OF THE GROUP The 2008 financial crisis highlighted the need to A wide-ranging process of reflection was conducted THE WAY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT IS ORGANISED AT DEXIA conduct a thorough review of Dexia’s business within the Group to examine our vision and model and to rethink the way our business lines ambitions in the area of sustainable development, The sustainable development function reports to the Director of Strategy, Portfolios and Market Activities, are developed. The transformation plan undertaken based in particular on critical analysis of the who is also a member of the Group’s Management Board. by the Group is based along three essential main assessment of the strategy initiated in 2006. lines for the future of Dexia: reducing the Group’s To position the approach we take to sustainable development within the heart of our activities, our Relevance risk profile, giving priority to long-established A working group made up of representatives from organisation is also based on a dedicated coordination committee made up of representatives from the customers and business lines, and adjusting the the Group’s main business lines and entities worked Group’s main business lines involved in rolling out our strategy, as well as an extensive network of way costs are structured. This has meant refocusing on redefining a master plan for our new strategy contributors from within various entities in the Group. what we do in the business lines – commercial on sustainable development. This project was banking and the funding of public authorities – discussed by the coordination committee on and the Group’s main markets in France, Belgium, sustainable development and approved by the Luxembourg and Turkey. To adapt our organisation Group’s Management Board. Management Board to the new market environment and to refocus our business, Dexia has also embarked on a plan At the same time, we conducted consultation with APPROVES Director of Strategy, Portfolios to cut overheads and staff numbers. a panel of internal and external stakeholders aimed Essence and Market Activities at better identifying their expectations with regard Added to the in-depth transformation currently to Dexia’s strategy on sustainable development. being undertaken by the Group is the maturing Dialogue with our Strategy REPORTS of the action plan implemented as part of Dexia’s To find out more about the process of stakeholders strategy on sustainable development and adopted consulting our stakeholders and the way the Sustainable Development in 2006. expectations identified have been incorporated department RUNS into the 2010 Sustainable Development Report, COORDINATES Communication Against this background, there was a need to see pp. 7 and 35. PROPOSES Sustainable Development rethink our approach to sustainable development coordination committee to ensure consistency with the Group’s new aims, Action plan Reporting as set out in the Dexia Forward 2014 strategic plan. EXCHANGE OF BEST PRACTICES Network of contributors in the DEPLOYS various Group entities CONTRIBUTES Evaluation 5 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 IDENTITY AND STRATEGY Our strategy for sustainable development Priority 2011-2012 REFOCUSING ON THE ESSENCE In line with the Group’s transformation plan, our To enable us to roll out our new strategy operationally aim was to refocus our approach to sustainable as soon as possible, we have set ourselves a priority Dexia endeavours development based on a basic question: how do we action for 2011-2012: the energy performance of to elaborate a sustainable development best assist and guide our customers in their own buildings, both for our customers and in the Dexia considers sustainable policy consistent with the refocusing approach to sustainable development while management of our own buildings. For more development as an essential driver of its activities on its core business lines. for its day-to-day business. With this in mind, Dexia focuses continuing to exercise our profession as bankers in information about this choice, see pp. 10 to 15. Hence it engages itself to integrate on the most relevant topics related the same spirit? the relating risks and opportunities to the essence and the speciﬁcity The fundamental principles adopted by Dexia on Relevance in its business activities. of its activities. To make our approach easier to understand, the sustainable development will also be set out in Group’s Management Board adopted a master plan dedicated action plans and communication ESSENCE RELEVANCE based on a clear-cut definition of sustainable programmes. Special attention will be focused on development, plus four fundamental principles in-house communication to staff aimed at common to the whole of the Group. acquainting them better with the Group’s actions and vision in relation to sustainable development, DEFINITION The definition of sustainable development adopted as well as to ensuring that the message sent out by the Group outlines our guidelines on sustainable to all of our stakeholders – and particularly our OF SUSTAINABLE development and puts our aspirations into words: customers – is consistent. DEVELOPMENT Essence to provide added value for our customers, our staff, our shareholders and society around us by putting forward answers with a long-term vision for the social, environmental and economic challenges that A RECOGNISED APPROACH EVALUATION COMMUNICATION face us, through our products and services and through our own conduct, while at the same time In 2011, the Dexia Group is ranked 17th in the Dexia set up action plans Dexia communicates in a responsible Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the on the most relevant topics manner with clarity and simplicity on its respecting the choices our customers make. and deﬁnes associated objectives sustainable development approach and on World. Dexia is one of nine banks featured in these Communication and indicators. In order the initiatives carried out in this This aim is based on four main principles – Relevance, ranking and the only one in Belgium. to make ongoing improvements, framework. Dexia endeavours to engage Essence, Communication and Evaluation – Dexia reviews periodically an open and constructive dialogue with incorporated into a process of ongoing improvement. the implementation of its strategy its customers, employees, shareholders and the respect and the other society actors, in a spirit of of its commitments relating mutual respect. Through these commitments, we seek to become to sustainable development. a benchmark among the major establishments in terms of sustainable development, and to carve out for ourselves a competitive edge by meeting the growing demands of our customers. Evaluation 6 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 IDENTITY AND STRATEGY Our strategy for sustainable development Priority 2011-2012 Adapting the structure of our Sustainable Development Report In order to be consistent with the refocusing of MATERIALITY TEST AND INTEGRATION OF THE DIFFERENT ISSUES WITHIN THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT the strategy on sustainable development initiated by Dexia in 2010, this Sustainable Development Report is structured around the topic of priority Relevance action identified by the Group for 2011-2012 and our four fundamental principles. ISSUES Sustainable development OF GROWING products and services Transparency/ This report covers the main sustainable development IMPORTANCE PP. 12 Responsibility to 21 issues facing Dexia. These issues have been FOR DEXIA PP. 27-28, identified in particular from the monitoring work 36 carried out by the teams responsible for sustainable Governance PP. 27-28, 36 MAJOR development, as well as from questionnaires and International ISSUES TOPICS ANNUAL Ethics reports produced by ratings agencies and nonREPORT commitments DETAILED Essence financial analysts, and from the consultation P. 4 IN THE SUSTAINABLE conducted with our internal and external Direct DEVELOPMENT PP. 15, REPORT environmental stakeholders during 2010. 31-32 impacts Sector-based OR IN THE GROUP’S P. 24 policies ANNUAL REPORT In particular, carrying out a materiality test has PP. 29-30 enabled us to put our own vision up against the Awareness Human expectations of a selection of our external and of stakeholders resources P. 35 ISSUES internal stakeholders and to adjust the Communication Fight against OF MODERATE PP. 27-28 communication we produce on these various tax evasion, IMPORTANCE Environmental money-laundering subjects in our Sustainable Revelopment Report. management P. 43 Health and safety and terrorism system of staff PP. 29-30 TOPICS DEALT WITH P. 32 CONCISELY Responsible procurement IN THE SUSTAINABLE P. 33 Patronage DEVELOPMENT ISSUES OF LOW IMPORTANCE REPORT ISSUES OF GROWING IMPORTANCE FOR THE STAKEHOLDERS CONSULTED BY DEXIA Evaluation 7 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 IDENTITY AND STRATEGY Our key indicators Priority 2011-2012 Structured along the main lines of the Global Deloitte. For more information, see the Deloitte WHAT HAPPENED TO THE 2010 TARGETS PRESENTED Reporting Initiative 3 and its supplement for the report p. 41. IN THE 2009 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT? finance sector, as well as the requirements of the “Loi NRE” (New Economic Regulations Act), our The selection of key indicators illustrating our The adoption of a new strategy on sustainable development during 2010 resulted in the redeﬁnition of reporting on sustainable development is based on approach to sustainable development is identical to our main objectives in the area. However, some of the targets for 2010 set out in the 2009 Sustainable performance indicators, illustrating the Group’s the one presented in the 2009 Sustainable Development Report continued to guide our actions in 2010. commitments and policy. Development Report. However, for the sake of consistency with the development of this approach, TO FIND OUT MORE To ensure that these indicators are both relevant the indicators shown in the table below have been 2010 TARGETS PRESENTED IN THE 2009 REPORT ABOUT THE ACTIONS IMPLEMENTED IN 2010 Relevance and reliable, Dexia has been involved since 2005 in ranked according to the new principles adopted by a procedure to have the reporting process governing the Group in 2010. In the future, we will develop To continue promoting our range of sustainable products See p. 21 a selection of non-financial information sources these indicators so that they reflect our new strategy and services with private, business and institutional customers verified by a qualified independent body. In 2010, on sustainable development. For more information To put sustainable development at the heart of our business lines through regular as part of the agreed procedures, Dexia commissioned about Dexia’s performance indicators, see p. 42 communication aimed at our networks and customers See p. 21 this work to be carried out by its company auditor, (table of indicators). To increase the ﬁnancing of green growth See pp. 19-21 CHANGES To continue the dialogue with our stakeholders See p. 35 2010 2009 2010 To continue the social dialogue undertaken as part of the Group’s transformation plan See pp. 29-30 Essence RELEVANCE Share of eco-credits in the total production of credits for housing (renovations) To favour all solutions that restrict the consequences of the transformation plan 19.3% +45% on employment See pp. 29-30 and cars (excluding mortgages) – Perimeter: Belgium ESSENCE To continue the process already embarked on to reduce CO2 emissions See p. 15 and p. 31 Share of SRI in the total outstanding funds managed by Dexia Asset Management 23% +3% To continue the efforts made on reducing the consumption of paper aimed at achieving the target of 100 kg/FTE by the end of 2010 See p. 32 Number of projects ﬁnanced falling into an Equator Principles category 56 +107% Carbon intensity of the portfolio of projects to produce electricity and heat (tCO2/ 0.333 +1% Communication MWh) Total Group CO2 emissions (tCO2) 35,770 -1% Number of videoconferences 7,087 Quantity of paper purchased per FTE (kg/FTE) 126 +6% Percentage of female managers in the Group 21.3 % 0% Average number of days of training per employee 1.9 COMMUNICATION Number of external working groups on sustainable development in which Dexia is 17 (1) 13 % Evaluation involved in France and Belgium EVALUATION GRI self-evaluation B+ (1) In France: AFEP, FBF, ORSE, Comité 21, Europlace, Comité stratégique du Plan Bâtiment Grenelle, Promodul, Admiqual, IMS Entreprendre pour la Cité. In Belgium: Business and Society, Belesco, Global Compact Network, Promethea, Kauri, Febelfin. International: Equator Principles, UNEP FI. 8 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Identity and strategy Priority 2011-2012: PRIORITY 2011-2012 the energy performance of buildings Relevance Essence Communication Evaluation 9 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Background and issues Identity and strategy As part of its policy on the ﬁght against climate change, the European Union has committed itself to reducing its 1990 levels of greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% by 2020. Conﬁdent that the building sector has a key role to play in achieving that target, Dexia is seeking to make the energy performance of buildings its priority focus of action regarding sustainable development for 2011-2012. PRIORITY 2011-2012 Construction: a key sector Achieving European targets on reducing greenhouse year. Improvements to the energy efﬁciency of In Luxembourg, an Action Plan aimed at reducing for achieving energy savings, using renewable gas emissions involves the signiﬁcant mobilisation heating systems were offset by the increase in the emissions of CO2 was adopted in 2006. The plan energy in housing, and establishing systematic of the building sector. Construction represents average size of dwellings and by greater use of includes establishing new legislation on the thermal guidance for the town planning executive plan almost 35% of the European Union’s final electrical appliances in households. insulation of buildings, setting out a system of aid based on climate change requirements. Relevance consumption of energy. New-build projects each year represent just over In addition, while the energy efﬁciency of European 1% of construction property. Given the strong inertia homes increased by 16% between 1990 and 2007, in this area, policies and programmes aimed at WORKING TOGETHER TOWARDS A SUCCESSFUL TRANSITION their ﬁnal consumption of energy rose by 8% over improving the energy performance of buildings need the same period, at an average rate of 0.5% per to be part of the long-term view. We live in a constantly changing world. Conventional sources of energy will become more scarce in the fairly short term. But we will still need heat and electricity. So we also need to start looking now for alternatives to these forms of fuel, which not only pollute, but also generate greenhouse gases. Essence Mobilisation at every level It is essential for the energy efﬁciency of buildings to be improved if we are to tackle this major environmental, social and economic challenge successfully. But take heart, the revolution is underway. Today, we have the technical and economic capability to complete exceptional projects. Buildings are more and more The European Union examined the issue of the As a result, under the aegis of the National Climate economical in terms of energy usage. In the Brussels Capital Region, this can be seen from the dozens energy performance of buildings long before the Commission, Belgium adopted a national climate of homes, ofﬁces and amenities that have won awards as “Exemplary Buildings”. Passive or low-energy, adoption of its Energy-Climate package of measures, plan in 2008 to cover the period 2009-2012, these buildings consume up to ten times less energy than conventional buildings without placing a strain issuing a directive in this area back in 2002. based on the various programmes and measures on budgets. Taken together, they enable millions of litres of oil to be saved each year, as well as cutting Revamped in May 2010, the wording of the directive already in place on a regional and federal level. CO2 emissions by over 13,000 tons and transforming Brussels into a sustainable city. now includes the following measures: This climate plan is based around six strategic Communication • the adoption by the Member States of a main lines, including the energy efficiency of The Brussels Region has decided to pre-empt this unavoidable energy reality and meet it head-on. Dexia methodology for calculating the energy buildings. has done the same thing by deciding to ﬁght climate change and make the energy efﬁciency of buildings performance of buildings; a priority. I am delighted about this development and give Dexia every encouragement in its endeavours. • the definition of minimum requirements for In France, the “Grenelle de l’Environnement” It is important for this attitude to become as widespread as possible. Everyone in society is involved. new buildings and for existing buildings when debate places the building sector at the heart of Together we will meet this challenge, and together we will build a sustainable world. they undergo major renovation works; its policy in the fight against climate change and • the implementation of systems for certifying has set a number of very ambitious targets: the energy performance and arrangements for generalisation of low-consumption buildings by publishing this information. 2012 and positive-energy buildings by 2020 for Evaluation new-build and a 38% reduction of energy conThese European provisions have been included in sumption in existing buildings. These directions Évelyne Huytebroeck the legislation of various European States, with were included in the new thermal regulations for Brussels Minister for the Environment, some countries even strengthening the requirements. 2012 published at the end of 2010. Energy and Urban Renewal 10 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Background and issues Identity and strategy PRIORITY 2011-2012 A ﬁnancial issue An area of priority action for all our customers for Dexia As fossil fuels become more scarce and the price The energy consumption of buildings also Implementing European commitments in terms ideas aimed at promoting the development of of energy rises as a result, the energy consumption represents a significant item in the spending of of improving the energy performance of buildings efficient energy solutions using two instruments: of buildings is also a major financial issue for all companies and local public authorities. In Belgium, will require major investments in the years ahead. energy performance contracts and third-party of our customers, both private or public. 2.05% (EUR 306 million) of the average operating investment. In addition, Dexia Crédit Local is a Relevance budget of local councils was spent on energy in Aware of this and also of the difficulties experienced member of the strategic committee assembly of The annual heating bill is a growing element in 2008. In France, this budget represents some 4% by its customers in the face of the projects to be the Grenelle Building Plan and a member of the household expenditure, with large disparities that of the operating expenditure of a local authority implemented, both financially and technically, board and “banking and insurance” committee tend to become worse as energy prices rise: annual and it is estimated that EUR 31 billion needs to Dexia has placed the energy performance of of the Promodul association. spending on heating can vary from EUR 250 for be invested by local councils between now and buildings at the heart of its action on sustainable a low-energy home to almost EUR 2,000 for a 2020 to achieve the targets set by the “Grenelle development for 2011-2012. Elsewhere, as part of its efforts to set a good poorly insulated house (1). de l’Environnement”. example, Dexia seeks to pursue voluntary As a pioneer in the development of innovative processes aimed at reducing the consumption financing solutions for improving the energy of energy and the carbon footprint of its own Essence performance of buildings, Dexia aims to guide its buildings. customers in their projects and provide real added value by providing a range of appropriate products To transpose these commitments into practical and services and bridging the gap between matters measures, a dedicated action plan was developed technical and financial. at the beginning of 2011, both on the commercial side of the business and regarding the management Beyond our traditional role as a provider of finance, of our own buildings. our aim is to strengthen our position on this Communication essential topic by making our skills and expertise available to all of our customers in our main commercial franchises. Our Group has already launched numerous initiatives and is working actively on the thinking being conducted in this area. Dexia Bank Belgium is involved in the working groups run by the BELESCO association, which brings together the Evaluation leading players in the energy services market at the behest of Fedesco, the federal competence centre on energy services and third-party investment. This is a platform for exchanging Aéropolis II, passive energy ofﬁce complex built in Brussels and ﬁnanced by Dexia (1) Source: French Ministry for Ecology, Sustainable Development, Transport and Housing. 11 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Providing a range of products and Identity and strategy services suited to all our customers In 2010, to help guide our private and public customers in their projects to improve the energy efﬁciency of their buildings, we extended our range of products and services in this area. PRIORITY 2011-2012 Assisting energy upgrade projects INVESTING IN SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS in buildings Dexia Insurance Belgium was looking to increase its portfolio of property investments. To this end, it introduced Relevance speciﬁc requirements in terms of the environmental performance of buildings as part of the criteria for projects to be accepted: LOANS AT PREFERENTIAL RATES FOR • potential of the site in terms of upgrading existing buildings, the location and orientation of buildings, in OUR PRIVATE CUSTOMERS particular the proximity to transport infrastructures; • energy efﬁciency and use of renewable energy; We offer our private customers profitable solutions these projects. In addition to reducing their • conservation of water resources (efﬁcient use of water and potential for recycling water in situ); for funding their projects to improve the energy environmental footprint and cutting their energy • use of building materials with a limited impact on the environment during their lifecycle; efficiency of their homes. Both in Belgium and bills, the works financed provide access to tax benefits Luxembourg, Dexia has developed ranges of loans or State grants. • ease of use (maximum use of natural light, appropriate ventilation and humidity control systems, minimisation of emissions of volatile organic compounds); Essence at preferential rates designed to finance some of • taking account of issues relating to the management and maintenance of buildings, starting with the phase upstream from the project. PRODUCT AREA LAUNCH Housing Eco-credit /Green housing loan Loans at low rates for carrying out energy audits or funding energy DEDICATED LOAN FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN TURKEY upgrade projects carried out by an accredited business. Dexia offers Belgium 2007 two forms of loan: an instalment loan (Housing Eco-credit) and a At the end of 2010, DenizBank signed a memorandum of agreement with the Japanese Bank for International Communication mortgage loan (Green housing loan). Cooperation (JBIC) as part of its Global action for Reconciling Economic growth and ENvironmental preservation (GREEN) programme. Financed jointly by JBIC, the Turkish Sustainable Energy Financing Facility Immoplus Green programme (TurSEFF) and by several private Japanese banks, the funding envelope of USD 20 million will Loan at a preferential variable rate for ﬁnancing passive energy housing Luxembourg 2009 enable DenizBank to offer its SME customers dedicated ﬁnance for their projects to improve energy or energy upgrade projects. efﬁciency and the production of energy from renewal sources. Evaluation 12 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Providing a range of products and Identity and strategy services suited to all our customers PRIORITY 2011-2012 ALL-IN-ONE OFFERS FOR CORPORATES AND THE PUBLIC SECTOR With the help of our technical partners, we are In France in 2010, Dexia Crédit Local consolidated PROGRAMME OF AGREEMENTS WITH THE EIB developing all-in-one offers for our corporate and its process of guiding local authorities and social public sector customers in Belgium and France that landlords in their projects to upgrade the energy Over the past few years, we have developed a programme of agreements with the European Investment enable us to help guide them throughout their projects performance of their buildings. This offering, which Bank (EIB) to enable us to offer our business customers and the local public sector preferential terms for from both the technical and financial point of view. has been around since the beginning of 2009, is ﬁnancing speciﬁc investment programmes. based on a partnership with Promodul, the Any proposed project to upgrade the energy association linking building professionals, and puts The EIB supports the European Union’s major projects, especially when they involve the ﬁght against performance of a building is based on a precise climate change. As a result, the EIB attaches growing importance to the energy-related performance of dedicated funding in place for the projects. Relevance diagnosis of the current situation. To assist our public the projects it helps to fund. sector customers from the initial stage of their project, Promodul adapted an audit and energy works For example, in 2009 the EIB gave Dexia Bank Belgium an envelope of EUR 150 million to fund development Dexia Bank Belgium offers free access to the online simulation software programme for Dexia Crédit projects for renewable energy in PPPs, leasing or conventional loans. This programme, aimed at our Display® tool. Developed by the European association, Local that enables public decision-makers to set business and local public sector customers in Belgium and Luxembourg, was expanded in 2010 to projects Energy Cities, Display® enables our customers to out their technical and financial vision through an for improving the energy efﬁciency of buildings, thereby including projects eligible for the Energy Efﬁciency produce their own energy performance estimates for overall cost approach that incorporates the loan. At the end of 2010, EUR 134 million remained to be distributed as part of this programme, including their buildings and to communicate about changes investment costs, interest on the debt, savings on EUR 67 million from resources made available by the EIB. to that performance as the result of the action taken. charges, etc. And to help guide them during the In France, Dexia Crédit Local has been distributing funding envelopes secured by EIB funds since 2006. upstream phase of their projects, Dexia Crédit Local Aimed at the sustainable development in local areas, these envelopes involve urban renewal projects by Essence In 2010, working with a technical partner, Dexia provided ten of its customers in 2010 with a free local authorities as part of the National Urban Renewal Agency – EUR 1.3 billion, of which EUR 300 million Bank Belgium also developed the Energy Efficiency of charge energy diagnosis for one of their buildings. remained to be distributed at the end of 2010 – as well as the construction and refurbishment of social loan, a general product aimed at guiding and housing – EUR 125 million, of which 20 million remained to be distributed at the end of 2010. In 2010, funding energy renovation projects. Aimed at our At the end of 2009, as part of a broad-based Dexia and the EIB worked together on a new envelope of EUR 100 million dedicated to the construction business and public sector customers, Energy business recovery plan, Dexia Crédit Local was or refurbishment of public buildings aiming to achieve energy performances that are higher than the Efficiency includes: appointed by the French building and public works standards in effect. This envelope of funding will be marketed in 2011. • a preliminary study based on an energy scan trades federations to distribute an envelope of and the provision of consultancy from a EUR 650 million of subsidised funding to local Communication technical partner; authorities and social landlords. The entire amount ENERGY PERFORMANCE CONTRACTS • the funding of refurbishment works based on of this envelope, plus an additional amount of an approach involving the overall cost. The cost EUR 400 million from Dexia, was handed out in To ensure the long-term improvement in the energy performance of their buildings, a growing number of the investment is covered by the reduction 2010 by the commercial teams. Out of EUR 1 billion of parties are seeking to incorporate their renovation projects as part of an Energy Performance Contract of the customer’s energy bill; of funding, half was set aside for building renovation (EPC). • guidance with the project, consisting of: works. In Belgium, Dexia Bank is looking to develop a guidance and ﬁnance offering for energy upgrade projects producing an implementation dossier; with a commitment on the energy consumption reduction achieved. Run in partnership with a technical designating third parties for additional services, Finally, through its subsidiary Exterimmo, Dexia service-provider, this product would be designed for refurbishment works aimed mainly at energy where applicable; Crédit Local is responsible on behalf of public installations. In France, Dexia Crédit Local is helping to develop the EPC market by responding to calls for Evaluation assistance during the following processes: authorities as part of an overall solution in the form tender issued by local authorities to put EPCs in place within PPPs and covering major energy upgrade tendering/allocation, receipt and implemenof a public-private partnership (PPP), for setting the projects relating to buildings in particular. tation of the planned investments to save standards, renovating and maintaining public energy. buildings, in particular regarding the aspect of energy performance. 13 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Providing a range of products and Identity and strategy services suited to all our customers PRIORITY 2011-2012 Developing renewable energy incorporated into buildings Dexia has for many years been providing its customPRODUCT CUSTOMER AREA DATE ers with guidance on impleDexia Energy Line – Renewable energy menting their projects to Relevance Public sector develop renewable energy Overall offering developed with a technical partner and including (ﬁnancing feasibility and engineering studies, installation, administrative by lease) incorporated into follow-up, maintenance and ﬁnancing of equipment for the buildings. production or photovoltaic or cogeneration electricity. Belgium 2007 Businesses excluding The customer is also able to beneﬁt from photovoltaic insurance SMEs In Belgium, Dexia Bank has (see below), where appropriate. (ﬁnancing by lease offered products since Since 2009 our SME customers have also been able to beneﬁt or straightforward loan) 2007 enabling it to guide from ﬁnance by lease, excluding technical services. corporate and public sector customers in implementing Photovoltaic insurance Essence Public sector their projects for equipment Comprehensive insurance product for material damage to Belgium 2008 to produce renewable photovoltaic panels, also including loss of output from the panels damaged. Businesses energy, from the initial study through to the funding of the works. As part Installation of photovoltaic panels on the warehouses at DP World Breakbulk in Antwerp, ﬁnanced by Dexia as part of its Dexia Energy Line – Renewable of this offering, our customers can also benefit from Energy offering Immoplus Green the photovoltaic insurance cover developed by Dexia Range of preferential-rate loans for funding the installation of Private Insurance Belgium – a product that won the Decavi tested in the Centre and Normandy regions and photovoltaic panel or biogas equipment. If photovoltaic panels are individuals involved, the products includes preliminary ﬁnancing of the project Luxembourg 2009 Innovation Trophy in 2010. national roll-out is scheduled for 2011. In 2010, Communication up to the amount of the expected State subsidy and takes account Dexia Crédit Local also signed a partnership with of the customer’s remuneration for purchase of the electricity Businesses In 2010, Dexia financed the installation of 4,000 m2 Compagnie Nationale du Rhône (CNR), the first produced. of photovoltaic panels on the roof of the nonFrench producer of exclusively renewable energy, containerised goods warehouses at DP World in aimed at providing local authorities with a technical Integrated photovoltaic offering Antwerp. With a capacity of 530 kWp, these panels and financial answer to their photovoltaic projects. Overall product developed with a technical partner and including will generate 450 MWh of electricity each year, installation services, maintenance, ﬁnancing by lease, insurance Public sector France 2010 which is the equivalent consumption for and billing management of the service for equipment producing approximately one hundred (1) European photovoltaic electricity. households. Evaluation In France in 2010, Dexia Crédit Local developed an innovative lease financing product for photovoltaic installations. This overall solution was (1) Estimate produced based on 2007 data from the European Environment Agency. 14 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Controlling energy consumption Identity and strategy in our own buildings To restrict our carbon footprint and in line with the Group’s cost-cutting plan, we are constantly seeking to improve the technical efﬁciency of our buildings. In 2010 we Every Friday of the year Dexia Bank Belgium opted estimated at 400 tons of CO2 per year from 2010, continued the programmes already undertaken in this area by conducting new energy to lower the default temperature for its offices by and 1,500 additional tons of CO2 per year from PRIORITY 2011-2012 audits on a number of buildings and by maintaining the proportion of green electricity 2°C in winter and to increase it by 2°C in summer. July 2011. in our overall consumption. To bring consumption at our buildings into line In the same way, all Dexia Insurance Belgium staff, with the redirection of our business, a new spatial about 1,000 people, will move in 2011 to the Galilée organisation concept at work, based on removing building in Brussels, which will reduce the share of fixed workstations to help promote a flexible CO2 emissions charged to each of them. This building Limiting our consumption of energy working environment has been in place since 2009. This enables major reductions to be made in was preferred to the one occupied by Dexia Insurance Belgium because it meets strict environmental criteria, emissions of CO2 (fewer empty offices to heat), in particular in terms of insulation and heating. Dexia began a programme to audit the energy of the most cost-effective projects recommended Relevance performance of its buildings in 2008. Initiated by (with a return on investment of under three years). Dexia Bank Belgium, this programme was extended to Dexia Crédit Local in France in 2010. The Dexia Tower at La Défense in Paris was also Continuing our policy audited in 2010. The recommendations from this Dexia’s three main buildings in Brussels were each audited in turn in 2008 (Pachéco-Ommegang), 2009 audit will be translated into action plans in 2011. of using green energy (Galilée) and 2010 (Dexia Tower). Each of these At the same time and to reduce our energy Since 2008, the central buildings of our entities using installations of photovoltaic panels (66 MWh audits was followed by the introduction of measures consumption, we have for a number of years located in Belgium, France, Luxembourg and Italy in 2010). enabling immediate gains and by the implementation implemented a series of actions within our entities. have been run entirely using renewable power. To Refocusing our activities and adapting our Essence do this, Dexia buys green certificates from its organisation as a result have enabled us in 2010 to electricity suppliers, guaranteeing that renewable speedup the reduction in our energy consumption ISSUE ACTION AREA electricity equivalent to our consumption is injected and associated CO2 emissions across Belgium, France into the electricity grid. In addition, Dexia Insurance and Luxembourg. These cuts are offset by the sharp Adjustment to lighting hours Belgium, France, Luxembourg (2007) Belgium and Sofaxis produce renewable electricity increase in our activities in Turkey. Lighting Use of low-wattage light bulbs Belgium, France (2008) Introduction of solar tinting in critical zones Luxembourg, Italy (2009) CHANGES IN THE GROUP’S ENERGY CONSUMPTION Communication Adjustment of ofﬁce temperatures to outside temperatures Belgium, Luxembourg (2009) AND CORRESPONDING CO2 EMISSIONS Thermal Installation of additional insulation Belgium Tons of CO2 MWh 16,000 140,000 Optimisation of ventilation Belgium, Luxembourg (2007) +6% -4% 14,000 120,000 Adjustment to humidiﬁcation Belgium, Luxembourg (2009) 12,000 32% No restroom ventilation at night and at the weekend Luxembourg (2009) 100,000 32% 10,000 Modiﬁcation of temperatures for chilled water, hot water and ﬂush 80,000 Restrooms Belgium 14% 16% water 8,000 14,788 13,905 60,000 Removal of hot water in restrooms France (2009) 6,000 Evaluation 40,000 Installation of low-energy printers Italy (2008) 4,000 54% 52% 2,000 20,000 IT Computers automatically switched off on Friday evening Italy (2008) 0 0 Computers automatically switched to standby in the evening Belgium 2009 2010 2009 2010 Green electricity Grey electricity Gas + Fuel oil 15 Evaluation Communication Essence RELEVANCE Priority 2011-2012 Identity and strategy Relevance Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 16 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Fighting deprivation Identity and strategy and social exclusion Through our business activities, we attach great importance to supporting groups of people who are economically disadvantaged or socially excluded. Our aim is twofold: to help guide our customers in their social assistance missions and to facilitate access Supporting the development Priority 2011-2012 to basic banking services. of microﬁnance Helping guide our customers As the first commercial investment fund dedicated to refinancing microfinance institutions in emerging OUTSTANDING FUNDS IN THE DEXIA MICRO-CREDIT FUND in their social programmes countries, Dexia Micro-Credit Fund (DCMF) continues to lead the field in the area of commercial USD millions microfinance more than 10 years after it was 600 To facilitate access to basic banking services for a range of innovative solutions that help support launched in 1998. RELEVANCE economically disadvantaged groups, Dexia Bank the Public Social Action Centres (CPAS) in their work 500 Belgium has for many years developed Social Line, by making it easier for social benefits to be paid. Outstanding funds under management by DCMF 400 were 528 million USD at the end of 2010, enabling 106 microfinance institutions in 39 countries to be 300 SOCIAL LINE SOME FIGURES refinanced. 542 528 200 429 Prepaid card Offered by 170 CPAS In addition, Dexia Foundation Belgium has been Card enabling individuals without a bank account to receive social beneﬁts assisting Crédal and Hefboom, the two main 100 5,000 cards used each month by withdrawing money from Dexia ATMs. Belgian microcredit associations, as part of its 0 Essence Social aid account patronage policy since 2005. To find out more 2008 2009 2010 Totally computerised bank account opened for recipients of social beneﬁts, 40,500 account-holders about Dexia Foundation Belgium support for at the request of the CPAS. microcredits, see p. 33. Rental guarantees Advance of rental guarantees at the request of the CPAS intended 2,100 accounts opened for economically disadvantaged individuals. Possibility to open a speciﬁc account for the gradual reimbursement of the guarantee by steady instalments. Encouraging the integration 3,500 debt management accounts of individuals with a handicap Communication Budget management account/debt mediation opened for 132 CPAS Account enabling CPAS to assist individuals in highly insecure situations 57,500 budget management accounts to manage their budget and loans. opened for 560 CPAS Dexia Crédit Local, via its subsidiary Dexia DS Services, • implementation of practical improvement works to encourage the integration of people with programmes; In 2010 in France, Domiserve confirmed the allowances (PCH) to the individuals they administer. handicaps and help them to maintain their jobs with • follow-up and evaluation of the process. relevance of its positioning in the area of social In 2010, the departmental council of Seine-Maritime local authorities in France. Dexia provides a supervisory action and the introduction of mechanisms to assist appointed Domiserve to pay its APA and PCH process specifically designed for the local public In Belgium, Dexia Bank offers Flex-i-Trans, a flexible individuals. This may involve issuing universal job allowances to over 7,000 recipients. In 2010, sector and divided into three stages: solution for transporting people with reduced services vouchers (CESU) or organising services in Domiserve was also appointed by AGIRC-ARRCO • production of a job/handicap diagnosis making it mobility, incorporated with the leasing of a minibus Evaluation the home with local authorities, retirement (mandatory supplementary pension schemes for possible to set out the issues and the results to be to which the Flex-i-Trans system is fitted. This product organisations, providential funds and mutual the private sector) and the Special post office achieved in the areas of recruitment, maintenance is aimed mainly at retirement homes, hospitals and societies. Five departmental councils have selected pension scheme to implement social action or integration of individuals with a handicap, as specialised institutions, as well as CPAS and the old Domiserve for the payment of personal autonomy allowances. well as subcontracting and the accessibility of people’s homes they manage. allowances (APA) and handicap compensation premises; 17 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Adapting our services to the diverse Identity and strategy needs of our customers Offering solutions that are appropriate for the speciﬁc needs of each of our customers is an essential priority at Dexia. Priority 2011-2012 Helping to keep the elderly Contributing to the development in their own homes of the farming sector in Turkey To help its customers respond to the growing importance of this fact for its landlord customers, In 2010, DenizBank continued its policy of assisting social security system of which only 40% of farmers challenge of the dependence of the elderly, Dexia in 2010 Dexia Crédit Local extended its partnership farmers in developing their business. In doing so, are members in Turkey. has developed a number of innovative solutions with Vivalib for two years. Vivalib is a company the bank strengthened its position as the leader RELEVANCE offering older individuals the opportunity to have that specialises in housing adapted for older among private sector Turkish banks in providing DenizBank also introduced Agriculture+ in 2010, a their home adapted to their needs and hence delay residents. The aim of this partnership is to keep farming loans. product aimed at groups of farmers looking to merge their admission to specialised medical institutions. seniors at home using a new residential housing their businesses in order to develop together. In concept designed for the elderly. This product is Launched in 2007, the Agricultural card is now addition to offering support for financing, DenizBank Since 2008, in Belgium, Dexia Bank has been offering available to social landlords in the form of the used by more than 264,000 farm-based producers. provides consultancy services relating to designing Housing certificates to CPAS organisations, based subdivision of property rights in which they only The card enables them to purchase seed on credit farming projects, while assisting relations with on the issue of bonds that enable the CPAS to cover finance the rental usufruct. This enables landlords at negotiated prices and not to have to repay their cooperatives, farming unions and suppliers. part of their investments in building housing that is to limit the use of their own funds, with expenditure until after the harvest. suited to the special needs of the elderly. The CPAS institutional or private investors acquiring bare Besides, DenizBank signed a memorandum of offer residents the opportunity to invest in a certificate ownership. The financing in Social rental loans In 2010, DenizBank expanded the range of services agreement with the institute for supporting Essence that entitles them to occupy a dwelling, without for the usufruct is provided by Dexia. As part of associated with its Farmer card by offering holders agricultural and rural development (TKDK) in 2010, paying rent, for a set period. At the end of the this partnership, Vivalib in 2010 signed overall the ability to secure payment of their premiums which implements the Turkish programme for rural contract, the face value of the certificate is returned partnership agreements with two of our to the Turkish social security system. DenizBank development as an Instrument for European Union to its holder. In 2010, the CPAS in Ostend used this customers: the Arcade Group and Le Hainaut advances the corresponding amount to farmers, Pre-Accession – Rural Development (IPARD) solution to finance the construction of 35 apartments. Immobilier Group (GHI). An initial operation is who pay it back once their harvest is in. They also programme. This enables DenizBank to contribute The first residents are expected to move in at the in the process of being finalised. In 2010, Vivalib enjoy an interest rate that is significantly lower to the funding of projects that receive subsidies as end of 2012. also called on the services of the Vigeo agency than the rate applied by the State in the event of part of the IPARD programme, aimed at encouraging to conduct a corporate social responsibility audit, late payment. Through this service, DenizBank the sustainable development of the Turkish farming Communication In France today, 25% of the tenants in social which highlighted its good performance(1) in this makes it easier for its customers to access the sector. housing are aged over sixty. Aware of the area. SILVER LINE To help its customers in the local public sector to become involved better in the issue of the ageing population, Dexia Bank Belgium has been offering each local authority since 2010 the opportunity to develop a personalised socio-demographic proﬁle to go with its traditional ﬁnancial proﬁle. As a result of The DenizBank Agricultural card this offer, 490 proﬁles have been presented to local authorities, enabling them to gain a better understanding of the ﬁnancial effects that ageing has on their population. Evaluation In addition, Dexia Bank has for the past few years been developing System I, a range of ﬁnancial products and services aimed at guiding individuals living in medical institutions to manage their everyday expenditure. (1) Level 3 (convincing) or 4 (advanced) obtained for 5 of the 6 audit criteria relating both to the company’s policy and the way it is deployed. 18 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Supporting the development Identity and strategy of green growth By carrying out its profession as a banker, Dexia seeks to contribute to the development of a sustainable economy that is respectful of the environment. Priority 2011-2012 Guiding the development of renewable energy RELEVANCE Dexia is a major player in the funding of projects nominal installed power of 325 MW, which is in the renewable energy sector. In 2010, we played sufficient to provide electricity to 600,000 people. a role in the financing of 17 projects for the Dexia acted as Mandated Lead Arranger in this production of electricity from renewable sources. record funding arrangement of 1.195 billion EUR, The annual production of electricity expected from which is the largest ever signed in Belgium in the these projects as a whole is 6,485 GWh. The offshore wind power sector. The project won the funding of these projects represents an amount Europe Renewable Deal of the Year, awarded by of EUR 3,946 million, of which EUR 502 million Thomson Reuters. C-Power, Belgium’s ﬁrst offshore wind farm comes from Dexia. In addition, Dexia Crédit Local was appointed in These projects have a respective capacity of 11 and encourages the development of renewable energy Essence In particular, in 2010 Dexia finalised the financing 2010 to take part in the funding of the investment 24 MW and are part of the programme implemented to help reduce the share of thermal power in the of phases 2 and 3 of the construction of the C-Power programme for EDF Energies Nouvelles solar power by the Canadian province of Ontario, which energy mix for the production of electricity. wind farm. This is Belgium’s first offshore wind farm. stations in France, as part of that company’s Initially consisted of six wind-power generators, memorandum of understanding with the EIB. This C-Power will soon have a total of 54 turbines for a transaction rounded out the financing of the first two phases of the power station at Gabardan in INAUGURATION OF THE BIOMETHANISATION PLANT BREAKDOWN OF PROJECTS Les Landes. It is the first time that Dexia has funded AT KEHLEN IN LUXEMBOURG FOR THE PRODUCTION OF ELECTRICITY a project to produce photovoltaic electricity in France. Communication FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES FUNDED 2010 saw the inauguration of the biomethanisation plant at Kehlen in Luxembourg, which by processing BY DEXIA OVER THE PERIOD In Italy, Dexia Crediop acted as Mandated Lead organic waste, will produce between 2.5 and 3 million m3 of biogas a year, which is sufﬁcient for the GWh consumption of about 1,200 homes. The gas produced will not be used to generate electricity, but will 7,000 Arranger for the funding of four solar power stations 377 335 with a total installed capacity of 138 MWp. In be injected directly into the town gas network, making this unit entirely new in its ﬁeld. Dexia Banque 6,000 Internationale à Luxembourg acted as Sole Lead Arranger in the long-term ﬁnancing of the construction particular, Crediop took part in the agreement to 5,000 finance EUR 277 million signed in 2010 for the and operation of the plant. 4,000 proposed power station at Rovigo, in north-eastern 591 Italy. When complete, this will be the largest 3,000 6,135 6,150 photovoltaic power station in Europe. DEXIA B AUTOCALL – CLEAN ENERGY Evaluation 2,000 2,955 1,000 Finally, Dexia Crédit Local participated in the In November 2010, Dexia Asset Management launched Dexia B AutoCall – Clean Energy, a capital structuring of a funding arrangement for two solar protection fund investing in a basket of ten shares in companies active in the development of green 0 2008 2009 2010 power station projects in Canada, developed by energy. Wind Solar EDN Energies Nouvelles, at Saint-Isidore and Arnprior. 19 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Supporting the development Identity and strategy of green growth Priority 2011-2012 Promoting cleaner methods of transport For a number of years now, Dexia has been assisting local public sector with a combined way of all of its customers to reduce the greenhouse gas preventing, reducing and offsetting their fleets’ ISSUE PRODUCT CUSTOMER PROMISING RESULTS emissions generated by the transport infrastructure. CO2 emissions. Since the product was launched In 2010, we boosted our range of dedicated at the end of 2008, more than 1,000 tons of CO2 Car Eco-credit In 2010, Car Eco-credits Belgium, 2007 Private represented 22.3% of the total products and services, paying particular attention emissions have been avoided by buying and RELEVANCE Instalment loan at preferential rates for ﬁnancing vehicles with individuals production of car loans for Dexia to highlighting them in our communication cancelling allowances. low CO2 emissions. in Belgium. campaigns. To guarantee the traceability of the allowances AutoGreen In Belgium, Dexia has been marketing the Dexia bought and cancelled on behalf of our customers, Luxembourg, 2010 Private Energy Line – Green Fleet product since 2007. we use a dedicated procedure internally that Rewarding Instalment loan at preferential rates and extension of the Launch in 2010. individuals This is an integrated solution aimed at reducing has been audited since 2008 by our company the use exceptional car warranty for one year on every purchase of a car of loweligible for the State CAR-e bonus, as part of the car festival 2010. the environmental footprint associated with road auditors, Deloitte, as part of the verification pollution traffic. Taking this one step further, Dexia Auto work conducted on a selection of non-financial vehicles Ecomobility Lease signed a Gold Cleaner Car Contract in 2010 information. Notification by the Caisse des Belgium, 2008 Essence with the Flemish federation Bond Beter Leefmilieu, Dépôts, the body responsible for maintaining Reduction of insurance premiums for customers adopting an 786 insurance policies beneﬁting undertaking to speed up the introduction of the French register of CO2 emission allowances, option in favour of the environment: Private from discounted premiums at the greener cars to the market. that the transaction to cancel the allowances • percentage reduction depending on the class of vehicle in individuals end of 2010. purchased by Dexia as part of the “Zero CO2” terms of emissions per kilometre; In France, with its “Zero CO2” product, Dexia programme, is also sent by mail to each of our • discount of 10% on third party cover for customers who go on an eco-driving course. Location Longue Durée offers its customers in the customers. Dexia Energy Line – Green Fleet Belgium, 2007 Public More than 200 ﬂeet managers Communication Overall offer including, in addition to an analysis of the existing sector attended eco-driving courses, ﬂeet of vehicles, a plan to cut emissions, the opportunity to go managing to reduce their CO2 Reduce on an eco-driving course and the offset of CO2 emissions from Businesses emissions by an average of 12%. and offset vehicles. CO2 emissions in a ﬂeet “Zero CO2” offer of vehicles France, 2008 Approximately 80 contracts Overall offer including, in addition to an analysis of the existing Public signed by the end of 2010 and ﬂeet of vehicles, a plan to cut emissions, the opportunity to go sector over 1,000 tons of CO2 avoided on an eco-driving course and the offset of CO2 emissions from since 2008. vehicles. Evaluation Incentive Dexia Car Insurance 39,097 insurance policies with to reduce Belgium, 2007 Private variable km premiums signed the distances individuals by the end of 2010 since the driven Insurance rate based on brackets of kilometres driven. product was launched in 2007. 20 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Supporting the development Identity and strategy of green growth Priority 2011-2012 Funding projects that respect the environment SHOWCASING OUR GREEN PRODUCTS Dexia attaches particular importance to the In France, Dexia Crédit Local played a role in the IN OUR COMMUNICATION CAMPAIGNS environmental impact of the projects it finances. funding of the PPP project to build the health centre at Saint-Nazaire. The constraints of the site were Throughout 2010 in Belgium, Dexia Bank held a series of Dexia Green Day RELEVANCE At the end of 2008, the French Development put to optimum use by developing bioclimatic sessions to tell its customers about the technical opportunities presented by Agency (AFD) granted DenizBank an envelope of architecture aimed at controlling energy consumption systems that help protect the environment, as well as the way in which Dexia 80 million for funding public projects in Turkey in with an ambitious thermal target (15% less than is able to assist them ﬁnancially in bringing their projects to fruition. the sectors for transport, water and waste the thermal regulations of 2005) to provide maximum management. Implementing a specific policy on comfort for users. Using renewable energy will Dexia Bank also introduced an environmental dimension into its promotion the environment makes it possible to ensure that make it possible to cover 70% of heating campaigns for conventional products. In September 2010, future customers the projects financed comply with a certain number requirements and 20% of sanitary hot water applying for a mortgage loan were able to enjoy a contribution of EUR 500 of environmental criteria defined in agreement production at the site. towards carrying out an energy audit on their homes, on condition that they were granted a mortgage offer. with the AFD. As part of this programme, twelve projects have already been financed in various We have also been signatories of the Equator Finally, November 2010 saw the start of a communication campaign about Essence municipalities or municipal satellites, representing Principles since 2003. To find out more about energy-saving investments, with particular attention paid to “green” housing a total of EUR 30 million. the implementation of these principles within loans and Car Eco-credits. Customers were invited to enter an online competition the Dexia Group, see p. 23. enabling them to win vouchers to spend with one of our “green” partners. Green Day Poster GREEN IT Communication CLEANING UP CONTAMINATED INDUSTRIAL LAND Essential as they are for day-to-day business, IT equipment and networks represent a major part of the energy consumption of a public services building. To help its customers to optimise the management of their IT Dexia is one of the leading investors in the “Re-Vive Brownﬁeld Fund”, a private equity fund created in March equipment, Dexia Bank Belgium has been selling its Energy Line – Green IT product since 2008, an all-in2010 by the property promoter, Re-Vive, aimed at the sustainable redevelopment of contaminated industrial one solution for leasing IT equipment that meets the latest European energy efﬁciency standards. land in Belgium. By investing in the cleaning up process of polluted land and redeveloping it into sustainable property projects, the fund aims to achieve environmental and social gains – as well as a ﬁnancial return – As a result, all of the administration services computers at the town of Lessines now use a virtual system. In by acquiring sites that offer sustainable opportunities through their location, development potential and addition to saving space on desks, the system saves 400 W per computer and signiﬁcantly cuts the power connection to the urban network. requirements at the local council ofﬁces, enabling the investment to pay for itself in no more than three years. The funding for this project, arranged in collaboration with Adehis, was paid for by the town of Lessines The fund focuses on medium-sized projects with values varying between EUR 10 and 30 million. An initial Evaluation using a loan provided by Dexia. piece of land extending over four hectares has been purchased at Gentbrugge with a view to redeveloping an old steelworks into a sustainable mixed residential district. Currently available in a pilot region, Green IT will be rolled out across Belgium from 2011. 21 Evaluation Communication ESSENCE Relevance Priority 2011-2012 Identity and strategy Essence Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 22 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Incorporating Identity and strategy environmental and social risks into our financing activities Aware that the impact we have on the environment and society is indirect in the main Priority 2011-2012 – i.e. associated with our profession as bankers – we have been busy for a number of years now implementing policies and processes aimed at better integrating the environmental and social risks involved with the projects for which we plan the ﬁnancing. Implementing the Equator Principles BREAKDOWN OF EQUATOR PRINCIPLES PROJECTS FINANCED IN 2010 by category by sector of activity Relevance Depending on the environmental and social risk 4% 2% involved with the project, the Sustainable 6% 7% Development Department at Dexia provides 6% support for the risk management and front office As a signatory to the Equator Principles since 2003, teams by carrying out a more detailed analysis of we seek to minimise any potential environmental the project. It then comes up with a recommendation 41% 34% and social impact caused by the projects we that is systematically passed on to the credit committee, which is responsible for the decision 55% finance. to finance a project, and defining the terms relating 46% ESSENCE The process we use to apply the Equator Principles to it. In 2010, the Sustainable Development is implemented on a daily basis by our teams Department issued an opinion on three projects responsible for funding projects. Projects that submitted to the credit committee. come within the scope of application of the Equator Non-renewable Principles are classified using a standardised analysis Given the main business sectors that we operate Category A Category B Category C energy Infrastructures Telecom grid, based on their likely environmental and social in on funding projects, most of the operations we Renewable energy Environment Other impact: finance come into categories B or C. In 2010, we by geographic area funded 56 Equator Principles projects, two of Communication • category A: projects with significant negative which were classified in category A: a project to social or environmental impact; build a gas pipeline, and a project for a waste 18% 21% • category B: projects with limited social or treatment plant. environmental impact; • category C: projects with minimal or zero social 2% or environmental impact. Category A or B projects are the subject of an environmental and social impact assessment. The conclusions are incorporated as part of the technical Evaluation 59% due diligence process. An environmental and/or social management plan is implemented where required to ensure the proper handling of any Nothern America Western Europe environmental and social risks throughout the entire period for funding the project. Africa Middle-Easts 23 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Incorporating Identity and strategy environmental and social risks into our financing activities Priority 2011-2012 Deﬁning sector-based policies CARBON INTENSITY OF THE PORTFOLIO OF PROJECTS FOR THE PRODUCTION OF ELECTRICITY Tons of CO2/MWh For many years now we have been developing Within the context of its guidelines, Dexia is the first 0.600 specific sector-focused policies, guiding our policies bank in the world to set itself a quantitative target Dexia portfolio Dexia objectives AIE recommendations in those sectors where we operate that present the aimed at limiting the carbon footprint of its portfolio Relevance 0.550 greatest environmental and social risks. of projects relating to the production of electricity 0.502 or heat. As a result, we are committed to the carbon 0.500 Introduced in 2004, our policy on funding the arms intensity of this portfolio being 30% less than the 0.451 industry applies to all of the Group’s business lines recommendations of the International Energy Agency 0.450 and entities. The policy is based around two on the carbon intensity of world energy production 0.400 commitments: in order to stabilise emissions of greenhouse gases 0.351 • the exclusion of all of the Group’s banking and at a maximum of 450 ppm(1) in order to limit 0.350 insurance activities from companies whose atmospheric warming. 0.330 0.333 involvement in the manufacture, sale, use or ESSENCE 0.300 holding of antipersonnel mines, cluster bombs The full wording of our guidelines on 0.316 or depleted uranium weapons is certain and funding the energy sector is available at 0.250 acknowledged; www.dexia.com. • specific guidelines suited to each of our business 0.200 lines: project finance, corporate financing, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 management of funds and shareholdings. SHARE OF SOURCES WITH ZERO OPERATING EMISSIONS IN THE PORTFOLIO The full wording of our policy on the Communication OF PROJECTS FOR THE PRODUCTION OF ELECTRICITY funding of the arms industry is available at PROJECT-FUNDING ACTIVITY, BY SECTOR www.dexia.com. 100% Since 2008 we have also defined guidelines on the Dexia focuses its project-funding activity mainly on the energy sector, particularly on the production 80% financing of the energy sector. These guidelines of electricity from renewable sources, and on the apply to our funding activities when the use of the infrastructure sector. We also fund projects in the 60% funds is known and linked to a specific project. They area of environmental management (water, waste) cover the following sectors: oil and gas, biofuels, and telecommunications. 40% conversion of fossil fuels and the production of Evaluation electricity from thermal, nuclear and renewable Dexia does not ﬁnance projects in the sectors of sources, including hydroelectric. chemicals, ﬁshing, forestry and mining. 20% 43% 46% 47% 0% 2008 2009 2010 (1) ppm: parts per million 24 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Investing in a socially Identity and strategy responsible manner By incorporating environmental, social and corporate governance criteria into its investment portfolio, Dexia Asset Management aims to be a responsible asset manager, eager to act in the interests of its customers in the long term and helping to build a Priority 2011-2012 more sustainable economy. Strengthening the transparency Consolidating our position of our approach to SRI as a leader in SRI To enable us to provide our customers with more We have also developed the Transparency Codes detailed information that is more transparent for two types of SRI funds: Socially Responsible and Sustainable Investment (SRI) benefits of an SRI approach. We have been involved and regularly updated, we launched a new • index SRI funds; Relevance occupies an essential place in Dexia’s strategic in SRI since 1996 and offer our customers a full range website in 2010 dedicated entirely to SRI. This • SRI salary-based savings plans, which invest in positioning and philosophy. Approximately 23% of of SRI solutions across all categories of assets and in website is accessible via the transfer protocol internal funds that take account of sustainable the assets managed by Dexia Asset Management, all geographical regions. http://sri.dexia-am.com. and responsible criteria. or EUR 19.7 billion at the end of 2010, enjoyed the All of these Transparency Codes are available Introduced in 2004 by Eurosif with the backing of in English and French from the Dexia Asset SHARE OF OUTSTANDING SRI FUNDS IN THE TOTAL OUTSTANDING FUNDS MANAGED the European Commission, the aim of the European Management website and at its website BY DEXIA ASSET MANAGEMENT SRI Transparency Code is to reinforce transparency dedicated to SRI at http://sri.dexia-am.com. 25% on the principles and processes that underlie the constitution of SRI funds. As a signatory of the Because we believe that financial performance is Transparency Code for all of its SRI funds, Dexia not a sufficient condition per se for the success ESSENCE 20% Asset Management updated the existing of an SRI strategy, we publish information about Transparency Codes in 2010 for four SRI funds or the non-financial performance of our funds as 15% fund types: part of our monthly reporting process. After two 23% • Core SRI funds, which include 18 open SRI funds years of work, in 2010 we implemented our own 10% 20% 22% in various categories of assets; evaluation tool for assessing the environmental, 16% • thematic SRI funds; social and governance-related performance of our 5% • the Dexia Money Market Euro Sustainable fund, SRI funds. Evaluation of the performance of virtually which invests in short-term instruments issued by Communication all of our SRI funds is available from our website 0% States and responsible and sustainable companies; at www.dexia-am.com. In addition, each month 2007 2008 2009 2010 • the Dexia Equities L Sustainable Emerging we publish a full list of the holdings that make up Our approach to SRI is distinguished by its robustness confirmed in 2010 when it received SRI accreditation Markets fund, which invests in sustainable and our SRI funds at the same site. and efficiency. Based on a highly effective internal from the French body, Novethic, for the second responsible companies operating in emerging analysis, it relies on a committee of SRI experts consecutive year for 19 of its funds in all categories markets. made up of five independent members from the of assets. In addition, the whole of our SRI range world of academe and business. These specialists was rewarded in 2010 by the special Luxembourg INDEX SRI FUNDS assist us in identifying emerging issues in the area Fund Award presented by the financial analysis of sustainable development, and ensuring our provider, Morningstar, and the newspaper At the beginning of 2010, Dexia Asset Management began offering index SRI funds to its private clients Evaluation approach is both pertinent and consistent. Tageblatt. and institutional investors. These are passively managed funds that reﬂect the index as closely as possible and which feature a sustainable ﬁlter in two dimensions: The expertise of Dexia Asset Management • a standard-based filter which ensures that the companies selected abide by the principles of the Global Compact; in managing and analysing SRI funds was • an active dialogue about the issues of sustainable development with companies, led by our SRI analysts. 25 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Investing in a socially Identity and strategy responsible manner Encouraging companies Exercising an active voting policy to be more transparent Priority 2011-2012 Dexia Asset Management aims to conduct an Our policy of active voting is based on four principles Dexia Asset Management has been involved for about the major issues of sustainable development. active dialogue with companies without indulging of sound business management: a number of years in various collaborative Taking this commitment a step further, we have in finger-pointing. Hence we speak regularly with • guaranteeing the rights of all shareholders, based initiatives aimed at encouraging companies to been the signatories to the following initiatives companies during any SRI analysis. Our clear on the rule of “one share – one vote – one increase their transparency and publish information since 2010. objective is to encourage the company to think dividend”; carefully about certain aspects linked to topics • guaranteeing equal treatment for all our of sustainability, as well as to strengthen shareholders, including minority and foreign Investor Statement Regarding Initiative aimed at encouraging large multinational companies in the electronics transparency further for investors. We place the shareholders; Suicides and Working Conditions at sector to communicate more about their policies for managing their supply emphasis on transparency because it aids with • passing on accurate and transparent financial Electronics Manufacturing Facilities chain. Relevance comparisons and also prompts companies to information; continue developing their strategy. In 2010, Dexia • responsibility and independence of the Board of Call put out to the stock exchanges to examine the possibility of incorporating Sustainable Asset Management had over 150 contacts with Directors. elements relating to environmental, social and governance performance in Stock Exchanges companies. Acting as guarantor for this policy, a “Proxy Voting” their rating rules. committee analyses the voting decisions taken by Proxy voting or exercising voting rights is also Dexia Asset Management, both prior to and Evaluation and ranking of the world’s twenty largest pharmaceutical companies, Investor Statement important. With this in mind, Dexia Asset subsequent to meetings. Made up of seven members, on Access to Medicine based on sustainable development criteria and in particular relating to access Management aims to assume fully its role as a two of whom are independent, appointed for the to essential medicines. responsible asset manager by attending General expertise in corporate governance, this committee is ESSENCE Meetings and exercising its voting rights by taking responsible for adjusting our voting policy to any new 2010 Global Investor Statement Proposal for a political framework to be put in place nationally and internationally part in the vote on certain resolutions tabled developments in this area. Each year, Dexia Asset to ﬁght against climate change. This statement continues on from the on Climate Change during these meetings. In 2010, we attended Management publishes a report on how its voting Copenhagen Communiqué on Climate Change, published in December 2009. some 320 General Meetings. rights were exercised. This report, along with Dexia Asset Management’s policy on voting, is available An initiative aimed at encouraging large multinational companies to publish at www.dexia-am.com. CDP Water Disclosure information about the risks and opportunities facing them in terms of water management. PORTFOLIO 21 Communication Based on a standards-related approach to OUTSTANDING FUNDS MANAGED compliance with human rights and IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PRINCIPLES For more information about the collaborative initiatives to which Dexia Asset Management is a environmental management, Portfolio 21 aims OF PORTFOLIO 21 signatory, see our commitment report at: http://sri.dexia-am.com. to include non-financial criteria in the EUR billions management of investment portfolios. All of 16 Dexia’s insurance reserves, including the 14 supplementary pensions of its staff in Belgium, 12 are invested in a socially responsible manner, 10 in line with the principles of Portfolio 21. For 8 13.2 14.5 Evaluation more information about the Portfolio 21 6 11.2 project, see www.portfolio21.info. 4 2 0 2008 2009 2010 26 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Conducting Identity and strategy our business responsibly As a leading ﬁnancial services player, Dexia is committed to conducting its business in a professional and responsible manner in relation to all of its products and services vis-à-vis it customers, other ﬁnancial parties, the authorities and all of Dexia’s in-house Priority 2011-2012 and external partners. Every area of business includes the risk of non-compliance. Inadequate understanding or management of these risks may lead to ﬁnancial and commercial losses, as well as tarnish Dexia’s reputation. It may also lead to administrative, legal or criminal sanctions. Dexia’s compliance policy MARKET ABUSE AND PERSONAL TRANSACTIONS Relevance The aim of the Integrity Policy is to promote honest, The Compliance Charter sets out the role and As a listed company, Dexia has introduced measures These measures take the form mainly of a policy open and ethical conduct and ensure that the laws, jurisdiction of the compliance function and presents aimed at managing the risks of market abuse (insider aimed at preventing insider trading in relation to regulations and other professional standards are the principles of governance that underlie the trading and price manipulations) in relation to the financial instruments and a policy on personal complied with. It is also designed to monitor approach taken by Dexia in this area. financial instruments issued by the Group. There transactions conducted by the individuals in compliance with Dexia’s Codes of Ethics, Codes of are also measures in place regarding other issuers question. There are also measures dealing with Conduct and other Group policies so that Dexia’s about which Dexia and/or its employees may have confidentiality, drawing up lists of insiders and reputation is highlighted and protected. privileged information. “Chinese walls”. ESSENCE FIGHT AGAINST MONEY-LAUNDERING AND THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM INTEGRITY OF DEALS IN FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Dexia attaches the greatest importance to the sound the obligations and formalities that apply in As part of the MiFID directive, Dexia has customers, risk profiles and best execution. MiFID management of risks relating to money-laundering relation to: implemented its own standards to ensure a high monitoring, in place since 2008, governs the and the financing of terrorism, and to effective • knowledge and identification of customers, level of protection for investors. These include the indicators and tests of the Dexia entities in question Communication compliance with the national and international representatives, agents and business beneficiaries; policy on conflicts of interest (2007), as well as in relation to the directive’s requirements. obligations relating to them. • verification from official lists of criminals, terrorists, other standards relating to the classification of nuclear proliferation agents, etc issued by the Dexia has designed and implemented a process national and international authorities; based on international standards (FATF, Wolfsberg, • monitoring account and business relations etc.) abiding by local rules and the requirements of throughout the period of the relationship; the controlling authorities. • monitoring of operations and detection of suspicious transactions; To ensure a harmonised and consistent approach • cooperation with the regulatory and legal across the various entities, Dexia has drawn up authorities in the event of suspicion of moneyEvaluation a series of general policies (Country Policy, AML laundering or the financing of terrorism, in line Risk Rating, Politically Exposed Individuals, OFAC with the applicable requirements. Policy, etc.), which the Group entities use to adopt procedures and instruction memos detailing 27 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Conducting Identity and strategy our business responsibly Priority 2011-2012 DATA PROTECTION AND PROFESSIONAL INDEPENDENCE SECRECY OF THE AUDITORS Relevance Discretion and compliance with the requirements Dexia has a policy designed to guarantee the As part of the fight against corruption of a political of professional secrecy (including banking secrecy, independence of its auditors. This involves checking, nature, Dexia has adopted the “Politically Exposed when applicable) are essential, in particular with a among other things, prior to allocating an assignment Individuals” policy aimed at preventing the risk of view to preserving Dexia’s reputation. There are that is not linked directly to the statutory auditing money-laundering based on acts of corruption, and procedures in place on several levels in this regard of the accounts, to see whether this assignment is the Country Policy includes this risk as an essential (employees, customers, transactions) across the likely to have an effect on the independence of the criterion in the compliance classification of risk Group to ensure compliance with national regulations. auditors. countries. ESSENCE Also in this area, the Group has introduced the CONFLICTS OF INTEREST WHISTLEBLOWING Whistleblowing policy, the AML&CFT principles, the policy on conflicts of interest, Dexia’s policy The proper operation of Dexia’s business requires a Dexia has introduced an internal whistleblowing guaranteeing the independence of its auditors and strict policy regarding conflicts of interest, such as system aimed at reducing the risk of financial loss, the policy on the prevention of market abuse. has been in place at Dexia since 2007. Conflicts of sanction or loss of image or reputation resulting interest relate to numerous situations: a contradiction from non-compliance with legal and regulatory between the interests of Dexia (or one of its staff) obligations. TAXATION POLICY Communication and its customers, or between staff and Dexia or between the interests of several customers. This system provides Dexia employees with the As part of its compliance with international standards opportunity to report any abuse or malfunction likely on fiscal transparency, Dexia abides by the principles to cause serious prejudice to Dexia. adopted by the OECD and the G20 on implementing EXTERNAL MANDATES international standards aimed at improving fiscal transparency and the exchange of information on taxInternal rules have been adopted to control external FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION related matters. Dexia currently does not operate in functions that may be carried out by staff in territories deemed to be “non-cooperative”. compliance with local regulations or general principles The Dexia Group has established provisions that The Group also benefits from green tax measures aimed at encouraging the mobility of staff, such as the partial Evaluation on preventing conflicts of interest. apply to all of its staff in order to prevent corruption of a private nature, such as the “Integrity Policy”, or total funding of season tickets on public transport, the “Code of Ethics” and the “Policy on Gifts, Favours company cars with low CO2 emissions, etc. and Invitations”. 28 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Acting as a responsible business Identity and strategy Dexia is keen to act as a responsible company in managing its direct social, environmental and societal impact. Priority 2011-2012 Corporate social responsibility In 2010, the Group continued with the affected by job losses, these measures are spread CONTINUING WITH SOCIAL DIALOGUE CONTINUING THE PREVENTION Transformation Plan it feels is essential for restoring in time to enable the implementation of a range OF PSYCHOSOCIAL RISKS its financial situation. Introduced in successive of solutions designed to avoid forced redundancies. Relevance As in previous years, social dialogue remained an waves over the past two years, this plan is in In particular, priority is given to seeking possible essential element in the process of transformation. response to the various business and organisational moves within the Group. The Group has focused for a number of years now Consequently, the calendar year of 2010 was needs identified: strengthening the Group’s on preventing and detecting stress situations, in again a busy one, with five plenary meetings of integration, as well as running it to serve customers Since January 2009, in Belgium, France and particular by introducing a prevention policy for the European Works Council (EWC) and eleven better and to continue the path of cost-cutting. Luxembourg, no job cut has resulted in a forced “mental risks”. As a result, there are numerous meetings of the European Works Council Board. redundancy. Job cuts, excluding solutions where systems in place across the Group to detect, moves have been made internally, have been on a prevent and handle stress management. Following the staff representative informationCONTINUING INTERNAL MOBILITY voluntary basis only, in addition to other measures consultation process first discussed at EWC level, including early retirement and assisted departures. In 2010, these measures were strengthened even ESSENCE said process was then discussed locally at works further and brought into line with the systematic A number of principles aimed at limiting the council level in the entities. implementation of a group of mandatory employment-related impact of the transformation programmes applied in each entity, providing a process were introduced in 2010 and have been In Dexia’s Belgian employment area, the collective minimum shared programme for both preventative reaffirmed for 2011: the Group is seeking to achieve transfer of jobs was first negotiated at length and corrective measures. These measures were savings across all of its operating costs and is not before being enacted into the eventual transfer also presented to the social partners, both at a targeting staff overheads alone. When staff are agreement concluded. European Works Council level and to local works councils. Communication FORWARD-LOOKING MANAGEMENT OF JOBS AND SKILLS In France, management and all of the union organisations signed an agreement at the end of 2009 aimed at saving jobs through the forward-looking management of jobs and skills, and by establishing a formal job mobility process to beneﬁt the salaried staff affected by job losses or transfer of positions. The purpose of this agreement was to provide guidance for the second round of the Group’s Transformation Plan. It aimed at preserving and developing talent within the company and reinvesting staff in motivating business projects. The agreement provides a total package of guidance and supervision on mobility: information about how the system works, access to positions available, evaluation of the skills and wishes of employees, the provision of any Evaluation training needed, and monitoring of the person in the new position. Initially scheduled to run over two years in 2010 and 2011, this agreement enabled an internal redeployment solution to be found for all of the staff affected during the course of 2010. 29 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Acting as a responsible business Identity and strategy PREVENTING PSYCHOSOCIAL RISKS: CONTINUING PROGRAMMES IN FAVOUR OF DIVERSITY Priority 2011-2012 AN ACTION PLAN SHARED BY THE WHOLE GROUP In Luxembourg in particular, Dexia continues to Luxembourg. The award is in line with the policy The Group action plan includes a series of measures applied according to the type of prevention: level one, level participate in the programme of positive action of promoting equal opportunity implemented by two or level three. organised by the Ministry for Equal Opportunity, Dexia Banque Internationale à Luxembourg and Level one prevention (acting directly on the causes to reduce the negative impact on the individual): aimed at the ongoing improvement of equality reflects the bank’s commitment to promoting the • introduction of stress surveys; between men and women. role of women in the Luxembourg economy. • organisation awareness lectures for managers; • distribution of an information brochure. The company was again involved in organising At a Group level, a broader thought process has Level two prevention (helping individuals to adjust better to the requirements of their surroundings): the Woman Business Manager of the Year award. just been launched for 2011. An overall assessment • organisation of specific training courses for HR departments (career managers, training managers, etc.) and Initiated by Dexia Banque Internationale à is in the process of being developed to determine members of the social services (medical services, etc.); Relevance • continuation and development of in-house coaching; Luxembourg in conjunction with other companies, the programmes to be run in the future, as well • introduction of monthly monitoring for stress and burn-out indicators; the aim of the competition is to reward the woman as their degree of priority. • regular communication. – manager or company director – who runs the Level three prevention (handling and ensuring the individual monitoring of employees suffering from stress-related most innovative project in a company located in problems now or in the past): • continuation of external coaching; • introduction of emergency hotlines. Virtually all of these programmes have been implemented in the Group’s six main entities. Local action plans are being developed for 2011 in response to the results of the surveys expedited in 2010. ESSENCE CONTINUING THE RANGE OF TRAINING COURSES In 2010, the range of training courses available and the reactivation of programmes that were continued to develop to maintain the Group’s suspended in the wake of the financial crisis Communication strategy. This took place along several lines, such (development programmes for high-potential as change supervision, the adjustment of technical individuals, MBA courses for senior managers, training courses to accommodate changes in the induction sessions for new arrivals, mentoring, business lines caused by regulatory amendments, etc.). Evaluation Presentation of the Woman Business Manager of the Year award 30 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Acting as a responsible business Identity and strategy Priority 2011-2012 Limiting our direct CO 2 EMISSIONS AVOIDED BY USING TELECONFERENCES environmental impact In 2010 we continued to estimate the volume of CO2 emissions avoided by using videoconferences by monitoring the calls better and including conference phone calls. EMISSIONS OF CO2 CAUSED In addition, Dexia Bank Belgium has had a Sustainable This led us to the following assumptions: BY BUSINESS TRAVEL Mobility Plan in place since December 2000 for the • 80% of staff business travel by train is over average distances of 280 km; home-work-home travel of staff. This is a collective Relevance • 20% of staff business travel by air is over average distances of 3,300 km; For the past few years, we have made every effort labour agreement encouraging sustainable modes • each videoconference links an average of 4 people and hence eliminates 3 business trips; to cut down on the emissions of CO2 linked to of travel: free public transport, reimbursement of • a conference phone call links an average of 10 people and hence eliminates 5 business trips; business travel by our staff. In 2010, we continued parking fees at stations, encouraging the use of • 50% of conference phone calls enable business trips to be eliminated; the remainder correspond to our programmes by working along two main lines: bicycles, car-sharing, etc. As a result, in Brussels, meetings that would not have been held without telephone equipment; reducing staff business travel and minimising the 80% of staff come to work each day other than • 100% of videoconferences enable business trips to be avoided. impact of trips by encouraging the use of modes of alone in their car, 66% by train and 5% regularly Based on this, we estimate that using videoconferences enabled us to avoid the emission of approximately transport that generate less pollution. cycling to the office. Over 10 years these measures, 2,300 tons of CO2 between October 2009 and September 2010. Using conference phone calls also which have cost the company 18 million EUR, have enabled us to prevent the emission of approximately 11,000 tons of CO2 over the same period. All of To reduce the distances travelled, we encourage prevented the emission of over 25,000 tons of CO2. ESSENCE which represents almost 65% of the emissions linked to our business travel over the period. staff to use videoconferencing and conference calls. In 2010, the bank’s efforts were also rewarded At the same time, we updated our Travel Policy in through a nomination for the Belgian Mobility Award 2010, stressing the preference of using modes of presented at the Belgian Energy and Environment transport that pollute less. Awards (EEAwards). FLOWERPOWER@DEXIA In Belgium, after adopting “shared bikes” (Villo!) To mark Earth Day on 22 April and to celebrate the International Year of Biodiversity, Dexia Bank Belgium in Brussels in 2009 for staff travelling on business gave each member of staff a packet of seeds for a dozen wildﬂowers, half of which are threatened with over short distances, in 2010 Dexia became the extinction. To add a dimension of social solidarity to the project, the job of folding the packets using Communication first major Belgian company to begin the intensive recycled paper and adding the seeds to the packets was given to a sheltered workshop that provides use of “shared cars” (Cambio) for business travel employment to handicapped individuals. over longer distances. This has enabled us to replace 25% of our company vehicles by subscriptions to the Cambio system, while at the ECO-VOUCHERS FOR DEXIA BANK BELGIUM STAFF same time making our own contribution to reducing the space occupied by cars in the city. Since 2009, the bank has been giving eco-vouchers to its staff. These vouchers can be used to purchase environmentally-friendly products and services, thereby boosting the purchasing power of the people In Luxembourg, the bank took its internal policy on receiving the vouchers while limiting their impact on the environment. Evaluation leasing a step further by limiting the choice of company cars based on their emissions of CO2 per kilometre claimed by the manufacturers. Cambio station in front of the Galilée building in Brussels 31 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Acting as a responsible business Identity and strategy Priority 2011-2012 CONSUMPTION OF PAPER WASTE MANAGEMENT We pay particular attention to cutting our In 2010, our efforts in this area were offset by the To improve the relevance of our reporting data in it (in France), placing sorting baskets at workstations consumption of paper, which represents our recovery in our business, with our consumption of relation to our business, we made changes to our (especially in Belgium, France and Luxembourg) or main source of consumables and waste. Back in paper remaining stable for the year. At the conclusion waste indicators in 2010 by adding two categories: programmes to make staff more aware of proper 2006, we embarked on a voluntary programme of the process commenced in 2006, we achieved non-hazardous waste, which represents our biggest sorting (in Belgium). that has enabled us to cut our paper consumption almost 80% of the target we set ourselves of type of waste, and recycled paper/cardboard waste, by 17%. 100 kg/FTE by 2010. which enables us to monitor the Group’s recycling As a result of its efficient sorting system, Dexia Banque Relevance efforts. Internationale à Luxembourg recycles five tons of paper a week, as well as thirteen tons of cardboard Several programmes are run within our various entities and four tons of plastic a year. It also has its food GROUP PAPER CONSUMPTION aimed at limiting our production of waste. By way of waste collected by a specialist company, which uses illustration we should mention the recycling and it to produce heat. Tons kg/FTE processing of computer goods (in Belgium) or renting 4,000 250 3,500 228 200 ESSENCE 3,000 2,500 RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING POLICY 150 2,000 126 In 2005, Dexia began a process of responsible purchasing through a Charter of Ethics governing the 1,500 100 100 relations of the Group’s entities and subsidiaries with suppliers. Depending on the context and the laws 1,000 and methods of producing goods and services that exist in each country, Dexia aims to select suppliers 50 500 that apply the best practices and principles of social and environmental responsibility. The Charter applies to all major suppliers in a regular and continuous relationship with Dexia Group entities and is used for 0 0 all new tenders or when a contract to purchase goods and services is signed with these suppliers. Communication 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Total consumption (tons) Total consumption (kg/FTE) Target (kg/FTE) For example, in line with these principles, we encourage our suppliers to abide by the principles of the Global Compact. The wording of our Charter of Ethics for suppliers is available at www.dexia.com. The Group runs various programmes aimed at Our private customers are offered an alternative optimising consumption of paper. These include, solution to the paper documents sent out to them for example, the dematerialisation of employee regularly. For Luxembourg, this is dexiaplus, while payslips (Dexia Bank Belgium, Dexia Insurance for Belgium it is Dexia Direct Net. These interactive Belgium, Dexia Banque Internationale à banking applications allow customers to access Luxembourg), setting printers to print on both all their banking information and account Evaluation sides of the paper by default (in Belgium, France statements online. The same type of application and Luxembourg), and the increasing use of is available for business customers in Belgium: “green” paper, which represented 92% of our called PaPyRuS, it also provides them with secure overall consumption in 2010. space to store their information. 32 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Acting as a responsible business Identity and strategy Priority 2011-2012 Patronage The Dexia Gallery in Brussels In 2010, the Group continued to adjust its strategy people through its Solidarity programme. In 2010, strategy aimed at enabling Dexia to adopt a • Skills patronage: employees are allowed to take on patronage to comply with the Transformation it was particularly pleased to enable staff to access Communication Charter in 2011 and to produce two hours a month out of their working time to Plan underway for the past two years. In particular, the Festival programme on a privileged basis. more homogeneous transverse action guides. sponsor young people with their professional the year was highlighted by the special attention • Each year, Galerie l’Indépendance in Luxembourg integration. In 2010, almost 40 staff from Dexia granted to the participation and involvement of staff hosts two major exhibitions of works by artists Since 2005, Dexia Foundation Belgium has supported Crédit Local helped guide young people to look Relevance in two main areas: access to culture and offering from Luxembourg. To bring culture out to young the two main Belgian associations promoting for work. solidarity and support. people, the bank has established the educational microfinance: Crédal and Hefboom. The Foundation programme, Jonk Besetzung, which includes makes operating grants available to these associations, Dexia Asset Management continues its “Helping guided tours of the works in the bank’s gardens representing 420,000 EUR in 2010, as well as the Those Who Help” support programme each year by CULTURE FOR EVERYONE and an introduction to photography and plastic skills and support of sixteen volunteers drawn from allocating the budget normally set aside for end-ofarts. current and former staff of Dexia Bank. year gifts to charitable associations in which employees In the wake of the financial crisis, Dexia reviewed its • In Italy, Dexia owns a prestigious art collection. are mainly involved. strategy on patronage, in particular by uniting its Many of these works are made available for the The Foundation is looking to continue its work by policies on supporting culture under the heading general public to view once a year (Invito a increasing the level of voluntary help from staff. It DenizBank supports a number of solidarity initiatives, “Culture for Everyone”, a programme that promotes Palazzo). including the Turkish Education Association’s ESSENCE has just launched a pilot project for the Helping the opening of our private art collections to the • In Turkey, DenizBank, which is the principal patron programme of scholarships, which granted 39 Hands group by which Dexia staff in Belgium who general public, as well as giving our staff opportunities of the Istanbul Symphonic Orchestra, also sponsors bursaries to young high school students in 2010. are involved on a voluntary basis with a charitable to enjoy reserved access to the many cultural events the cello competition at Mersin University State association, are able to propose a project with the we support. Conservatory. aim of obtaining support from the Foundation. Ten projects were selected by a panel of judges that Aimed at Dexia staff and the public at large, “Culture “Culture for Everyone”, now celebrating its first included Dexia employees. Depending on the for Everyone” enables all of our cultural programmes anniversary, has been highly successful. More than conclusions from this pilot project, this programme in the countries where we are located to be brought 10,000 people have attended its exhibitions, almost Communication under a single banner. may be extended to the whole Group. half of whom went to Open Days held at the Group’s • In Belgium, Dexia has a collection of paintings, exhibition galleries. During 2010, a survey of those part of which is on display at its gallery in Boulevard For its part, the Dexia Foundation France, supports attending showed a very high level of satisfaction. Pachéco. Since “Culture for Everyone” was three programmes aimed at promoting the integration The aim for this programme in 2011 is to improve launched, this gallery has been opened once a of young people in difficult circumstances. the visibility of our art collection by increasing the month to the general public. Works are also lent • A call for national projects: solidarity-related – number of works lent to museums in the countries to galleries in Belgium and abroad. In 2010, the where Dexia operates. and since 2010 also culture-related – projects are European Music Competitions for the Youth selected each year by the panel that includes association hosted the Dexia Classics competition. company employees. Dexia Crédit Local and Dexia Presentation of Citizenship School diplomas at a ceremony attended by Evaluation Open to students from the country’s academies Sofaxis supported 34 projects in 2010. Michel Blanc, president of the Dexia Foundation France SOLIDARITY • Citizenship School: each year, the school hosts and conservatories, this famous competition has been organised by Dexia Bank for 40 years. Dexia has been running solidarity and support a hundred to so young people on one-week stays • In France, the bank is the patron of the Festival programmes for many years, mainly through its two around principles of civic awareness. d’Avignon. Over the past two years, the bank has Foundations in Belgium and France. In 2010, all of opened the performances at the Festival to young the Group’s patronage teams worked on an overall 33 Evaluation COMMUNICATION Essence Relevance Priority 2011-2012 Identity and strategy Communication Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 34 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Strengthening the dialogue Identity and strategy with our stakeholders Well aware of the expectations and concerns of our stakeholders, in 2010 we consulted with a number of them in relation to the development of our new strategy on sustainable development. Priority 2011-2012 Identifying the expectations of our stakeholders Making the consultation process ongoing We approached the representatives of twenty-one This consultation process enabled us to highlight five We intend to make the consultation process with sentativeness of some of the categories of parties organisations from the main categories of stakeholders issues perceived as being top priorities by the panel our stakeholders initiated in 2010 an ongoing concern spoken to so that we can expand the range of identified by the Group and asked them for an of stakeholders questioned. The table below details so that we can add to our understanding of their the results of our consultation and the resulting individual conversation. Corresponding stakeholders for each one of them how they fit into the overall expectations and build a relationship of trust based analyses. included: framework of our new sustainable development on two-way listening and constructive dialogue. Relevance • public authorities; strategy. Finally, Dexia will be implementing a specific process • civil society, associations, NGOs; In 2011, our aim is to widen the scope of the of dialogue with some of our stakeholders on the • professional representation bodies; Analysing these issues, as well as conducting a stakeholders involved and enhance the repretopic of the energy performance of buildings. • rating agencies and auditors; materiality test in the face of the priorities identified • staff members and staff representatives; by Dexia, served as a base for adapting the structure • suppliers and commercial partners. and content of our Sustainable Development Report. MAKING OUR STAFF AWARE AND GETTING THEM INVOLVED Thirteen of these stakeholders responded favourably To find out more, see p. 7. to our request, which is a response rate of over 60%. The adoption of a new framework for our strategy on sustainable development provided an opportunity for our directors to have their say, reafﬁrming their commitment in this area to staff. A new internal Priority issues Integration into Dexia’s strategy communication plan will be implemented in 2011 aimed at strengthening staff understanding and Essence for our stakeholders on sustainable development knowledge about the programmes introduced within the Group on sustainable development. The topic Communication of the energy performance of buildings will also be the subject of an ongoing story on the Intranet of all Be transparent about our We make every effort to communicate with clarity and simplicity about our commercial practices, in Group entities, presenting our range of products and services in this area. business practices particular by enhancing the transparency of the information we communicate to our customers about our products and services. To ﬁnd out more about our commitments to transparency vis-à-vis our customers, see p. 36. Essence Adopt conduct We aim to incorporate the issues of sustainable development into the day-to-day exercise of our profession that is ethical as bankers through the honesty and integrity of the way we behave. To ﬁnd out more about our policy in this COMMUNICATION area, see p. 27. Evaluation Deﬁne indicators for Deﬁning indicators to monitor our progress reﬂects a strong commitment to our new strategy on sustainable monitoring the sustainable development to be rolled out operationally from 2011 onwards. To ﬁnd out more about our sustainable development approach development indicators, see p. 8 and pp. 42 to 44. Deﬁnition of sustainable development Well aware that our main environmental and social impact is linked to our commercial activities, we seek Offer products and services to develop a range of products and services within our main commercial franchises that enable us to guide on sustainable development and advise our customers in their approach to sustainable development. To ﬁnd out more about our range of products and services on sustainable development, see pp. 12 to 14 and 17 to 21. Relevance Evaluation Our aim is to concentrate our programmes regarding sustainable development on priority themes related Select priority themes to our business activities. In practical terms, this principle will be introduced operationally from 2011 and develop them into onwards by selecting a priority area of action – the energy performance of buildings – which will be the action plans subject of a speciﬁc action plan for 2011-2012. To ﬁnd out more about our actions to improve the energy performance of buildings, see pp. 12 to 15. 35 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Developing a relationship Identity and strategy of trust with our customers Priority 2011-2012 The financial crisis has had a deep-seated effect Convinced that sustainable added value can only loans. Chaired by Michel Bouvard, the député for In order to act in the best interests of our customers, on the expectations of our customers. By increasing be created for its customers through long-term Savoie and vice-chairman of the Finance Commission the commitments made in terms of marketing the transparency of our commercial practices, our partnerships based on proximity, responsiveness at the National Assembly, the committee made sure structured loans were laid down in a set of aim is to build a relationship of trust with them and trust, Dexia Asset Management adopted a that the design of structured loans and the marketing operating rules. As a result, there are now internal over time. Customer Charter in 2010 featuring nine and monitoring of outstanding balances were being principles based on a thorough knowledge of commitments in terms of expertise, transparency correctly managed by Dexia. In its conclusions, the customers, as well as the diversification and Relevance Listening to customers and taking account of their and proximity. These undertakings express our committee stated that it found particularly useful reduction of the complexity of outstanding essential needs is the foundation of every sustainable mission and the targets set by our development and innovative the initiative by Dexia Crédit Local to balances, depending on the situation and needs relationship. The theme of the “together to the model: to create added value for our customers apply the rules of the Gissler Charter not only to local of each individual. The dedicated internal essence” media campaigns that we ran in the spring at every stage in the value chain by placing them authorities, but also to hospitals and social housing committees and their rules of governance have of 2010 featured a number of essential questions at the heart of our business. organisations. Stressing the need to keep a constant also been reviewed to accommodate these aimed at our customers (e.g. “What does ‘later’ eye on the quality and transparency of the information principles as thoroughly as possible and to ensure mean for you?”). “Together to the essence” also In France, Dexia Crédit Local was the first bank to issued to customers, the committee considered that they are applied correctly. means that together we are looking for customised make commitments to marketing structured loans, changing the name of products by reference to the solutions based on our knowledge and expertise even before the charter of proper conduct, known structuring format was a genuine step forward in Essence that are provided to customers in the form of clearas the Gissler Charter, was signed between local terms of clarity, as was the systematic introduction cut products and accessible services. Incorporated authorities and the banks. In fact Dexia Crédit of an unstructured offering when even customers into all of the Group’s business lines, this baseline Local even went beyond that by publishing an had not asked for it. leads the way in the practical actions that we take exact inventory of its customers’ outstanding vis-à-vis our customers. balances in its 2009 annual report. Investir est un processus complexe. Les investisseurs ont parfois quelques difﬁcultés à faire leur choix parmi l’offre et ensuite à savoir de quoi se compose exactement leur portefeuille. In Belgium, Dexia Bank launched a new approach In line with our commitments, in March 2010 we Les investisseurs sont aussi parfois confrontés à une évolution inattendue de leurs placements. COMMUNICATION C’est ce que nous souhaitons éviter. C’est pour cette raison que nous avons mis au point une to investment in June 2010 that places the investor sent out the valuation of Dexia Finance loans nouvelle approche en matière d’investissements. at the heart of the process, while at the same time classified as B to E under the Gissler Charter to all Le portrait d’investisseur est l’un des piliers de notre nouvelle approche. Il reﬂète le risque maximum que vous êtes prêt à encourir avec le capital et le rendement de vos investissements ou d’une partie de ceux-ci aﬁn d’essayer d’obtenir un rendement plus élevé. meeting the requirements laid down by law (MiFID of our customers. We also informed them of all regulations, among others). Four “investor portraits” non-Gissler Charter loans, stating the value of Investir plus avisé ? Mon portrait d’investisseur were defined based on individual risk appetites for approximately 5,500 loans to 2,800 customers. capital and returns. One of these four portraits is We also established a mapping model of balances, associated with each investment product. That way, enabling a snapshot of outstanding balances to C’est chez Dexia our customers find it easy to identify those products be established for each customer, as well as the protéger EN OUI OUI NON most likely to match their willingness to take risks. classification associated with each loan, based on mon capital PARTIE After that, a tailored proposal can be made to them the indexation and level of structure, as set out Je veux Evaluation based on their objectives and their investment in the Gissler Charter. connaître mon rendement OUI NON NON NON horizon. In addition, at a branch level, we specifically à l’avance assess the customer’s knowledge and experience of In addition, at the end of 2009 we asked a committee the type of product before he or she goes ahead of independent specialists to conduct an overall with a purchase. review of our sales and marketing rules on structured New Investment Approach of Dexia Bank Belgium 36 EVALUATION Communication Essence Relevance Priority 2011-2012 Identity and strategy Evaluation Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 37 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Reporting process Identity and strategy Priority 2011-2012 Reporting frame of reference To formalise the reporting practices of the sustainable • direct environmental responsibility; The scope for social reporting includes all employees • Dexia Banque Internationale à Luxembourg; development indicators for the Group, a common • social responsibility; with a contract in all entities owned more than • Dexia Crediop; reporting reference system was developed in 2006. • societal involvement; 50% by Dexia. This rule therefore excludes all • Dexia Crédit Local; Relevance Since 2007, this system has been used for each of • governance. external staff (temporary employees, consultants, • Dexia Insurance Belgium; the reporting topics: These frames of references are updated as a whole etc.) from the scope for social reporting. • Dexia Kommunalbank Deutschland; • Retail and Commercial Banking, Asset annually. Historically, the entities that are currently part of • Dexia SA; Management and Services; RBC Dexia Investor Services have been taken into • Dexia Sofaxis. • Public and Wholesale Banking; account in social reporting. This is the reason why RBC Dexia Investor Services is included within the Subsidiaries newly integrated into the Group during scope for the indicators on “Total Group the course of a reporting period are not consolidated headcount” and “FTE headcount” so that the in the reporting for sustainable development until Essence Reporting scope continuity and comparability of multiannual data can be assured. the following period at the earliest, and only after approval by the Group’s Management Board. The reporting scope for sustainable development It did not include the independent branch networks The reporting scope relating to our civic involvement The entities are fully consolidated. indicators covers those entities and subsidiaries in of Dexia Insurance Belgium and Dexia Bank programmes in 2010 included the following which Dexia owns at least 51% and/or has Belgium. subsidiaries: operating control. • DenizBank; Taken together, the entities included in the scope • Dexia Asset Management; The 2010 scope for environmental reporting for environmental reporting in 2010 represented • Dexia Bank Belgium; Communication included: 77% of the Group’s full-time equivalent staff • DenizBank; (excluding staff from RBC Dexia Investor Services). • Dexia Asset Management (locations in Belgium and France); • Dexia banka Slovensko; In addition, for environmental reporting, it was decided from the 2009 period to publish the Choice and relevance of indicators • Dexia Bank Belgium; consolidated data from 1 October of year N-1 to • Dexia Banque Internationale à Luxembourg; 30 September of year N in the Sustainable The indicators published in this report are designed finance sector. The table of key indicators on page 8 • Dexia Crediop; Development Report for period N. Consequently, to report on the Group’s annual performance on sets out the Group’s main performance indicators • Dexia Crédit Local; the environmental indicators published in this sustainable development. They have been selected with regard to its strategy on sustainable EVALUATION • Dexia Insurance Belgium; report for 2010 correspond to the period from in order to be in line with the Group’s commitments development. All of the indicators published • Dexia Technology Services (locations in Belgium 1 October 2009 to 30 September 2010. and policy and take account of regulatory are available in the form of tables presented only); requirements (NRE Law – New Business Regulations on pages 42 to 44 of this report and in Excel • Dexia SA; Act), as well as the guidelines set out in the Global format at www.dexia.com. • Dexia Sofaxis. Reporting Initiative 3 and its supplement on the 38 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Reporting process Identity and strategy Consolidation RETAIL AND COMMERCIAL BANKING, ASSET PUBLIC AND WHOLESALE BANKING and control of data Priority 2011-2012 MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES • The scope for the indicator “Total amount of the • The indicator for “Percentage of claims cases portfolio of projects for the production of For each topic, the reporting process comes under The purpose of the work carried out during the resolved internally” relates to complaints dealt electricity” does not include DenizBank. the responsibility of a reporting officer who is in reporting period has not been to formulate a with and closed during the reporting period by • The indicator for “Final take of Dexia in projects charge of consolidating and controlling the data moderate or reasonable assurance about the collected from the contributors in the entities and the complaints handling department (level 2) and for the production of electricity from renewable indicators themselves. subsidiaries. the in-house mediator (level 3) at Dexia Bank sources financed over the period” corresponds Since 2008, auditing work has also been conducted Belgium, without resorting to the industry with the final take borne by Dexia in funding the Internal controls are conducted at the level of the by Dexia’s auditor, Deloitte, into the funds and mediator (level 4). initial debt of the project, with the remainder of reporting officer, then at the level of the Sustainable mandates that apply the standard SRI analysis • The indicator for “Percentage of mediation the debt borne by other banks. From 2009, the Relevance Development department, based on the historic used by Dexia Asset Management. The aim of this processes resolved successfully” corresponds with scope for the indicator includes Dexia Bank Belgium and geographic variation of the indicators between auditing work is to certify that on their date of the success of level 3 mediation (in-house and DenizBank. year N-1 and year N. closure, the movements and positions of these mediator), before escalating to level 4 (industry • The indicator for “World market share of Dexia funds and mandates comply with the criteria for mediator). in funding renewable energy” is taken from the Since 2005, the reporting protocol has been the selecting companies included in the standard SRI • The indicator for “Number of insurance policies annual League Tables published by Infrastructure subject of external verification by a qualified universe of Dexia Asset Management. with pay-as-you-drive premiums” includes policies Journal, which are based on projects signed and independent external body. In 2010 and within already signed or in the process of being signed financed during the period. the context of the procedures agreed upon, Dexia on 1 January of the reporting period. • The indicator for “Share of sources with zero appointed its auditor, Deloitte, to review the • The indicator for “Number of accounts opting operating emissions in Dexia’s portfolio of electricity Essence reporting process for a selection of the performance for the ‘DDN-only’ option” does not take account, production projects” is estimated based on Dexia’s indicators published in its Sustainable Development from 2008, of “online savings account” data, a final take in projects for the production of electricity Report. In particular, Dexia wishes to emphasise product launched on 30 June 2008 and financed between 1 January 2007 and 31 the verification of the performance indicators automatically counted as a “DDN-only” contract. December of the period and the annual production relating to its business lines. • The indicator for “Percentage of customers holding of electricity expected from these projects. a securities account and a minimum of one unit • The indicator for “Carbon intensity of Dexia’s trust (sicav) share and who hold at least one SRI portfolio of projects for the production of electricity” is estimated based on Dexia’s final take Methodological restrictions and details sicav share” relates to securities accounts only. Communication Bearer shares – now in the process of disappearing in projects for the production of electricity financed – are not included. between 1 January 2007 and 31 December of The indicators may present a margin of uncertainty • methodological changes likely to affect the the period and the carbon intensity of these on account of the following methodological comparability of data; projects. restrictions: • the qualitative nature of certain data that could be • “Breakdown of Equator Principles projects financed • the recent inclusion of some subsidiaries within open to interpretation. over the period, by sector of activity”: the category the reporting scope for sustainable development; for “Non-renewable energy” includes oil and gas • differences in definitions linked to a lack of The following methodological elements should be projects, as well as projects for the production of harmonisation in different legislations at an stated about the performance indicators published electricity from non-renewable sources. The EVALUATION international level; on pages 42 to 44 of this report. category for “Renewable energy” covers projects for the production of electricity from renewable sources. The scope of indicators relating to the implementation of the Equator Principles does not include Dexia Bank Belgium. 39 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Reporting process Identity and strategy DIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RELATIONS WITH SURROUNDING SOCIETY • The 2009 values of several indicators have been shared parts of buildings that Dexia does not • From 2010, the indicator for “Average number • The indicator for “Amount devoted to civic adjusted retroactively on account of an error occupy on its own. of days’ training per employee” is calculated involvement programmes” corresponds to the Priority 2011-2012 being discovered in the reporting from entities • The indicator for “Consumption of green in relation to the number of staff at the end total of all budgets (budgets corresponding to or in consolidating the data. electricity” covers the consumption of electricity of the period, and no longer in relation to the programmes and not to operating costs) spent • The indicators relating to the production of waste requiring the purchase of green certificates. The number of FTE staff. This is an item of data by 31 December of the current period for do not include Dexia Insurance Belgium, Dexia corresponding electricity may be produced from that is not mandatory for the social reporting partnerships and patronage programmes, banka Slovensko and Dexia Asset Management renewable sources of energy or quality carried out within the Group. Also in 2010, the excluding sponsorship programmes from 2008. France. In addition, DenizBank does not report cogeneration plants. It does not include scope of this indicator covered 55% of FTE • The indicator for “Breakdown of the amount on hazardous waste. consumption for the shared parts of buildings corresponding to the Group’s main entities. for patronage programmes, by theme” relates • The indicator for “Hazardous waste” covers the that Dexia does not occupy on its own. This indicator does not include the Group’s solely to the breakdown by item for patronage production of batteries, computer hardware and • The indicators relating to the consumption of independent branch networks. programmes. Partnerships are not broken down consumables (cartridges, toner, etc.) as well as energy and fluids do not include some branches • “Breakdown of male/female staff by hierarchical by item and hence are not included in the scope Relevance fluorescent tubes (neon). of Dexia Banque Internationale à Luxembourg level”: there are four different statuses defined for the indicator from 2008, as are sponsorship • The indicator for “Purchase of paper” include over which the Group does not have operating and harmonised at a Group level: programmes. both the tonnage of paper for internal use and control. employee; • The amount for “Grants from the Dexia Foundation paper to be sent out to our customers. • Videoconferences lasting for less than 5 minutes manager; in Belgium to microcredit organisations” does • “Green” paper includes paper that is recycled are considered as unsuccessful attempts and have senior manager = experienced manager and not include VAT. and/or from sustainably managed forests, but been excluded from the scope of the indicator members of the Management Board at an does not include paper simply bleached without since 2010. entity; chlorine since 2009. • The indicator for “Emissions of CO2 due to business member of the Management Board = member • The indicator for “Electricity consumption” includes travel” is slightly over-estimated due to the lack of the Management Board for the parent for a small number of subsidiaries (Dexia Crédit of details about the fuels used in the vehicles of Essence companies of Dexia Banque Internationale à Local and Dexia Banque Internationale à certain entities (default value taken for the highest Luxembourg, Dexia Bank Belgium, Dexia Luxembourg, for example) consumption for the conversion coefficient, i.e. petrol). Crédit Local, DenizBank and Dexia SA. • “Breakdown of male/female staff by qualification”: CHANGES IN THE METHODOLOGY FOR CALCULATING EMISSIONS OF CO 2 there are three levels: short tertiary courses = 1 to 3 years of study In 2010 Dexia strengthened the reporting accuracy of its CHANGES TO THE GROUP’S EMISSIONS after completing secondary school; CO2 emissions by revising the applicable emission factors OF CO2 BASED ON THE OLD full-length tertiary courses = 4 to 5 years of Communication based on the latest version of the GHG Protocol (1) and by AND NEW EMISSION FACTORS study after completing secondary school; ﬁne-tuning its calculation methodology: tCO2 postgraduate studies = more than 5 years of • using an emission factor speciﬁc to each country for 40,000 +20% -1% study after completing secondary school. consumption of electricity; 35,000 • distinguishing between distances and ﬂight classes in 30,000 business travel by air. 25,000 22,332 20,982 15,285 This methodological change produces signiﬁcant variations 20,000 in the emissions of CO2 calculated, as can be seen from 15,000 the chart opposite. The values shown for 2009 and 2010 10,000 EVALUATION in the table of indicators on page 43 are estimated based 14,988 13,905 14,788 5,000 on the new calculation methodology. This is so that the data can be compared. 0 2009 2009 2010 Old factors New factors New factors Energy Transport (1) GHG Protocol established by the WBCSD and WRI. 40 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Auditor’s report Identity and strategy on the reporting process for a selection of information items published in the Priority 2011-2012 Sustainable Development Report for the period ending • Dexia Crédit Local for environmental indicators and information about the energy portfolio; that is relevant with regard to the commitments stated by the Group on the offsetting of its • Dexia Bank Belgium for environmental 31 December 2010 indicators; • Dexia Asset Management for SRI outstanding customers’ CO2 emissions. However, this procedure could also clarify the types of carbon assets (Emission allowances and/or funds and mandates. Relevance Emission Reduction Units) that can be used We have also assessed the proper application of as part of offset transactions. Dexia Crédit Local’s procedure for purchasing and offsetting quotas of greenhouse gas emissions on As part of ongoing process to improve the reporting behalf of customers taking out a “CO2 loan”. of sustainable development in the Dexia Group: • The quantitative indicators relating to the The purpose of this work has not been to formulate energy portfolio could be made more accurate Following the request made by the Dexia Group’s a moderate or reasonable assurance about the NATURE AND SCOPE OF THE WORK application of the reporting procedures or about through the introduction of controls at a Essence Sustainable Development Department and in our the indicators themselves. Hence it does not include Group level of the data provided by the capacity as auditors, we have conducted the tasks We have implemented the procedures agreed all of the checks and balances that would normally subsidiaries, as well as by more accurate described below in relation to the reporting process together and set out below for the information relating to a selection of information items be applied in an audit or limited examination. monitoring of exits from the portfolio. selected (1) from a sample of subsidiaries. published in the 2010 Sustainable Development However, the work carried out does enable us to • Standardising the practices and methods for We have examined the reporting procedures and Report. formulate observations and opinions about the calculating the environmental indicators organisation implemented by the Dexia Group for reporting processes in the subsidiaries we visited. gathering, validating and consolidating data. We between subsidiaries would enhance the This reporting process has been defined and have also analysed the reporting procedures with quality and reliability of the environmental Communication implemented by the Dexia Group under the reference to the principles of relevance, OBSERVATIONS data provided. responsibility of the Sustainable Development exhaustiveness, reliability, neutrality and clarity of Department. The reporting process is based on the reporting frame of reference. Our work has enabled us to report on the points the reporting protocol for the Sustainable We have conducted interviews with the below in terms of the implementation of reporting Development Report, which includes the protocols correspondents and staff at Dexia responsible for processes within the Dexia Group and at the for “Direct Environment Impact”, “Retail and gathering and consolidating the selected items subsidiaries we visited. Antwerp, 10 March 2011 Commercial Banking, Asset Management and of information, both at a head ofﬁce level and • The Dexia Group has formalised reporting Services” and “Public and Wholesale Banking”. from: procedures and instructions for the information The Auditor selected and bases itself on a dedicated DELOITTE Company Auditors EVALUATION internal organisation to ensure the feedback (1) Environment: energy consumption by the Group (electricity, domestic heating oil, natural gas), business travel (kilometres travelled by car, train and and annual consolidation of this information SC in the form of an SCRL plane), emissions of CO2 associated with the consumption of energy and business travel, purchases of paper. Energy portfolio: total amount of the portfolio of energy projects, Dexia’s ﬁnal share in projects for the production of renewable electricity ﬁnanced across the reporting scope covered. Represented by over the period, by type of energy, carbon intensity of the portfolio of projects for the production of electricity, share of sources with zero operating • Dexia Crédit Local has a procedure outlining Bernard De Meulemeester emissions in the portfolio of projects for the production of electricity. the terms for handling CO2 loan transactions Socially Responsible Investment: outstanding SRI funds and mandates managed by Dexia Asset Management. Christophe Quievreux 41 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Table of sustainable development Identity and strategy indicators 2010 Retail and Commercial Banking, Asset Management and Services Public and Wholesale Banking Priority 2011-2012 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Changes 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Changes 2009-2010 2009-2010 Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Dexia energy portfolio Outstanding SRI funds and mandates managed Total amount of the portfolio of projects in the energy sector (commitments at 14.1 17.6 16.1 18 19.7 9.4% NA 5,551 7,663 7,178 6,478 -10% by Dexia AM (EUR billions) 31/12 of the period) (EUR millions) Share of outstanding SRI funds in the total outstanding funds managed World market share of Dexia in funding renewable energy NA 8.99% 6.09% 3.59% 2.68% -25% 13% 16% 20% 22% 23% 3.4% by Dexia AM Final take of Dexia in projects for the production of electricity from renewable NA 1,373 817 461 502 9% Number of staff in the SRI team 20 22 22 22 22 0% sources ﬁnanced over the period (EUR millions) Total number of SRI funds NA 25 27 24 30 25.0% Final take of Dexia in projects for the production of electricity from wind NA 910 320 391 254 -35% Outstanding funds managed according to the principles of Portfolio 21 power ﬁnanced over the period (EUR millions) 10 11.2 11.2 13.2 14.5 9.8% Relevance (EUR billions) Final take of Dexia in projects for the production of electricity from solar NA 268 427 70 248 254% Complaints and mediation department (area: Belgium) power ﬁnanced over the period (EUR millions) Percentage of claims cases resolved internally NA NA NA 98.4% 98.3% -0.1% Final take of Dexia in projects for the production of electricity from hydraulic NA 180 70 0 0 power ﬁnanced over the period (EUR millions) Percentage of mediation processes resolved successfully 76.5% 81.9% 80.8% 77.5% 74.4% -4.0% Final take of Dexia in projects for the production of biofuels ﬁnanced over the Banking products and services NA 15 0 0 0 period (EUR millions) Area: Belgium Share of commitments granted to projects to produce electricity from Number of insurance policies with pay-as-you-drive premiums NA 24,456 32,196 36,165 39,097 8.1% renewable sources in the funding of projects granted to the energy sector NA 36% 31% 35% 35% 0% Number of accounts opting for the «DNN only» option (electronic (commitments at 31/12 of the period) DNA 241,194 346,890 429,075 569,617 32.8% Share of sources with zero operating emissions in the portfolio of projects for statements only) NA 46% 43% 46% 47% 2% Share of Car Eco-credits in the total production of car loans (excluding the production of electricity DNA DNA 7.9% 12.1% 22.3% 84.3% Carbon intensity in the portfolio of projects for the production of electricity mortgage loans) Essence NA 0.330 0.351 0.331 0.333 1% Share of Housing Eco-credits in the total production of housing loans (tons of CO2/MWh) DNA DNA 10.5% 17.1% 10.3% -39.8% Equator Principles (EP) (renovations) (excluding mortgage loans) Share of Eco-credits in the total production of car and housing loans Total amount of commitments by Dexia at 31 December of the period DNA DNA 8.4% 13.3% 19.3% 45.1% NA 3,471 4,281 900 1,671 86% (excluding mortgage loans) in EP projects funded over the period (EUR millions) Percentage of customers holding a securities account and a minimum of Number of EP projects funded over the period by category (number): 61 86 91 27 56 107% NA 19% 19% 24% 24% 1.5% one unit trust (sicav) share and who hold at least one SRI sicav share Category A NA 2 3 0 2 Area: Turkey Category B NA 14 13 6 23 283% Number of Agricultural cards DNA 115,476 232,664 251,160 264,200 5.2% Category C NA 70 75 21 31 48% Microcredit Breakdown of EP projects funded over the period by sector of activity (number): Communication Outstanding funds Dexia Micro Credit Fund (DMCF) (USD millions) 140 298 429 542 528 -2.5% Non-renewable energy NA 21 12 1 4 300% Number of countries in which the DMCF fund is active 24 29 30 35 39 11.4% Renewable energy NA 37 26 14 19 36% Number of microﬁnance institutions ﬁnanced by the DMCF 68 90 97 101 106 5.0 % Infrastructures NA 22 42 9 26 189% Environment NA 4 10 3 3 0% Telecoms NA 2 1 0 1 Other NA 0 0 0 3 Breakdown of EP projects funded over the period by geographical area (number): North America NA 17 11 12 12 0% South America NA 2 8 0 0 EVALUATION Africa NA 0 0 0 1 Western Europe NA 50 58 12 33 175% Central Europe NA 2 3 1 0 Middle East NA 9 6 1 10 900% Asia Paciﬁc NA 5 5 1 0 DNA: data not applicable NA: not available 42 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Table of sustainable development Identity and strategy indicators 2010 Priority 2011-2012 Direct environmental impact Relations with surrounding society 2007 2008 2009 2010 Changes 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Changes 2009-2010 2009-2010 Waste management Methods of governance Total production of waste (kg) NA NA NA 1,352,093 Financial results at 31/12 of the period Relevance Non-hazardous waste (kg) NA NA NA 1,316,121 Total balance sheet (EUR billions) 567 605 651 577.6 567 -2% Hazardous waste (kg) 21,656 61,214 45,898 35,972 -22% Net proﬁt share of Group (EUR millions) 2,750 2,533 -3,326 1,010 723 -28% Paper waste cardboard recycled (kg) NA NA NA 889,663 Net proﬁt per share (non diluted) (EUR) 2.49 2.18 -2.54 0.57 0.39 -32% Printer cartridges Share price Paris-Brussels at 31 December of year N (EUR) 20.75 20.75 20.75 20.75 3.200 3.200 4.460 4.460 2.600 2.600 Number of printer cartridges consumed 20,011 21,369 19,345 17,967 -7% Stock market capitalisation (EUR millions) 24,136 20,295 5,640 7,861 4,801 -39% Consumption of paper Relations with shareholders Blank paper (tons) 1,764 1,309 1,137 1,150 1% Annual growth of net proﬁt per share 33% -12.5% NS DNA DNA(1) Printed paper (tons) 1,843 1,566 1,428 1,622 14% Gross dividend per share (EUR) 0.81 0.91 DNA DNA(1) Purchase of blank and printed paper (kg/FTE) 160 129 119 126 6% Presence in sustainable development stock market indices Essence Share of green paper in the Group's total consumption of paper (%) 80% 91% 84% 92% 10% Number of sustainable development stock market indices listing 6 7 7 8 6 -25% Dexia shares Consumption of energy and ﬂuids Presence in working groups on sustainable development Total consumption of electricity (MWh) 107,509 98,649 86,003 82,901 -4% Number of external working groups in sustainable development Consumption of green electricity (MWh) NA 68,104 68,751 63,644 -7% NA NA NA 15 17 13% in which Dexia takes part in France and Belgium Share of green electricity in the Group's total consumption of electricity (%) NA 69% 80% 77% -4% Societal Consumption of natural gas (MWh) 26,322 28,996 39,597 38,121 -4% Amount devoted to civic involvement programmes (EUR millions) 7.7 9.7 6.1 4.5 4.1 -9% Consumption of heating fuel/oil (MWh) 314 684 634 556 -12% Breakdown of the amount for patronage programmes, by theme Total consumption of energy (MWh) 134,145 128,329 126,234 121,578 -4% Culture DNA DNA 45.7% 26.6% 47.6% 79% Electricity produced from renewable sources (kWh) NA NA 71,259 66,027 -7% Communication Support and assistance 32.5% 24.0% 49.8% 60.1% 52.4% -13% Consumption of water (town water and rainwater) (thousands of m3) 254 263 240 226 -6% Quality of life 67.5% 76.0% 4.6% 13.3% Business travel (thousands of km) Dexia Foundation in Belgium Total business travel 87,613 95,090 88,829 89,094 0% Grants from the Dexia Foundation in Belgium to microcredit NA 348,470 441,086 451,514 420,000 -7% Journeys by car 50,629 60,040 66,645 68,998 4% organisations (EUR) Journeys by train 9,165 10,203 7,441 6,855 -8% Journeys by air 27,819 24,847 14,743 13,241 -10% Number of videoconferences NA 1,302 8,354 7,087 (1) As was the case in 2010, the Board meeting of 23 February 2011 decided to ask the Extraordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting of 11 May 2011 to proceed with Emissions of CO2 (CO2 teq) a capital raising by incorporating a reserve of approximately EUR 280 million by issuing new shares to shareholders in the form of bonus shares. Bonus shares are new Total emissions of CO2 for the Group 42,945 29,093 36,237 35,770 -1% ordinary shares in Dexia capital issued following the capital raising by the incorporation of reserves and issued to shareholders pro rata to their shareholding. These shares will have the same dividend rights and same rights and benefits at the same date as existing Dexia shares. EVALUATION Total emissions of CO2 due to the consumption of energy 31,012 15,291 13,905 14,788 6% Total emissions of CO2 due to business travel 11,933 13,802 22,332 20,982 -6% Total amount of emissions avoided by the production of renewable energy NA NA NA 15 Environmental management system Number of entities in the Group implementing a certiﬁed environmental management system 2 2 2 2 0% DNA: data not applicable NA: not available 43 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Table of sustainable development Identity and strategy indicators 2010 Social Responsibility 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Changes 2009-2010 Headcount Priority 2011-2012 Total headcount for the Group 33,321 35,202 36,760 35,234 35,185 0% FTE headcount (FTE = Full-Time Equivalent) 31,761 33,497 35,104 33,692 33,664 0% Breakdown of staff by gender Percentage of women 48.3% 48.5% 48.9% 49.0% 49.5% 1% Percentage of men 51.7% 51.5% 51.1% 51.0% 50.6% -1% Breakdown of male/female staff by hierarchical level Percentage of female employees 81.1% 80.4% 78.7% 78.9% 78.7% 0% Percentage of female managers 17.7% 18.4% 20.2% 19.9% 20.5% 3% Percentage of female senior managers 1.1% 1.2% 1.1% 1.1% 0.8% -25% Percentage of female members of a management board 0.03% 0.04% 0.04% 0.03% 0.04% 33% Percentage of male employees 56.3% 56.3% 53.8% 55.3% 55.7% 1% Percentage of male managers 37.9% 38.1% 40.5% 39.4% 40.0% 2% Percentage of male senior managers 5.3% 5.1% 5.2% 4.8% 3.8% -20% Percentage of male members of a management board 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.6% 0.5% -13% Relevance Breakdown of staff by age Proportion of staff aged between 18 and 29 years 23.1% 24.3% 24.5% 23.5% 23.2% -1% Proportion of staff aged between 30 and 49 years 63.2% 62.0% 61.2% 62.3% 62.0% 0% Proportion of staff aged over 50 years 13.7% 13.8% 14.3% 14.2% 14.8% 4% Breakdown of staff by working hours Percentage of women working part-time 24.8% 23.9% 23.1% 23.5% 23.1% -2% Percentage of men working part-time 5.5% 5.9% 6.1% 6.8% 6.5% -4% Breakdown of staff by type of contract Breakdown of permanent/ﬁxed-term contracts 93.8% / 6.2% 94.4% / 5.6% 94.4% / 5.6% 94.8% / 5.2% 95.1% / 4.9% Percentage of women among staff on permanent contracts 47.7% 47.9% 48.3% 48.5% 49.0% 1% Percentage of men among staff on permanent contracts 52.3% 52.1% 51.7% 51.5% 51.0% -1% Percentage of women among staff on ﬁxed-term contracts 57.6% 57.9% 59.0% 58.4% 57.4% -2% Essence Percentage of men among staff on ﬁxed-term contracts 42.4% 42.2% 41.0% 41.6% 42.7% 3% Breakdown of male/female staff by level of education Breakdown of male/female staff having completed elementary or secondary education 42.8% / 57.2% 42.7% / 57.3% 41.8% / 58.2% 42.5% / 57.5% 41.6% / 58.4% Breakdown of male/female staff having completed short tertiary courses 54.1% / 45.9% 52.4% / 47.6% 52.0% / 48.0% 52.9% / 47.1% 52.0% / 48.0% Breakdown of male/female staff having completed full-length tertiary courses 60.4% / 39.6% 56.3% / 43.7% 54.9% / 45.1% 53.9% / 46.1% 53.5% / 46.5% Breakdown of male/female staff having completed postgraduate studies 66.8% / 33.2% 51.7% / 48.3% 51.8% / 48.2% 50.2% / 49.8% 49.8% / 50.2% Countries of location Number of countries with a location 33 37 40 37 34 -8% Number of nationalities represented in the Group 72 78 84 70 68 -3% Number of movements between entities 245 191 300 316 437 38% Social relations Communication Proportion of salaried staff represented on the European Works Council 59% 52% 55% 51% 53% Average participation rate of salaried staff in social elections in entities that have an elected body 81% 79% 77% DNA NA (1) Number of collective agreements signed 42 37 36 46 62 Breakdown of collective agreements signed, by topic Salary-based saving 5 7 5 3 4 Union rights/elections 4 4 4 1 6 Training 0 1 0 3 4 Working times 4 6 5 5 8 Health and safety 0 0 1 2 3 Restructuring 2 1 0 11 11 Internal regulations 1 1 1 2 1 Remuneration and status 26 17 15 11 12 EVALUATION Other 0 0 5 8 13 Employee shareholders Share of Group capital held by employees 4.25% 4.10% 2.06% 1.56% 1.07% -31% Training Average number of training days per employee 1.9 2.1 1.8 1.7 1.9 Number of employees having received training from Dexia Corporate University (DCU) 1,084 1,457 2,448 2,718 3,028 11% DNA: data not applicable (1) Consolidated data at a Group level is not available. The data opposite corresponds to the rate of participation in social elections in entities where NA: not available they were held in 2010: Dexia Asset Management France: 85% / Dexia Crédit Local: 59%. 44 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Table for correspondence Identity and strategy of reference systems GRI ARTICLE OF GLOBAL COMPACT UNEP FI CORRESPONDING PAGES GRI SECTOR (1) INDICATOR NRE DECREE (2) PRINCIPLE (3) PRINCIPLE (4) IN THE REPORT ENVIRONMENT Management approach 2 7 to 9 2, 3.1 15, 31, 32 Materials EN1 to EN2 2.1 8, 9 2.2 to 2.6 32, 43 Energy EN3 to EN7 2.1 8, 9 2.2 to 2.6 12 to 15, 19, 24, 42, 43 Water EN8 to EN10 2.1 8, 9 2.2 to 2.6 43 Priority 2011-2012 Biodiversity EN11 to EN15 2.1, 2.2 8 2.2 to 2.6 24 GRI SELF-ASSESSMENT Emissions, efﬂuents and waste EN16 to EN25 2.1 7 to 9 2.2 to 2.6 15, 31, 32, 40, 43 Products and services EN26 to EN27 7 to 9 2.7 19 to 21, 23, 24 In line with the Global Reporting Initiative 3 guidelines and its ﬁnancial services sector supplement (2008), we have produced a self-assessment guide for our reporting in Compliance EN28 2.3, 2.4, 2.8 8 2.2 Not applicable relation to these standards. Transport EN29 2.1 8 40, 43 Overall EN30 2.5 7 to 9 31 This document reports on: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK • all elements relating to the section on “Strategy and Proﬁle”; • all elements included in the sections on “Management Approach”; Management approach 1 1, 3, 6 29, 30 and Annual Report • 68 performance indicators, or almost three times as many as the minimum required Employment LA1 to LA3 1.1 to 1.3 6 44 and Annual Report Relevance for a B rating. Labour/management relations LA4 to LA5 1.4 1, 3 Occupational health and safety LA6 to LA9 1.5 1 44 Our report is also the subject of external veriﬁcation (see p. 41). Training and education LA10 to LA12 1.6 29, 30, 44 and Annual Report Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 to LA14 1.3, 1.7 1, 6 44 and Annual Report A more detailed version of the table of correspondence between the reporting standards HUMAN RIGHTS and commitments below and the pages in this Sustainable Development Report is available at Management approach 1 to 6 4, 42 www dexia.com. Investment and procurement practices HR1 to HR3 1.7, 1.9 1 to 6 23, 42 Non-discrimination HR4 1.3, 1.7 1, 2, 6 GRI ARTICLE OF GLOBAL COMPACT UNEP FI CORRESPONDING PAGES Freedom of association and collective GRI SECTOR (1) HR5 1.4 1 to 3 Principles of Social Management Essence INDICATOR NRE DECREE (2) PRINCIPLE (3) PRINCIPLE (4) IN THE REPORT bargaining STRATEGY AND PROFILE Child labour HR6 1, 2, 5 Not applicable Strategy and analysis 1.1 to 1.2 3 to 7, 10, 11 Forced and compulsory labour HR7 1, 2, 4 Not applicable Organisational proﬁle 2.1 to 2.10 6, 14, 19, 43 and Annual Report Droits des populations autochtones HR9 1, 2 Report parameters 3.1 to 3.13 7, 38 to 41, 45, 47 SOCIETY Governance, commitments and 4, 7, 11, 23 to 25, 27, 28, 35, 45 Management approach 10 33 4.1 to 4.17 1 to 10 1, 2.1, 2.3, 3.1, 3.3 engagement and Annual Report Community SO1, FS13 to FS14 1.8 17, 18 PRODUCT AND SERVICES IMPACT Corruption SO2 to SO4 10 27, 28 Communication Management approach FS1 to FS5 2.2, 2.3 23 to 26 Public policy SO5 1 to 10 Not applicable 12 to 14, 17 to 22, 42 Product portfolio FS6 to FS8 Compliance SO8 and Annual Report Audit FS9 2.6 23 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Active ownership FS10 to FS12 3.3 25, 26, 42 Management approach 1, 8 12 to 14, 17 to 21, 36 ECONOMY Customer health and safety PR1 to PR2 1 Not applicable Management approach 1, 4, 6, 7 Annual Report PR3 to PR5, FS15 Product and services labelling 8 36, 42 to FS16 10 to 15, 23 to 26, 43 Economic performance EC1 to EC4 1.3, 1.1 7 Marketing communications PR6 to PR7 36 and Annual Report Market presence EC5 to EC7 1.3, 1.1 1, 6 Annual Report Compliance PR9 EVALUATION Indirect economic impacts EC8 to EC9 1.1 12 to 14, 17 to 21 and Annual Report (1) Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): GRI 3 guidelines and performance indicators and the financial services sector supplement 2008. (2) NRE Decree: Articles 1 and 2 of decree 2002-221 dated 20 February 2002, pursuant to article L225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code. (3) Global Compact: ten principles of the Global Compact. (4) UNEP FI: Principles stated as part of the Declaration of financial institutions on the environment and sustainable development in the United Nations Environment Programme. Source of information regarding the correspondence between the GRI and the principles of the Global Compact: “UNGC GRI Making the connection” report, available at www.globalreporting.com. 45 Dexia Sustainable Development Report 2010 Glossary Identity and strategy Priority 2011-2012 Carbon Disclosure Project: Produced on behalf change. The GHG Protocol is the tool used most Missions locales (Local missions): In France, Local mechanism that enables the owner of a building to of institutional investors, the aim of this survey internationally to identify and quantify emissions of missions are places where young people who are poorly have his renovations funded by a third party. This third conducted among the companies in the FT 500 is to greenhouse gases. qualified or who are encountering difficulties in party is then remunerated subsequently in the form gather information about their emissions of greenhouse implementing a business project can go to seek direction of rent over a period defined by contract. For energygases and the policies they implement in this regard. Gissler Charter: Signed on 7 December 2009 by and active assistance. related upgrades, a third-party investment is based on the French Ministry of Finance, the Interior Ministry, the principle by which the energy savings generated CO2 emissions allowances: The right to emit CO2 several major associations of elected members and a NRE (New Business Regulations Act): Published by the renovation works that benefit the occupant of granted as part of the European greenhouse gas number of banking establishments, including Dexia, in 2001, the Act on new business regulations requires the building may constitute the main source of rent. emissions trading scheme. One allowance equates to the Good Conduct Charter between banking French companies listed on a regulated stock exchange the emission of one ton of CO2 equivalent. establishments and local authorities, known as the to report on their environmental and social management UNEP FI: The aim of the Declaration of Financial Relevance Gissler Charter, formalises the undertakings of the in their annual report. Institutions on the Environment and Sustainable CPAS: In Belgium, public centres for social action are establishments signing the charter and local authorities Development in the United Nations Environment public bodies responsible for dispensing social aid to in terms of the implementation of new loans, rate OECD (Grey List): Each year, the OECD publishes a Programme is to encourage the commitment of banking certain individuals in difficulty. There is a CPAS in every exchange transactions and their renegotiation. list of non-cooperative tax havens. In coordination with and financial companies to promoting sustainable municipality in Belgium. the G20 Summit, the OECD published a new list of development, in particular in their environment-based Global Compact: The Global Compact unites tax havens on 2 April 2009 divided into three categories: component. Energy performance contract: Contractual companies committed to implementing the objective light grey, dark grey and black, depending on the agreement between the recipient and provider of a of achieving “sustainable development” based on ten extent to which they refuse to cooperate. Universal employment service voucher (CESU): measure aimed at improving energy efficiency, under principles under the direct authority of the SecretaryIntroduced in France since 1 January 2006, the CESU which investments in this measure are agreed to in General of the United Nations in the areas of human Open fund: Unit trust in which shares are available is a device offered to private individuals facilitating rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. their access to all personal services. These vouchers Essence order to achieve a level of improvement in energy on request, both to buy and sell. Hence the number efficiency that is defined contractually. of the unit trust shares matches demand. make it possible to pay and declare individuals employed GRI: The Global Reporting Initiative is an organisation in family businesses or as domestics. Equator Principles: The Equator Principles are a set whose aim is to develop guidelines on sustainable PRI: Launched on 27 April 2006 in New York, the of provisions developed by a group of international development reporting enabling various organisations Principles for Responsible Investment are designed to Wolfsberg (principles): Established by the Wolfsberg banks to ensure the sound management of social and to base themselves on a common standard for reporting incorporate environmental, social and business group of international financial establishments, these environmental issues related to the financing of projects. their environmental and social performance. governance issues into the management of investment principles constitute a set of general directives governing portfolios, under the aegis of the United Nations. the establishment of and relations between FATF: Founded in 1989, the Financial Action Task IEA: The International Energy Agency is an institution corresponding banks. The Wolfsberg group believes Communication Force (FATF) is an intergovernmental body whose that advises its 28 member countries on issues relating SRI: Socially Responsible Investment. that compliance with these principles will enable purpose is the development and promotion of national to energy policy. In particular, the Agency publishes establishments to manage their risk more effectively and international policies to combat money laundering each year a report entitled World Energy Outlook giving Third-party investment: In the construction and have a high level of certainty regarding judgments and terrorist financing. FATF has published 40 details of its forecasts for the energy sector. industry, a third-party investment is a financial about their customers. recommendations designed to meet this objective. MiFID: The European Markets in Financial Instruments FTE: Full-time equivalent. Directive (MiFID) outlines a complete set of regulations governing the organised execution of investor GHG Protocol: The Greenhouse Gas Protocol was transactions by Stock Exchanges, other trading systems initiated in 1998 by the World Business Council for and investment companies. As such, it provides EVALUATION Sustainable Development and the World Resources harmonised regulations for investment companies, Institute. It is implemented in partnership with enabling them to work across the European Union businesses, NGO and governments to create new with a minimum of formalities while at the same time measurement and action tools for fighting climate strengthening the protection of clients. 46 The Sustainable Development Report 2010 is a publication developed by the Group’s sustainable development department. The report is produced in collaboration with the communication departments from the various entities in the Dexia Group. This document is available in English, French and Dutch by download in PDF format from the Dexia website: www.dexia.com For all additional information: sustainabledevelopment@dexia.com www.dexia.com Dexia SA Place Rogier 11 1210 Bruxelles Paris 1, passerelle des Reﬂets Tour Dexia – La Défense 2 92919 La Défense Cedex Luxembourg 69, route d’Esch 2953 Luxembourg Photographic credits © Getty Images, JB Maréchal, © moodboard/Corbis Design and creation – 136, rue Lamarck – 75018 Paris Production French version: – 136, rue Lamarck – 75018 Paris English and Dutch versions: Nord Compo – 7, rue de Fives – BP 123 – 59653 Villeneuve-d’Ascq
