UN Global Compact ‐ Communication of Progress – August 2011 VTC Malaysia are committed to the ten principles of the UN Global compact and will continue to implement practical actions in order to make further progress in 2010. The target principles for focus in 2010 are, Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 8 ‐ Businesses should undertake initiatives to support greater environmental responsibility Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery Principle 6 ‐ the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 2011/2012 Action Plan Principle 8 1. All polymer resins used are petrochemical products. Manufacturing Operation initiative to reduce material waste by 0.4% as measured by Material Loss KPI in period. Measurement of progress – Monthly data collection and reporting 2. Strive to include recycles polymer resins in standard product therefore reducing environmental impact Measurement of progress ‐ >100mt or recycled resin to be used in a 12month period Principle 6 1. The business will implement HR policies that specifically eliminate any type of discrimination in recruitment or promotion. Measurement of progress – Annual review 2010 Action Review The following actions will be taken to support this objective in 2010. 1. External auditors will be used to audit and review arrangements for the payment, accommodation and health care of foreign contract workers. Measurement of progress (i) An audit report will be produced by July 2010 (ii) Audit points will be addressed by December 2010 Progress: All facilities deemed acceptable 2. The recycling of packaging materials including pallets, bags will be actively promoted and a contractor charged with ensuring this process is sustained Measurement of Progress (i) The recycling process will be established by June 2010 (ii) Monthly reports of quantities of recycling will be produced for review at the monthly management meeting Progress: Internal processes established and generating income of USD3k/month which is being used for employee welfare projects 3. All staff involved in commercial transactions will be given anti‐corruption and anti‐trust training to ensure that the businesses commitment is clearly communicated and understood. (i) Training to be completed by September 2010 Progress: Complete Mark Lewis ‐ Managing Director 18th July 2011
