General Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: Oct 2010 To: Oct 2011 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Please provide a statement of your company's chief executive expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing your company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles (Please include name and title of the chief executive at the bottom of the statement). Examples (Please click on the links below for examples of statements) I am pleased to confirm that SMT reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Susan Rothecker, President/CEO Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses (For more information on the principles, click here) Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk‐assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. SMT Inc communicates and responds to human rights issues within its business operations on a regular basis. We will add this through our mission statement published throughout the organization. Examples • Reference to (statement of support for) the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or other international standards • Written company policy on respecting Human Rights and preventing potential abuses (e.g. in code of conduct) • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the principles on Human Rights? • Assessment of Human Rights related risks and impact in industry sector and country(ies) of operation (see Risk Assessment Report at www.humanrightsbusiness.org) • Specific goals in the area of Human Rights for the upcoming year Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, reduce Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. We continue to raise awareness within our company through our employee handbook and training programs focused on communication and community involvement. We do have suggestion boxes located throughout our facility Examples • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanism • Awareness raising or training of employees on Human Rights • Consultation with stakeholders and affected parties • Allocation of responsibilities for the protection of Human Rights within your company • Human resource policies and procedures supporting Human Rights Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Management meets routinely to review employment policies and procedures in regards to recruitment, terminations, disciplinary actions and work rules. Examples • Specific progress made in the area of Human Rights in the past reporting period • Information about how your company deals with incidents of Human Rights violations • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to Human Rights • Periodic review of results by senior management • External audits of Human Rights performance Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation (For more information on the principles, click here) Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights‐related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. As stated in our handbook, It is our belief and policy that problems between employees and management can be worked out satisfactorily through honest and frank discussions in an atmosphere of mutual trust, respect and cooperation. Our company is an equal opporuntunity employer and all policies, practices, benefits and employment decisions are administered without discimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, citizenship, sex, age, disability or veteran status. Examples • Reference to ILO Core Conventions or other international instruments • Written company policies to uphold the freedom of association and collective bargaining and the elimination of forced labour, child labour and employment discrimination • Written policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the Labour principles • Assessment of labour‐related risks in the industry sector and country(ies) of operations • Specific goals in the area of Labour Rights for the upcoming year Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations. We have several options for suggesting changes in work place. SMT has suggestion boxes located throughout the facility allowing anonymous input. We also have a safety committee that meets monthly to implement and review continuous improvements. Examples • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanisms • Awareness raising or training for employees on labour rights and policies • Describe how the health and safety of all employees is ensured • Describe how your company prevents discrimination of all kinds and ensures comparable pay for comparable work • Consultation with employees and other stakeholders • Allocation of responsibilities for the protection of labour rights within your organization • Human Resource policies and procedures supporting the Labour principles • Participation in international framework agreements and other agreements with labour unions Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. We annually review and document our diversity standings, hiring policies. These are also reported to the EEOC. Examples • Demographics of management and employees by diversity factors (e.g. gender, ethnicity, age, etc.) • Describe how your company deals with incidents of violations of Labour principles • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to Labour • Periodic review of results by senior management • Specific progress made in the area of Labour during the last reporting period • External audits (e.g. SA 8000) Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies (For more information on the principles, click here) Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection SMT is committed to protecting the environment. Environmental protection is a primary responsibility of every employee. It is our objective to reduce waste and achieve minimal adverse impact on the air, water, and land. Examples • Assess the environmental footprint and impact of your company • Written company policy on environmental issues, including prevention and management of environmental risks • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the environmental principles • Describe specific goals in the area of the environment for the upcoming year Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents In order to help achieve this goal, we recycle our aluminum cans, scrap metal, corrugated cardboard and various forms of paper. Examples • Awareness raising or training of employees on environmental protection • Initiatives and programmes to reduce waste materials (e.g. recycling) and consumption of resources (energy, fossil fuels, water, electricity, paper, packaging, etc.) • Activities aimed at improving the energy efficiency of products, services and processes • Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies • Raise awareness among suppliers by asking them for environmental data on their products • Environmental management system with objectives and procedures for evaluating progress, minimizing negative impacts and transferring good practices • Allocation of responsibilities for environmental protection within your company Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance We have annual reports we submit to waste water management, air quality and hazardous waste. We had a small mercury spill which was contained and cleaned through a third party service and reported to the NC Department of Environmental Resources in June 2011. Examples • Information about how your company deals with incidents • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to environmental principles • Specific progress made in the area of the environmental protection during the last reporting period • Periodic review of results by senior management • External audits of environmental performance Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery (For more information on the principles, click here). Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of anti‐corruption for the company (i.e. anti‐corruption risk‐assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti‐corruption. SMT as well as many of our suppliers and customers do not accept gratuities of any form. We do not want objectivity compromised at any level. Examples • Assessment of risk of corruption and bribery in the company’s industry and country(ies) of operation • Written company policy of zero‐tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion • Reference to (or statement of support for) the UN Convention Against Corruption and other international instruments • Protocol to guide staff in situations where they are confronted with extortion or bribery • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the anti‐corruption principles • Specific goals in the area of anti‐corruption for the upcoming year Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti‐corruption policies, reduce anti‐corruption risks and respond to incidents. We will add a statement to our Company Policy to raise awareness about company policies regarding anti-corruption and extortion. Examples • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanisms • Awareness raising or training of employees about company's policies regarding anti‐corruption and extortion (e.g. mailings, internet, internal communication, etc.) • Allocation of responsibilities for anti‐corruption within your company • Participation in industry initiative or other collective action on anti‐corruption Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti‐corruption performance. SMT has had no know violations in this area and we monitor through periodic reviews by senior management. Examples • Information about how your company deals with incidents of corruption • Internal audits to ensure consistency with anti‐corruption commitment, including periodic review by senior management • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to corruption and bribery • Specific progress made in the area of anti‐corruption during the last reporting period • External audits of anti‐corruption programmemes
