Communication on Progress The Global Partner for Complete Packaging Solutions N e fa b – the Gl ob al Par tn er for C om plete Packagin g Soluti on s Support statement 2 Contents Vision and Values................................................................ 4 Management system – Values in action............................... 8 Globality.............................................................................. 6 Actions................................................................................ 9 Commitment....................................................................... 7 Performance...................................................................... 10 I n October 2008, Nefab signed the United Nations Global Compact. The Global Compact is a global strategic business initiative on corporate responsibility initiated by the former UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan in 1999. Global Compact brings together businesses with UN Agencies, labour and civil society in the common objective of achieving a more sustainable and inclusive global economy. Being reflected in our core values and underlined in our code of conduct, the principles of Global Compact are a natural part of our way of doing business. We realize that continuous improvements are necessary in order to promote and further integrate the ten principles of Global Compact within and outside Nefab. Cooperation with other stakeholders is an important part of our commitment and there are many opportunities to join forces with engaged customers, employees, suppliers, owners, authorities and the society in general. Employees, as example, are proud of working for a company that recognizes a wider responsibility and works actively to embody this responsibility. Customers, as another example, are interested to share ideas and work together with us in order to create win-win situations. Being a part of the Global Compact initiative gives Nefab tools for progress and a wide range of references among other global companies, facing similar challenges. We believe that our continuous commitment to the Global Compact Initiative will be beneficial for Nefab and its stakeholders and at the same time help to improve the conditions in general for the global community. Consequently, I am pleased to confirm Nefab’s continuous support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this Communication on Progress (COP), we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. Jönköping, September 1, 2011 Stefan Ekqvist President and CEO, Nefab AB 3 N e fa b – the Gl ob al Par tn er for C om plete Packagin g Soluti on s Vision and Values Vision Customer offering Nefab shall be the global partner for complete packaging Nefab provides added value through delivering worldsolutions. leading packaging products, services and customeradapted packaging solutions. Business concept Nefab meets customer expectations by offering engineSuppliers ered complete packaging solutions that reduce total cost The ability to offer the market’s best solutions requires and environmental impact. relations with a broad supplier base. In its selection of suppliers, Nefab shall prioritize those companies that Strategy similar to Nefab seek a long-term partnership. Target Group Global presence Nefab targets multinational companies manufacturing To offer Nefab’s global customers local service, Nefab high-value, transport-sensitive or theft-prone products has operations in all important industrial regions world that require engineered, complete packaging solutions. wide. 4 Environment The fundamental values and ethical rules that comprise Our efforts focus on minimizing the environmental impact Nefab’s cultural base shall be the guiding principles for of packaging during its use, and to increase ­reusability. how employees are expected to act. This common spirit All Nefab manufacturing companies have, or will obtain, and culture shall contribute to strengthening the unity of ISO 14001 certification. Nefab’s various units. Employees and Organization Core Values Nefab is a knowledge-based company. The position as The very basis of what Nefab is and stands for is a market leader is to be maintained through continuous ­summarized in Nefab’s core values: focus on development of employee expertise. Simplicity Development possibilities shall be so attractive that Respect ­existing employees remain within the organization and that qualified employees can be recruited. Empowerment These are the values that the Nefab brand To meet customer expectations, the organization shall be represents. Nefab works actively to ensure the knowcharacterized by a proactive approach and speed. ledge and observance of the core values. The exchange of experiences within the organization is stimulated through forming of global networks. 5 N e fa b – the Gl ob al Par tn er for C om plete Packagin g Soluti on s Globality Through our global organization with manufacturing several countries, but also a responsibility and ability and service facilities in more than 35 countries, to further implement the Global Compact principles we have not only a unique ability to support global within our sphere of influence. companies with a need for packaging solutions in Head office Regional head office Production/Sales Sales Cooperative partners Representative offices Market 6 Commitment Nefab will continuously seek to implement the ten an important document to fulfill this commitment, as principles of the United Nations Global Compact. it guides employee behavior to be in line with Global The Nefab Code of Conduct (latest update in 2007) is Compact principles. Comparison of UNGC principles and the Nefab Code of Conduct UNGC Principles Nefab Code of Conduct Human Rights Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the Nefab supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed protection of internationally proclaimed Human human rights and ensures that the company is not complicit in human rights Rights abuses. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not . complicit in human rights abuses Labour Labour standards 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of Freedom of association association and the effective recognition of the right As local or relevant laws allows, all employees are free to form, join or not to collective bargaining. to join unions and have the right to collective bargaining when employed by Nefab. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all Forced and compulsory labour forms of forced and compulsory labour. No form of forced or compulsory labour is tolerated by Nefab and all employees have the right to leave their employment as stated by contracts or local laws. 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition Child labour of child labour. Nefab shall not be complicit in any form of child labour or other forms of child exploitation. No one is employed below the completion of compulsory school or under the age of 15 and no one under the age of 18 is employed for hazardous work within Nefab. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of Workplace discrimination in respect of employment and Nefab shall provide a working environment that is healthy, safe and in occupation. accordance with international standards and local laws for all employees. Discrimination Diversity among Nefab employees is a positive attribute and no one regardless of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, nationality, parental status, marital status, pregnancy, religion, political opinion, ethnic background, social origin, social status, age, union membership or disability shall be discriminated. Harassments in the form of physical or psychological abuse are strongly prohibited within Nefab as are any kinds of intimidation or other threats. Environment Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary Precautionary approach approach to environmental challenges. Sustainable development is a key concept for Nefab and finite resources is avoided as often as possible. Nefab also has a precautionary approach towards environmental challenges whereby dangerous materials are avoided when suitable and more environmentally friendly alternatives are available. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to Environmental responsibility promote greater environmental responsibility. Innovative developments in products and services that offer environmental and social benefits as well as greater environmental responsibility are promoted and supported by Nefab. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in Nefab’s reputation of honesty, integrity and responsibility must be upheld and all its forms, including extortion and bribery. any involvement in bribery, extortion or corruption is not tolerated by Nefab in any form. Consumer interests When dealing with consumers, Nefab acts in accordance with fair business, marketing and advertising practices. Nefab also ensures that the goods or services it supplies meet all agreed and legal standards. 7 N e fa b – the Gl ob al Par tn er for C om plete Packagin g Soluti on s Management system – Values in action Nefab shall be the global partner for complete packaging solutions Vision Board of directors Core Values Who we are Applicable laws and regulations How we act in Code of Conduct general Nefab Policies and guidelines, e.g. Global • Work procedure for board of directors instructions AB • Treasury policy Local Local policies and guidelines, e.g. Local board • Authority rules instructions The picture describes the way Nefab conducts its business. As explained in the previous (Commitment), the Code of Conduct is in the center of our management system and every year we collect information on the compliance, using management reporting. For the future our intention is to add also internal audits, either by own resources or by using external consultants, in order to further strengthen the observance of all principles. Actions General Using our internal newsletter as well as our corporate With the objective of strengthening the core values, Intranet, we communicated our core values during Nefab re-launched the values in June 2011. Our previous June 2011. In addition, all group companies have been version used eight words in four pairs, while the new instructed to have information meetings with all employversion has three words only: Simplicity, Respect and ees, further underlining the importance of “walking the Empowerment. By simplifying this fundamental part of talk”. A second wave during the autumn with posters and our company management system, we aim at further follow-up articles in our newsletters is planned. Group aligning our collective behavior as a company to these management remains convinced that a strong culture basic values. based on Simplicity, Respect and Empowerment is key to sustainable profit and growth. 8 Employee development and empowerment was added as a Nefab’s intranet based e-learning system, Web Academy, generic output continues to be an important tool in developing basic from each survey. competence in a wide number of areas. The system The idea of a is fairly simply constructed with the students receiving combined key ratio course material for online reading and then knowledge is to make it simple is verified with a multiple choice online test. The course to communicate “Corporate Social Responsibility” was created in January and simple to set 2009 and remains one of the most popular among the targets in terms 30+ courses currently available. The course material of improvements includes the Global Compact publication “Corporate Citifrom one year to zenship in the World Economy”. Since the introduction in another. January 2009, 201 students have obtained this diploma. For the entities reporting the lowest ESI, root causes were analyzed and actions designed in order to improve. Individual initiatives are important in creating and sharing Secondly, each company was given the opportunity to good examples. With simplicity and empowerment as add their organizational structure to parts of the reports, core values, this kind of initiatives should be supported making it easier to see how different parts of the company by the company in different ways and means. (e.g. a specific department) are performing. Of course the In Brazil, a project was launched by local employees with size of response group is kept on a certain size in order to the objective of raising funds to “Lar do Caminho”, an fully ensure secrecy of individual answers. organization in the Sao Paolo area, supporting underprivileged children. By using plywood scrap from the own Environment production and having local artists to decorate them, Nefab’s Green Team consists of individuals with different small boxes were created and used as Christmas gifts skills and organizational position, and is organized as and for other purposes. The whole project was also a network with a coordinator. In 2009, the Green Team presented at a Christmas party for the Swedish Chamber started to develop a tool for measuring the environmental of Commerce in Sao Paolo, where many people from the impact of the complete packaging solutions that we prolargest Swedish companies present in Brazil were given vide to our customers. The idea is that such a calculation the opportunity to see a good example of Corporate should accomplish every packaging solution presented Social Responsibility. to customers in order to help them to become more environmentally friendly in their supply chain by optimizing, Donations to charity during 2010 amounted to about 180 not only their total cost of packaging but also their impact kSEK and receiving these funds were local sport clubs, a to the environment. blood donor campaign and other NGO:s. During 2010 this project was continued and a few customer flows were analyzed using the tool developed. During Human rights spring 2011, Nefab decided to hire a person dedicated Using our e-learning system (Web Academy), Nefab to further developing this eco-design concept and tools developed a basic course in “Human Rights”, which was within the Group. launched in June 2010 and until now 93 (of which 55 during the reporting period) students have passed the Local initiative test. Nefab Chick Packaging in Northern California entered The course material contains the Universal Declaration into a project together with their utility provider, aiming at on Human Rights as well as the principles from Global reducing the power used for lighting of the facilities. They Compact and more business oriented issues in terms of experienced that environmental responsibility efforts pays Human Rights. unexpected rewards. Not only was the power reduction significant (-38 %), but the company also realized that by Labour doing the right thing for the global environment, they were Nefab’s annual Staff Survey gives each employee the at the same time greatly improving the working environright to provide feedback on working conditions, mament for their own employees! nagers’ behavior, physical and psycho-social working environment, stress and more. In addition, free text comAnti-Corruption ments can be submitted. All answers are anonymous Starting in 2009 and continuing, Nefab conducts interand the entire survey is handled by an external partner. nal anti-corruption workshops. The updated “RESIST” The response rate for 2010 was 84 %, which is considematerial from Global Compact is now the primary training red to be very satisfying. tool, and focus is on training employees how to avoid During 2010, Nefab slightly changed the structure of the corruption. Staff Survey, introducing two new concepts. Firstly, a combined key ratio, ESI (Employee Satisfaction Index), 9 N e fa b – the Gl ob al Par tn er for C om plete Packagin g Soluti on s Performance Relevant GRI indicators tive (GRI). The ambition is to improve and widen the data Nefab has chosen, as a first step, to concentrate on a few collection for the future. All figures relate to year 2010 if performance indicators, defined by Global Reporting Initianothing else is stated. GRI Indicator Subject 2010 2009 EN1 Plywood consumption (m ) 3 93 091 66 239 EN1 Steel consumption (tons) 8 932 7 518 EN1 Paint and laquer (tons) 38 -EN8 Water usage (m3) 67 594 -EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (tons) i) 469 -LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective 19 % 23 % bargaining agreements. LA10 Training hours per employee 13,4 -LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular 29% 21% performance and career development reviews.ii) LA13 Board members by gender 5% female 5% female 95% male 95% male LA13 Managing directors and other senior managers iii) 15% female 16% female 85% male 84% male S03 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption 7% -policies. Notes: i) From own production, excluding inand outbound transport. ii) 2010 was the second year for a new process of performance and development reviews. For the first target group, 65 % of employees had this review, while the 29 % refers to all employees. iii) Management team members and similar. 10 Further objectives There are projects in progress to increase energy efRegarding female representation in our boards and ficiency at Nefab. Reducing energy consumption is not among our managing directors and other senior manaonly an environmental consideration, but also a cost gers, we aim at matching the share of women of the total component to rationalize. workforce. Nefab is taking measures in order to be able to better As collective bargaining is concerned, Nefab has a large measure the CO2-emissions and other relevant emisnumber of employees in China, where collective bargainsions from our operations (EN16-18). ing is still developing. Also countries like the US have a very limited level of affiliation to collective agreements for employees. Further workforce information (GRI indicators LA1 and LA2) Employees by region Employees by age 7% Employees to 29 years old 40% 22% 23% 32% Employees to 30-39 Asia 46% years old 30% 40% Americas 22% Employees to 40-54 46% 30% Europe 32% years old 23% Employees to 55 or older 7% Employees by employment area Employees by gender 21% 21% 21% 14% 27% Production 59% 79% 79% 79% 59% Sales, marketing & distribution 27% Men Administration 14% Women 2008 2009 2010 Environment We continue to focus on environmentally friendly packaging solutions, supporting customers to reduce their environmental impact from packaging logistics. We are working to ensure that our operations are sustainable and environmentally friendly from raw material to finished goods, both from our own production units and our supply chain. 11 Nefa b – th e Global Pa r tn e r f or C om p l e te Pa c k a g i n g S ol uti on s NEFAB AB, Po BOX 2184, SE-550 02 Jönköping, SWEDEN TELEPHONE: +46(0)771-590 000, Telefax: +46(0)36-15 04 44 Internet: www.nefab.com, E-MAIL: info@nefab.com
