Communication on Progress for UN Global Compact 3 S SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & CARING P PROFESSIONALISM E ETHICS E ENGAGEMENT D DIVERSITY & TEAMWORK United Nations Global Compact Content Index This report serves as PTTAR’s Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact for 2010-2011. The table below contains information or references to sections of the report that address the Global Compact principles. Subject UNGC principles page • Message from the Chairman Commitment Statement 6 • Management Structure Principles 1-10 8 • Organizational Structure 13 • Company Information 14 • Nature of Business 16 • Performance Review Principles 1-2, 3-6, 10 20 • Corporate Governance Report Principles 1-2, 3-6, 10 28 • Audit Committee Report Principle 10 44 • Internal Control System Principle 10 46 • QSHE Performance Principles 1-10 48 • Corporate Social Responsibility Principles 1-10 54 • Activities Principles 1-10 60 • Awards & Recognitions Principles 1-10 65 • Abbreviations & Technical Terms 68 PTTAR’s Implementations UNGC Written Guidelines / Policies Actions Principles Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Practical Guidelines concerning Human • Employees are reminded and encouraged to Rights respect human rights. • Practical Guidelines concerning • Launched health caravans to provide health Exposure of Practices that Harm the screening and take care of community Company and Protecting the Rights of health, particularly the mother and child Informants target group. in the “Good Corporate Governance • Community related survey as part of annual Handbook” of the Company. EIA (Environmental Impact Assessment) Survey and Report. • Satisfaction survey on significant company’s CSR programs • Strongly determined not to be in any official partnership with organizations that violate human rights. • Specified safety measures in the General Contract Conditions regarding Safety, Health and Environment. • Took care of contractors and subcontractors not to violate the rights of others. • Concurrently, security measures must be implemented on an international par. • Had many communication channels for stakeholders to file their complaints and voice their opinion. Two-way Communication Channels for Communities 1. Daily visit to surrounding communities to receive their concerns and provide information. 2. Monthly Tripartite Committee Meeting with communities and public sector representatives 3. Open House to invite focused group to visit and meet company’s management as appropriate, aimed to create familiarization to the company’s operation and exchange views with community leaders and members. i UNGC Written Guidelines / Policies Actions Principles 4. Annual Community workshop with community leaders to enhance relationships with community, communicate company’s information, as well as evaluate and seek recommendations for company’s CSR programs and for communication improvement Labor 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. • Make PTTAR a ‘Happy Workplace’ where • Ethics for Executives and Employees employees are encouraged to take leadership and Ethics in Business in “Good role both inside and outside their workplace, Corporate Governance Handbook.” to always learn and to continuously develop • Policy on no child and forced labor themselves. • Launched ‘Annual People Survey’ to monitor employee relation climate, employee job satisfaction, career path, supervisor, working environment, health & safety, communication. • Employees are reminded and encouraged to bear in mind the fair use of labor. • Encouraged employee participation in social activities, which exemplify employees’ initiatives in line with PTTAR’s social responsibility policy and values. • Laid down a framework for systematic employee development while focusing on development of all to be both smart and virtuous • Framed the approach and execution of succession plans, with senior executives valuing the designation of people with potential among employees of various levels for further development to take up key positions • Developed executives under the PTTAR Leadership Competency framework with a focus on giving them business and personal skills, acting as a coach and an HR manager ii UNGC Written Guidelines / Policies Actions Principles • Developed all employees under Individual Development Plans (IDP), which cover both Core Competencies and Functional Competencies in addition to English skills, which form a policy approach for preparing all employees to master English skills to give themselves more prospects for advancement while sustaining future growth for PTTAR • Encouraged employees to be people with virtues, volunteering spirit, and selflessness through participating in social responsibility activities organized by the Company and the Employee Volunteer Club, sponsored by the Company. • Organized recreational activities to promote teams and unity among all employees. Management executives together served as a core for driving all employees to join the activities to blend their cultures into one under a common set of values. The Company’s other activities also engaged employees’ families to promote good family relations. • Valued the cultivation of awareness among employees to care for their own safety and colleagues under the so-called CARES safety culture, which stands for Caring, Awareness in safety, Relationship, Everyone goes home safely every day, and Stop if unsafe. CARES was coined by PTTAR to promote accidentfree and injury-free operations. • Won CEO with HR Orientation award at the World HRD Congress 2010, in recognition of the Company’s success in merging 2 companies without reducing the headcount. Besides reflecting excellence in expertise and management strategies, this represented a role model for corporate administrators amid a highly volatile world. • Won 2009 National Outstanding Business Operator in Safety, Occupational Health, and Workplace Environment awards for the 8th consecutive year. iii UNGC Written Guidelines / Policies Actions Principles Two-way Communication Channels 1. Direct to Management (D2M) on the Intranet 2. Safety Walk 3. “Brother (CEO) meets Brothers and Sisters” 4. CEO’s monthly communication with all staff. 5. Welfare committee Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Defined environmental performance as a key • Practical Guidelines for Environmental performance indicator (KPI). and Social Stewardship in “Good Corporate Governance Handbook.” • ISO14000 management system is in place. • Policy on Quality, Safety, Occupational • Employees are reminded not to take actions Health and Environment publicized on which harm society and the environment. the Company’s intranet and web site. • Voluntarily undertook the Environment and Health Impact Assessment (EHIA) on 3 new projects though they were not categorized as having ‘severe’ impact on health and environment. • Prominent environmental projects completed in 2010: − Installation of activated carbon absorbers at the storage tanks of Aromatics Complex I and II to trap VOC vapor − Construction of a fuel Vapor Recovery Unit (VRU) and bottom loading at the lorry-loading unit at Refinery − Preparation of a VOC inventory, a voluntary action before enforcement of the law − Improvement of combustion at Refinery gas turbines − The Clean Fuel and Upgrading project, phase 1 − Efficiency improvement of Heat Exchangers and Distillation Trays at Aromatics Complex I • Won Environmental Governance (White Flag-Green Star) Awards 2009 , presented by the Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand iv UNGC Written Guidelines / Policies Actions Principles (IEAT) to plants in Map Ta Phut that had successfully passed 4 assessments per year of environmental and safety management practices. • Won “EIA Monitoring Awards 2009”, given by the Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, for its conformity to measures spelled out in its environmental impact assessment (EIA) and excellence in environmental management, notably its jetty project. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • Directors, executives and employees are to • Practical Guidelines concerning Antireport their conflicts of interest with the Corruption and Conflicts of Interest in Company’s on a yearly basis and whenever “Good Corporate Governance there is a transaction. Handbook” of the Company • Laid out in its corporate governance manual • Board policy requires reports of share a set of measures for informing about any transactions, as well as portfolios of rumors of possible damage to itself and Directors and Senior Management, for measures for protecting the informer. the Board meeting’s acknowledgment every month. • Shareholders and stakeholders can notify PTTAR and the Board through the Corporate • Guidelines for the use of inside Governance Committee or Independent information by the Directors, Directors of any potential illegal actions of a Management, and all employees, person or any event that may cause damage including their connected and related by e-mail or regular mail. Such information persons with access to material will be kept in strict confidence to protect the information that could affect PTTAR’s informer. share price. • Directors and Managements must strictly report their portfolios of shares under SEC’s rule. Assessment of Stakeholders’ Satisfaction PTTAR regularly conducted satisfaction assessment of stakeholders, of which results in 2010 were as follows: • Shareholders 94% • Employees 95% • Customers 100% • Communities 86% v 4 A sharp vision is pivotal to strength The defining of PTTAR’s vision as Asia’s leading aromatics and oil refining company with integration to intermediate and downstream petrochemical and alternative energy businesses has resulted in a clear direction for fully effective, proactive business management to forge steady growth for PTTAR, equipped with international competitiveness in tandem with the stewardship of society, the environment, and human rights. 5 6 Message from the Chairman Despite the considerable volatility of the petrochemical and refining businesses over the past year caused by the partial recovery of the US economy, 2010 was a year in which PTT Aromatics and Refining Public Company Limited (PTTAR) has fulfilled many goals as planned. As a result, PTTAR derived anew profit of 6,343 million baht for the year, higher than planned. Company total intake amounted to 95.02 million barrels (2% over the previous year), which resulted in a total output of 76.38 million barrels of petroleum products (2.3% over the previous year) and 1.95 million tons of aromatics (2.4% over the previous year). Since its first year of business, the synergy derived from running a refinery together with aromatics complexes has benefited PTTAR, and in 2010 it amounted to US$136 million, reiterating our business validity. As for its financial success, the Company secured 25,700 million baht in additional long-term, revolving loans to support the refinancing of loans maturing in 2011-2012 and/or to serve as a provisional credit line for future businesses, or both, thus extending its average maturity of loans and lowering average interest rates. It also negotiated amendment of conditions under long-term loan agreements worth 9,897.5 million baht. Finally, it repurchased US$59.15 million in dollar debentures to lower its finance costs for 2010. At year-end 2010, the Clean Fuel and Upgrading Project Phase 2 registered 85.5% progress and completion is expected according to the plan to produce low-sulfur diesel of the Euro IV standard from 2012 onward. Completed environmental investment projects included combustion improvement at the Gas Turbine Unit, the Vapor Recovery Unit at the refinery, and efficiency improvement of heat exchangers and aromatics distillation column including equipment efficiency improvement projects in the plants to lower fuel consumption as well as to 7 lower global warming. PTTAR’s assessment of opportunities for progress – all these to accommodate environmental impacts and health impacts (EIA/HIA) sustainable business expansion of current and new for its construction projects was voluntarily undertaken businesses. out of a commitment to do business with responsibility The variety of successes over the past year to the environment and society. illustrated PTTAR’s conformance to its vision, goals, It is pleasing to note that during the year PTTAR policies, and strategies with such clarity and precision, achieved an Integrated Management System together with the commitment by the Board of concurrently for 5 systems, also secured certification Directors, the Managements, and all employees to under the CSR-DIW corporate social responsibility do business in a way that stands up to scrutiny while standard of the Ministry of Industry and was voted being socially responsible. Therefore, on behalf of by the CSR-DIW panel of experts as the most the Board of Directors, I wish to thank you our outstanding “Organizational Governance” out of 111 shareholders, customers, financial institutions, entries in this category as well. business partners, government agencies, and all other On 5 May 2010, in an effort to elevate its benefactors for consistently supporting us. There is corporate governance to international practices, no doubt in my mind that PTTAR’s next step is going PTTAR joined the UN Global Compact while to be both momentous and strong in the best interests expressing its intention to conform to the 10 of the shareholders and stakeholders. international principles covering human rights, labor, the environment, anti-corruption, and respect for intellectual properties. Further, it integrated its own business processes among good corporate governance, internal controls, and risk management. Moreover, PTTAR has fostered its personnel excellence in technical areas, leadership, development creativity, volunteering spirit, and stewardship of all communities and stakeholders in a fair and equal manner. Apart from integrated production and comprehensive business management upgrading to (Dr. Norkun Sitthiphong) international acceptance, PTTAR has laid down a Chairman of the Board of Directors solid foundation for risk management along with diligent identification of synergy partners while relentlessly investigating business possibilities and 8 Management Structure PTT Aromatics and Refining Public Company Limited (PTTAR) is managed by the Board of Directors and four subcommittees (‘Committees’), namely the Audit Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Corporate Governance Committee, and Risk Management Committee. 1. Board of Directors The Board consists of at least 5 and up to 15 Directors, who can be up to 70 years old. The maximum terms for each Director are 3 consecutive ones. Independent Directors must have number at least a third of the Board’s composition or at least 3; for his or her Company shareholding not more than 0.5%, each Independent Director must qualify against a stricter criterion that of Capital Market Supervisory Board. The Board is empowered to define business policy, strategies, and direction, supervise corporate governance and proper conduct to enable the Company to achieve its goals in line with Company objectives, laws, company's restrictions and resolutions of shareholders’ meetings with integrity, prudence, care, ethics, proper conduct, social responsibility and environment. The key is to safeguard the interests of the Company and all its shareholders. The matters listed below, however, require the prior approval of the shareholders: 1.1 Selling or transferring significant parts or all of PTTAR’s business to other parties 1.2 Purchasing or taking over other public companies or companies 1.3 Signing, amending, or annulling contracts on the leasing of significant parts of all of its operations. 1.4 Assigning other parties to manage Company business or merging business with others to share profits or losses 1.5 Amending or making additions to the memorandum of association or Company regulations 1.6 Increasing or decreasing capital, issuing debentures, merging, or dissolving Company business. 9 The Board must have the consent of the 13. Mr. Nathi Premrasmi shareholders’ meeting through at least three-quarters Independent Director of the total votes of the eligible shareholders in 14. Mr. Somchai Poolsavasdi attendance. Independent Director As of 31 December 2010, the Board of Directors Corporate Governance Committee consisted of 15 people as follows: 15. Mr. Bowon Vongsinudom 1. Dr. Norkun Sitthiphong Director Chairman Risk Management Committee 2. Gen. Somjed Boontanom President & CEO Independent Director Secretary to the Board Chairman of Corporate Governance Committee Directors’ profiles and experience related to 3. Dr. Ampon Kittiampon PTTAR’s business appear under The Board of Director Directors . Chairman of Nomination and Remuneration Committee 2. Independent Directors 4. Dr. Chokchai Aksaranan Independent Directors must have the following Independent Director qualifications: Chairman of Audit Committee 1. Holds no more than 0.5% of all voting shares 5. Mr. Prasert Bunsumpun in PTTAR, its parent company, subsidiary, associated Director company, major shareholder, or controller. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee percentage of shares held includes shares held by related persons. 6. Mrs. Pannee Sathavarodom Independent Director 2. Has never been a Director, staff, employee, Audit Committee adviser with regular salary, controller of PTTAR, its Risk Management Committee parent company, subsidiary, associated company, 7. Mr. Prajya Phinyawat equivalent subsidiary, major shareholder, or controller Director over the past 2 years. This exclude Independent Chairman of Risk Management Committee Directors who were former government officials or Corporate Governance Committee advisers to government agencies that are PTTAR’s major shareholder or controller. 8. Dr. Wit Jeraphat Independent Director 3. Is not related by blood or by law as a parent, spouse, sibling, an offspring, or a parent-in-law of 9. Dr. Witoon Simachokedee a Management, major shareholder, controller, or Independent Director a person who will be nominated as a Management or Audit Committee a controller of PTTAR or its subsidiary. 10. Pol. Gen. Sereepisut Tameeyaves 4. Has not had business interests with PTTAR, Independent Director its parent company, subsidiary, associated company, Nomination and Remuneration Committee major shareholder, or controller that may prevent Audit Committee unbiased judgment; has never been a significant 11. Mr. Permsak Shevawattananon shareholder, a controller of those with business Director relations with PTTAR, its parent company, subsidiary, 12. Mr. Tevin Vongvanich associated company, major shareholder, or controller Director over the past 2 years. Risk Management Committee 10 (This business connection is in line with the 1. Ensure accurate and adequate financial reports requirements for connected transactions under an 2. Ensure suitable, efficient, and effective internal announcement of the Capital Market Supervisory Board.) control and internal audit system, and deliberate the 5. Is not appointed to represent PTTAR’s independence of the internal audit unit, including Directors, major shareholder, or shareholder who is approval of the appointment, transfer, and employment related to a major shareholder in PTTAR. termination of the head of the unit or any other unit 6. Has not been an external auditor of PTTAR, charged with conducting internal audits its parent company, subsidiary, associated company, 3. Ensure compliance with securities and major shareholder, controller, and must not be a exchange laws of Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) significant shareholder, a controller, or partner of an regulations, or other relevant laws account auditor employing the external auditor of 4. Consider, select, and nominate an independent PTTAR, its parent company, subsidiary, associated person as the external auditor together with its fees, company, major shareholder, or its controller over the and attend at least 1 meeting per year with the external last two years. auditor without the presence of the management 7. Has not served as a professional service 5. Consider the disclosure of Company information provider, including legal or financial consultant that where connected transactions or potential conflicts of commanded over 2 million baht per year in fees from interest are concerned, to ensure compliance with PTTAR, its parent company, subsidiary, associated laws and the regulations of SET; it is critical to ensure company, major shareholder, or controller; is not a that such transactions are logical and conducted in significant shareholder, controller, or partner of such the best interests of the Company service provider over the past 2 years. 6. Prepare a report from the Committee, signed 8. Is not engaged in a similar business in by its Chairman, for publishing in the annual report, competition with PTTAR or its subsidiary, or is a with the following contents as a minimum: significant shareholder in a partnership, a Director, staff, employee, adviser with regular salary, or holds more 6.1 Opinion about the accuracy, completeness, than 1% of the total voting shares of other companies and reliability of financial reports in a similar business in competition with PTTAR or its 6.2 Opinion about the adequacy of internal control subsidiary. 6.3 Opinion about compliance with securities 9. Does not have any other quality that may and exchange laws, regulations of SET, or prevent him or her from making independent and laws related to Company business impartial decisions. 6.4 Opinion about the suitability of the external auditor 3. Subcommittees 6.5 Opinion about potentially connected There are currently 4 subcommittees as transactions described below. 6.6 The number of its meetings and individual 3.1. The Audit Committee attendance records This committee consists of at least 3 Directors, 6.7 Overall opinion or remarks by the Committee at least 1 of whom must command enough expertise on performing duties under the charter and experience to review the credibility of financial 6.8 Other items considered good to know for statements. The term of each member is up to 3 years. shareholders and investors under the scope The Committee’s Board-assigned duties are as follows: of duties and responsibility assigned by the Board. 11 7. Review major risk management items to The Audit Committee is experienced in reviewing establish a link with internal control financial statements and in serving on audit committees. 8. Review and propose amendments to the scope, Dr. Chokchai Aksaranan was a Chairman of Audit roles, and responsibility of the Committee in line with Committee of the Aromatics (Thailand) Plc and served prevailing circumstances as an Audit Committee member of Thai Asset Management Corporation. He is currently the Chairman 9. Conduct other duties assigned by the Board of the Audit Committee of MFC Asset Management with the concurrence of the Committee. In performing Plc. Pol. Gen. Sereepisut Tameeyaves was Chairman such duties, the Committee is directly responsible to of the Audit Committee of IRPC Plc. Dr. Witoon the Board. Simachokedee has undergone the Financial Statements 10. If the Committee detects or wonders whether for Directors (FSD), class 4/2009, and Mrs. Pannee the following transactions or actions could impact the Sathavarodom, the finance and accounting expert, Company’s financial status and performance has undergone the Audit Committee Program (ACP), significantly, it must report them to the Board for class 32/2010, training with the Thai Institute of rectification within reasonable time in its opinion: Directors (IOD). 10.1 Transactions with conflicts of interest 3.2 The Corporate Governance Committee 10.2 Frauds, irregularities, or significant defects in internal control The Corporate Governance Committee appointed by the Board, has the following duties: 10.3 Violations of the securities and exchange laws, regulations of SET, or laws related 1. Consider and propose good corporate to Company business. governance practices to the Board. 2. Formulate a good corporate governance policy Name Position and a code of conduct for employees and for PTTAR’s business, and upgrade corporate governance practices to international standards. 1. Dr. Chokchai Aksaranan Chairman of Audit Committee Name Position 2. Dr. Witoon Simachokedee* Audit Committee 1. Gen. Somjed Boontanom Chairman of Corporate Governance Committee 3. Mrs. Pannee Sathavarodom Audit Committee 2. Mr. Prajya Phinyawat Corporate Governance 4. Pol. Gen. Sereepisut Tameeyaves Audit Committee Committee Ms. Araya Buraskarn, Vice President, Internal Audit, 3. Mr. Somchai Poolsavasdi Corporate Governance serves as secretary to the Committee. Committee * Resigned on 11 February 2011. Mrs. Puangchao Nakanart, Vice President, Office of the CEO, and Company Secretary, served as secretary to the Committee from 1 January 2010 to 30 September 2010. Ms. Monwipa Choopiban, Vice President, Corporate Compliance and Communication and Company Secretary, has served as secretary to the Committee since 1 October 2010. 12 3.3 The Nomination and Remuneration Committee 3.4 The Risk Management Committee The Nomination and Remuneration Committee The Risk Management Committee has the appointed by the Board, has the following duties: following duties: 1. Devise transparent criteria and selection 1. Formulate a policy and recommend approaches procedures for Directors and the President & CEO for risk management concerning Company business 2. Recruit and select potentially qualified Directors in a suitable and efficient way and the President & CEO 2. Ensure compliance with the corporate-level 3. Recommend the recruitment of qualified risk management framework people to serve as Directors for the Board to consider 3. Recommend practices for significant risk and table for the consideration of shareholders’ management, particularly financial risks and fluctuation meetings in product prices so that they may be reasonably 4. Define criteria or procedures for the fair and acceptable logical compensation of Directors, Subcommittees, 4. Review risk management reporting and track and the Management rank of Executive Vice Presidents significant risks to ensure that such management is upward adequate and suitable. 5. Submit Directors’ and Subcommittees’ compensation to the shareholders for their approval Name Position 6. Appraise the performance and propose compensation for the management rank of Executive 1. Mr. Prajya Phinyawat Chairman of Vice Presidents upward for the Board’s approval. Risk Management Committee Name Position 2. Mr. Tevin Vongvanich Risk Management Committee 1. Dr. Ampon Kittiampon Chairman of Nomination and Remuneration 3. Mrs. Pannee Sathavarodom Risk Management Committee Committee 2. Mr. Prasert Bunsumpun Nomination and 4. Mr. Bowon Vongsinudom Risk Management Remuneration Committee Committee 3. Pol. Gen. Sereepisut Nomination and Tameeyaves Remuneration Committee Ms. Duangkamol Settanung, Executive Vice President, Finance & Accounting, serves as secretary to the Committee. Mrs. Puangchao Nakanart, Vice President, Office of the CEO, and Company Secretary, served as secretary to the Committee from 1 January 2010 to 30 September 2010. Ms. Monwipa Choopiban, Vice President, Corporate Compliance and Communication and Company Secretary, has served as secretary to the Committee since 1 October 2010. 13 Organization Structure Shareholders Board of Directors Corporate Nomination & Audit Risk Management Governance Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee President & CEO VP Corporate Compliance & Communication and VP Internal Audit Company Secretary SVP Industry & Independent VP Quality, Safety, Organization Health and Environment Management VP Corporate Strategy SEVP-Technology Engineering SEVP-Operations & Maintenance EVP Finance & EVP Supply EVP Human EVP-Aromatics EVP-Refinery Accounting Planning & Resources & Operations Operations Business Corporate Development Administration VP Treasury SVP Supply VP Human Project VP Reliability & VP Aromatics 1 VP Refinery Planning & Business Resources Director A Engineering Operations Operations Development VP Corporate VP CSR & Project VP Maintenance VP Aromatics 2 VP Movement Accounting Government Director B Operations and VP Commercial Affairs Dispatching Operations VP Technology VP Financial VP Procurement Planning & Management Turnaround Director Information 14 Company Information Company Name PTT Aromatics and Refining Public Company Limited Registration No. 0107550000254 Head Office 555/1 Energy Complex, Building A, 14th Floor, Vibhavadi Rangsit Road, Chatuchak, Bangkok 10900 Tel: +66(0)-2140-4000 Fax: +66(0)-2140-4111-2 Refinery (AR1) 8, I-8 Road, Map Ta Phut Industrial Estate, Map Ta Phut, Muang District, Rayong 21150 Tel: +66(0)-3897-1000 Fax: +66(0)-3897-1099 Aromatics I (AR2) 4, I-2 Road, Map Ta Phut Industrial Estate, Map Ta Phut, Muang District, Rayong 21150 Tel: +66(0)-3897-2000 Fax: +66(0)-3897-2099 Aromatics II (AR3) 98/9 Rayong Highway Road 3191, RIL Industrial Estate, Map Ta Phut, Muang District, Rayong 21150 Tel: +66(0)-3897-3000 Fax: +66(0)-3897-3099 Tank Farm 11, I-4 Road, Map Ta Phut Industrial Estate, Map Ta Phut, Muang District, Rayong 21150 Tel: +66(0)-3897-2000 Fax: +66(0)-3897-2099 Website www.pttar.com Investor Information ir@pttar.com or +66(0)-2140-4000 Nature of Business Petroleum refining and supply of refined products, manufacturing and sale of aromatics and their derivatives, and businesses of associated companies Number and Value of As at 31 January 2011, the registered share capital was Baht 29,938,149,690 Issued Shares made up of 2,993,814,969 common shares at a par value of Baht 10 per share. The registered share capital is made up of: 1. Paid-up capital of Baht 29,791,061,610 consisting of 2,979,106,161 common shares at a par value of Baht 10 per share 2. Unpaid capital of Baht 147,088,080 consisting of 14,708,808 common shares at a par value of Baht 10 per share. Securities Registrar Thailand Securities Depository Company Limited, The Stock Exchange of Thailand Building, 62 Ratchadaphisek Road, Klong Toey, Klong Toey, Bangkok 10110 Tel: +66(0)-2229-2800, 02-229-2888 Fax: +66(0)-2654-5427 Bond Registrar Siam Commercial Bank Public Company Limited 9 Ratchadaphisek Road, Chatuchak, Bangkok 10900 Tel: +66(0)-2544-1000 Bond Representative TMB Bank Public Company Limited 3000 Phaholyothin Road, Chompon, Chatuchak, Bangkok 10900 Tel: +66(0)-2299-1111 15 Auditor (2010) Mr. Winid Silamongkol, CPA (Thailand) Registration No. 3378 and/or Mr. Vairoj Jindamaneepitak, CPA (Thailand) Registration No. 3565 and/or Mr. Charoen Phosamritlert, CPA (Thailand) Registration No.4068 KPMG Phoomchai Audit Ltd., 50th-51st Floor, Empire Tower, 195 South Sathon Road, Yannawa, Sathon, Bangkok 10120 Audit Fees PTTAR paid 2,677,000 baht in audit fees to the auditors’ company for the 2010 accounting period. Top Ten Shareholders As of 29th October 2010, the names of the Top 10 shareholders appear below: Rank Name Shares % 1 PTT Plc 1,441,987,368 48.60 2 Chase Nominees Limited 42 164,349,802 5.54 3 Thai NVDR Co., Ltd. 109,487,750 3.69 4 State Street Bank and Trust Company 57,446,044 1.94 5 HSBC (Singapore) Nominees Pte. Ltd. 52,757,535 1.78 6 Norbax Inc., 13 36,160,385 1.22 7 Gerlach & Co-Dimensional Emerging Markets Value Fund 14,786,216 0.50 8 Somer (U.K.) Limited 14,566,400 0.49 9 GPF EQ-TH Fund 14,530,858 0.49 10 Energy and Petrochemical Index Fund 11,502,700 0.39 Shareholding Proportion Dividend Policy Local Institutions / Corporates 58% The Board of Directors’ policy is to propose to Local Individuals 26% the shareholders’ meeting an annual payment of Foreign Institutions / Corporates 15% dividends, in line with Company performance, of no Foreign Individuals 1% less than 30% of the net profit after tax and capital reserves, subject to investment plans, necessity, and Personnel other future factors. As of December 31, 2010, PTTAR personnel For 2010, at Meeting No. 3/2011 on 24 February headcount was 1,117.* 2011, the Board decided to propose to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders for approval of the Compensation dividend payment for the operating results of the year Item Amount (Baht) 2010. The dividend will be paid from the retained earnings after legal reserved at the rate of 0.96 Baht per share, Salary = 748,776,772/Year amounting to 2,859,941,915 Baht. 0.61 Baht per share Contribution to Provident Fund = 75,735,349/Year derived from tax exemption profit portion according to * Included amount of Company staff, Secondment and Board of investment (BOI) privilege and 0.35 Baht per Direct Hired share derived from 25% taxable profit portion. 16 Nature of Business Managing an integrated oil refinery and quantities matching customers’ demand at low costs. petrochemical business, PTT Aromatics and Refining Located in Map Ta Phut Industrial Estate in Rayong, Public Company Limited (PTTAR) commands a the refinery has a capacity of 280,000 barrels per day business structure grouped into the following of crude oil and condensate intake, with a wide range businesses: of high-quality refined products, namely: • Light products, consisting of LPG, light naphtha, 1. Oil Refining and Refined-product and reformate Supply Sourcing • Middle distillates, consisting of jet fuel and As a leader of Thailand’s oil refiners and suppliers diesel of refined products, PTTAR owns and operates a most advanced complex refinery, one of the most energy• Heavy products, consisting of fuel oil. efficient in Asia Pacific, thanks to the flexibility of refining Today, its 3 refining units handle crude oil processes and the ability to supply refined products in and condensate refining: Refining Unit Capacity Detail (barrels/day) Crude Refining Unit 145,000 A complex refinery with hydrocracker and visbreaker units, capable of converting fuel oil into middle distillates. This unit refines crude oil into products, which may include reformate for delivery to the aromatics complex. Condensate 70,000 This unit produces reformate for delivery to the aromatics complex along with Splitter Unit 1 other petroleum products, including light naphtha, LPG, condensate residue, and heavy naphtha. Heavy naphtha is sent to the reformer unit for reformate production for further feeding to the aromatics unit. Condensate 65,000 This unit produces reformate for delivery to the aromatics complex along with Splitter Unit 2 other petroleum products, including light naphtha, LPG, condensate residue, and heavy naphtha. Heavy naphtha is sent to the reformer unit for reformate production for further feeding to the aromatics unit. 17 2. Production and Distribution of Aromatics and Downstream Products PTTAR produces and distributes primary Today the Company runs two aromatics units: aromatics, namely paraxylene, benzene, cyclohexane, orthoxylene, mixed xylenes, toluene with raffinate and heavy aromatics as by-products. Unit: Ton/Year Product Aromatics Complex I Aromatics Complex II Total Paraxylene 540,000 655,000 1,195,000 Benzene 307,000 355,000 662,000 Cyclohexane 200,000 200,000 Orthoxylene 66,000 66,000 Mixed Xylenes 76,000 76,000 Toluene 60,000 60,000 Total 1,189,000 1,070,000 2,259,000 Note: PTTAR’S flexible process provide outputs matching market demand 3. Joint-venture Businesses and Associated Companies To capture business opportunities, PTTAR As of year-end 2010, here is a summary of entered into joint ventures with others operating various PTTAR’s shareholding structures in joint ventures and projects in support of its own business to generate business affiliates: profits while nurturing sustained growth. Paid-up Registered Registered Company Name Nature of Business Capital % Capital (Million Baht) (Million Equity Baht) PTT Phenol Co., Ltd. Producer and seller 9,252 8,350 30% of phenol (2,505 million baht) PTT Utility Co., Ltd. Producer and seller 6,859 6,859 20% of steam/electricity (1,372 million baht) PTT ICT Solutions Co., Ltd. IT and communication 150 150 20% service provider to (30 million baht) shareholders Business Services Alliance Co., Ltd. Manpower procurement 2 2 25% and contract labor (500,000 baht) provider for PTT and PTT Group 18 “ I wish to see PTTAR being characterized by concise work processes, A (ability) stands for able and competent people who think outside the box when it comes to business opportunities so as to create value and growth, and R (reliability) stands for production excellence and safety.” Mr. Bowon Vongsinudom President & CEO 19 Reliability and Safety the crux of the industry As Asia’s leading refinery and petrochemical operator with competitive potential upon world-class capacities, PTTAR regards reliability and work safety as vital. Not only do these qualities underscore work processes, but are ingrained into its personnel under an efficient corporate management system. Leveraging long years of experience, PTTAR people are its guarantee of success in expansion projects, furthering the Company’s business plans. Result? Perpetual growth. 20 Performance Review This was another year of successful execution in Competencies in addition to English skills, various aspects of PTT Aromatics and Refining Public which form a policy approach for preparing Company Limited (PTTAR), summarized below. all employees to master English skills to give themselves more prospects for advancement 1. Organizational Structuring and while sustaining future growth for PTTAR Development • Besides developing employees to become smart, PTTAR encourages them to be 1.1 Organizational Structuring people with virtues, volunteering spirit, and selflessness through participating in assorted In 2010 PTTAR has restructured organization social responsibility activities organized by the regarding business growth, appointed and transfered Company and the Employee Volunteer Club, Management as appropriate to new organization structure sponsored by the Company. (Detail in Organization Structure ). 1.3 Unifying teams under the SPEED values 1.2 Employee development • Organized assorted recreational activities to The Company has laid down a framework for promote teams and unity among all employees systematic employee development while focusing on of the same units and different units alike. development of all to be both smart and virtuous. Management executives together served as • Framed the approach and execution of a core for driving all employees to join the succession plans, with senior executives activities to blend their cultures into one under valuing the designation of people with potential a common set of values. The Company’s other among employees of various levels for further activities also engaged employees’ families to development to take up key positions promote good family relations. • Developed executives under the PTTAR • Launched employee satisfaction surveys in Leadership Competency framework with a various aspects. From these survey outcomes, focus on giving them business and personal executives pooled ideas on employees’ views skills, acting as a coach and an HR manager for work process and action plan refinement • Developed all employees under Individual for all executives to push and execute for the Development Plans (IDP), which cover benefit of workplace and work processes. both Core Competencies and Functional 21 2. Production and Maintenance Visbreaker Unit (VBU), as well as heat exchanger cleaning for long-term efficiency improvement. 2.1 Production Aromatics Complex I (AR2) faced a planned Company petroleum products for the year 2010 maintenance shutdown, deferred from March to June, was 76,381,000 barrels and aromatic products was since the refining margin for March was considered 1,947,000 tons. high because of market demand. Such deferral yielded With no planned maintenance shutdown in 2010, about 90 million baht. Such maintenance has raised Refinery Plant (AR1) had a mild output reduction in the efficiency of TAC9, resulting in about 13 million the first quarter for decoking furnace cleaning at the baht of benefit each month. Unit: Thousand Barrels/Day AR1 AR2 AR3 Total Main intake 145 46 54 246 Crude Oil 145 145 Condensate 46 54 101 Product 168.5 53.3 58.5 280.3 Sulfur 0.3 0.3 LPG 3.0 6.0 5.7 14.7 Naphtha 19.5 15.6 17.2 52.3 Reformate 17.7 0.1 0.2 18.0 Jet Fuel 24.1 24.1 Diesel 72.8 72.8 Fuel Oil 31.1 31.1 Paraxylene 9.2 13.5 22.7 Benzene 4.6 6.7 11.3 Cyclohexane 3.7 3.7 Other Aromatics 3.1 0.7 3.8 Hydrogen Gas 2.9 2.9 Condensate Residue 11.0 11.6 22.6 Note: Figures are inclusive of connected transactions 22 In 2010, PTTAR derived a total of about US$ processing units, against US$123 million in 2009. 136 million in synergistic value among its 3 These consisted of: Synergy Benefit Benefit (US$ Million) 1. Processing of naphtha derived from AR1 into 3.7 aromatics in favor of domestic sale 2. Use of jetty and feedstock tank farm at AR1 2.8 3. Use of nitrogen blanket at the reformate tank to 4.5 provide more aromatics output 4. Use of heavy aromatics in place of diesel as fuel oil cutter stock 9.8 5. Use of reformate to produce aromatics in favor of export 49 6. Processing of condensate residue at CRS in favor of export 60 7. Hydrogen transfer from AR2&3 to AR1 6.2 Total 136 PTTAR successfully swapped feedstock (heavy integrated turnaround teams in place, which gave the vacuum gas oil and hydro-wax) with Star Petroleum turnaround efficiency and flexibility alike amid volatile Refining Co., Ltd. (SPRC), starting in May for a total business circumstances. In June 2010, it registered synergy value of about 200 million baht. Below is a turnaround success at Aromatics Complex I (AR2) and summary of processing performance for the year. prepared for another turnaround at Refinery Plant (AR1) in February 2011. 2.2 Maintenance 2.3 Maintenance development: PTTAR is In 2010, PTTAR undertook maintenance work as committed to internationalizing maintenance work summarized below: while developing skills, expertise, and competency in 2.1 Routine maintenance: During the year, parallel. It therefore devised a technical progression it consistently gave top priority to preventive scheme to give employees opportunities to continuously maintenance (PM) and delivered PM work as planned, develop and grow on their career paths. PTTAR took resulting in 100% in overall PM compliance. As for a proactive approach to maintenance by initiating a corrective maintenance (CM), the Company scored Maintenance Excellence Project to drive work to 85% in CM Compliance overall. As a result, PTTAR greater efficiency and effectiveness while supplementing commanded 96.6% in mechanical availability for its PTT Group’s core strategies on “Zero Unplanned 3 plants. In short, the plants ran almost continuously. Shutdown” and “Operation Excellence” for maximum success and benefit. 2.2 Turnaround management: PTTAR valued this by defining a long-term shutdown plan and had 23 3. Feedstock Supply and Product Sale 3.2 Product sale In 2010, PTTAR sold a total of 57.8 million barrels, 3.1 Feedstock supply grossing US$4,884 million in revenue. PTTAR’s PTTAR secured crude oil and condensate domestic sales of its main products (diesel and jet supply through PTT Plc at market prices for a total of fuels) accounted for 72% of the refinery’s total capacity 91.7 million barrels for a total value of US$7,235 million. or a 19% domestic market share. PTT Plc remained its biggest product customer, with its purchase Main Volume Average Value agreement for 70% of the former capacity of the feedstock (Million price (US$ Million) Barrel) (US$/Barrel) refinery and at least 50% of the additional capacity from Condensate Residue Splitter (CRS) for domestic Crude oil 53.6 79.6 4,266 sale. In addition, PTTAR secured new customers, particularly those of fuel oil, thus giving itself greater Condensate 38.1 77.8 2,969 flexibility for processing and sale. Petroleum products sold in Asia – China, Singapore, Indonesia, and Total 91.7 78.9 7,235 Vietnam – accounted for about 35% of total petroleum sales. In 2010, PTTAR introduced crude oil and PTTAR sold a total of 4.04 million tons of condensate that yielded higher profits than its business aromatics, most of which (79%) PTTAR commanded plans to its refining processes: Labuan, Bunga Kekwa, the highest domestic market shares of 47% for Dar Blend, Songkhla, Pyrenees, Belanak, Penglai, benzene and 54% for paraxylene. The rest was sold ESPO, Pattani, Benchamas, Umm Shaif, and Qatar to Asian countries (Singapore, Taiwan, Indonesia, Marine (all crude oil), and North Arthit, Geragai, Muda, Malaysia, China, India, and Korea) and other regions Bintulu, and Benjaia (all condensate). As a result, it (including Saudi Arabia and the US). derived about US$20 million in margin over the business plan. PTTAR’s synergy with other refineries Average Ratio Product Volume Value through joint transportation of crude oil with Star Price of value Petroleum Refining Plc, Thai Oil Plc, and Bangchak Petroleum (Million (US$/Barrel) (US$Million) (%) Petroleum Plc trimmed its expenses by about US$10.4 business Barrels) million. A summary of benefit derived in 2010 appears below. Domestic 37.2 85.1 3,161 65 Export 20.6 83.6 1,723 35 Item Benefit (US$ Million) Total 57.8 84.5 4,884 100 1. Crude oil processing at AR1 13.6 Aromatics (Million Tons) (US$/Ton) (US$Million) (%) business 2. Condensate processing at 6.2 AR2/AR3 Domestic 3.24 823 2,679 79 Export 0.80 878 701 21 3. Joint transportation of 10.4 crude oil Total 4.04 834 3,380 100 Total 30.2 24 5. Financial Performance This year, PTTAR successfully managed its structural portfolio of loans for greater financial management efficiency, reduction of interest expenses, and greater confidence in its own liquidity to sustain future expansion. To rapidly conduct business under global economic conditions still with dubious recovery, the Company has taken the following steps: • Secured additional long-term loans from domestic and foreign financial institutions: These loans totaled 25,700 million baht in 4. Process Efficiency Improvement and credit line to support refinancing in 2011-2012 Expansion Project Management or to serve as reserve fund for future business activities, or both. Most of this new credit line 4.1 Process efficiency improvement is on a revolving basis, which is flexible and • Replaced catalysts at the TAC9 unit to enable aligns with PTTAR’s business structure. Such conversion of heavy aromatics to more action has not only extended the average total benzene and paraxylene. loan maturity period, but also cut the average • Replaced heat exchangers at the reformer unit interest rates by about 0.5% per year, or an to add capacity. equivalent saving of about 300 million baht per year. • Replaced reformate distillation tower equipment to a high-performance tray to lower energy • Negotiated existing loan agreements with consumption. bank syndicate lenders of long-term loans (Tranche C and Tranche G, totaling 9,897.5 • Replaced heat exchangers at the condensate million baht): The main conditions under splitter to enable more recycling of heat. negotiation dealt with the extension of • Cleaned equipment at the cyclohexane reactor agreements, adjustment of reference interest furnaces to add capacity. rates, and modification of part of the credit line into revolving loans. Such action has not only • Reduced the extractor consumption rate at the extended the loan maturity period, but also cut ED Sulfolane unit to lower energy consumption. the interest rates by about 0.80% per year, or • Raise the Parex unit’s capacity by 4% without an equivalent saving of interest payment of further investment. about 20 million baht in 2010. 4.2 Expansion Project Management • Buyback of USD Bonds from domestic and foreign institutional investors: • Upgrading Complex Phase 2 (Deep This US$59.15 million trimmed financing costs, Hydrodesulfurization, DHDS): This was resulting in about 0.60% per year reduction designed to produce ultra-low sulfur diesel in interest expenses, an equivalent of saving fuel (50 ppm, of the Euro IV standard) under in 2010 of about 5 million baht. a policy to improve fuel quality, due for enforcement in 2012. At year-end 2010, the project registered 85.55% progress. 25 6. Risk Management and Investment • Risks from refining margin and oil price Project Management volatility 6.1 Risk management 1. Entered into a crack spread hedging contract to lower the risks from refining While the global economy had probably passed margin volatility, involving a total of its ebb since 2009, the petrochemical and refining 7.2 million barrels (9% of all petroleum business still remained highly volatile because the US products). economy had yet to fully recover, while many European Union (EU) countries faced sovereign debts, which 2. Entered into a forward contract for Dubai stunted their economic growth. In addition, the entry crude to nail down margins for aromatics of speculators contributed to the highly volatile prices, products as planned, involving a total of potentially causing severe losses through oil stocks. 1.4 million barrels (roughly 180,000 tons) (10% of all aromatics products). As for the domestic overview in 2010, political unrest dominated the scene, as did conformance to 3. Entered into a forward contract for Dubai Article 67, Clause 2 of the Constitution concerning crude to manage fuel costs, losses, and projects with severe impacts, volatile foreign exchange LPG (whose price was governmentrates, and the looming rise in interest rates. controlled), involving about 25% of the total volume. The Board of Directors has appointed the Risk Management Committee to help it defines a policy 4. Converted the costs of feedstock to align and approach for efficient risk management. with the actual months of production to lower the volatility of each month’s In 2010, to ensure that PTTAR’s performance performance. would achieve its goals, the Risk Management Committee closely monitored and supervised risk 5. Instituted a risk management policy management practices in various ways apart from to accommodate oil price volatility regularly reviewing the risk register. Below is an producing stock gains/losses. Under the overview of risk management during 2010: policy, the management could enter into contracts for maximum on 4.6 million 26 barrels subject to risks, thus bolstering Clause 2 on filing an appeal against temporary confidence that the year’s performance injunction of the Central Administrative Court, would suffer no stock loss. particularly a contingent plan for the forced • Risks from the costs of marine transportation shutdown of the power plant run by PTT Utility of crude oil Co., Ltd. This would ensure no severe impact on the Company. Eventually, on 2 September PTTAR has applied novel tools to manage 2010, the Administrative Court ended the risks. In 2010, it began conducting partial temporary injunction. risk management of its costs of marine transportation of crude oil for 2011, since it • Operation risks had found that over the past couple of years, PTTAR values improvement of processing the costs were highly volatile. PTTAR became reliability by following up reliability improvement the first company in Thailand to manage risks of the PTTUT CUP-2 power plant and planning in this way. water supply for its processes, which made its • Risks from the volatility of interest rates and processing reliability in 2010 exceed the goal foreign exchange rates (99.5% versus 98%). In addition, the Company instituted preventive measures against heavy PTTAR has in place risk management fires at its plants and accelerated a project to practices to ensure suitable interest-rate levels lower Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) for by converting a part of those floating rates the benefit of surrounding communities. This into fixed ones to lower the risks of interest project is due for launching in early 2011. expenses with interest rates on the rise. As a result, today the Company commands about 6.2 Notable joint-venture projects 42% of its loans at fixed interest rates as opposed to 38% earlier in the year. Still, when PTT Phenol Co., Ltd. (PPCL) interest rates remain low, PTTAR is actually • PTTAR holds 30% equity (2,505 million baht) benefiting from floating interest rates. in PPCL, which buys benzene and processes As for foreign exchange rates, the it into phenol and acetone at 200,000 and committee monitored and provided risk 124,000 tons/year. The completed phenol management guidance to ensure that they plant began its commercial operation in March stayed at suitable levels. To achieve this, 2009. PTTAR gradually purchased dollars in advance • Its bisphenol A (BPA) plant with its own phenol proportionally with the Company’s expenses and acetone as feedstock is expected to begin while managing its US dollar-denominated commercial operation in March 2011. loans to make them compatible with its profits PTT Utility Co., Ltd. (PTTUT) and thus lower the volatility of the baht. • PTTAR holds 20% equity (1,372 million baht) • Risks from conformance to Article 67 of the in PTTUT, which produces and sells public Constitution utilities, including electricity, steam, and PTTAR has in place an approach for easing industrial water, to PTT Group and nearby the risks arising from this government policy, industries. particularly on conformance to Article 67, 27 • PTTUT has 3 central utility projects (CUPs): • Modified, enhanced, and expanded the CUP-1: Construction of phase 6 is scope of program applications to encompass completed, with a test run underway since more applications for greater management May 2010. flexibility, including the SAP system, annual budget preparation, feedstock and product CUP-2: Commercial production began on logistics management, plant process efficiency 1 January 2009 for this supplier of power monitoring, plant water and air quality and steam to Aromatics Complex II (AR3). measurement monitoring, and efficiency CUP-3: Phase 1 began supplying steam in improvement for off-the-shelf software. December 2009. Construction of its Boiler, In addition, PTTAR organized drills for SAP Power Substation, Demineralized water disaster contingency plans to test the readiness of its unit, and control buildings was completed back-up SAP system while rehearsing employees’ in the first quarter of 2010. understanding of the management process during PTT ICT Solutions Co., Ltd. (PTTICT) disasters as well as users’ roles and duties. • PTTAR holds 20% equity in PTTICT, which has provided information technology and communication services to its PTT Group shareholders. • PTTAR hired PTTICT under a 5-year contract beginning on 1 July 2006, at the end of which the contract could be extended for 5 years at a time. Business Services Alliance Co., Ltd. (BSA) • PTTAR holds 25% equity in BSA, which provides labor and contractor labor supply services to PTT Group. 7. Information Technology To accommodate and support business operation and add work efficiency, PTTAR has executed IT and communications tasks as summarized below: • Modified its mobile-trunk communication radio system to accommodate communication among plants for greater management flexibility. • Modified the speed and security of its information networks for faster and safer data transmission. 28 Corporate Governance Report To the Shareholders The Board of Directors of PTT Aromatics and Refining Public Company Limited (PTTAR) values good corporate governance as a strategic tool for sustainable growth. The Board has assigned the Corporate Governance Committee to oversee its business and ensure that the business is conducted in full and consistent compliance with the good corporate governance policy, PTTAR code of conduct, the regulations of the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and recognized international standards. In 2010, the Corporate Governance Committee performed its duties as assigned with an emphasis on raising PTTAR’s corporate governance practices to international standards as well as promoting morality among employees. The Committee, in addition, treated all shareholders and all groups of stakeholders equally as can be seen in the summary below: 1. Development and promotion of corporate governance to international standards This is in line with the good corporate governance principles for SET listed companies in 2006, and the rules and regulations of SEC. Moreover, OECD Principles of Corporate Governance have been adopted and used as another benchmark in this area. In this respect, the Corporate Governance Committee advised PTTAR to acquire a membership in UN Global Compact on 5 May 2010. UN Global Compact, an organization under the United Nations working for the promotion of good governance, labor, and environment, calls for corporate citizens to come into an agreement under 10 international principles. To demonstrate compliance with these 10 principles, with emphasis on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, PTTAR has integrated these principles into its strategies, corporate culture, and day-to-day operations. A document reporting Communication on Progress (COP), which follows the 10 international principles, was compiled in both Thai and English and posted on the website of UN Global Compact and that of PTTAR to make this development wider known among all stakeholders. 29 In addition to the above, PTTAR arranged for the On the same occasion, a number of the media and continuous promotion and communication of corporate outsiders were invited to witness how corporate governance principles among management and staff governance is practiced in the PTT Group. A reporter through various medias, such as e-mail, internal with a physical disability was well accommodated and electronic newsletters, posters, management and staff was provided the same opportunities as other reporters meetings, and staff activities. This is to encourage to carry out interviews with Management, a clear compliance with its corporate governance and the indication of PTTAR’s respect for human rights. international corporate governance principles and to make its communication on corporate governance Corporate Governance Policy more efficient and effective. In this respect, a “The Board of Directors intends to make PTTAR communication process to promote the compliance an effective organization in terms of business with PTTAR’s corporate governance manual was operations, corporate governance, and excellence in established and incorporated in its ISO 9001 management, providing maximum benefit to the management system, which had already been certified shareholders and stakeholders. PTTAR conducts by the Management System Certification Institute business with responsibility and fairness to all parties (Thailand) in 2010. This was regarded as an assessment involved, and is transparent and accountable to build on the compliance by both internal and external parties maximum trust and confidence for all shareholders to assure all stakeholders of transparency in all and stakeholders.” processes. PTTAR’s corporate governance policy covers all 2. Assurance of the compliance with corporate six basic elements of good corporate governance, governance plan An annual corporate governance namely: plan covering 3 areas – corporate governance, environmental governance, and corporate social 1. Accountability for own performances – All responsibilities – was devised to ensure compliance decisions must be explainable. with PTTAR’s good corporate governance policy. 2. Responsibility for duties to the maximum The plan requires agreement by the Board, as capability and efficiency. well as follow up and assessments by the Corporate Governance Committee. 3. Equitable treatment of stakeholders – This includes equitable and fair treatment of the The Corporate Governance Committee is environment and natural resources. scheduled to meet at least once every 2 months to closely monitor the level of compliance and to provide 4. Transparency in business operations – All recommendations for improvements. In 2010, 6 operations are open for inspection. meetings were held, and reports on the results of 5. Creation of long-term value for the business corporate governance performance were submitted 6. Ethics and moral conduct in business to the Board quarterly to allow the Board to follow up operations. and assess performance. In 2010, PTTAR continued to work on the In 2010, PTTAR also hosted the PTT Group CG promotion and communication of the principles and Day on 20 September 2010 as part of the PTT Group’s practices of good corporate governance so that annual activity to promote good corporate governance Management and staff would adopt these principles among its PTT Group staff. 7 listed companies in the in their work and daily life. All employees are expected PTT Group take turns hosting the event, which was to take responsibility for communicating with all initiated in 2007. Under the theme of ‘CG : The Code stakeholders, respecting human rights, not violating to Growth’, the 2010 event focused on the promotion copyrights, demonstrating awareness of the need for of CG awareness among staff in the PTT Group. Staff environment protection and energy saving. This members were encouraged to embrace the corporate includes optimizing the use of resources and acting governance principles in both their work and life. in compliance with international standards, which will 30 help PTTAR realize its vision of becoming a leading complete attachments to each item of the agenda, as international organization. PTTAR reviewed and well as recommendations of the Board, and proxy amended the ‘Corporate Governance Manual’ to forms. A list of Independent Directors was also update the information and to align the procedures enclosed so that shareholders would have sufficient with its continuously improved management information of each Independent Director’s stake in standards designed to achieve international each item of the agenda in case they would opt to standards. 2 amendments were made in March appoint a proxy to the meeting. The invitation letter 2010 and January 2011. PTTAR followed the 2006 also detailed documents all shareholders had to guidelines of SET’s good corporate governance present on the meeting day, meeting procedures to practices for listed companies, summarized below: protect each person’s rights, Annual General Meeting regulations, voting rules, and a map showing the 1. The Rights of Shareholders meeting venue. The Company values the rights of shareholders On the meeting day, PTTAR provided convenience and, therefore, has developed and implemented a set for the shareholders and their proxies equally. Staff of procedures to ensure all stakeholders that their members were on hand to examine the documents, basic rights are fully protected, as detailed below: and registration points were divided using a barcode 1) PTTAR followed the requirements of the law, system, organized by ordinary and juristic shareholders. combined with guidelines for good corporate governance Ballots were made to cast votes on each meeting from SEC and SET, as well as its corporate governance agenda item. Also, shareholders were allowed to manual when organizing the Annual General Meeting register for the meeting 2 hours in advance, making of Shareholders 2010 on 5 April 2010. Shareholders the registration process swift, convenient, and were allowed to exercise their full rights at the meeting. accurate. Even after the meeting had started, PTTAR received a perfect score of 100 in the assessment shareholders could still register and join the meeting of Annual General Meeting 2010, organized by SEC to cast their votes on agenda items which had not and Thai Investors Association. PTTAR’s operation was been voted on. regarded as “Excellent”, as it had been in 2009. All members of the Board of Directors, various Before the meeting, PTTAR announced a Record Committees, Management, external auditor, and legal Date on 18 February 2010, which was 14 days in consultants were on hand during the Annual General advance of the Annual General Meeting, which fell on Meeting to address questions posed by the 5 March 2010, and announced the closing of the shareholders. The Chairman hosted the meeting and registry (share roster) book one working day after the obtained approval of the voting procedure, that is, Record Date, to notify shareholders of their rights to one share, one vote. The voting and counting of ballots attend the meeting and receive dividends. PTTAR were transparently conducted, using the barcode posted the meeting invitation and appendices, in both system to ensure speed and accuracy. Voting was Thai and English, on the www.pttar.com website on carried out in compliance with PTTAR’s rules and the 5 March 2010, 30 days before the meeting and notified law. Results of each vote count for each item of the the shareholders of this through SET. This provided agenda were clearly presented in the meeting. A shareholders adequate time to study the relevant volunteer shareholder was also present and acted as information before casting their votes in the meeting a witness of the vote counting. The Chairman gave in advance of receiving the actual documents, which shareholders enough opportunities to ask questions were delivered to the shareholders starting 15 March and express their opinions freely so that important 2010, 21 days before the meeting. Company matters could be duly decided, with the assistance of relevant Directors who answered the The meeting invitation and its appendices posted questions clearly and in enough details. PTTAR’s legal on PTTAR’s website had the same content as those advisors also explained relevant legal considerations handed to shareholders for use at the meeting. The to the shareholders. The legal advisors and a volunteer documents contained the agenda of the meeting, 31 shareholder acted as referees to ensure the items or nominate Directors for election, or both, will transparency of the balloting process throughout the now be 4% instead of 5%. meeting. PTTAR kept all the ballots of important 3) PTTAR’s provision of information to agenda items, according to SET guidelines, and shareholders exceeds legal requirements. For respected the rights of shareholders by not adding to example, PTTAR routinely provides up-to-date or changing the order of agenda items, or altering information and posts reports and analyses completed important information during the meeting. The by the management on its website. Shareholders and Chairman provided sufficient time for the meeting and debenture holders were notified of its developments conducted the meeting properly and transparently, and information through Shareholders’ Newsletter, respecting the sequence of the agenda earlier sent by mail every quarter. PTTAR allows minor announced in the meeting invitation. PTTAR also shareholders to directly acquire information from the provided opportunities for shareholders to exercise Company Secretary or Investor Relations Division. their rights in the meeting and freely express their opinions. 4) A Shareholders’ Company Visit, organized from 29 to 30 November 2010, allowed 500 PTTAR submitted the minutes of the Annual shareholders to visit PTTAR plants, thereby increasing General Meeting 2010 to SET within 14 days after the the confidence of the shareholders regarding the meeting, which fell on 19 April 2010, and posted the refinery and the aromatics business, and improving document on its website so that all shareholders could their understanding of the management of PTTAR’s receive the minutes quickly and other interested parties environment and community around the refinery and could access its information. The minutes of the aromatics plants. Based on the assessment, meeting were, moreover, delivered to shareholders shareholders who participated in this project were who had expressed their opinions in the meeting for 93.57% satisfied with the visit to the operations, verification/correction. Suggestions and recommendations compared to 92% in 2009. made by shareholders on the questionnaire on the meeting day were also summarized in the shareholders’ 2. Equitable Treatment of Shareholders newsletter as information for absentees. The dividends were paid out to shareholders on 29 April 2010. PTTAR values shareholders and treats them equally through the following procedures: 2) PTTAR allowed shareholders to submit items which they wished to add to the meeting agenda and 1) PTTAR gives shareholders opportunities to to nominate qualified persons for consideration for add items to the meeting agenda and nominate directorship. Shareholders could do so following the qualified persons for directorships in advance, criteria earlier set, that is, submissions must be made according to the criteria set by the Board and posted 60 days in advance, between 24 November 2009 and on its website. Shareholders are informed of such 22 January 2010. Questions regarding items on the criteria through SET. This is to demonstrate that PTTAR meeting agenda could also be submitted in advance treats all shareholders equally and justly. The proposed of the Annual General Meeting through SET channels items to the agenda are screened under its regulations and PTTAR’s website. PTTAR compiled all questions to identify only those topics with true benefits to the submitted by the shareholders and addressed them business. In addition, nominated persons are selected in the Annual General Meeting. Minor shareholders by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee could also ask for in-depth information about the before submitting the qualified names to the Board business as well as meeting the Corporate Governance for consideration. The Chairman announces the results Committee and Senior Management in an exclusive of the consideration together with the decision rationale meeting ahead of the Annual General Meeting. at the Annual General Meeting. The Board meeting no. 1/2011 of 20 January 2) Shareholders are allowed to submit questions 2011 has approved a modification to adjust the ahead of the meeting through various channels such shareholding required to propose additional agenda as mail, fax, or PTTAR’s website. 32 3) Proxy forms listing the names of Independent according to appropriate guidelines, is within the Directors who have no stake in the meeting agenda boundaries of the related law, and can efficiently achieve are also attached to the meeting invitation so that the goals which PTTAR has laid out. The outcomes of audits shareholders can assign a proxy to attend the meeting are reported to the Audit Committee at least once every and cast votes on their behalf. In the Annual General quarter. Meeting 2010, 772 shareholders out of 2,325 meeting 6) Recognizing the need for equality and fairness participants selected this option. among shareholders, PTTAR drew up a guideline, as 4) PTTAR has an accurate, complete, and part of Corporate Governance Manual, for the use of transparent code of conduct for disclosing information, internal information. The Board, Management, and which includes minutes of the Annual General Meeting, staff, as well as all stakeholders and related persons financial and general information, as well as important possessing undisclosed information significant to information which may affect the price of its shares. PTTAR’s share price are not allowed to use such This information is distributed through the channels information for direct or indirect personal benefit from and media of the SET, PTTAR’s website, and news the sale of shares. releases by Management. Investor Relations acts as 7) PTTAR has in place measures to prevent and a channel for communicating with investors by examine transactions which may cause conflicts of telephone at 02-140-4000 extension 4104 and E-mail interest and abuse of inside information. Such address: ir@pttar.com. This office provides information measures, incorporated in its policy, guidelines, and and news and also answers any queries regarding working procedures, are: PTTAR’s activities to investors, shareholders, and analysts. Corporate Compliance and Communition • The policy and guidelines prohibit Directors, Department is responsible for providing accurate and managers, and staff who are responsible for up-to-date information to the media and general public. the budget from buying or selling PTTAR’s shares 30 days before announcing the quarterly 5) PTTAR has clearly defined its organizational budget and 45 days before announcing the structure and limitations regarding the powers and annual budget to ensure equal access to authority of its Management and Executives. It has also information, and require that Directors, managers, made every effort to define relevant policies, rules, and and staff strictly comply with this rule. regulations and has produced a manual which acts as a guideline to create checks and balances. Internal • The Board set out guidelines that are in line Audit Department is independent and has a clearly with the Corporate Governance Manual. All defined role (as authorized in its charter) by the Audit personnel are required to report cases which Committee on 26 October 2009. The department may conflict with PTTAR’s interests and gather monitors work to ensure that business is conducted evidence to prevent unintentional conflicts of interest. PTTAR’s role is to gather information, 33 report to the Board, and constantly update the • Shareholders: In addition to basic shareholder information. In Board meetings, if there are any rights mandated by laws, company regulations, and the agenda items which may conflict with PTTAR’s corporate governance manual, including voting rights, interests, each Director who is a stakeholder freedom of opinion in the shareholders’ meetings, the will not attend the meeting, or will abstain from rights to examine the number of shares, and the right casting a vote on that agenda item. to receive fair compensation, PTTAR allows shareholders • PTTAR arranges for a complete disclosure of to directly ask the Chairman, Corporate Governance shareholding of the Board, Senior Management Committee questions and provide suggestions and and managers or those at equivalent levels recommendations regarding PTTAR’s business. In this working in Finance and Accounting in the regard, channels to communicate with the Chairman, annual report, as defined by SEC and SET. Corporate Governance Committee are provided in all issues of the Shareholders’ Newsletter. All suggestions 3. Roles of Stakeholders and recommendations are later submitted to the Board. In 2010, PTTAR arranged to provide more informational PTTAR conducts its business with responsibility content regarding corporate governance in each for all stakeholders aiming for sustainable mutual newsletter. benefits. The Board ensures that an effective management system is set up to further ensure that In addition, PTTAR consistently seeks equitable and the rights of all stakeholders are protected as required fair treatment of shareholders and is determined to best by the law, and that these protections and procedures represent the interests of the shareholders through are clearly written in the Corporate Governance Manual transparent business conduct, keeping in mind the added and PTTAR code of conduct. PTTAR takes full value to the business in the long term. For example, responsibility for ensuring that the rights of stakeholders management successfully negotiated the rental of a are protected and that all stakeholders are treated condensate storage tank, resulting in a reduction of future equally, including shareholders, staff, customers, rental costs of around 150 million baht per year, thereby business partners, creditors, competitors, the creating and protecting key benefits for shareholders. community, the society, the environment, as well as PTTAR arranged a shareholders’ Company Visit at all other stakeholders. PTTAR’s business is always the Rayong plant on 29 and 30 November 2010 for 500 conducted with respect for the rights of stakeholders. persons. Invitations were sent to shareholders who were In addition, PTTAR encourages participation of registered at the end of the last closing of the book on all employees in taking care of stakeholders by 8 March 2010 and had never paid a visit to PTTAR’s providing facilitation and information regarding the plants. The activity was also announced through SET and business to stakeholders and interested parties on its website and was open for interested persons to through telephone, news releases, meetings, participate by return mails. A transparent procedure was exhibitions, and other activities. It is confident that its set up to draw the names of those selected at random already-established corporate governance system will to attend. Those selected could check their names on lead to sustainable growth. This will consequently the website and received a notification by phone. create a better understanding about corporate PTTAR allowed shareholders over 65 years of governance among employees, thereby improving their age to appoint a representative to participate in the efficiency at work. At the same time, stakeholders also program, as suggested by shareholders. This year, play a part in PTTAR’s sustainable business growth 3,789 people took part in the activity. Based on the by providing useful suggestions and recommendations, assessment among minor shareholders (holders of such as shareholders’ suggestions on social 1-100 shares up to one million shares), participants responsibilities or conclusions from meetings and in this project were 93.57% satisfied and also gave seminars with customers and business partners. useful feedback and suggestions which will be used In 2010, PTTAR treated all groups of stakeholders to improve this project in the future. as follows: 34 • Employees: PTTAR values its employees and and problems from staff, while also being able regards them as a valuable asset. It creates pride and to answer questions directly. confidence among employees and organized various 3. “Brother meets Brothers and Sisters” projects to encourage collective creativity while – President and CEO conducts the quarterly developing employees’ potential to increase their presentation of business results which also capability for working and surviving amid the volatile provides an opportunity for staff to ask economic situation. It is PTTAR’s policy to raise staff questions and give their recommendations. competency to achieve professional levels, to assign the right person to the right job, and to treat all 4. President and CEO carries out monthly employees equally and fairly, while providing a good communication with all staff. and safe working environment. Employees are 5. A welfare committee was established to compensated at a competitive rate when compared provide staff representatives to engage in to those in a similar business. Activities are constantly discussions with PTTAR regarding staff organized to instill an awareness and understanding welfare. The committee works to assess, of good corporate governance, and there are regular monitor, and recommend sufficient and assessments to test the correct understanding and suitable actions to enhance employee welfare. employee satisfaction on this topic, so that continuous development can occur. In addition, PTTAR promotes PTTAR management’s policy is to make it a the communication of information about its business ‘Happy Workplace’ where employees are encouraged throughout the organization, while creating clear to take leadership both in and outside their workplace, channels for staff to directly express their opinions to to always learn, and to continuously develop the management, including the following options: themselves. 1. Direct to Management (D2M) on the Intranet • Customers: PTTAR seeks to create the highest – This is a two-way communication between customer satisfaction in both quality and price. It is the staff and Management, providing an determined to develop and maintain sustainable opportunity for staff to ask all sorts of relationships with all customers by setting up a working questions, while creating a good understanding unit responsible for providing information about between the Management and staff. products and solutions to customers’ problems, while receiving complaints to ensure that PTTAR products 2. Safety Walk – Management members take and services achieve the highest satisfaction among turns meeting staff in person during a weekly customers. PTTAR honors its commitments to safety walk which provides an opportunity for customers by delivering products and services that the Management to hear hands-on opinions are high-quality, timely, and fairly-priced. Quarterly 35 meetings and visits to customer sites are jointly • Lenders: PTTAR honors its commitments to organized by technical groups, procurement planning, creditors and financial institutions by doing its best in and commercial departments to collect customer following all contracts. It does not conceal any opinions and provide customers with clarification about information or facts which may be harmful to lenders. products and services. Moreover, PTTAR does not Should there be any situation that prevents it from collude with its competitors to create situations which performing as required by the contracts, PTTAR will are unfair to customers. It strictly adheres to contracts, notify and work with lenders to find a solution to the business ethics, and legal requirements. Customer problem together. It, moreover, has a good relationship satisfaction reviews are conducted twice a year. In with lenders and is ready to take part in social 2010, the assessment result achieved PTTAR’s target responsibility programs organized by lenders, as score of 100% satisfaction, the same as in 2009. appropriate. PTTAR has a good relationship with all customers • Competitors: PTTAR honors and supports free and encourages all customers and business partners trade. It follows the rules of fair and free competition to share responsibility for society. For example, it and proper ethics, and acts within the boundaries of presented a social responsibility case at the 2010 CSR the law. Its business ethics forbids employees to engage Awards organized by SET which received compliments in improper practices which may lead to the demise of for its quick assistance to customers. These customers competitors. In recent years, PTTAR has never had any had a technical problem with their production process disputes relating to any of its competitors. which impacted the community and the environment • Community, Society and the Environment: until it was solved with PTTAR’s assistance. PTTAR greatly values careful business conduct, taking • Business partners: PTTAR respects fair care not to adversely affect the community, society, competition in the liberalized market and holds firm to and the environment. It always aims to support the terms and conditions of contracts as well as code activities that can help upgrade the quality of people’s of conduct. It treats its business partners equally and life while creating a quality community and environment fairly, based on the assumption that business partners at all operating sites. PTTAR grants particular support also hold similar guidelines for proper business conduct. to develop the potential of the younger generation in In addition, PTTAR has, as a template in all procurement, education, culture, religion, sports, and the development rental, and purchasing contracts, a clause concerning of professional skills. conflicts of interest and audits. This exhibits PTTAR’s Social responsibility has now been incorporated attempt to search for contractors who conduct business in PTTAR’s organizational core values (SPEED: S = with transparency and good governance. Good Social Responsibility). Staff are reminded not to take corporate governance will prevent Management and actions which harm society and the environment. They staff from influencing, convincing, or giving or taking are also encouraged to respect human rights, bearing benefits dishonestly. In addition, all business partners in mind the fair use of labor. PTTAR supports its staff are required to strictly comply with safety, occupational to take part in community activities around its plant health, and environmental regulations. PTTAR issued a and in Rayong province. Willingness to participate in new procurement regulation for 2011 on 18 January community activities has now become part of staff 2011 which stipulates that all procurement must be annual performance assessment. In time of natural done with consideration of the business partners’ ethics, disasters, the recent domestic floods for example, fairness, transparency, and positive responsibility for PTTAR staff members were encouraged to lend a society and the environment. In 2010, PTTAR joined hand by donating relief bags in various provinces. business partners in merit-making activities on various Various groups of staff with public spirit regularly important occasions. organize activities in various forms. 36 PTTAR recognizes the usefulness of building a also encouraged to register their personal cars and network of stakeholders to acquire collective pay related tax in Rayong. All these enabled PTTAR knowledge and experience, such as in the to win honorable recognition from the Provincial “Shareholders’ Company Visit” project, in which Administration Organization as an outstanding operator participants took part in a social responsibility program that pays local taxes to add income to local agencies with students who served as Young Environment and local administration organizations to improve the Ambassadors. Participants also joined news reporters quality of life for Rayong residents. in Rayong province in releasing fish into a natural In compliance with Article 67, Clause 2, PTTAR water source. “Beach Cleaning” is another example carried out Environmental Impact Assessments and of this community effort. On the International Coastal Health Impact Assessments (EIA/HIA) as part of the Cleanup Day, the Management and staff as well as their Clean Fuel Project and Upgrading Project, Vapor families completed beach-cleaning activities with their Recovery Unit and Biodiesel Project, and Upgrading counterparts from other plants in the Map Ta Phut Project in Aromatics Complex I (AR2). These projects Industrial Estate. In the “Dream School, Map Ta Phut were carried out voluntarily as they are not categorized Pan Model” project, PTTAR arranged for media people as part of the 11 types of projects causing severe and staff as well as other operators to jointly carry out damage in Map Ta Phut Industrial Estate. To complete activities to provide educational support in Rayong these projects, PTTAR conducted a survey and province. reviewed opinions from villagers around the plant and PTTAR’s practice in social responsibility revealed the results of the assessment through its corresponds to the guidelines laid out by the website in September 2010. Department of Industrial Works on Corporate Social • The Country: PTTAR’s successful effort to Responsibility toward society (CSR-DIW), which train, promote, and remind all its staff to honor comprises 7 main elements, namely corporate stakeholders and corporate governance created a governance, human rights, labor laws, environmental sense of citizenship in each individual staff with protection, fair business operations, consumer efficiency, transparency, and responsibility, which is protection, and community development. In 2010, beneficial for the country. PTTAR is committed to PTTAR participated in the Department of Industrial building an organizational culture and values that staff Works’s project designed to encourage industrial can adapt to their work, their family, and society in operators to take responsibility for society in their general. It also supports the dissemination of application for certification under CSR-DIW. PTTAR information and principles of corporate governance was not only recognized as a CSR-DIW-certified to the public through all internal and external channels, company, but was also voted an outstanding company for instance, the Disclosure Focus publication in the for organizational governance for 2010 out of 111 July 2010 issue of SET. companies included in the assessment process. The recognition was based on effective and enterprise The Board and the Management of PTTAR corporate governance based on evidence of recognize the need to take part in various activities transparency and readiness for inspection, a to share opinions with various stakeholders. permanent PTTAR corporate value. For example, the Chairman of Corporate Governance Committee participated in the annual Kathin religious In addition, as a corporate citizen of Rayong, ceremony, and the Corporate Governance Committee PTTAR recognizes its duty to contribute to provincial and Management met with minor shareholders who development for Rayong’s balanced growth. Therefore, actively followed up business movements and issues its key guidelines are to pay in Rayong its building that may impact PTTAR. The Board closely followed and land taxes, excise tax, local development tax, and information and opinions from shareholders on various signboard tax, and to change company vehicle occasions so that PTTAR was able to use these registration to Rayong registration. Employees are opinions and suggestions in decision-making and 37 action-planning. PTTAR also closely followed the investors’ meetings, 45 disclosures of information issues and solutions to environment problems at Map through SET channels and PTTAR’s website, Ta Phut. 4 shareholders’ newsletters, and exhibitions at the To accommodate the change in Thai accounting SET in the City and Money Expo. standards to the International Financial Reporting In addition, PTTAR consistently disclosed Standards (IFRS), enforced from 1 January 2011, information to shareholders and the public through PTTAR has investigated the impacts of such change the mass media and through the various channels of to financial statements, expertise, and skills of social networks, both central and local media. personnel, work processes, internal control system, Shareholders, investors, and the general public were and efficient change management planning. These able to learn about its movements around the clock. investigations will make its financial statements clear When the President & CEO reached his retirement and transparent while helping financial statements age, PTTAR, to ensure the correct understanding and users and regulatory agencies analyze the performance, confidence in its business, organized four integrated assess, and compare PTTAR’s financial standing with programs with both central and local media, two media industry peers and competitors on the same footing. visits to the plant, four events with media participation, Besides, they would provide PTTAR with opportunities and 4 CEO Meets the Press sessions to announce to ease cross-border listing and fund raising. the quarterly results. Moreover, reporters from television stations, daily newspapers, magazines, and 4. Disclosure of Information and Transparency websites were invited to 50 interviews with the CEO Disclosure of information is one of the indispensable and Senior Managements. 100 photo releases, press principles for good corporate governance. PTTAR, releases, scoops, and calendar news were extended therefore, highly values information that may impact to both central and local media for dissemination to the decisions of shareholders and stakeholders. It the public. PTTAR also released 32 pieces of recognizes and fully complies with laws regarding information regarding social activities and CSR information disclosure for listed companies. This initiatives on Facebook under the name Cozy PTTAR includes financial and non-financial information, which and 4 other pieces on PTTAR’s general information is disclosed in a complete, accurate, transparent, and on Wikipedia. PTTAR also released the news about timely manner, and in accordance with regulations. the President & CEO receiving the Second “FastestThe information is available in Thai and English and Growing in Asia” awards, from Platts, Singapore. is disclosed through accessible channels such as SET PTTAR has now increased social network and SEC channels, as well as PTTAR’s website communication channels to facilitate the more diverse (www.pttar.com). PTTAR strictly follows the laws and internet stakeholders. Through these channels, regulations of SET and SEC, as well as those of other government agencies. There are regular follow-up actions and inspections of amendments of regulations to ensure that these laws and regulations are correct. This will, at the same time, assure shareholders that PTTAR’s business is transparent and appropriate. Investor Relations Division and Corporate Compliance and Communication Department are in charge of proper and complete disclosure of PTTAR information. In 2010, Senior Managements as well as Investors Relations staff distributed information to investors on various occasions, including at three foreign investors road shows held abroad, 4 financial analysts’ meetings, 75 meetings at PTTAR, 500 conference calls, 3 local 38 information concerning the way of life of the people price and has not yet been publicized. Under these residing in Map Ta Phut area is presented, and guidelines, such data or information must not be stakeholders are welcome to express their opinions exploited for self-gains, whether directly or indirectly, or to share their information on Wikipedia PTTAR, Blog from share trading. The SEC-defined Directors and Map Ta Phut with a view: http://pttarsocial.blogspot.com Managements must strictly report their portfolios of and on Facebook: Cozy PTTAR. shares under SEC’s rule. In addition, a Board policy In addition to the various disclosures of information requires reports of share transactions, as well as above, PTTAR provides a two-way communication portfolios of Directors and Senior Management, for channel which is convenient and fast through an e-mail the Board meeting’s acknowledgment every month. address, which is included on its website under 5. Accountability of the Board Corporate Governance. Shareholders, investors, and the general public can file a complaint or forward any PTTAR has a set of criteria outlining the news to the Board, and can make enquiries regarding qualifications of Directors in the corporate governance PTTAR by contacting the Company Secretary and the manual, which has been posted on its website. It must secretary of Corporate Governance Committee at the have no less than 5 and no more than 15 Directors, following e-mail address: corp-governce@pttar.com and each Director cannot hold a directorship for more under Investor Relations, PTTAR can be contacted at than 3 terms. No less than a third of the total number ir@pttar.com. In 2010, investors made use of this of Directors and no less than 3 Directors must be popular method of communication, with about 1,500 Independent Directors. PTTAR’s regulations against correspondences through e-mail. shareholding in it by Independent Directors are stricter than those required by SEC and SET, a limit of shares PTTAR’s financial report has been presented in not to exceed 0.5%. detail under “The Board of Directors’ Report on Its Responsibility to Financial Reports”. The Chairman is not to be the same person as the President and CEO, so that they are independent PTTAR has a backup system to ensure the of each other in order to maintain a system of security of its information technology in case of checks and balances. There is a separation of roles an emergency to prevent any loss of information. between the Chairman, Directors, Committees, and It announced the application of PTTAR 2010 software Managements. to prevent the use of illegal software. As mentioned in the corporate governance PTTAR has also laid out in its corporate manual, the Board is qualified and knowledgeable in governance manual a set of measures for informing various fields, and consists of at least 3 Directors with about any rumors of possible damage to itself and expertise in petroleum or petrochemicals, at least one measures for protecting the informer. Shareholders in law, and at least one in finance and accounting. and stakeholders can notify PTTAR and the Board The election of a Directors must be transparent and through the Corporate Governance Committee or must comply with the processes of the Nomination Independent Directors of any potential illegal actions and Remuneration Committee and the Board. The of a person or any event that may cause damage by Nomination and Remuneration Committee is tasked e-mail or regular mail. PTTAR will keep such with proposing the names of qualified persons, information in strict confidence to protect the informer. accompanied by their profiles, for consideration at the Use of inside information and Company securities Annual General Meeting, after carefully reviewing the trading: Since a key policy of PTTAR is to treat all possible candidates against PTTAR regulations. The shareholders fairly and equally, it has defined nominated candidates, as put forward by minor guidelines for the use of inside information by the shareholders, are also considered by the committee. Directors, Management, and all employees, including As for the replacement of Directors who resign before their connected and related persons with access to their terms are completed, the Board will work on the material information that could affect PTTAR’s share appointment of their replacements at the next meeting. 39 At the end of 2010, the Board was made up of 15 qualified Directors. Of these, 6 were experts in the petroleum or petrochemical industry, 5 in legal and business administration, 2 in finance and accounting, 2 in safety and security, and the other in economics. 8 of the Board are Independent Directors, over half of the total number. The Chairman is not a member of any committee, and the only management on the Board is the President and CEO. This structure enables the Board to conduct their duties with maximum efficiency, as detailed in Management Structure . Roles and Responsibilities of the Board The Board, in its capacity as the representatives of shareholders, is vital to providing policy and direction to the business. It also monitors PTTAR code of conduct to help the business attain its goals, an arrangement designed to maximize benefits to PTTAR and all shareholders. As a result, the Board is required to carry out more roles and responsibilities than those defined by law in order to set a good example for staff at all operational levels, while also creating confidence among shareholders and investors. Their roles and responsibilities can be summarized as follows: to the laws, objectives, regulations, and direction decided at the shareholders’ meetings. The Board 1) Policy and business strategies also makes sure that good corporate governance and The Board defines policy vital to the business, code of conduct are being practiced, as well as such as vision, mission, strategy, financial goals, risk overseeing the smooth operation and independence management, business planning, and budget of PTTAR’s internal controls. The Board makes sure proposals, and is responsible for overseeing the that essential information about PTTAR is disclosed. business administration and operation to ensure that At the same time, it is the responsibility of the Board the management conforms to the approved plan and to protect the rights and benefits of shareholders and manage resources efficiently and effectively. treat them equally, and to oversee potential conflicts 2) Value creation to the business of interest. These are explained under the section The Board is responsible for drawing up a policy “Connected Transactions” to ensure the fair treatment on enterprise risk management while ensuring that of all shareholders and maximum benefit to PTTAR. a system or procedures for risk management are in In addition to encouraging employees to understand, place in order to strategically add value to PTTAR. recognize, and practice good corporate governance, There must be measures and methods to reduce the Board should provide support for the integration impacts on the business. The Board is also required of the internal control system and corporate to provide recommendations to enhance business governance. performance. 4) Responsibilities for society, the environment, 3) Corporate governance and human rights The Board must fulfill its duties to the best of its It is an essential requirement that the Board align ability and ensure that business operations conform all business operations with social and environmental 40 responsibility to reduce industrial pollution, as well as authorized to sign binding agreements. Further details promoting the sustainable livelihood of Thai society. are available under Board of Directors . This starts with improving the livelihood of the local community around the plant, participating in problemPresident and Chief Executive Officer solving to reduce impacts on the community, In the Board’s extraordinary meeting no.1 on respecting human rights, and using fair labor practices, 29 September 2010 and no. 2 on 1 October 2010, so that the community and the plant can co-exist in the meetings agreed to appoint Mr. Bowon Vongsinudom the long term. as Director, President & CEO, and Secretary to the Board with effect from 1 October 2010, replacing Subcommittees Mr. Chainoi Puankosoom, who retired. To ensure that the Directors oversee business operations most effectively, the Board has appointed Company Secretary Committees to study, summarize, and set standards In meeting no. 8/2553 on 19 August 2010, the for various business operations, as well as setting Board appointed Ms. Monwipa Choopiban, VP guidelines about various aspects of management. This Corporate Compliance & Communication, to be creates checks and balances, which leads to effective Company Secretary replacing Mrs. Puangchao management and maximum benefit for PTTAR. Critical Nakanart, who retired from the Company on 1 October issues are raised for the consideration or 2010. This appointment was carried out under the acknowledgement of the Board. provisions of Article 89/15 of the Securities and PTTAR has 4 Committees: Audit Committee, Exchange Act (1999), which was amended by the Corporate Governance Committee, Nomination and Securities and Exchange Act no.4 of 2009. Remuneration Committee, and Risk Management Board Meetings Committee. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee has a procedure for the selection of The Board holds meetings once a month and Committee members and implements this procedure schedules its meetings a year in advance – more than consistently when the need arises. The name list of required by PTTAR’s regulations of 1 meeting per suitable candidates is then submitted to the Board for quarter. Extraordinary meetings are scheduled as official approval. necessary. During 2010, 12 meetings were held for the Board, one for Independent Directors, and one Information detailing the work of the Board and for the Board members without Managements. Each the Committees, as well as their compensation, is meeting had a clearly defined agenda and contained listed under Management Structure . regular reports of business operations. Board members Management Directors are required to regularly attend the meetings to acknowledge PTTAR’s development and take part in These Directors are involved in the management business decisions. of PTTAR, complying with the Capital Market Supervisory Board declaration No. Thaw Chaw The Secretary to the Board sends meeting 28/2551, which states that Management Directors are invitations containing the agenda and relevant also managers, including Directors authorized to sign appendices ahead of the meeting to give the Directors binding agreements, with the exception of agreements enough time to study the information before the that have already been decided by the Board and are meeting. The President & CEO and the Chairman co-signed with other Directors. together consider matters and organize them into the meeting agenda in order of importance and relevance. In 2010, PTTAR had 3 Management Directors, Other Directors can also propose matters to be added namely the President and CEO, and 2 other Directors to the agenda. In every meeting, the Chairman allows 41 all Directors to express their opinions openly, suggest which included assessment in 4 main areas (topics) discussion topics, or ask questions. Senior Managements and 38 subtopics: also attend the meetings when agenda items relate to their responsibilities to answer and explain situations Average to the best of their ability. If any Directors have a stake Topic Score (%) in any agenda items being discussed at a specific meeting, they must not be present at the meeting or 1. Board Policy 97.60 cast their votes in decisions related to that item. After 2. Board Structure 96.67 the meeting, PTTAR produces written minutes of the meeting, which is certified in the next meeting. The 3. Board Performance 97.23 meeting documents are stored on PTTAR’s system 4. Board Meeting 95.33 for filing important documents, ready for examination by the Board or other relevant organizations. The Independent Directors have provided useful Performance assessment of individual Directors recommendations to the Company and its shareholders, revealed an average score of 96.85%, which included including preparation for the introduction of new accounting assessment in 6 main areas (topics) and 22 subtopics: standards, knowledge of laws, as well as guidelines and communication channels with minor shareholders. Topic Average Score (%) Further details of the Board meetings are available under Management Structure . 1. Accountability 98.67 Board Assessment It is stated in PTTAR’s corporate governance 2. Responsibility 96.67 manual that an assessment of the Board, collectively and individually, must be carried out under the 3. Equitable Treatment 96.44 performance assessment procedure after the completion of annual operations. 4. Transparency 96.67 The Board arranged for its performance assessment for 2010 to take place once in order to assess their 5. Creation of Long-term Value 92.67 achievements, problems, and obstacles, and to propose ways for PTTAR to improve its performance. 6. Ethics 100 The assessment covered the performance of the Board as a whole and included self-assessments of the 15 individual Directors. The criteria for the assessment Directors’ and executives’ personal development are as follows: PTTAR’s policy encourages all Directors to attend 5 (100 out of 100) = very good training courses with the Thai Institute of Directors 4 (80 out of 100) = good (IOD) and other relevant institutions, such as the Capital 3 (60 out of 100) = meets expectations Market Academy, and to attend seminars on various 2 (40 out of 100) = average topics to accumulate knowledge about the roles and 1 (20 out of 100) = needs improvement responsibilities of a Company Director. In summary, the overall assessment score for the If a new Director is selected, the President & CEO Board in 2010 revealed an average score of 96.71%, is required to explain business operations, business 42 updates, upcoming projects and business ventures, of Compensation Committee (RCC), and 12 attended to summarize the last Board meeting, and to advise programs conducted by the Capital Market Academy. him or her regarding good corporate governance As for succession planning, PTTAR has practices so that he or she can understand the systematically laid down an employee development business and perform his or her responsibilities more structure by grooming executives under a leadership effectively. PTTAR has a procedure to prepare a new competency approach, focusing on cultivating skills director so that the person can perform his or her in business management and people management. duties without delay. It is also the role of the Company The Company has framed the approach and execution Secretary to coordinate the following matters: of its succession plans by the designation of capable 1) Collect necessary information on Directors to employees in all groups for grooming into all key facilitate the examination process to ensure compliance positions. Succession plan development for key with the relevant laws and arrange for the deliveries positions and internal transfers must follow the overall of essential information on Directors’ performance, scheme. All others are developed under individual such as recommendation letters, Company regulations, development plans, covering core competency corporate governance manual, Directors’ personal and functional competency. Details on executive history, performance summary, and the annual report. development appear under “Performance Review”. 2) Arrange for meetings with the Chairman, The Board of Directors’s report Directors, Senior Management, and Vice President to keep them updated and to equip them with insights The Board is responsible for proposing PTTAR’s of PTTAR’s operations. budget. The Audit Committee is assigned to review financial reports and make sure that they are of the 3) Provide support for Directors and Senior highest quality and comply with the generally accepted Managements to attend training sessions considered accounting standards. Company information is useful for enhancing their performance. This training disclosed in a transparent and complete manner, and could be organized by PTTAR, by the regulators, or a quarterly report is submitted to the Board. The Board by independent agencies, such as IOD, which provides is responsible for the budget as well as financial courses designed for directorships. SEC requires information appearing in the Annual Report. The Directors of listed companies to take at least one of financial statements are audited by KPMG Phoomchai these courses, as well as seminars on various topics, Audit Ltd., a licensed auditor. Disclosure of any to enhance the Director’s knowledge of his or her information, financial or non-financial, is always roles and responsibilities. complete, truthful, and accurate. PTTAR also provides membership in IOD for all Remuneration for Directors and Managements Directors, so that they can receive news and information. It also notifies all Directors of possible PTTAR has a transparent policy for the remuneration training courses which they can attend throughout the for Directors and various Committees. The Nomination year. As of the end of 2010, 7 Directors attended the and Remuneration Committee is in charge of reviewing Director Accreditation Program (DAP), 9 attended the the remuneration to make sure that it is competitive Director Certification Program (DCP), 2 attended the with companies in the same business group and with Audit Committee Program (ACP), 2 attended the leading listed companies. Remuneration considerations Financial Statements for Directors (FSD)/ Finance for are based on the performances of both the individual Non-Finance Directors (FN) program, 3 attended the and the Company, the practices of listed companies Role of Chairman (RCP) program, 1 attended the Role of the same scale in the same industry, the scope of 43 responsibilities, as well as the overall economic average, those of the Directors were 0.64% higher, situation. Remuneration for Directors follows the that of the Chairman of the Audit Committee was decisions approved by the Annual General Meeting. 0.42% higher, and those of Audit Committee members At the Annual General Meeting 2010, shareholders were 0.10% higher. approved the 2010 remuneration for Directors as The Nomination and Remuneration Committee proposed by the Nomination and Remuneration evaluates the performance of the President & CEO Committee. Details of the remuneration for Directors yearly to determine fair compensation rates and to and Managements have been disclosed under report the findings for the approval of the Board. Remuneration for Directors . In 2010, SET, SEC, and IOD jointly evaluated the According to the Thai IOD’s survey of Directors’ corporate governance of listed companies and compensation in 2010, PTTAR was categorized under completed the annual Corporate Governance Report the natural resource group. Comparison of Directors’ of Thai Listed Companies (CGR). PTTAR was rated in compensation was made between PTTAR and the the ‘Excellent’ range, winning a symbolic ‘five stars’ group average, with the following findings: from the National Corporate Governance Committee. Board of Directors: The Chairman’s compensation Moreover, PTTAR won recognition from SET’s CSR was 0.13% lower than the group average, Management Awards committee for 2010 as a company with Directors 0.03% lower, and non-management Directors satisfactory performance in various areas, including on par. The Chairman’s bonus was 0.53% higher than Director and Management levels through to staff level, the group average, Management Directors 1.22% especially in corporate governance. PTTAR was higher, and non-management Directors 0.65% higher. commended for possessing a vision which values all Committee members: The compensation for the stakeholders, and highlighting transparency both Chairman of the Audit Committee was found to be inside and outside it. Its attempt to promote social 0.31% higher than the group average, while those of responsibility among its business partners was also the members were 0.24% higher. The compensation part of the recognition. for the Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration The Corporate Governance Committee is still Committee was 1.41% higher than the group average, determined to further develop corporate governance while those of non-management members were 1.92% to achieve higher efficiency and effectiveness. This is higher. The compensation for the Chairman of the to ensure that corporate governance brings about the Corporate Governance Committee was 1.07% higher maximum benefit to shareholders, PTTAR, and all than the group average, while those of non-management stakeholders. The Committee aims to upgrade PTTAR’s members were 1.65% higher. The compensation for corporate governance to the level comparable to the Chairman of the Risk Management Committee was international standards and in wider and more diverse 1.67% higher than the group average, while those of dimensions. It is expected that corporate governance executive committee members were 1.87% higher and could be integrated into other areas of the Company’s those of non-management members were 1.50% higher. operation, such as risk management and internal Based on the latest Directors’ compensation auditing. survey conducted by SET in 2009 and taking into account the entire annual remuneration package reported to SET, PTTAR was categorized under the General energy and utilities group. The compensation for the (Somjed Boontanom) Chairman was reportedly 1.40% higher than the group Chairman of the Corporate Governance Committee 44 Report of the Audit Committee To the Shareholders The Committee held 9 meetings during the year Consisting of 3 Independent Directors chosen with complete attendance each time together with the from experts in the auditing of financial management, Management, Internal Audit, and the external auditor accounting, management, economics, as well as on relevant agenda items. In performing its duties, petroleum and petrochemical businesses, the Audit it proved independent and received excellent Committee of PTT Aromatics and Refining Public cooperation from all departments. The Committee Company Limited is chaired by Dr. Chokchai Aksaranan, clarified and reported summaries of its performance with Dr. Witoon Simachokedee and Mr. Nakarin for the year to the Board on 17 February 2011. Below Virameteekul as members. are the highlights. In 2010, there were two changes to the Committee. • Review of financial statements: The Committee First, Dr. Chokchai Aksaranan (Chairman) and reviewed the quarterly and annual financial statements Mr. Nakarin Virameteekul completed their Directors’ for the year 2010 with the relevant members of the terms at the 2010 Annual General Meeting of Management and the external auditor to ensure proper Shareholders on 5 April 2010. That Annual General preparation in essential details under generally Meeting re-appointed Dr. Chokchai Aksaranan to the accepted accounting practices. It was found that Board. Then at meeting No. 4/2010 of 21 April 2010, PTTAR’s information disclosure was adequate, the Board re-appointed Dr. Chokchai Aksaranan as complete, and useful to the users. Monitoring of the Chairman of the Committee and Mrs. Pannee readiness for implementation of IFRS (the new Sathavarodom as its member in place of Mr. Nakarin accounting standard) in 2011 as well as its impacts on Virameteekul. the financial statements was in place; it was also found that such implementation had no significant impact on Second, the entire Committee completed their PTTAR. In addition, the Committee also held a separate Audit Committee terms on 27 December 2010. So, the meeting with the external auditor for consultation on Board, at its meeting No. 11/2010 of 18 November matters related to their audit of the financial statements. 2010 and No. 12/2010 of 16 December 2010, re-appointed Dr. Chokchai Aksaranan as its Chairman, • Review of risk management: After reviewing together with Dr. Witoon Simachokedee and Mrs. Pannee PTTAR’s risk management practices under the Risk Sathavarodom as its members for another term. Management Committee’s policy and risk management In addition, it appointed Police General Sereepisut approaches, the Committee was confident that Temeeyaves as a fourth member, effective from the Company had commanded risk assessment 28 December 2010. encompassing key risks, as well as efficient systems and risk management plans that could control or The Committee performed its duties under the mitigate potential impacts on the acceptable Board-assigned scope, duties, and responsibilities achievement of business objectives. The Management and in line with an announcement of The Stock was found to have valued risk management and Exchange of Thailand (SET). 45 defined a policy for instituting an internal control requirements, and good corporate governance system that linked and aligned with corporate risks. principles. PTTAR prudently and reasonably eliminated Finally, there is a mechanism to continually monitor such conflicts of interest while treating all shareholders risk management progress for plan fulfillment. in the same way. • Review of internal controls: Reviewing the • Self-assessment: Having assessed its own internal control system with the external auditor and performance against SET’s manual on good practices, the head of Internal Audit, the Committee monitored the Committee concluded that it had performed its PTTAR’s corrective actions as recommended and duties under the Board-assigned scope, duties, and concluded that the Company commanded an adequate responsibilities and in line with an announcement of and efficient internal control system and no significant SET. issue or shortcoming had been identified. PTTAR also • Selection, nomination, and proposal of fees for recognized the value of a good internal control system the 2011 external auditor: To hire an external auditor and had shown reasonable confidence that its internal that is independent, the Committee nominates Mr. Winid controls could support its business execution to fulfill Silamongkol, CPA (Thailand) Registration No. 3378, or the goals and objectives, apart from conformance to Mr. Vairoj Jindamaneepitak, CPA (Thailand) Registration applicable laws and the code of conduct. No. 3565, or Mr. Charoen Phosamritlert, CPA (Thailand) • Supervision of Internal Audit: The Committee Registration No. 4068, all from KPMG Phoomchai Audit reviewed the independence of Internal Audit and Ltd., as the external auditor for 2011. None of the supervised its work to conform to international nominees are connected to PTTAR, has no shareholding, standards. It approved the annual internal audit plan and provides no other service apart from auditing. They and revised the plan in line with the corporate conducted their previous auditing duties properly, in environment. It also endorsed Internal Audit’s strategic line with the auditing professional standard, and with a plans and its restructuring to accommodate the role reasonable understanding of PTTAR’s business. Finally, of a skill training and expertise unit that can educate their fees are considered reasonable. employees on internal control and internal audit, apart In summary, the Audit Committee views PTTAR from providing helpful recommendations to the as being in full conformance to the good corporate efficiency improvement of the internal control system. governance policy, resulting in its adequately internal • Review of conformance to the law: The control system, complete with an adequate, suitable Committee monitored findings of Internal Audit’s risk management system. In addition, the financial inspection of PTTAR’s conformance to the law on statements as of 31 December 2010 showed no Stocks and Stock Exchange, SET’s requirements, or problems or transactions that affected its financial laws applicable to its business. It was concluded that standing. The Committee considered the financial there had been no issue related to reporting of statements properly prepared, with adequate avoidance or non-conformance to the law. information disclosure and conformance to generally • Review of connected transactions: Together accepted accounting principles, as well as applicable with the external auditor and Internal Audit, the laws and regulations. Committee reviewed connected transactions between PTTAR’s connected people or businesses of potential On behalf of the Audit Committee conflicts of interest, and concluded that these transactions had been sensibly undertaken in the normal course of business and had disclosed connected (Dr. Chokchai Aksaranan) transactions in line with SET’s announcement, SEC’s Chairman 46 Internal Control System PTT Aromatics and Refining Public Company 1. Organization and Environment Limited (PTTAR) values the internal control system, PTTAR is committed to be Asia's leading which the Board has assigned the Audit Committee aromatics and oil refining with integration to to review and assess, with a focus on ensuring its intermediate and downstream petrochemical and adequacy, efficiency, and suitability for business, and alternative energy businesses. Its vision, mission, and its stewardship of properties and prevention of harm, values are clearly stated to serve as a business mistakes, or frauds. Also, the accounting system and framework and direction. Its organization structure is financial reporting must be accurate and reliable while characterized by decentralization of power for the conforming to applicable laws and regulations. The flexibility of job performance, suiting prevailing Audit Committee performs its duties independently. business circumstances. Strategies and goals are The Audit Committee reviewed reports on internal defined along with a 5-year business expansion plan controls, particularly to examine the aspects of and a clear, measurable annual plan. Processing strategy, finance, and operation to ensure that efficiency is constantly improved. Employees are development of these aspects are consistently efficient encouraged to observe corporate governance and the and effective. It ensures monitoring and corrective PTTAR code of conduct. A good corporate governance actions, particularly those for key risks affecting job manual and corporate values are promoted among all performance, connected transactions leading to employees, consisting of key topics like honesty, potential conflicts of interest, and conformance to management and treatment of related parties, human applicable laws and regulations to ensure that good resource management with a focus on skill development corporate governance principles are adequately and competencies to ensure desired capability aligning observed, as is suitable risk management. These with business needs and accommodating future practices would result as company overall benefit. The business expansion. Activities are in place to promote findings of the audit contained no suspected violation Knowledge Management and participation in by PTTAR Managements of the Securities and productivity activities to drive the Company toward Exchange Act and no significant defects. In short, future success. business execution aligns with its policy of valuing internal controls. 2. Risk Management The Board’s opinions about the internal control PTTAR values conformance to the risk management system are identical to those of the Audit Committee, policy while promoting all employees’ recognition of as highlighted below: the value of risk management, which could affect its goal achievement. The Company commands efficiency improvement in analyzing market information, industry movements, and market prices to ensure good results 47 of risk management and long-term business planning. 4. Information and Communication It also monitors market situations for feedstock, System products, and finance every week. External and internal PTTAR values information and communication risk factors are identified along with their potential systems by instituting internally and externally. impacts on goal achievement. So that PTTAR’s risks Advanced technology is applied to information may be acceptable, in place are risk management processing and management for efficient assessment plans and a clear process to control or mitigate impacts of internal controls, finance & accounting reports, and while ensuring preparedness for proper and timely conformance to assorted policies and regulations. prevention and remedy. Management data systems are managed concerning business performance and communicated to all parties 3. Performance Control for acknowledgment, understanding, and receipt of The Board appointed 4 Subcommittees (more such information completely, accurately, adequately commonly referred to as ‘Committees’): the Audit in a timely way so that decision-making may be based Committee, Corporate Governance Committee, Risk on accurate and up-to-the-minute information. Management Committee, and the Nomination and Remuneration Committee. These Committees ensure 5. Monitoring and Assessment System that PTTAR’s business aligns with standards and good The Board held 12 meetings in 2010, whereas corporate governance principles alike. The Company Management meetings take place every week to focuses on work process management for efficiency consider and monitor performance against corporate and unity, with clear policy definition and work and operating indicators to ensure alignment with procedures to ensure connection to internal controls corporate goals. The Audit Committee held so that mechanisms may strictly follow processes and 9 meetings to consider the financial standing and audit support conformance to Company policy to prevent, findings of the internal control system every quarter detect, or minimize risks. Managements review and of the year and provide key recommendations monitor performances through indicators (at corporate that affect PTTAR to Managements. Key issues and and operating levels), regularly comparing performances shortcomings are strictly monitored for correction to against goals. Finally, in place is an advanced, ensure that internal control measures and systems transparent, and credible process to control information are effective and modifiable in time as circumstances processing in support of business management to change, so as to keep the Company’s internal controls ensure accuracy and timeliness. updated. In 2010, PTTAR attained certification of The Audit Committee reviewed the internal control 5 management systems from MASCI: IMS (R-100 system, assessed by Company Managements and Rev. 1), ISO/TIS 9001:2008, ISO/TIS 14001:2004, TIS Internal Audit Department, and discovered no significant 18001-2542 and BS OHSAS 18001:2007. In addition, issues or shortcomings, as endorsed by the external it underwent assessment by experts at the Department auditor, which considered PTTAR’s internal control of Industrial Works under the Corporate Social system adequate and effective. Responsibility project (CSR-DIW) and named an outstanding company for Organizational Governance based on overall criteria of being complete, accurate, transparent, and open to scrutiny of its practices. 48 Quality, Safety, Occupational Health, and Environment (QSHE) Performance PTT Aromatics and Refining Public Company Limited (PTTAR) values the development of a management system for its quality, safety, occupational health, and environment (QSHE) as well as fair treatment of all stakeholders by defining the following policy. • Focus on Total Quality Management (TQM) for the entire corporation to make products and provide services of high standards, fitting requirements and addressing customers’ expectations • Improve work processes for continuous efficiency in line with international standards, rules, laws, and agreements related to PTTAR’s business, apart from defining suitable improvement measurement criteria • Define a corporate culture to cultivate awareness among all employees of safety consideration at work and care for one another’s safety (CARES) in tandem with QSHE management • Develop experts to effectively conduct technical safety inspection for the process and engineering lines and require executives to contribute to safety inspection through the so-called Safety Walk Around to prevent work-related accidents • Manage PTTAR with corporate social responsibility (CSR) and responsibility to all stakeholders while consistently valuing environmental stewardship to prevent problems affecting the general public and promoting the quality of life for communities and related parties, thus leading PTTAR toward sustainable development • Ensure efficient application of resources and energy to minimize process losses 49 • Promote all employees’ understanding of and participation in assorted management processes, including knowledge management and productivity activities like 5S, experience and knowledge sharing, suggestions for work improvement, and QC for continuous work improvement. A summary of QSHE performance for the year 2010 appears below. 1. Quality Management PTTAR achieved MASCI’s simultaneous certification for 5 management systems, called the Integrated Management System, which merges the ISO/TIS 9001:2008 (Quality), ISO/TIS 14001:2004 (Environment), TIS 18001-2542, BS OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and Safety) management systems into one, and provided training to employees and contract employees about the new system. In addition, PTTAR successfully passed the audit of the CSR-DIW 2010 standard conducted by the Department of Industrial Works and was named by an assessment group of the department and MASCI as the most 500 of shareholders were also invited to the event to outstanding plant for corporate governance. view the activities and shared company knowledge PTTAR consistently promoted productivity management. activities to bring about self-development, joint learning, and teamwork promotion. This year’s 2. Safety Management outstanding QC group (Boiler005) participated in the PTTAR values the cultivation of awareness among 24th Thailand QC Contest, hosted by the Association employees to care for their own safety and colleagues of QC Headquarters of Thailand and the Department under the so-called CARES safety culture, which stands of Industrial Promotion, Ministry of Industry. The group for Caring, Awareness in safety, Relationship, Everyone was chosen to represent Thailand for presentation at goes home safely every day, and Stop if unsafe. an international QC event in India, ending up with the CARES was coined by PTTAR to promote accidentpopular vote awards. free and injury-free operations. Illustrating its stringent PTTAR launched a Knowledge Management (KM) safety performance, the Aromatics Complex I (AR2) and QSHE Day exhibition for its various departments won the National Outstanding Business Operator for to transfer expertise to fellow employees. The event Safety, Occupational Health, and Work Environment proved quite a success due to active participation. for the eighth straight year (2003-2010). 50 PTTAR twice volunteered to host Rayong province 2007 Constitution, PTTAR’s 3 projects underwent emergency plan drills: a level-two provincial drill and voluntary EIA/HIA requirements for projects with severe the evacuation drill for the communities around impacts – despite the ruling that they were not. These Aromatics Complex II (AR3). Its experts helped the consisted of the Refinery Plant (AR1) Clean Fuel and communities form their own evacuation plans. Also Upgrading project, Refinery Plant (AR1) Vapor Recovery critical is the ability to retrieve marine oil spills. PTTAR Unit (VRU) Installation and Biodiesel project, Aromatics hosted a Rayong Oil Spill Emergency Response drill Complex I (AR2) Efficiency Improvement project. with the environmental conservation association (IESG) and relevant government agencies like the Marine 4. Environmental Management Department and the Royal Thai Navy to test the Stewardship of the environment and communities preparedness for oil spill retrieval. around PTTAR’s plants is the duty of all employees. PTTAR values the environment by defining 3. Occupational Health Management environmental performance as a key performance Out of PTTAR’s concern for its operators’ health indicator (KPI). In addition, the Company volunteers associated with new processes, particularly those its representatives to measure the odor around exposed to hazardous substances, these employees Map Ta Phut Industrial Estate and nearby communities underwent a revised check-up program to proactively every Thursday and Saturday to keep watch guard against health hazards. Besides, PTTAR of offensive odors from plants. Small groups of launched 3 health caravans to provide health screening employees regularly meet and learn about new and take care of community health, particularly the knowledge. mother and child target group. Strict conformance to the law and environmental Out of the litigation on 76 Map Ta Phut projects measures is PTTAR’s core mission. The Company to enforce conformance to Article 76, Clause 2, of the invested in an instrument to continuously measure air 51 quality and effluent quality and send the readings to • The Clean Fuel and Upgrading project, phase 1, the environmental monitoring station of Map Ta Phut was completed in 2009, which proved 30% Industrial Estate to illustrate its transparency. Such effective for sulfur dioxide emission; a Deep stewardship won an EIA Monitoring Awards for its Hydrodesulfurization (DHDS) unit is under tanker product loading business from the Office of construction to lower sulfur contents in jet Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and fuels and diesel, with a projected start-up in Planning. Strict conformance to EIA measures and 2012 undertaking of assorted projects to cut pollutants • Efficiency improvement of Heat Exchangers contributed to its Environmental Governance (White and Distillation Trays at Aromatics Complex I Flag-Green Star) awards for all 3 PTTAR plants, (AR2) was designed to retrieve heat for re-use consistently rated very good by representatives of the in processes, lower process fuel requirements, communities and government agencies. save engine-running expenses, and ease On the above-mentioned litigation of 76 projects, global warming. the government appointed a 4-party joint panel to ensure conformance with Article 76, Clause 2, of the 2007 Constitution, led by former Prime Minister Anand Panyarachun. PTTAR representatives joined this panel and 2 sub-panels, which illustrated its technical and environmental law expertise, as a part of environmental handling for country. Prominent environmental projects completed by PTTAR in 2010 included the ones below. • Installation of activated carbon absorbers at the storage tanks of Aromatics Complex I and II (AR2 and AR3) to trap VOC vapor, which proved 90% effective. • Construction of a fuel Vapor Recovery Unit (VRU) and bottom loading at the lorry-loading unit at Refinery Plant (AR1) to prevent vapor from spreading, which proved 95% effective. • Preparation of a VOC inventory in processes and provision of leak detect and repair actions at Aromatics Complex II (AR3), a voluntary action before enforcement of the law • Improvement of combustion at Refinery Plant (AR1) gas turbines to cut the release of the oxides of nitrogen due to gas burning, which proved 10% effective; the first 2 units were completed in 2009, and the third in 2010. Driving the happy organization with volunteering spirit and responsibility to all stakeholders PTTAR’s business is done with social conscience. Value is given not only to the development of the quality of life, but also to the stewardship of society and the surroundings. Volunteering-spirited employees are encouraged to join hands in making better communities and society while also nurturing their own firm. In short, PTTAR is not contented with making its people smarter, but with making them more conscientious with volunteering spirit through the awareness of Corporate Governance, with due regard for all stakeholders, is constantly promoted to all. 54 Corporate Social Responsibility Conducting its business with awareness of its • Cooperation among PTT Group companies responsibility to Thai society, PTT Aromatics and in establishing a steering committee for Refining Public Company Limited (PTTAR) values the the execution of social responsibility and improvement of the quality of life, social stewardship, communication in Rayong. and caring of the surroundings of its plants. As a socially • Cooperation among the operators in responsible company, it executes all aspects of business Map Ta Phut Industrial Estate, known as the under corporate governance principles while strictly Community Friend . conforming to laws and public regulations and implementing safety and environmental management • Cooperation among the operators in Map systems to prevent impacts on surrounding communities. Ta Phut Industrial Estate and other industrial In addition, PTTAR initiated projects and activities to estates – Hemaraj Eastern, Padaeng, Asia, promote living conditions for communities and society RIL – and Map Ta Phut Industrial Port Office, so that they may be sustainably self-reliant, and known as the Map Ta Phut Public Relations promoted employees’ awareness of social responsibility Club, formed to gather ideas and conduct social both in their job performance and in public services. responsibility work. After all, PTTAR’s first corporate value is Social PTTAR defines communication plans together with Responsibility and Caring. continuing, transparent dialogues with communities to PTTAR has collaborated with public and private establish credibility and confidence, as well as cordial agencies to maximize benefit to communities and relations. These are described below: promoting Rayong social development in an efficient and sustainable way: 55 • Visited communities everyday to establish rapport and listen to their views. • Ensured weekly community visits by groups of operators, maintenance, and environment, health, and safety personnel to discuss PTTAR’s operations, environment, and safety. • Organized forums for the Board and Management to engage in dialogues with community chairpersons and committees to establish familiarity and exchange of views. • Invited community committees and members to witness PTTAR operations to nurture their appreciation. • Organized annual seminars of community leaders to implement their recommendations in PTTAR’s current and future action plans to suit community needs and corporate capability. • Kept communities informed through community bulletin boards to communicate PTTAR activities and lead to a healthy corporate image. • Informed communities in advance of scheduled maintenance or emergency drills. • Ensure a quick, efficient community environmental complaint-handling system. In addition, PTTAR has encouraged employee participation in social activities, including the Rom Mai Club (with its hobbies of social development in remote areas of the country), the “Three Baht a Day Project” (formed to upgrade needy, underprivileged schools in remote areas of the country), and the “One Fine Friday group” (formed to share things with underprivileged members of society). These exemplify employees’ initiatives in line with PTTAR’s social responsibility policy and values. Below are detailed social activities undertaken in 2010. 56 Educational Support/Child and Youth Development • In cooperation with PTT Group, launched a scholarship project for youths and granted scholarships to schools in Map Ta Phut Municipality, Map Kha Phathana Municipality, and Ban Chang Municipality. • Launched the “PTTAR Get Ready for the University Project”, in which volunteer employees taught chemistry, physics, and mathematics to grade 12 students at Map Ta Phut Phan Phittayakhan School after school hours for one school term to prime them for the university entrance examination. • Launched an English skill development project in the form of “English For Fun” activities for community students and youths aged 10-12 under the coaching of volunteer employees. • In cooperation with PTT Group and notable tutorial schools, launched the “PTT Group Get Ready for the University Project”, under which ONET subject coaching was given to grade 12 students of 19 Rayong schools to enhance their likelihood of pursuing undergraduate studies. • In cooperation with PTT Group, launched the “Petro Camp to Petro Champ Youth Camp” for students at 7 Rayong high schools. 4 students were chosen for undergraduate scholarships at the Department of Chemical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, King Mongkut’s University of Technology Thonburi, which has offered 4 scholarships annually. • In cooperation with PTT Group, staged an exhibition to widen the world view of petroleum and petrochemicals among Rayong students. • In cooperation with PTT Group, launched an activity called “Make Your Dreams Come True” on the National Children’s Day. 57 Environment • Volunteer employees built used engine-oil storage for the small-boat fishing group at Suchada Beach to ease environmental problems arising from improper fuel dumping. • Volunteer employees planted trees with communities to add green areas and for harvesting. • Volunteer employees cleaned beaches with communities, government agencies, and industrial operators every month and on the International Coastal Cleanup (ICC) Day. • In cooperation with PTT Group, Map Ta Phut Industrial Port Office, Map Ta Phut Phan Phittayakhan School, Ta Kuan Ao Pradu community and small fishingboat group, launched an ecology improvement project at the mouth of the Chak Mak canal by releasing aquatic species, conducting mangrove reforestation, and tree-planting to add green areas and enrich the ecology. • In cooperation with PTT Group, managed the Green Rayong Project by planting trees in Wat Krok Yai Cha area and planning future development of a public park in honor of HM the King. Health Care • The “Sharing with Communities” clinic at Aromatics Complex II provided free medical care to community residents. • Launched a health caravan to provide free health care and advice to communities, particularly mothers, children, and the elderly. • Sponsored health check apparatus, including blood pressure monitors, to community public health volunteer groups and community health stations. • In cooperation with PTT Group, continued the “Sharing with Communities” Clinic at Rayong Gas Separation Plant. • In cooperation with PTT Group, sent out a monthly mobile doctor team to provide community residents with free medical care. 58 Occupational Support • Promoted occupations in communities, trained, and organized study trips to enhance occupation opportunities, including capability and operating standards, including fishermen’s trips to fish rearing in cages and housewives’ trips to hydroponic vegetable farms. • Defined guidelines for supporting internal units in the procurement of merchandise and service purchasing to ease community members’ businesses with the Company, such as food and snacks for PTTAR activities gardening tasks, employee commuter vans, drinking water, and machinecleaning rag. • Promoted recruitment of community members’ children and employment of local labor as employees and contract employees. Sports • Promoted community anti-drug soccer matches; “PTTAR Volunteers” soccer team took part in a community contest to foster cordial relations. • In cooperation with PTT Group, organized friendly sports activities with the surrounding communities, with participation by PTT Group executives and volunteer employees. • In cooperation with PTT Group, the PTTAR Race Club, and Wat Ta Kuan School, launched a Samathi Wisakha Buddhabucha walk-run project to commemorate a religious day and campaign for sound public health. This activity was held simultaneously across the nation on Wisakha Bucha Day. • In cooperation with PTT Group, hosted the 2010 Rayong Marathon. 59 Religion/Culture/Ethics • Launched an annual Summer Mass Novice Ordination Program at Wat Nong Sanom, Tambon Noen Phra, Amphoe Mueang, Rayong, to promote wise spending of time by studying Dharma Vinaya discipline and practicing concentration to grow into smart and exemplary citizens. • In cooperation with the communities of Map Ta Phut Municipality and Map Kha Phathana Municipality, staged an annual Kathin ceremony at Wat Map Kha, Amphoe Nikhom Pathana, Rayong. • Consistently sponsored activities for the conservation and promotion of various customs among the communities, including the Khao Lam alms-giving tradition, well-wishing for the elderly on Songkran Day, alms-giving on the end of Buddhist Lent, and Loy Krathong. Safety • Conducted emergency drills with communities for their reassurance. • In cooperation with PTT Group, supported activities of volunteer policemen to ensure their preparedness. 60 2010 Activities 16 January 2010: Signed a memorandum of understanding on business cooperation with Map Ta Phut Olefins Co., Ltd. (MOC), to use process offgas derived from Aromatics Complex II, as feedstock for MOC’s plant to add value to petrochemical products. 16 January 2010 22 January 2010: Signed a loan agreement with Krung Thai Bank Plc for reserve capital for future business expansion or current operations, or both, and for refinancing parts of current loans. 22 January 2010 20 February 2010: Organized a public scoping session on health impacts from various projects, namely Clean Fuel and Upgrading Project Phase 2, Vapor Recovery Unit and Biodiesel Project, and Efficiency Improvement Projects of Aromatics Complex I. 20 February 2010 61 5 May 2010: Joined the UN Global Compact and verified conformance to the 10 international principles covering 4 main areas: human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. 5 May 2010 6 May 2010: Joined the 10th Money Expo 2010 event at Queen Sirikit National Convention Center under the theme “The Road to Wealth”. 6 May 2010 2 June 2010: Participated in the signing of a memorandum of understanding and took part in a CSR-DIW workshop for industrial operators to bring their organizations up to the ISO26000 standard: Social Responsibility, at Radisson Hotel. 2 June 2010 20 July 2010: Signed a contract with Chulalongkorn University on cooperation in petroleum and petrochemical research for efficiency improvement of the distillation column and for value addition to refining process by-products, leading to maximum processing efficiency, efficient use of natural resources, energy saving, and friendship with the community. 20 July 2010 62 7 August 2010: Joined the Economic Reporters Association in launching the ‘Dream School : Map Ta Phut Phan Model School’ project at Map Ta Phut Phan Phittayakhan School in Rayong to support learning in Communication, Art, and English while introducing knowledge of corporate governance to school children. 7 August 2010 26 August 2010: Signed a GISMO (Group Integrated Supply Chain Management & Optimization) cooperation among PTT Group’s downstream companies to add value to the Group. 26 August 2010 13 September 2010: Signed a 5-year loan worth 200 million US$ with Bank of Tokyo, Misuho Bank, OCBC Bank, and Sumitomo Bank for refinancing and working capital. 13 September 2010 13 September 2010: Signed an 8-year loan worth 2,000 million baht with Kasikorn Bank Plc for refinancing and working capital 13 September 2010 63 14 September 2010: Signed a 10-year loan worth 7,000 million baht with Krung Thai Bank Plc for refinancing and working capital. 14 September 2010 14 September 2010: Signed an 8-year loan worth 3,000 million baht with Thanachart Bank Plc for refinancing and working capital. 14 September 2010 20 September 2010: Hosted the PTT CG Group Day 2010 event under the theme “CG: The Code to Growth” at Energy Complex, site of an exhibition to provide information about corporate governance and reflect opinions of PTT Group employees about corporate governance. 20 September 2010 22 September 2010: Signed a 10-year loan and a revolving loan worth 9,898 million baht with Krung Thai Bank Plc, Tisco Bank Plc, Government Savings Bank, Bangkok Bank Plc and Thai Military Bank Plc for loan refinancing. 22 September 2010 64 14 October 2010: Participated in the 7th PTT Group P&R Technology Day at Synergy Hall, Energy Complex, where PTTAR’s 2 pieces of research were presented to illustrate the power of innovation and new technology to alert all parties about balanced development in 3 dimensions: business, society, and the environment. 14 October 2010 27 October 2010: Participated in the PTT Group KM Award 2010 event at Synergy Hall, Energy Complex, to jointly drive the creation of knowledge assets to enhance business competitiveness while forging sustainable operational excellence in line with PTT Group strategies. 27 October 2010 18 November 2010: Participated in the SET in the City 2010 event under the theme SET Your Future , at Royal Paragon Hall, Siam Paragon. 18 November 2010 29-30 November 2010: Organized a shareholders’ Company Visit to the refinery and aromatics complexes to equip shareholders with a view about PTTAR operations. In addition, visitors participated in the release of aquatic species to the sea in honor of His Majesty the King at PMY Beach Resort, Rayong. 29-30 November 2010 65 Awards and Recognition 12 February 2010: PTTAR won a CEO with HR Orientation awards at the World HRD Congress 2010, held in Mumbai, India, in recognition of its success in merging 2 companies without reducing the headcount. Besides reflecting excellence in expertise and management strategies, this represented a role model for corporate administrators amid a highly volatile world. 12 February 2010 Thai Listed Companies in Forbes Global 2000 in 2010 Unit: billion US$ 23 April 2010: PTTAR was ranked 1,555th worldwide in Forbes Ranking COMPANY SALES PROFITS ASSETS 2010 196 2009 244 ($BIL) PTT Public Company 47.58 ($BIL) 1.79 ($BIL) 32.80 ranking of 2,000 large-capital and influential companies of 2010. 750 767 955 887 SCG SCB 7.16 2.43 0.73 0.62 9.38 38.81 14 Thai companies made the list. 881 1012 Kasikorn bank 2.51 0.45 40.75 1094 858 Bangkok bank 0.66 0.18 53.15 1153 1276 Krung Thai bank 2.11 0.36 46.31 1310 1260 AIS 3.07 0.51 3.45 1366 825 Thai Oil 8.52 0.36 4.12 1451 1892 Bank of Ayudhya 1.54 0.20 23.18 1555 PTT Aromatics 6.75 0.27 4.54 1643 Banpu 1.73 0.43 3.04 1651 Thai Smooth as silk 4.84 0.22 7.98 1668 CPF 4.95 0.31 3.44 1744 1841 Thai Beverage Plc 3.24 0.32 2.31 Source: Forbes 23 April 2010 8 July 2010: For the 8th straight year, PTTAR won a National Outstanding Business Operator in Safety, Occupational Health, and Workplace Environment awards for 2009. This recognition was for the I-17 and I-20 area of the Aromatics Complex I (AR2). 8 July 2010 66 12 July 2010: PTTAR won an Environmental Governance (White Flag-Green Star) Awards 2009 , presented by the Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand (IEAT) to plants in Map Ta Phut that had successfully passed 4 assessments per year of environmental and safety management practices. 12 July 2010 5 August 2010: PTTAR received 100 (full) marks on a quality assessment of annual general meetings of shareholders (AGM) for 2010, sponsored by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Thai Investors Association. 5 August 2010 18 August 2010: PTTAR won an “EIA Monitoring Awards 2009”, given by the Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, for its conformity to measures spelled out in its environmental impact assessment (EIA) and excellence in environmental management in 2009, notably its jetty project. 18 August 2010 2 November 2010: PTTAR won the “#2 Fastest Growing Asia Energy Companies” awards from Platts based on its outstanding assets, revenue, profit, and return on investment at the Platts Top 250 Global Energy Company Ranking Awards event. 2 November 2010 67 10 November 2010: PTTAR was voted by experts and a project task force for the promotion of Corporate Social Responsibility, Department of Industrial Works (CSR-DIW), as an outstanding company in organizational governance. The criteria included overviews of complete and accurate corporate governance practices along with transparent supporting documents; this had consistently been PTTAR’s corporate governance guidelines. 10 November 2010 24 November 2010: PTTAR was ranked among the excellent group under the Corporate Governance Report of Thai Listed Companies 2010 Project (CGR), adorned with 5 National Corporate Governance Committee emblems, which signified a 90% score or greater (the top group), conducted by the Thai Institute of Directors (IOD). 24 November 2010 21 December 2010: PTTAR achieved certification of Integrated Management System (IMS), which covered every management system : ISO 9001 Quality Management System, ISO 14001 Environmental Management System, TIS 18001-2542 and BS OHSAS 18001 Safety and Occupational Health Management System – by Management System Certification Institute (Thailand). 21 December 2010 25 January 2011: PTTAR won the certificate of Corporate Social Responsibllity, Department of Industrial Works, also known as CSR-DIW 2010 for Refinery (AR1) and Aromatics Complex I (AR2) – signifying their thorough responsibility to stakeholders. 25 January 2011 68 Abbreviations and Technical Terms Abbreviation Technical Terms BZ Benzene Complex Refinery A refinery that has manufacturing processes (conversion units or upgrading units) to upgrade lower value hydrocarbon products to higher value products. TOL Toluene The type of processing facilities indicates the degree of complexity of the refinery. PX Paraxylene Hydro-Skimming One-step crude oil process yielding clear petroleum products, including gasoline and diesel, at lower proportions than the yields of a complex OX Orthoxylene process. Condensate Liquefied petroleum (lighter than crude oil). MX Mixed Xylenes High Vacuum Unit (HVU) A refinery unit that further fractionates the black fuel oil fraction produced ABS Acrylonitrile-Butadiene-Styrene by the CDU, which is also known as long residue, to produce a light fuel oil fraction (light vacuum gasoil and heavy vacuum gasoil) and a heavy fuel oil fraction (short residue). In the HVU, separation occurs in the fractionation BPA Bisphenol A column at a high temperature and under vacuum conditions to prevent a cracking reaction. EPS Expandable Polystyrene Light Distillates Lower-gravity petroleum products, including gasoline and LPG. GPPS General Purpose Polystyrene Middle Distillates Medium-gravity petroleum products, including diesel, jet fuel, and kerosene. HIPS High Impact Polystyrene Heavy Distillates Higher-gravity petroleum products, including fuel oil and asphalt. Naphtha Hydrotreating Unit A refinery unit that removes sulfur from naphtha in the presence of catalysts LAS Linear Alkyl Benzenesulfonate and hydrogen. LAB Linear Alkyl Benzene Total Intake Total volume of processed feedstock/crude oil. Utilization Rate Comparison of the actual to the total capacity in a given period. LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas Hydrocracking Unit (HCU) Diesel processing unit. MTBE Methyl Tertiary Butyl Ether Hydrodesulfurizer Unit Sulfur-removing unit. NGL Natural Gas Liquid Measurement units KBD (Kilo Barrel per Day) : Thousand barrels per day KMT (Kilo Metric Tons) : Thousand metric tons PC Polycarbonate M.BBL (Million Barrels) : Million barrels GRM (Gross Refining Margin) Difference between the price of a given refined product and that of crude oil. PET Poly Ethylene Terephthalate P2F (Product to Feed Margin) Difference between the price of a given petrochemical product and that Py-gas Pyrolysis Gasoline of its feedstock. GIM (Gross Integrated Margin) Difference between the prices of refined/petrochemical products and those PP Polypropylene of crude oil/feedstock. PA Phathalic Anhydride Stock Gain/(Loss) Difference between the accounting sales cost and the market cost arising from the time lag between the sale of a given petroleum product and the period in which the crude oil feed is imported from the Middle East for PVC Poly Vinyl Chloride refining/processing and sale. PTA Purified Terephthalic Acid OPEX (Operating Expense) Expense incurred in business execution (exclusive of capital expenses). EBITDA Income before deduction of interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization. PE Polyethylene (Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization) SBR Styrene-Butadiene Rubber Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA exclusive of stock gain/(loss) and LCM. SAN Styrene-Acrylonitrile LCM Expense arising from the comparison of the expected value and the cost (Lower of Cost or Market of stock/inventory, whichever is lower, to reflect a sensible value of stock/ SM Styrene Monomer Inventory Method) inventory at the end of a given accounting period. ROIC Interest derived from investing money in a business. VCM Vinyl Chloride Monomer (Return on Invested Capital)
