Global Compact Progress Report 2010 Making a difference Global Compact Progress Report 2010 Global Compact is an initiative of UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, which was launched in January 1999. Global Compact is a call to business world-wide to help build the social and environmental framework to ensure the open and free markets and to ensure that people everywhere have a chance to share the benefits of the new global economy. Global Compact is an initiative of UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, which was launched in January 1999. Global Compact is a call to business world-wide to help build the social and environmental framework to ensure the open and free markets and to ensure that people everywhere have a chance to share the benefits of the new global economy. The Global Compact encompasses 10 principles from international declarations on human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. Grontmij has committed to uphold the Global Compact and the 10 principles by participating in the initiative, and as part of this commitment to implement the principles as part of its strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. Our progress in this process is reported in the following Communication on Progress 2010. Global Compact Progress Report 2011 2 CEO statement I am pleased to confirm that Grontmij supports the ten principles of the Global Compact in respect to human rights, labour rights, the protection of the environment and anti-corruption. With this statement, we express our intent to support and advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We commit to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company and undertake to make a clear statement of this commitment both to our employees, partners, clients and to the public. We support public accountability and transparency and will report on progress made in a public manner. Sylvo Thijsen CEO Grontmij Global Compact Progress Report 2011 3 Ten principles Principle no. Global compact Principle Process of Implementation 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed In 2010 a comprehensive Policy for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities was implemented across Grontmij. This policy will human rights cover all of the ten principles and reinforce our commitment to upholding them. A compliance reporting process covering risk management was introduced in February 2010. Among the key risks considered are those relating to human rights, labour protection, environmental management and anti corrupt practices. View our CSR profile and report for 2010 Since January 2008 as part of the GRI-based CSR reporting Grontmij has conducted a monitoring process for non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety, labour practices, product standards, environmental regulatory compliance and anti-corruption. For the period January 2008 to December 2010 Grontmij has reported 1 such incident (GRI indicator PR2). 2 Business should ensure that they are not As part of the GRI-based CSR reporting for 2010 a conformity monitoring process for non-discrimination was undertaken for a complicit in human right abuses. third year. In the period January 2009 to December 2010 Grontmij reported that no incidents had occurred (GRI indicator HR4). View our GRI disclosure 3 Business should uphold the freedom of Grontmij upholds such a policy for its employees. In 2009 the policy was included in the overall Policy for Human Rights and association and the effective recognition of Equal Opportunities. the right to collective bargaining. View our management approach to human rights 4 Business should support the elimination of all All employees have individual contracts stating terms and condi¬tions of service and the notice of leave. Our employment forms of forced and compulsory labour. policies forbid the use of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Our policies for the selection of sub-contractors and suppliers similarly forbid the use of forced or compulsory labour in our supply chain. View our management approach to human rights 5 Business should support the effective Grontmij fully supports the policy of abolishing child labour. From 2009, a supporting statement for the abolition of child labour abolition of child labour. was included in the Policy for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities mentioned above. View our management approach to human rights 6 Business should support the elimination of Grontmij has implemented a recruitment policy securing equal employment opportunities based solely upon an assessment of discrimination in respect of employment and relevant qualifications. Our policies for ensuring equality of opportunity expressly commit us to working towards re elimination occupation. of al forms of discrimination. View our management approach to human rights Global Compact Progress Report 2011 4 Principle no. Global compact Principle Process of Implementation 7 Business should support a precautionary In 2008 we implemented a strategy for managing of our operations and delivering our consulting services with the goal of approach to environmental challenges addressing climate change. The first step in this strategy was instigate a programme to monitor and measure our own environmental footprint. The first results of this were published in our annual CSR report in May 2008. Our third annual CSR report has also now been published. We have used the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative to guide these publications. View our CSR profile and report for 2010 The third stage of our programme is to develop action plans for our published targets covering our environmental footprints in: • CO2 • energy • transport • water • waste We have also instigated a programme of “sustainability by design” whereby we will reduce the environmental footprint and increase the sustainability of the project that we deliver to our clients. 8 Business should undertake initiatives to Grontmij undertakes a number of initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. promote greater environmental responsibility. Grontmij has in place a comprehensive integrated management system (IMS) that incorporates environmental management. These systems are accredited to ISO 14001 in all countries. Intrinsic aspects of our EMS include: • goal setting and performance management – currently we set environmental management goals at a regional level • policy – annual statements of our overall commitment to sustainable development • organisational responsibility – organisational charts and statements of our environmental management structures • training and awareness – procedures for the training and development of all staff in environmental awareness • monitoring and follow-up procedures are in place for the monitoring of learning from all environmental incidents Examples of initiatives launched in 2009 are described throughout our CSR report. View our CSR profile and report for 2010 9 Business should encourage the development Grontmij is making a widespread effort to encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. and diffusion of environmentally friendly Some examples our initiatives are mentioned below. technologies. It looks like a stylised arum and it has already been labeled one of the most sustainable office buildings in the world. We won ‘The arum shaped the design of Wuhan, China’s new energy centre against stiff international competition. The building will house a research building is designed institute for new energy sources and sustainability. Its central ‘energy arum’ is 140 metres. It is designed to ‘soak up’ energy in to soak up energy like the same way as a real plant. A wind turbine is mounted on the roof to catch power. Rainwater is used to cool the building in a real plant’ summer. Read more... In protecting against flooding, prevention is the key. Grontmij Poland has come up with a powerful tool to analyse potential ‘Almost a quarter flood damage. This is both an innovation and a sustainable way to manage the environment. What we did was calculate the of a million people potential cost if the Odra, Poland’s second longest river, burst its banks in and around the city of Wroclaw. have been affected by We were able to show both the material and immaterial effects of flooding, also on the region’s economy; the Odra is a key intermittent flooding’ water transport hub. Global Compact Progress Report 2011 5 Principle no. Global compact Principle Process of Implementation Growing urbanisation means continual improvements to public transport networks. Colleagues in Brussels are currently working on a two-track underground link between two existing public-transport lines. We are deploying the most advanced tunnel‘The most advanced building technology. Part of the project brings in lifecycle management as we are renovating and building new sound reduction tunnelling technology’ systems for one of the stops. Colleagues at Ginger have come up with a new system for measuring the development of cracks. It is less expensive than ‘Digital innovationstandard tools and more accurate than a mechanical sliding ruler gauge for a similar price. A digital screen makes it easier to less expensive, more read off data, and offers resolution to within one hundredth of a millimetre. It can take measurements that previously required accurate, compact more complex equipment. For both indoors and outside, the compact device is easy to carry around and use. and easier to use’ 10 Business should work against corruption in all A business integrity code of conduct is implemented across Grontmij. This code allows for regional enhancement and within this its forms, including extortion and bribery. in Denmark we have implemented a business integrity management system for day-to-day operations. The system consists of a policy, a code of conduct, a number of detailed instructions and a whistle blower function. All new employees participate in business integrity awareness training within 3 months from hire. Since January 2008 as part of the GRI-based CSR reporting Grontmij has conducted a monitoring process for non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning anti-corruption. For the period January 2008 to December 2010 Grontmij has reported no incidents (GRI indicator SO4). View our CSR profile and report for 2010 Global Compact Progress Report 2011 6 www.grontmij.com Grontmij An overview of all our locations, visit www.grontmij.com
