Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact – 2010 Table of Contents Statement of Continuing Support for the Global Compact Commitments Human Rights Labour Standards Environment Anti-Corruption 2010 Outcomes Human Rights Labour Standards Environment Anti-Corruption Future Commitments Human Rights Labour Standards Environment Anti-Corruption Aastra Technologies Ltd. 155 Snow Blvd. Concord, Ontario Canada, L4K 4N9 www.aastra.com Statement of Continuing Support for the Global Compact Since joining the UN Global Compact in March 2008, Aastra In 2010, Aastra's Environmental Compliance Committee has reached a number of noteworthy accomplishments that released and implemented its first four Directives covering cement our commitment to corporate social responsibility. Europe's main regulations (ROHS, WEEE, REACH, and EcoDesign). In Addition Aastra increased its number of strategic In 2008 Aastra launched its trademarked EthoSourcing® partners complying with its EthoSourcing® Program. Program which highlights Aastra’s innovative approach to sustainable and socially-responsible supply management. As we enter into 2011, Aastra is pleased to once again commit Aastra is not only constantly looking to improve the energy itself to the ten principles of the Global Compact in respect efficiency of its products but is also evaluating the complete to human rights, labour rights, the protection of the environsupply chain to ensure that every stage of production meets ment and anti-corruption. our high standards for social responsibility. With this Communication on Progress, we express our intent In 2009, Aastra launched its first Environmental Compliance to support and advance the principles that are within our Committee and published its first corporate “Social & Envisphere of influence. ronmental Compliance Strategy” document to further publically demonstrate Aastra’s commitment to its social and environmental responsibilities. Mr. Francis Shen Chairman & Co-CEO 1 Commitments Human Rights Aastra is committed to upholding the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights. As such, Aastra continues to review and amend its internal Human Resource policies as well as its ethical sourcing practices which are guided by its EthoSourcing® Program and based on the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct (EICC). Together with its supply chain partners, and in support of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, Aastra has committed itself to supporting youth in conflict-prone regions around world and to encourage them to act as a symbol of unity in a world often divided by ethno-religious borders and to find dignity, beauty and value in their differences as they inspire others to do the same. Labour Standards Aastra is committed to supporting and contributing to the well-being of its employees and as such has developed wideranging Human Resource policies that ensure that its employees are treated fairly and in accordance with internationally approved standards. As part of its Labour Standards, Aastra supports diversity: with a presence in approximately 30 countries, Aastra draws Environment on a wide range of local talent to manage its global operations. Aastra is very aware of the demands being placed on most The workforce composition at Aastra's headquarters in Ontario businesses today, as they are challenged to reduce green house reflects the diverse workforce of the city of Toronto. gas emissions and energy costs. This is supported by increased Aastra’s EthoSourcing® Program ensures that Aastra’s supply regulations for businesses, both internally and for our customchain partners comply with minimum acceptable labour staners, taxes and other expenses associated with environmental dards that are in line with the Electronic Industry Code of Conissues as well as growing expectations from the market place, duct. customers and other stakeholders. At Aastra we are continually researching ways in which to address this global issue and constantly striving to participate in lessening the environmental impact of our products and our operations. At Aastra we are continually researching ways to address global issues and we are AntiCorruption committed to helping reduce Aastra is committed to work against all forms of corruption the environmental impact of and will continue to implement policies that address these our products and operations issues. 2 2010 Outcomes Human Rights Labour Standards In this reporting period Aastra donated funding to a number of charitable organizations. Together with the employee-led Principle 3: private charitable foundation, The Eagle Down Foundation, Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Aastra supported a number of Peace Camps for children and and the recognition of the right to collective bargaining; youth in conflict regions around the world. In 2010, 86% of Aastra's strategic partners have signed up Principle 4: to its EthoSourcing® Program ensuring that they comply to Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms a wide range of assessment factors covering issues such as health & safety, wages and benefits, forced and child labour, of forced and compulsory labour; harassment and abuse and non-discrimination as well as good Principle 5: environmental practices. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of Aastra also expanded the scope of its EthoSourcing® Program child labour; and in order to include its Repairs Centers and ODM partners. Furthermore, 9 additional EthoSourcing® audits were conducted. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Through its EthoSourcing® Program the following labour standards were addressed: forced labour, child Labour, workPrinciple 1: ing hours, wages and benefits, humane treatment of employBusinesses should support and respect the protecees, non-discrimination, freedom of association, health & safety, tion of internationally proclaimed human rights; and occupational safety, emergency preparedness, occupational injury and illness, industrial hygiene, physically demanding work, Principle 2: machine safeguarding, and dormitory and canteen standards. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. EthoSourcing® certified partners plaque In order to promote the EthoSourcing® Program's vision and commitment within each of their operations, Aastra formally presented certified partners with certification plaques as part of formal presentations made in front of their workers and staff. In a number of cases Aastra was also instrumental in lobbying for better working conditions for the workers of some of its partners including the installation of air conditioning in the workplaces, etc. 3 Environment Aastra’s Outcome through its partners Aastra’s EthoSourcing® Code of Conduct has ensured that: • Environmental Permits & Reporting Environmental Permits, registrations and reporting are obtained, maintained and kept current. • Pollution, Prevention & Resource Reduction Wastes of all types are reduced or eliminated at the source or by practices such as modifying production, maintenance and facility processes, materials substitution, conservation, recycling and re-using materials where possible. • Hazardous Substances Chemical and other materials posing a hazard if released to the environment are identified and managed to ensure their safe handling, movement, storage, recycling or reuse and disposal. • Wastewater & Solid Waste Principle 7: Wastewater and solid waste generated from operations, industrial processes Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental and sanitation facilities are monitored, challenges; controlled and treated as required prior to discharge or disposal. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental • Air Emissions responsibility; and Air emissions of volatile organic chemicals, aerosols, corrosives, particulates, Principle 9: ozone depleting chemicals and comBusinesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environbustion by-products generated from mentally friendly technologies. operations are to be characterized, monitored, controlled and treated as required prior to discharge. • Product Content Restrictions Aastra’s strategic CM partners are the requirements set forth in the ISO Aastra’s Contract Manufacturing (CM) required to obtain all environmental 9001:2000 standards. They must also partners must adhere to all applicable permits and registrations which are to meet the global environmental managelaws and regulations regarding probe maintained and kept current with all ment standards and as such are expected hibition or restriction of specific suboperational and reporting requirements. to be ISO 14001 registered. In this reportstances including labeling laws and Aastra’s strategic partners are required ing period, 8 strategic partners commitregulations for recycling and disposal. to obtain and maintain a Quality Manted themselves to starting their applicaagement System that is certified to meet tion process for ISO 14001 certification. 4 Aastra’s Outcome through its Products Aastra’s products are compliant with • Produce servers that occupy a smaller international directives such as ROHS and footprint, therefore requiring less even go beyond them by making comlighting and cooling. pliant products available in geographies • Reduce power, raw materials and manwhere these directives are not required ufacturing by developing applications even when network infrastructure equiprather than hardware. ment could benefit from the “lead in solder” ROHS exemption. In 2010 Aastra: In this reporting period the Environ• Ensured that new circuit boards mental Compliance Committee (ECC) designed for digital phones included a which was created to meet and exceed sleep mode in order to save on energy the requirements as set out in various consumption. environmental legislations released four • Increased its offering of server virtualdirectives to cover in a unified and conization reducing the need for physical sistent manner ROHS, WEEE, REACH and servers. Eco-Design European regulations. • Developed “Soft only” products that Aastra is committed to taking practical have absolutely no impact on the envisteps to increase the efficiency of energy ronment. usage, services and processes and to • Reduced the power consumption of recycling according to DIN standards, meeting and exceeding global environsome phones by changing their power product packaging that can be 100% mental standards. In all of the hardware category when adding new features. recycled, non plastic materials which that Aastra does produce our Research & satisfy national recycling initiatives Development teams are always looking Aastra is also committed to: such as Germany’s “Green dot”). for ways to: • Using raw materials that reduce the • Improving its manufacturing process. • Reduce the number of watts a user use of harmful chemicals (plastic parts Aastra aims to have more common requires on Aastra’s servers and handthat are free of brominates and halocomponents across products, e.g. set terminals. Standby/sleep modes genated flame retardants). Aastra’s SIP phones now all share during idle periods on handsets and • Offering products that are easily recycommon components in the product desktops means less power is conclable (design incorporating an easier design, thus reducing manufacturing sumed per user. dismantling, plastic parts marked for and logistics requirements. The good news for Aastra’s customers is not only do these policies help protect our wellbeing and planet: in most cases these new approaches can help businesses save money and re-engineer the way we work to operate more efficiently 5 Aastra has developed solutions that • Aastra’s Remote Maintenance provides Aastra’s Outcome through its Internal help its customers support their environa business with a centralised solution Actions mental and social responsibilities: to manage, maintain and resolve faults that may occur for both voice and data. In addition to its internal policies and • Teleworking provides a virtual office This means that problems and faults can programs at a group level, Aastra’s local environment for an employee, wheroperations are also proactive in implebe rectified without the need for techniever they are, at home or working off menting environmental initiatives. cal staff to travel on most occasions. This site. Teleworking enables a reduction reduces fuel, parking and travel costs, as Some Aastra Business Units have of commuting time which results in well as emissions on the roads. obtained or started to look at ISO 14001 time saved, reduced expenditures for fuel, car parking and maintenance; as • Aastra’s use of Power over Ethernet certification which not only requires a well as supporting a reduction in the (POE) in its products reduces negative formal commitment to environmental CO2 emissions by having fewer people environmental impact during manufacand social protection and responsibilities; on the roads. turing, recycling, packaging and overall it also has support from senior managethermal dissipation by not having to ment right down to frontline employees • The applications and solutions that use a power adaptor at each desktop. for continual improvement. form part of Aastra’s Unified CommuThis reduces cabling costs and benefits Some Aastra Business Units have been nications such as collaboration tools, the manufacturing process. making environmental declarations for all multimedia contact centres, integrated mobility in and outside the office and • Some Aastra Business Units have develtheir products. The ECO declaration lists videoconferencing enable many benoped Environmental Incentive Proenvironmental related standards, power efits. For example, on top of improved grams for customers that send back consumption and information for the efficiencies (time and cost savings), their products for recycling. recycling industry. videoconferencing can replace travel Aastra’s paper consumption, through reducing the carbon footprint generthe use of online marketing collateral, ated by business activities. ordering systems and IP fax has been significantly reduced. In this reporting period, some Aastra Business Units invested in specific software tools that optimize paper consumption which enabled them to switch their postal mailing to an e-mailing solution. In 2010, some Aastra Business Units also started to release an internal Sustainable Development Newsletter in order to communicate their actions and incent their employees to develop behaviors that promote environmental sustainability. In 2010, some Aastra Business Units also started to develop transport coordination plans to optimize employee transportation. Where possible recycled goods are used for office stationery. Teleworking is supported for our employees, giving people the freedom to work from home, reducing carbon emissions and fossil fuel use. Aastra’s regional distribution centres help to reduce shipping and delivery distances and costs, thereby reducing emissions, travel and other related costs, in addition to providing shorter delivery time frames. 6 Anti-Corruption Aastra has implemented detailed Business Conduct, Disclo• Fair Business, Advertising and Competition Standards of sure Policies and Conflict of Interest Guidelines for all staff to fair business, advertising and competition are to be upheld. follow. Means to safeguard Aastra’s classified information should be As a Canadian public company, Aastra and its subsidiaries available. must comply with the Ontario Securities Commission National Instrument 52-109 (“NI 52-109”). Under NI 52-109, the Co• Protection of Identity Programs that ensure the protection Chief Executive Officers and Chief Financial Officer of the Comof supplier and employee whistle-blower confidentiality are pany must certify on a quarterly and annual basis that they to be maintained. are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial • Community and Global Engagement Community and reporting and that these controls have been evaluated for global engagement is encouraged to help foster social and weaknesses which are disclosed in the Company’s Annual economic development both locally and within the broader Management Discussion & Analysis. In order to allow the Coglobal context. Aastra and it’s supply chain partners have CEOs and CFO to certify to the above, a control environment historically been great contributors to social causes around has been established at Aastra. This control environment has the world. created an overall “tone at the top”, a set of guidelines as to conduct of employees, and a set of detailed key controls to ensure that receipts and expenditures at Aastra are being made only in accordance with authorizations of Management. Thus, the control environment attempts to prohibit employPrinciple 10: ees’ and in turn, Aastra’s involvement in corruption, extortion or bribery. The control environment is tested at the detailed Businesses should work against corruption in all its level by an internal audit team every year by visiting Aastra’s forms, including extortion and bribery. various subsidiaries and sampling primary documents for compliance with the key controls. Additionally, Aastra has a Whistle-Blowing policy which is in effect for its major operational units in order to augment its internal control policies and procedures for reporting and addressing any misconduct within its organization. Through its EthoSourcing® Program, Aastra further requires its strategic suppliers to uphold the highest standards of business ethics including: • Business Integrity The highest standards of integrity are to be expected in all business interactions. Any and all forms of corruption, extortion and embezzlement are strictly prohibited resulting in immediate termination of the business relationship. • No Improper Advantage Bribes or other means of obtaining undue or improper advantage are not to be offered or accepted. • Disclosure of Information Information regarding business activities, structure, financial situation and performance is to be disclosed in accordance with applicable regulations and prevailing industry practices. • Intellectual Property Intellectual property rights (trademarks, copyrights, patents and trade secrets) are to be respected; transfer of technology and know-how is to be done in a manner that protects intellectual property rights. 7 Future Commitments Human Rights Labour Standards Aastra will be looking into the power consumption of its products' fans and Aastra will continue to support and Aastra will continue to assess and will consider moving to thermo regulated respect the protection of internationimprove its labour practices both interfans where possible. ally proclaimed human rights through nally and through its strategic supply the regular review of its internal Human chain in order to meet and exceed estabInternally, Aastra will continue to find Resource policies and by expanding its lished international labour standards. opportunities to proactively implement EthoSourcing® Program to other supply environmental initiatives. Aastra will continue to audit existing and chain partners while monitoring those new strategic supply partners to ensure Aastra will develop Key Performance that have already met the stringent that they meet Aastra’s stringent EthoIndicators with its strategic partners EthoSourcing® standards. Sourcing Program™ assessment factors. related to their Environmental footprint Aastra will continue to support including statistics related to consumed humanitarian relief and development electricity, fossil energy, water and proactivities around the globe through its Environment duction of waste. trusted partners. As an environmentally-conscious global company Aastra is keenly aware of Aastra will develop Key Performance the trade-offs that face our increasingly Anti-Corruption Indicators with its Strategic Partners complex supply chain such as the degree Aastra will continue to review its antirelated to their social responsibility to which our activities and products may corruption policies to ensure that they including statistics related to employee deplete natural resources or increase carremain relevant. Aastra will continue to overtime, training, injuries, living bon emissions to the atmosphere. Aastra audit its strategic suppliers to ensure conditions and will require that they is therefore committed to continue to take they conform to the strict business ethics regularly report on their performance. practical steps to increase the efficiency guidelines that form part of Aastra’s Ethoof energy usage and to reduce the carSourcing® Program. bon burden of our products, services and Aastra will continue to implement its processes and to meeting and exceeding Whistle-Blowing policy across its operaglobal environmental standards. tional units. 8 About Aastra Aastra Technologies Limited (TSX: “AAH”), most complete portfolios of unified is a leading company at the forefront of the communications solutions individually enterprise communication market. Headtailored to satisfy its customers’ requirequartered in Concord, Ontario, Canada, ments. These range from feature-rich Aastra develops and delivers innovative call managers for small and medium communications products and applibusinesses and highly scalable ones for cations for businesses. Aastra’s operalarge enterprises, integrated mobility, call tions are truly global with more than centers solutions to a wide selection of 50 million installed lines around the terminals. With a strong focus on open world and a direct and indirect presstandards, Aastra enables enterprises to ence in more than 100 countries. Aascommunicate and collaborate more effitra is entirely dedicated to enterprise ciently. communications and offers one of the For additional information on Aastra, visit our website at: www.aastra.com Aastra Technologies 155 Snow Blvd. Concord, Ont., L4K 4N9 Canada T 1 905 760 4200 Rev. 17.02.11 F 1 905 760 4233 www.aastra.com Copyright © 2011 Aastra Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved. Information in this document is subject to change without notice. Aastra assumes no responsibility for any errors that may appear in this document.
