CSR Report 2010/11 Extract from Annual Report 2010/11 Sustainable development Clas Ohlson is a dedicated retail company with 139 stores in Sweden, Norway, Finland and the UK. To date, mail order/Internet sales have only been offered in Sweden and Norway, but will also be launched in Finland and the UK during the 2011/12 financial year. We offer a range of 15,000 products in Hardware, Home, Multimedia, Electrical and Leisure. Our head office and distribution centre are located in Insjön, Dalarna, and we have approximately 4,000 employees. The company does not own any factories but cooperates with approximately 600 suppliers and 750 manufacturers in 30 countries. This sustainability report describes how we work with Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). These efforts comprise Clas Ohlson’s social and environmental responsibility, meaning how it is working for sustainable development. Basis for Clas Ohlson's CSR work Manager (Code of Conduct). Our business concept is to make it easy for people to solve The CSR forum makes decisions pertaining to goals, their everyday practical problems in life. Our own operations strategies and activities for the entire Group’s CSR proand those of our suppliers and manufacturers are subject grammes and monitors whether the company is working to demands concerning working conditions and other effectively toward its set goals. human rights, work environment and environmental impact. The CEO has overall responsibility and the CSR Through a sustainable business concept and operations, programmes are to be integrated into and encompass the Clas Ohlson aims to create value for its shareholders, entire organisation. customers and employees, as well as for society as a whole. Clas Ohlson works according to the philosophy that Clas Ohlson aims to contribute to sustainable sustainability issues require an overall approach and that development and protect living conditions for current and these issues must permeate the entire organisation and future generations. its various operations. This requires the involvement of the Efforts to contribute to sustainable social development entire organisation, down to each individual employee, in are of critical importance to our business operations; partly efforts to achieve a sustainable society. due to increasing demands from customers, employees and other stakeholders, but also because sustainability generates new business opportunities for Clas Ohlson. All major investment decisions must take economic, social and environmental implications into account. Our corporate culture is distinguished by the unique Clas Ohlson spirit, which is characterised by responsibility, team spirit, mutual respect and an open exchange of thoughts and ideas. Clas Ohlson’s culture and tradition also include caring about customers, employees and the community as a whole. Our sustainable vision We shall commit the company’s resources to economic, social and environmental development that contributes to sustainable living conditions for current and future generations. Clas Ohlson's CSR organisation and Cotech Battery Charger. Charging compartments: 2-4 batteries responsibility Battery size: HR6/HR03 Battery type: NiMH/NiCd Charging time: Clas Ohlson’s sustainability programmes are led by the 12-15 h Charging method: Timer Charging status: LED indication CSR forum comprising the CEO, Director of Information, Power supply: 230 V Includes: 4 x AA/HR6 2000 mAh Ready to Use batteries. Director of Purchasing, Director of Supply Chain, Director of 36-5100 HR, environmental Coordinator, Internal Controller and CSR Sustainable development 29 and also conduct internal and external surveys to ensure Organisational chart that we keep abreast of opinions and requests concerning the company’s operations and development. Board of Directors The expectations and demands placed on Clas Ohlson Group Mangagement by stakeholders differ. An open dialogue generates increased knowledge and assists in determining the CSR Forum aspects of our sustainability efforts that need improvement. Code of Conduct We engage in meetings with a number of funds and asset Environmental Group management companies and their sustainability analysts concerning various CSR issues and the opportunities and challenges facing Clas Ohlson. Several of these analysts have also been on factory visits to monitor the methods we use to inspect and verify our manufacturers in Asia. During Policies and reporting period for Clas the financial year, Clas Ohlson also held meetings with Ohlson's Sustainability Report Amnesty International, Swedwatch and Save the Children This is the third sustainability report prepared by Clas in an effort to learn from their experiences, know-how and Ohlson, based on the latest guidelines issued by the Global work in respect of human rights. Reporting Initiative (GRI). Clas Ohlson has chosen to apply C-level* disclosure (not reviewed by an external party). A Participation in international cross-reference table is presented on page 45 detailing sustainability initiative where the various GRI indicators can be identified in Clas Clas Ohlson is a signatory to the UN petition to promote Ohlson’s Annual Report, Sustainability Report and on the work in the area of human rights, the UN Global Compact. website. During the year, we introduced a policy against corruption The information and performance indicators provided and bribes that applies to employees, suppliers and in the Sustainability Report are selected on the basis of manufacturers. significance and relevance from a sustainability perspective In addition, for the second consecutive year, we for Clas Ohlson and according to requests from our contributed to the international climate initiative, the Carbon stakeholders. Disclosure Project (CDP). This requires that we report both The Sustainability Report pertains to the 2010/11 direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases from our financial year, meaning the 1 May 2010 – 30 April 2011 operations that occurred in 2009. period. Some sections contain information, performance indicators and diagrams for the 1 January 2010 – 31 Employee surveys December 2010 period. Our work environment survey reveals a high level of job satisfaction and an excellent working environment. During Restrictions the financial year, an employee survey encompassing the The Sustainability Report pertains to Clas Ohlson’s own entire Group was implemented – the Employee Satisfaction operations, meaning our direct impact on people and Index (ESI). (Read more on pages 38-40). the environment, but also the impact of our suppliers’ and manufacturers’ operations on people and the Customer survey environment. The terms “sustainability” and “Corporate Each year, Clas Ohlson conducts an extensive customer Social Responsibility” (or “CSR”) are used interchangeably survey encompassing Sweden, Norway and Finland. The in the report and entail Clas Ohlson’s overall social and customer survey for the financial year under review included environmental responsibility. The term “CSR” is also used questions relating to customers’ views of sustainability and in the section that specifically addresses the company’s the areas that they considered most important with respect Code of Conduct and our efforts to minimise the risk of to the environment, ethics and social responsibility (see the non-compliance with the code. In that specific section, CSR diagram on the next page). is also used as a synonym for our work with the Code of This year’s survey shows that customers believe that our Conduct. social work is most important, followed by a good personWe consider the entire lifecycle of the product, meaning nel policy, our environmental programmes and finally our how it is manufactured and used, and its impact on the other community involvement. Our dialogue with customers environment at the end of its operational life. on sustainability issues is important and will be further deveOur responsibilities in relation to suppliers and loped in an effort to involve them in the development of our manufacturers include making demands, developing longbusiness and the products we offer. term relationships and supporting them in their work with human rights, working conditions, the work environment and Our stores environmental impact. We also carry out regular verifications In conjunction with store establishments, Clas Ohlson and audits, and terminate contracts with manufacturers that cooperates with municipalities, regions and government are unable or unwilling to live up to our demands. authorities. There is a shared interest in creating a viable local industry, particularly in the city locations where Clas Clas Ohlson’s stakeholders and target Ohlson primarily establishes its stores. Central locations groups mean that people can shop where they live and work, Clas Ohlson’s key stakeholders and target groups are reducing the need for driving to business centres outside customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers and city centres. Clas Ohlson opens a large number of new manufacturers, as well as the general public. stores in our current four markets every year, thus creating We engage in a continuous dialogue with key stakeholders many new job opportunities. 30 Sustainable development Financial development that creates value In the 2010/11 financial year, we continued to develop our Clas Ohlson has reported a profit every year since its long-term efforts to monitor our Code of Conduct. Some inception in 1918. Healthy profitability and sound finances 426 manufacturers in Asia were audited during the year, are essential for conducting long-term sustainable compared with 444 in the preceding year. An increased operations and creating value for shareholders, employees, proportion of return visits were made with the purpose of suppliers and society at large. As the business grows monitoring the action plans that were agreed upon with and expands, new job opportunities are created and, various manufacturers. through the taxes paid in our various markets, Clas Ohlson In cooperation with Dalakraft, Clas Ohlson has reduced contributes to public finances and the financing of society’s its annual CO2 emissions by 1,000 tonnes by introducing joint commitments. district heating in the distribution centre and head office in Insjön, compared with previously when heating was based Significant events in 2010/11 on oil. The CSR perspective plays a central role in our business Clas Ohlson has continued to promote the phase-out strategy and is an integral part of our operations, governance, of conventional light bulbs through various marketing monitoring and decision-making processes. The CSR campaigns. Customers are offered assistance by perspective was integrated into Clas Ohlson’s strategy knowledgeable personnel to find the right alternative and and business planning during the financial year and is now there is instructional information in our stores. included in the processes, tools and plans that are used. A strategy for cooperation with NGOs has been established, which has led to a joint venture with Save the Children concerning cooperation in Sweden, Norway and China with an ambition for future cooperation with Finland Nordic Nordisk survey undersökning of the sustainability aspects considered av vilka hållbarhetsaspekter sommost är important viktigast and the UK. Percentage who att Andel som anser consider the följande following frågor är issues Clas Ohlson has also collaborated with Cancerfonden important for the stores viktiga för butiken where de handlar i they shop Place high demands on their suppliers in Att ställa höga krav på sina leverantörer gällande during the financial year and participated in two campaigns 62% relation to labour conditions arbetsförhållande (inget barnarbete etc.) (no child labour, etc) 71% – against breast cancer och prostate cancer. Skapaequality Create en jämställd in thearbetsplats medwith workplace bra 56% good arbetsvillkor working conditions 63% 48% Att erbjudaOfferproduktereco-friendly products som är miljövänliga 53% Promote environmental issues Miljöfrågor 45% 47% *GRI application levels Support community involvement Samhällsengagemang 26% The guidelines have three different application levels: A, B 33% and C. The reporting criteria at each level reflect an increased SupportVälgörandecharitableändamål causes 20% 24% application or coverage of the GRI Reporting Framework. A Population 2011 Population 2010 “plus” (+) can be added at each level to indicate that that the item in the report has been externally verified. © LynxEye AB, 2009. All rights reserved. 1 The strategies are as follows: Strategy Activity Open dialogue with our stakeholders and opinionFeedback from our stakeholders via Employee Satisfaction Index, customer builders concerning our CSR work surveys and participation in Sustainable Brands Image Survey. Participation and dialogue with NGOs, universities, forums and other parties in relation to CSR issues. In-depth cooperation with stakeholders and Further developed forms for monitoring, controlling and supporting manufacturers to create continuous social and manufacturers in Asia in respect of working conditions and environmental work. environmental improvements. Increased proportion of monitoring factory audits in order to verify agreed action plans for identified deficiencies. The CSR perspective is to be an integral part of Integration of CSR issues into Clas Ohlson’s strategy and business planning. our business. We must capitalise on the business Development of system support for CSR reporting (Code of Conduct). opportunities that exist in the area of sustainable Internal training to raise expertise and awareness of CSR issues throughout development and strengthen our long-term the entire organisation. competitiveness. Develop the product range and communication, thus Range enhancements with new products that help our customers reduce helping our customers in their selection of products their electricity consumption and environmental impact. that contribute to sustainable development. Improved customer communication in relation to CSR issues in our stores and through other sales and communication channels. We shall make a difference in society by supporting Cooperation with Cancerfonden (Sweden) and Kreftforeningen (Norway) to selected charitable causes in countries where we help fight cancer. conduct operations. New long-term cooperation with Save the Children to help improve conditions for children. Community involvement entailing support for cultural and sporting activities, especially for young people living in and around Insjön. Sustainable development 31 Our work to promote human rights and better working conditions Taking responsibility for the environment The Code of Conduct is developed and updated as required, based on our experiences and cooperation with and the people who are affected by our suppliers and manufacturers. operations is important for Clas Ohlson. Long-term commitment and cooperation Responsibility in our supply chain Our ambition is to contribute to a better work environment involves making demands and verifying and working conditions in our own operations and for the people involved in the production of products that we compliance, but also developing longpurchase from various suppliers and manufacturers. We are term relationships with our suppliers also responsible for ensuring that our products generate and supporting their efforts to achieve the least amount of environmental impact possible during their lifecycle. Verifying and working for improvements in our sustainable improvements. supply chain is a long-term and complex process. It requires commitment and effort from the entire organisation as well Our supply chain as our suppliers and manufacturers. Since the introduction Clas Ohlson is a dedicated retailer. The company does of our Code of Conduct in 2005 and the establishment of not own any factories, and purchases its entire range from our purchasing office and CSR department in Shanghai in suppliers and manufacturers in 30 countries. 2008, we have come closer to manufacturers and taken Some 38 per cent of our range is purchased directly several significant steps forward in our efforts to influence, from factories in Asia. Direct purchasing gives us greater verify and improve conditions in our supply chain. opportunities for influencing, verifying and supporting our manufacturers in their efforts to improve working conditions Integral part of the operations and their work environment. CSR work is an integral part of Clas Ohlson’s operations. The work involved in verifying and supporting our suppliers Targets are set, planned and monitored by Clas Ohlson’s and manufacturers primarily focuses on the production CSR forum (read more on page 29). taking place in countries with a high risk of non-compliance In our work on social responsibility in the supply chain, with our Code of Conduct. The high risk in these countries close and effective cooperation between the purchasing may be due to a lack of national legislation, neglected office and the CSR department is essential. monitoring of existing laws and regulations or corruption. Both entities actively ensure that Clas Ohlson’s suppliers We strive for long-term relationships with our suppliers and manufacturers sign and comply with the requirements and manufacturers, and believe in cooperation and active of our Code of Conduct and that any deficiencies are dialogue. addressed. The entities work closely with each other and jointly plan and monitor targets and activities (read more on page 35). The purchasing office and CSR department have integrated data systems and share information about History of Clas Ohlson's CSR work suppliers and manufacturers. For example, the purchasing 1998 Policy concerning child labour introduced. office can access information about our manufacturers’ 2001 Environmental policy introduced. CSR status, audit reports and improvement work to 2004 Launched process to develop and introduce support decisions concerning purchases of various Code of Conduct. products or the selection of a supplier or manufacturer. If 2005 Clas Ohlson’s Code of Conduct for suppliers suppliers or manufacturers have a serious non-compliance adopted by Board and published. that is not addressed, they are blocked in the system until 2006 Working basis for the company’s systematic the problems are rectified. CSR work is prepared, approved and tested. Clas Ohlson works continuously to improve and develop 2007 First external CSR audits carried out. the company’s tools, methods and systems in an effort 2008 Establishment of a special Corporate Social to enhance and facilitate daily cooperation. During the financial year, new IT support was developed to create Responsibility organisation in Shanghai. more efficient management of all audit reports and other 2009 Expansion of the number of audits and CSR data that CSR work generates. deepening of cooperation with suppliers in regard to our Code of Conduct. CSR department in Shanghai 2010 Anti-corruption section added to our Code of Our CSR department in China is responsible for verifying, Conduct. Additional CSR office established in assessing and monitoring compliance with Clas Ohlson’s southern China. Code of Conduct, and for training and communication with 2011 Purchasing office in southern China with CSR our suppliers and manufacturers in Asia. This assignment auditor. includes CSR audits of manufacturers and supporting their efforts to improve. 32 Sustainable development and ethical conduct in our daily business. We introduced an anti-corruption policy during the financial year and added it to our Code of Conduct, to clarify our position on corruption and bribery in our own operations and those of our suppliers. The manufacturers with whom we cooperate have various skills and experience of CSR requirements and audits. Many factories have several international customers that impose demands and make recurring visits to the factory, while others have more limited experience since clear requirements and CSR audits by purchasers were previously rare. We have noticed a difference during recent years, and an increased number of purchasers now make demands and verify factories, which is the key to achieving lasting and sustainable improvement. Joint demands by purchasing companies for better conditions for people and the environment represent a positive trend and can generate even greater effects by means of endeavours to harmonise the various tools and  ED-bulb L Stepless dimming (can be used in applications with incandescent methods that are used. Clas Ohlson is a member of CSR dimmer). Rated life up to 20,000 hours. Temperature range -20 °C Asia, an organisation that presents opportunities for us to to +40 °C. Power: 7 W (equivalent to 40 W). Lumens: 470. Base: share experiences and contribute to better conditions for E27. Size (mm): 106x60. 36-4643 workers in Asia. We also cooperate with Save the Children’s Centre for Children’s Rights and Corporate Responsibility in China to help improve conditions for young workers (read more on page 34). The department reports to Clas Ohlson’s CEO and, at the end of the financial year, consisted of: Training • One CSR Manager, Supply Chain When trying to promote sustainability efforts throughout • One CSR team leader the entire organisation – from the Board and management • Two administrators to all of our employees – training courses and information • Four CSR auditors who perform audits of are probably the most significant factors for success in our manufacturers and provide training and information to CSR work. the factories. New Clas Ohlson employees undergo CSR training in conjunction with their introduction programme in Insjön. Challenges and opportunities Employees can receive training in Clas Ohlson’s social responsibility on our intranet. Clas Ohlson has a broad range of about 15,000 Our purchasing office undergoes regular training in products. The company does not have its own factories, CSR and our work in the supply chain, and purchasers but purchases its products from a large number of participate in audits every year, thus enhancing their manufacturers. For many manufacturers, Clas Ohlson is a knowledge and experience of the process and insight into small customer that accounts for less than 5 per cent of how they as a purchaser can contribute to improvements. their annual sales. Through our CSR department in China, Our auditors underwent external environmental training we have extended our auditing capacity to include verifying during the year, designed in cooperation with an external compliance with our Code of Conduct. audit firm, which dealt with CO2 emissions, environmental The factories in Asia represent various types of management systems and ecology. Training also took challenges, such as excessive overtime, poor working place in factories to raise knowledge of various production conditions, inadequate protective equipment, no or weak processes. unions and manipulated time sheets. Corruption, bribery Every year, we arrange training in our CSR programme and other problems can also compound verification and monitoring in the supply chain for our agents in processes. We make both announced and unannounced Hong Kong, Taipei and Shanghai. Our agents, who assist visits to our manufacturers. with direct purchasing in Asia, also participate in audits All companies operating either directly or indirectly in to acquire more knowledge about the work involved in Asia encounter these challenges and can contribute to monitoring, verifying and supporting manufacturers. improvements in several ways. Clas Ohlson’s strategy is to use a combination of its own CSR auditors and External information external audit firms. Close cooperation between our CSR Clas Ohlson’s sustainability report, which is part of the department in China and our purchasing office in Insjön is annual report, is the basis of our external CSR reporting also essential for achieving results. and is prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Clas Ohlson works to prevent corruption and bribery. Initiative (GRI), which makes it easier for others to monitor As a company and purchaser of goods and services, we our work. Clas Ohlson’s stakeholders can receive more can and must make demands on business ethics, both our information on our website, where we have also published own and our sub-contractors’. The Clas Ohlson spirit, our a number of case studies with examples of our work on corporate culture, is based on basic values and a strong social, environmental and other sustainability issues. We corporate culture which forms the basis for professional report our CSR efforts to the UN Global Compact and Sustainable development 33 CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project). We have also produced Our tools and processes a simple brochure on sustainability issues with a brief summary of Clas Ohlson’s sustainability work. The Code of Conduct The basis for our work on monitoring and improving work Cooperation with other companies and in our supply chain is our Code of Conduct. Clas Ohlson’s organisations Code of Conduct contains the demands we make on To increase our opportunities to promote change and ourselves, and on our suppliers and manufacturers in influence manufacturers, we endeavour to cooperate with relation to working conditions, the work environment, ethics other companies and organisations. Through a strategic and environmental impact. partnership with CSR Asia, we gain access to their expertise We refer to international conventions and national laws and network, and an opportunity to take part in forums, and regulations. The requirements of the Code are based seminars and training. on the UN Declaration on Human Rights and Rights of the Clas Ohlson has participated in the UN Global Compact (an Child, and the ILO core conventions. initiative with ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour The Code is based on the OECD guidelines for standards, the environment and anti-corruption) since 2009. multinational companies and also complies with the We have begun cooperating with Save the Children’s ten principles in the UN Global Compact in the areas of Centre for Children’s Rights and Corporate Responsibility human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti(CCR-CSR) in China in order to – in collaboration with them corruption. and other companies – promote children’s rights in China. CSR has formed a working group where a number of large Our demands in the Code include: multinational companies will work together to protect • We do not tolerate child labour or forced labour minors (under 16) who are identified working in factories • Employees must not be discriminated against on the and to give support to young workers (over 16) in an effort grounds of personal characteristics or beliefs to create a good work environment that meets the needs • Workers’ health and safety must be prioritised in the and requirements of young workers. workplace, for example that proper protection is used, During the year, Clas Ohlson participated in seminars and equipment and buildings are safe arranged by CSR Asia and the Swedish Trade Council. • Hazardous substances and waste must be handled We engage in dialogue with ethics analysts and other safely representatives for ethical funds that monitor Clas Ohlson • Employees must have acceptable working conditions, and take part in various research projects in the CSR area. particularly in regard to wages and working hours What we wanted to What we achieved What we want to achieve Targets achieve 2010/11 2010/11 2011/12 • Efforts involved in • Continue with our assessments • We conducted 426 audits, both initial • Active work to increase cooperation with assessing, verifying and audits of manufacturers and recurring other organisations and companies in and working to • Systematic efforts to verify • Continuously monitoring of our active relation to harmonised tools and methods for improve conditions manufacturers’ improvement manufacturers’ improvement work monitoring the Code of Conduct for people and the work • Completion of a project, Think Green • Increase the number of external audits to environment, at • Measure the environmental Initiative, where the environmental profile make more verifications in addition to our our suppliers and impact of factories, and work of a number of factories was evaluated own manufacturers to reduce their ”footprint” in • Increase proportion of unannounced cooperation with a number of (window) audits to acquire some idea of manufacturers normal conditions for our manufacturers • Deeper audits in the manufacturing area where the risk for deviations are assessed greatest • Expand our work •C  ontinue and expand our •O ur auditors have presented information • Increase the number of training sessions for with information efforts to inform and train to factory managements in the areas of factories and training at our manufacturers health and safety, Human Resources and • Advanced training for our largest and the manufacturers the environment most important manufacturers •C  ontinuous training • Continuous training • Production-process training at factories • Continuous further training of our CSR of our CSR auditors • External environmental training, auditors comprehensive training in relation to CO2 emissions, environmental management systems, ecology • Cooperation with • Cooperate with more companies • Commenced cooperation with CCR CSR • Continuing participation in CSR Asia and other companies and organisations. (Save the Children in China) CCR CSR and organisations • Investigate initiatives that help • Participation in CSR research as case • Continuing participation in various research in order to influence harmonise companies’ CSR studies in relation to our CSR efforts projects in the CSR area and continue work • Extended stakeholder dialogue in countries improving where we operate • Improved • Increased internal and external • More information on Clas Ohlson’s • New interactive CSR training for all communication communication website personnel both internally and • Further develop our dialogue • Participation in Sustainable Brands • Increased communication with our externally with stakeholders Image Survey customers in relation to CSR issues 34 Sustainable development The Code is available in Swedish, Norwegian, Finnish, English, Mandarin, Vietnamese, Korean and Japanese and has been published in its entirety on Clas Ohlson’s website (http://om.clasohlson.com/en). Demands on suppliers and manufacturers All of our suppliers and manufacturers must sign our Code of Conduct. The suppliers, in turn, are responsible for ensuring that their sub-contractors and manufacturers comply with our Code. Suppliers and manufacturers that are unable or unwilling to sign our Code or comply with our demands are not permitted to cooperate with Clas Ohlson. Since the introduction of our Code of Conduct, a number Casio FX-9860GII. Graphic calculator for A level maths to degree. of suppliers have chosen not to sign the Code or not Full-featured. Illuminated display which displays fractions, square qualified to be one of our partners for a range of reasons. roots and other numerical expressions exactly as shown in a maths book. Memory: 61kB RAM, 1.5MB FlashROM. Financial and preIf our partners do not give us access to audits or are installed geometry functions. USB cable and calculator-to-calculator unwilling to work with improvements, despite discussions data transfer cable included. Size: 92x184x21 mm. 3-year guarantee. and attempts, we terminate our partnership with them (read 36-3870 more on pages 36-37). Manufacturers with a committed management and effective management system for monitoring, control and In the coming financial year, we will increase the number of document management are in general best at meeting the information and training sessions for manufacturers. demands of the Code of Conduct. Although Clas Ohlson is often a small customer for our suppliers, most of them react positively to being audited Assessment and control of new factories and are prepared to improve any deficiencies. However, Before Clas Ohlson purchases products directly from a new we do meet manufacturers that for various reasons are not supplier or manufacturer in Asia, a representative from the prepared to provide us with access for our audits or are company visits the factory to make an initial assessment not interested in working with the improvements that are of various CSR aspects based on our requirements. The required within the given timeframes. If we cannot convince factory must also sign our Code of Conduct. them to change their position, despite attempts and To identify any deficiencies, we also work with selfdiscussions, we terminate our partnership with them. assessments where the manufacturer completes a comprehensive questionnaire about conditions in the factory Recurring audits in regard to the work environment, working conditions and We conduct recurring audits of our active manufacturers, the environment (based on the requirements of our Code who are reviewed at least every second year. of Conduct). The most comprehensive control is carried out We conducted 426 audits during the financial year, during audits, when our own or external auditors inspect the both initial and recurring. Our own auditors conducted manufacturing facility, interview the employees and verify 406 audits, while 20 external audits were carried out by various documents. Clas Ohlson bears the costs of these independent audit firms specialised in social responsibility audits (an audit is described on page 37). and human rights. An audit normally takes 1-2 days, depending on the size The demands in the Code are based on: of the factory and the number of employees. The auditors • UN Convention on Human Rights inspect the factory’s premises, interview employees and • UN Convention on Rights of the Child (1989) verify documents. The audit is documented in a report. If we • ILO Convention on the Minimum Age for Employment discover non-compliance with our Code, an action plan is (no. 138, 1973) prepared with information about actions that must be taken • ILO Convention concerning the prohibition and immeby the factory within a given timeframe (read more under diate action for the elimination of the worst forms of “The CSR audit process” on page 37). child labour (no. 182, 1999) • ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights Minimum requirements at Work (1998) Clas Ohlson sets minimum requirements that must be met before we purchase products from manufacturers. Some of Preventive work our main requirements are: Much of our work in relation to the Code of Conduct in • Clas Ohlson does not tolerate child labour the supply chain is focused on manufacturers in Asia from • Clas Ohlson does not tolerate forced labour whom we purchase directly via our purchasing office in • The must be a satisfactory level of fire safety at the China or through local agents. This work is based on a factory shared ambition to gradually improve any deficiencies. • The factory must sign our Code of Conduct and Some manufacturers have very little initial knowledge be prepared to work with improvements if nonabout our demands and regulations or how they compliance is discovered can proceed. During the audits, our auditors inform • The factory must provide us with access for our audits manufacturers of our requirements and the areas that must be improved. Last year, we produced training materials in If a serious deficiency is identified, it must be rectified the areas of health and safety, human resources and the immediately before the manufacturer may commence or environment to support manufacturers in their endeavours. continue delivering to Clas Ohlson. Sustainable development 35 Our manufacturers’ CSR levels are assessed according to a Reporting deviations and actions taken range of colours: A number of selected performance indicators in the human rights area are presented below. Green – Meets the requirements of our Code of Conduct Non-discrimination We identified 20 cases of discrimination in this year’s audits. Yellow – Identified non-compliance with the Code These were related to the lack of a non-discrimination Orange – Identified high-risk non-compliance with the policy, or discrimination against age and/or gender in Code job advertisements. Clas Ohlson has demanded the Red – Identified zero-tolerance non-compliance introduction of a non-discrimination policy and that the with the Code advertisements be changed. Remarks and improvements Freedom of association and collective In our audits, most remarks are made regarding health bargaining We identified seven cases of restricted freedom of and safety, such as deficiencies in the use of protective association and the right to collective bargaining. We have equipment, evacuation and fire protection, and wages demanded that suppliers introduce systems that eliminate and working hours, such as excessive overtime or lack of these obstacles. access to social insurance. In general, freedom of association is a major problem in During the year, most improvements took place in health Asia and represents a large and important area of developand safety. General improvements in relation to wages ment that requires collaboration between manufacturers, and working hours take longer to achieve. This issue is purchasing companies, NGOs and government agencies. complex and requires a long-term process in which both the purchasers and the manufacturers of goods in Asia, Child labour in consultation with authorities and NGOs, have to work We identified six cases of child labour in our audits during together to find sustainable solutions. The challenge lies the year. In each case discovered in our audits in China, in ensuring a ”living wage”, meaning a minimum wage that the workers were 15 years old (children must be at least enables employees to live on their wages rather than the 16 to start working in China). When we discover under-age situation that exists today, where the minimum wage meets workers, we work together with the child/parents and the regulatory requirements but does not always permit a factory to try and find the best solution for the child. decent standard of living. In a further 27 cases, factories did not have satisfactory ID documentation to verify the age of employees (with no GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) suspicion of child labour at the time of the audit) and in In 2009, Clas Ohlson introduced GRI – the global reporting four cases, factories did not have a child labour policy. In standard for sustainability activities – which made it these cases, Clas Ohlson demanded that the companies easier for people to monitor our sustainability efforts. The introduce child labour policies and procedures to maintain introduction of GRI has also created value for Clas Ohlson records of identification documents. by providing a framework with well-defined performance indicators, which can be used to set targets and monitor Forced labour results in selected areas. We did not identify any cases of risk of forced labour during the financial year. Previously identified cases in this area have pertained to wages or to workers’ identification documents being confiscated by the manufacturer. Clas Ohlson demanded that these activities cease immediately and that Status after completed CSR audits the factory concerned introduce policies and procedures to per finanical year prevent forced labour. Year 06/07 07/08 08/09 09/10 10/11 Green 14 11 4 Yellow 4 24 296 332 300 Status per active manufacturers 30 April 2011 Orange 50 82 Status Green Yellow Orange Red Red 14 49 51 40 Per cent Total 4 38 359 444 426 proportion 7% 90% 3% Non-compliance based on GRI indicators after completed audits: GRI indicators 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 Total HR4K Non-discrimination 16 15 20 51 HR5K Freedom of association and the right to collective 1 29 9 7 46 bargaining HR6K Child labour 1 1 1 6 9 HR7K Forced labour 5 2 0 7 36 Sustainable development The CSR audit process At Clas Ohlson’s office in Shanghai, four auditors are employed to check conditions in factories. Clas Ohlson performs internal audits using its own auditors and external audits through independent organisations. An audit comprises the following components • An audit is initiated when our auditors convene an opening meeting with the owner of the factory or a senior official. During this meeting, we provide information about Clas Ohlson, describe the audit process and the documents that the factory must produce for review. • This is followed by a visual inspection of the factory and its premises, including canteens and any housing. Some of the items we check are: Health and safety Documents for production and other • Fire safety (including fire equipment, properties escape routes, emergency exits, • Certificates and permits fire drills) • Policies • Protective equipment for workers, • Attendance lists including protective gloves, ear• The practise of fines or other plugs disciplinary actions • Ventilation, noise and light Child labour • Drinking water • Pay attention to and check for • Toilets young workers • Canteen and kitchen (including The environment hygiene and certificates) • Report the factory’s environmental • First aid equipment impact and risks • Electric wires and cables • Relevant documents and • Machinery equipped with safety decertificates vices • Hazardous substances and waste If the factory provides housing for the are marked and handled safely workers • Access to MSDS (Materials Safety • Number of people per rooms Data Sheet) • Personal space • Training and medical examinations • Toilets for people who work with • Gender-separated rooms hazardous substances • Fire safety (including fire equipment, • Recycling management escape routes, emergency exits). • Water purification, air purification • Ventilation and light • Hygiene and safety • Documents are verified in the next phase, including payrolls, time sheets, ID documents, employment contracts and various types of certificates and permits. • Employees at the factory are then interviewed. The interviews are voluntary and confidential, as protection of individual workers is important. • The visit is concluded with a closing meeting where the factory management is informed of the audit findings. If non-compliances have appeared, we discuss the improvements that must be made and the timeframe for their implementation. • Another inspection is carried out later to ensure that the factory complies with the audit’s improvement requirements. This inspection is conducted by either Clas Ohlson’s own representatives or an independent organisation. We also reserve the right to make both announced and unannounced audits of our manufacturers. Clas Ohlson bears the costs of the audits. Glossary and definitions GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Global reporting standard for sustainability programmes. Introduced in 2009 at Clas Ohlson. CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) CSR entails that companies, on their own initiative, demonstrate Suppliers active commitment and responsibility in terms of social Companies with whom we place orders. development. The term encompasses companies’ social Manufacturers (factories) responsibility, environmental responsibility and HR policies. Companies that manufacture our products. Code of Conduct Agents A Code of Conduct includes guidelines that describe how a Suppliers in Asia with whom we have a long-standing company should conduct operations, ethically, socially and relationship and who purchase products from other suppliers environmentally. It is often based on various international and manufacturers in Asia. agreements, such as UN and ILO conventions, national legislation and regulations. Requirements may also pertain Read more to the production carried out by suppliers and manufacturers. The complete Code of Conduct is available on our website at By applying a Code of Conduct, companies aim to ensure http://om.clasohlson.com/en. Further information about Clas that products are manufactured under satisfactory working Ohlson’s efforts to promote human rights is also available on the conditions. website. Sustainable development 37 Clas Ohlson's values and employees Clas Ohlson’s employees are the core • Implementation of the annual employee survey ESI 2011 (Employee Satisfaction Index). of the Clas Ohlson brand. A comment • Implementation of core value projects with the aim that we frequently hear from our customers all employees, regardless of responsibility or market, understand the significance of our origins and our is that we provide good service and corporate culture. have pleasant and knowledgeable staff, whereby they expect a little more of Clas Proud employees On 30 April 2011, the number of employees in the Group Ohlson. was 3,962. Of these, 53 per cent were full-time employees. During the financial year, 505 new employees were Clas Ohlson is continuing to expand at a rapid pace. The recruited, of whom 190 in Norway, 93 in Sweden, 197 in the company currently has more employees than ever and has UK, 15 in Finland and 10 in China. stores and offices in Sweden, Norway, Finland, the UK and During the year, 20 stores, entailing about 260 people, China. This imposes exacting demands on Clas Ohlson as a underwent our training programme in Insjön. For our responsible employer. employees from the UK, this was an exciting adventure to With the purpose of safeguarding expertise for future say the least. growth and expansion, we place great importance on Our Group-wide employee survey was conducted for the attracting and retaining the industry’s best employees. second time. A response was received from 84 per cent Key success criteria in this work include providing (82 per cent) of our employees, which is high. The survey access to internal career opportunities, continuous skills was conducted in Sweden, Norway, Finland and China. development, market-based salaries, and health and The total outcome for the Group was an ESI (Employee diversity programmes. Satisfaction Index) of 74 per cent (72 per cent), which according to an external comparison stands up well against An eventful year other companies. The employee survey provides a good The following events, measures and activities provide a brief basis for developing our way of attracting, rewarding and summary of our HR and training work during the 2010/11 motivating our employees and how to develop leadership in financial year. the company. •A  focus on skills development in entrepreneurship is The survey shows that most employees feel proud to a key priority when creating conditions for increased work at Clas Ohlson and feel involved in the decisions that sales in our stores. are made. Confidence in leadership and the management • A review of our variable salaries and continuing efforts is strong, and our efforts to promote diversity, equality and to develop the organisation and optimise staffing with a gender equality are rated highly. Our challenges are linked focus on giving the best possible service. to growth, which requires continuing care and development • Our first trainee programme at Clas Ohlson in regard to our position as an attractive employer with a commenced in the autumn of 2010 and a new focus on core values, leadership and clear feedback on the programme is planned for autumn 2011. employee’s performance and salary. Total number of employees Number of employees, men/women Employees per country Women, 42 % Men, 58 % China, 1% Sweden, 50 % 4,000 3,962 UK, 11% 3,430 Finland, 7% 3,000 3,100 2,974 Norway, 31% 2,645 2,000 1,000 0 06/07 07/08 08/09 09/10 10/11 Total Store employees Supervisors Store Other Warehouse Total managers managers employees Total number of training hours 44,773 4,422 2,238 292 2,100 53,825 Average per employee 15 32 6 3 6,3 14 38 Sustainable development Drive Warmth s B Att B r itu s iou de Att Wa av iou r eh itu rm de av eh Drive th Business sense Our focus is the customer and our desire for good n Co business relations tio m m va it m no ent In M an a gers Staff Commitment Innovation Clas Ohlson's values a compass for the entire company Clas Ohlson has a strong corporate culture, whereby caring for employees and customers has always been a natural feature. In the past year, these core values – or the company’s heart and soul – have been clarified and adapted to work in all countries where Clas Ohlson currently operates. Clas Ohlson’s core values revolve around an old-fashioned concept, business acumen, which is synonymous with business intuition and always keeping the customer in mind. To establish and maintain good business acumen, we have chosen to work with four guiding principles: drive, warmth, commitment and innovation. Drive Drive, for Clas Ohlson, is the enjoyment, willingness and ability to make things happen. We find answers to everyday problems, no matter how large or small, and turn words into action. Warmth Warmth, for Clas Ohlson, is the friendliness, care and service-mindedness we show when we meet each other in the company, in each customer contact and in our relationships with suppliers. Commitment Commitment, for Clas Ohlson, means that every individual takes personal responsibility. Key Finder. Helps you keep track of your keys and Regardless of our role or area of responsibility, everyone is equally important for reaching similar items. Consists of a receiver in keychain our common goals. format that is affixed to your keys, for example, and a transmitter in credit card format that is kept in your wallet. Pressing the transmitter’s search Innovation button activates an audio signal in the receiver that Innovation, for Clas Ohlson, is being creative, innovative and curious. We are always helps you locate your keys. Range up to 40 m. looking for new opportunities, products and solutions, while feeling proud of our history. 36-4497 Why are the core values so valuable? Core values are the heart of the Clas Ohlson brand. They provide a compass for the entire Group and are the guiding principles for how we communicate with our customers. “As the Group grows, it is important that our core values remain clear and vital. We want to present the same image and perception of Clas Ohlson to employees and customers in Sweden, Norway, Finland and the UK,” says President and CEO, Klas Balkow. “Distinct core values provide a common platform and compass for our managers as they lead employees towards set targets,” says HR Director Susanne Löfås-Hällman. “Our core values are one of the reasons why so many people want to work for Clas Ohlson, thus making recruitment easier,” says Jessica Head, HR Coordinator in the UK. “The core values help us explain to new employees what the company stands for, while employees who have worked here for a long time are reminded of our origins and what we represent today,” says Ingrida Holst, HR Coordinator in Norway. Basic training for every employee Thomas Marcusson and Marita Billström are responsible for training at the Clas Ohlson Academy in Insjön. They have also been involved in formulating the core values. “This has been an exciting journey, even though it has essentially focused on clarifying and strengthening what we already represent. Our main task now is to translate and spread our core values to all countries, and to all levels of the company. It is something we are really looking forward to,” say Thomas and Marita. Sustainable development 39 Diversity enriches will account for less than 40 per cent in any professional We firmly believe that good results, satisfaction, category. This is achieved through strategic competence commitment and teamwork are attained through diversity. development combined with the prioritisation of an even Consequently, we strive to achieve an even distribution of gender distribution in connection with recruitment. staff with varied experiences and backgrounds. No one is During the 2010/11 financial year, 42 per cent of the to be discriminated against on the grounds of gender, age, company’s employees were women (41 per cent in religion or belief, sexual preference or ethnic and national 2009/10). The proportion of women in senior management background. Results from the employee survey show was 13 per cent (13 per cent in 2009/10) and in May 2011, positive results in this area. when a reorganisation was conducted, this figure was 20 The Group’s gender equality policy underlies our per cent. diversity programmes. The objective is that neither gender A large number of our store employees are younger than 30 years, which is natural since many of them are students who work part-time in the store during evenings and weekends. Continuous skills development Motivated and competent employees are the basis for our continued expansion and success. Ahead of each financial year, we conduct a review of the Group’s collective training requirements, which are subsequently compared with the prevailing business targets. The Clas Ohlson Academy in Insjön is responsible for all training in the Group. This includes mandatory and voluntary training, in all countries and for all professional categories. The aim is to safeguard employees’ skills and career development as well as re-growth and growth within the company. Another important task is to manage, develop and firmly establish the Clas Ohlson spirit. Some 2,000 employees underwent some form of training during the 2010/11 financial year. Training is provided in both classroom format and via video conferencing. A project will commence during autumn 2011 that simplifies and streamlines our interactive training. This project is in line with both our environmental goals and the creation of a cost-effective administration. Last but not least, monitoring the project will ensure that LED work light. Three flexible and bendable legs. Can be used our employees have the right skills for their tasks and can standing or wrapped around a pipe. A ball joint between the light give our customers the best possible service. and legs enables it to rotate 360°. The light can be detached from the legs and be attached to metallic surfaces with the included magnet or used as a torch. Rubberised, anti-slip legs. 20 cold Competitive salaries white LEDs. Two constant beam settings and a flashing setting. 36-4458 Clas Ohlson endeavours to offer a competitive total remuneration. The aim is to offer fixed salary in line with the A young organisation Employee turnover, men/women* A large proportion of our employees are younger than 30 years, which Men 13.6 % Women 13.9 % is natural since many of our store employees work part time. Students often work evenings and weekends in one of Clas Ohlson’s stores. Age breakdown, Clas Ohlson Group Employee turnover* Over 50 years, 8.8 % Below 30 years, 50.5 % Over 50 years, 5.1 % Below 30 years, 19.2 % Employee turnover, per country* Sweden, 10.0 % Finland, 20.0 % 30-49 years, 40.7 % 30-49 years, 9.0 % China, 10.5 % * Current statistics (according to GRI) also include part-time employees. Norway, 16.0 % UK, 19.4 % 40 Sustainable development We attach great importance to giving new employees a solid introduction, ”Insjön Training”, with knowledge of our products, service, corporate culture and history. Our entry into the UK means that the Clas Ohlson spirit has been exported to another country! comparable market median and total remuneration, when Health considerations underlie all of our work on health and Clas Ohlson reaches or exceeds its targets, which is in safety issues. the market’s upper quartile. In addition to a fixed salary, all Our annual employee survey shows that the work employees – regardless of their professional role – receive environment is good and that job satisfaction high, which, some form of performance-based variable salary as well as in turn, is reflected in low employee turnover in relation to a keep-fit allowance and staff discounts. the industry, a total of 13.8 per cent (including part-time employees), and low sickness absence figures. Preventive healthcare programmes During the 2010/11 financial year, the total sickness Clas Ohlson offers a good working environment, where absence amounted to 3.9 per cent. Of the total sickness employees are satisfied, enjoy a sense of security and absence, 1.6 percentage points of absence exceeded 14 belonging, and physical and mental well-being at work. days. Number of employees* Sweden Norway Finland UK China Total Stores 1,198 1,095 243 421 2,957 Distribution centre 344 344 Store managers 450 98 43 32 38 661 Total 1,992 1,193 286 453 38 3,962 – of whom women, % 42 38 40 51 66 42 – of whom permanent employees, % 88 89 98 100 100 91 – of whom full-time, % 57 40 50 28 100 48 Average period of employment in the company, years* Sweden Norway Finland UK China Total Salaried employees 7 7 4 1 1 6.5 Stores/distribution centre 7 3 2 1 4.5 Average sickness absence ,% Sweden Norway Finland UK China Total Total sickness absence 3.1 7.4 4.9 2.1 0.0 3.9 – long-term sick leave 1.1 4.3 0.6 0.1 0.0 1.6 – women 3.8 9.8 6.8 2.6 0.0 4.8 – men 2,6 6.0 3.6 1.7 0.0 3.2 * April 30 2011 Sustainable development 41 Our responsibility for the environment Clas Ohlson purchases products from opportunities for monitoring the consumption of heating, electricity and water in Insjön, and electricity in approximately 600 suppliers in 30 stores. countries. The products are transported • During the autumn of 2010, information was published concerning health risks when handling cash receipts by sea, air, road and rail to the distribution that contain Bisphenol A. Clas Ohlson uses paper that centre in Insjön in Dalarna, where they are is free from both Bisphenol A and Bisphenol S. stored and sorted for onward distribution Environmental work in a wider context to our stores in Sweden, Norway, Finland Our greatest challenge, from a risk and cost perspective, and the UK, and to mail order customers. is our dependence on fossil fuels and their climate impact, The goods are mainly transported by particularly in regard to freight. The global production of oil is considered to have passed road, but transport by sea and rail is production peak and is now declining. In addition to the increasing by the year. threat of a shortage in the longer term, current climatepolicy efforts at government level could result in higher taxes and charges. We work actively to achieve our environmental objectives, The impact of logistics on the climate is one of two and continuously improving the company’s environmental prioritised areas in our environmental work. In partnership performance is a priority. Clas Ohlson’s environmental policy with the transport companies we engage, we are seeking states that the environmental perspective must underpin all solutions to reduce our carbon dioxide emissions. important decisions, in order to create long-term value for our Climate change also shifts the focus to energy customers, employees, shareholders and society at large. consumption in society. The EU issues directives (such as This entails a lifecycle perspective that spans the entire ErP) in order to promote the design and development of chain, from choice of suppliers, manufacturing methods products with higher energy efficiency. and transport modes to product materials, use, energy Clas Ohlson currently offers a broad range of energyconsumption and waste management. saving alternatives for most types of light sources. As a step in this transition process, our product range and Key events during the year product information is continuously developed to help our •N  ew design of store lighting system (lighting plan) has customers reduce their own electricity consumption, thus been introduced. This creates potential for reducing benefiting both the environment and the economy. the installed power from 35-40 W/m2 to less than 25 The EU’s REACH regulation has led to a greater focus W/m2 entailing a significant energy saving. on the chemical substances that products could possibly • Increased resources for operational monitoring in the contain. For our part, this entails clearer and more efficient form of new positions and IT support were introduced procedures for specifying requirements and communicating during the financial year. This provides greater with our suppliers. We use a riskassessment model for Outcome Goal Environmental goals 2010 Analysis 2012 Activities Increased sea freight to stores in the UK using vessels with lower environmental performance Sea freight -1.4 % than vessels between Asia Europe counters a -5% CO2/tkm (vs. 2007) (3.65 vs. 3.70) continued reduction in this performance indicator 3.52 Road -6% Optimisation of flows results in lower performance Higher utilisation rate. -10% CO2/tkm (vs. 2007) (48.6 jmf 51.9) indicator. 46.7 Mixing biofuel into diesel. Rail Intermodal transport to stores in the UK results in +10% of the proportion of 11% a higher proportion. The goal for 2012 has been land transport (vs. 2007 (17.8 jmf 16.1) achieved. 17.7 -48% Air (0.049 vs. The proportion of air freight continues to decline, -10% lower proportion (vs. 2007) 0.094) whereby we are surpassing the goal for 2012. 0.085 Business travel -19.7% The proportion of road travel decreased (-13%), Revised travel policy. Max 150 -20% CO2/km (vs. 2007) (99.8 vs. while train travel increased (47%). Very close to gm CO2/km for new company 124.3) the goal for 2012. 99.4 cars Consumption of operating Increased content per pallet results in relatively Surplus industrial trucks removed electricity at the DC in Insjön -5% fewer pallets, thus countering a continued from operation. Optimisation of -25% kWh/pallet (vs. 2007). (22.6 vs. 23.8) decrease in the performance indicator. 17.1 flows, operating times. Explanation for the table: CO2/tkm = CO2 emissions per tonne/kilometre. Intermodality means that a freight unit, such as a container, is freighted with several different modes of transport, such as train, boat or truck. DC = Distribution Centre. 42 Sustainable development this work, which basically means that we classify products tion of imports from Asia and accordingly, a greater need for according to supplier category, brand, area of application transport. and user group. We then adapt our demands on suppliers However, emissions per tonne/kilometre declined, and and products according to the risk classification. the overall performance indicator was reduced from 6.2 in 2009 to 5.5 grams per tonne/kilometre in 2010. This was Organisation and responsibility mainly due to a lower proportion of air freight and a higher Environmental efforts are a feature of Clas Ohlson’s proportion of sea and rail transport. sustainability work and are coordinated in a CSR forum. The forum formulates targets and strategies, and plans and monitors sustainability efforts. Each function manager is Product responsibility then responsible for measures relative to the environmental impact of his/her own activity. Overall environmental goals Read more about Clas Ohlson’s CSR forum on page 29. The products we sell must have properties that meet or exceed market expectations in regard to material characterisFreight and business travel tics, energy consumption, safety and quality. Product rangOur overall environmental objectives entail that carbon es and information is to be developed to help our customers dioxide emissions per tonne/kilometre for freight and reduce their own environmental impact. person/kilometre for business travel must be reduced by 30 per cent by 2020, compared with the base year of 2007. Chemical risk substances The reduction applies to the total performance indicators for The number of chemical substances covered by the EU current transport modes. REACH regulation is rapidly increasing. Clas Ohlson has Of the major flow of goods arriving in Gothenburg by worked extensively to train prioritised suppliers in terms of sea, about 85 per cent are transported by rail to the termilegal requirements, how to remain updated and the subnal at Insjön in Dalarna. Goods from Swedish and European stances that could be present in various products and suppliers are coordinated and loaded in several locations for packaging. The suppliers have been given access to subonward transport by road to Insjön. stance guides and quick links to current legislation. Transport from the distribution centre to stores and customers mainly goes by road, but the proportion of the Phase-out of risk substances flow of goods that is transported by rail and sea increased All materials and substances in products with known risks from 1.9 in 2009 to 16.4 per cent in 2010. must at least meet the requirements of applicable laws. The climate impact of business travel is falling. The Clas Ohlson is phasing out the substances considered risk performance indicator for travel by road, air and rail is now substances in the REACH regulation by setting a maximum under 100 gm CO2/km, which is very close to the target for limit of 0.1 weight per cent. We have identified additional 2012. substances for textiles and leather products, beyond legal requirements, which we minimise in our products. These Results include nonylphenol, formaldehyde and allergenic disperse Clas Ohlson’s total CO2 emissions for freight increased from dyes. We also apply more stringent requirements for identi11,800 tonnes in 2009 to 16,289 tonnes in 2010 due to a fied risk substances in materials that come into contact with greater number of stores, increased sales, a higher proporskin or food, and for toys, cosmetics and pesticides. Energy consumption* Carbon dioxide emissions from 2010 2009 2008 The performance indicators transport and travel show energy consumption in Store premises, kWh electricity**150 139 136 four different areas: electricity Transport gram CO2 per tonne/kilometre Offices, kWh total 157 205 233 consumption in stores, electricity consumption, district heating 2010 2009 2008 Distribution centre, kWh 100 83 98 and oil consumption at the head Outgoing freight 47.7 50.1 50.6 Distribution centre, kWh/pallet 22.6 24.2 24.1 office and distribution centre, and electricity consumption per Incoming freight Europe 22,5 24,1 24,1 Fuel oil Insjön, m3 9.4 19.8 91.0 delivered pallet. Incoming freight Asia 3.76 4.19 4.55 * Per sqaure metre and year. ** Excluding stores in the UK. Business travel gram CO2 per person/kilometre Total electricity consumption GWh 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Mean value road, air, rail 99.8 112.6 112.8 Store premises** 30.9 23.4 19.2 Offices 1.6 2.2 2.5 Distribution centre 5.1 4.4 3.7 Proportion of air freight ** Excluding stores in the UK. (%) of total goods flow 0.1400 Fossil carbon dioxide tonnes 0.1200 2010 2009 2008 Freight 16,289 11,800 9,499 0.1000 0.0800 Travel 514 530 420 0.0600 Heating 186 * 286 233 0.0400 Electricity 2,760 1,079 507 0.0200 * During 2010, 17% of district heating at Insjön was based on fuel oil and 83% on biomass. This figure also includes 0.0000 24.4 tonnes of CO2 from in-house use of fuel oil. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Target 2012 Sustainable development 43 Energy efficiency Stores The EuP (Energy-using Products) Directive for electrical and Clas Ohlson owns no store premises, with the exception electronic products was introduced in the EU in the autumn of Insjön. Electricity and energy consumption varies of 2007. In November 2009, the name was changed significantly between stores. For example, some stores to ErP (Energy-related Products), and the directive was have their own escalators and additional electric signs, expanded to include products that affect energy needs. The which entails higher electricity consumption. Directive requires that manufacturing companies integrate The performance indicator for electricity consumption in environmental considerations early in the design phase – all of our stores continues to increase – from 139 kWh per so-called eco-design – in order to improve the products’ square metre per year in 2009, to 150 in 2010, excluding total environmental impact and energy efficiency. To date, stores in the UK. In the Nordic region, cooling/heating the Directive covers approximately 20 product groups, is included in the leasing contract. In the UK, all property of which a substantial portion is included in Clas Ohlson’s energy is billed separately, which means that electricity range. Concrete examples are requirements for reduced consumption in British stores cannot be compared with that stand-by losses from transformers and the ongoing phaseof stores in the Nordic region. out of incandescent bulbs. We have good hopes of increasing our energy-efficiency and reversing this trend, primarily by introducing three Sustainability and quality changes. – after-market service 1. During the year, we created a new position, an Clas Ohlson offers a range of more than 9,000 spare parts operations and maintenance coordinator, with a focus for products sold in Sweden, Norway, Finland and the UK. on monitoring performance. This is a major environmental benefit, since the lifecycle of 2. IT support for operational monitoring, which provides products is extended by repairing rather than discarding. Our good opportunities for monitoring the development after-market service, our extensive range of spare parts and and effect of implemented measures. employees’ product knowledge is highly appreciated by our 3. The new lighting planning project in Norway is now customers. Customer satisfaction has also been confirmed finished and the results show significant savings by Market magazine, which has rated our Customer Service potential. the best in Sweden for the third year in a row. Waste The WEEE Directive (Waste Electrical and Electronic Energy consumption Equipment) applies in all countries where we operate and Clas Ohlson accepts producer responsibility through its membership in national waste collection systems in all Overall environmental objectives markets. All energy consumption in our own and leased premises For many years, the distribution centre at Insjön has and properties must be documented. Efforts are to be employed efficient systems for sorting waste at source and directed toward specified savings targets for the distribution recycling. Surplus packaging is pressed into large bales that centre, head office and stores. The use of energy from fossil are sold and become raw material for new products. The sources in our own operations must be discontinued. same applies to various fractions of plastics. Other waste is separated into approximately ten fractions. Distribution centre The performance indicator for our combined energy Packaging consumption in the distribution centre increased and is now In cooperation with our suppliers, we aim to reduce the at the same level as in 2007, entailing around 100 kWh/m2 proportion of environmentally damaging product packaging. per year. This is due to increased production in response This will be accomplished by avoiding the use of plastic to increased sales. The other performance indicators in packaging or by replacing PVC with PE or PET plastics. combination provide a positive view of the trend. Electricity In 2010, sales of carrier bags in our stores amounted consumption, kWh/pallet, decreased from 24.2 in 2009 to to 8.4 million. About 17 per cent are paper bags, mainly 22.6 in 2010. During the same period, the number of rows made of polythene (PE). Sales of the new sustainable repicked increased 17 per cent and the number of outgoing usable bags of reinforced PP plastic amounted to 80,000. pallets increased 13 per cent. The conclusion is that Packaging that is sent to our mail order customers is production increased, energy efficiency improved and pallets environmentally friendly due to their content of around 50 contained more and, as such, became relatively fewer. per cent recycled fibre and bio-based adhesives. Clas Ohlson accepts its producer responsibility for Head office packaging through membership in national collection and Clas Ohlson’s head office at Insjön, including the Grouprecycling systems in Sweden, Norway, Finland and the UK. wide functions of management, accounting, purchasing, marketing and HR, comprises two buildings totalling 20,000 Printed matter square metres of floor space. These buildings also house the Insjön store and customer service, with workshops, Overall environmental objectives spare parts store and so forth. Since December 2009, all When choosing communication channels, the sections of the buildings have been connected to bio-based environmental impact will influence our decisions. We district heating. The performance indicator for the total strive to increase the proportion of online customer and consumption of electricity, district heating and oil continues shareholder communications. The production of our printed to fall and over the past three years, 2008 – 2010, has fallen matter is to take place with technology and materials that by 42 per cent from 233 to 134 kWh/m2 per year. are well-documented and have a low environmental impact. 44 Sustainable development Our printed matter must be recyclable as high-quality fibre. fewer mailings, thus reducing our environmental impact. Clas Ohlson has issued a catalogue annually since 1918. The catalogue is printed in accordance with the Legislation and guidelines Nordic Ecolabel criteria and distributed mainly together with Clas Ohlson is mainly impacted by the following EU supplies to our stores. Since the 2008/2009 financial year, directives: the catalogue has been published twice annually to facilitate • Regulations on the use of substances hazardous to the more product-range and price flexibility. environment and health in products (RoHS, REACH). In addition to the catalogue, we issue regular direct mail • Regulations on the products’ energy efficiency (ErP). marketing printed on Ecolabelled paper. The Clas Ohlson • Producer responsibility for waste electrical and Annual Report is also printed on Nordic Ecolabelled paper electronic equipment (WEEE). and is only distributed to the shareholders who have Read more. For further information on our environmental requested printed information from the company. This has and sustainability programmes, visit our website http:// led to a 70%-reduction in the number of issues printed and about.clasohlson.com/en. RoHS: 2002/95/EC oon the Restriction of the Use of certain Hazardous properties and assess the risks. A new authorisation procedure will be Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment. introduced for chemicals with properties that are seriously hazardous The RoHS Directive forbids the use of mercury, cadmium, lead, to the environment and health. Particularly hazardous substances are hexavalent chromium and the flame-retardant substances PBB and entered in a so-called candidate list. PBDE in new electrical and electronic products released into the market All manufacturers, importers or sellers of goods on the candidate list as of 1 July 2006. The quantity limit is 0.1 per cent by weight (0.01 per containing more than 0.1 per cent by weight of a substance must present cent cadmium by weight) of homogeneous material. RoHS covers the this information to their customers to ensure that the product can be product categories included in WEEE. handled safely. In Sweden, the Swedish Chemicals Agency is the regulatory body. WEEE: 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment. Reach: 1907/2006/EC Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and The aim is to design and produce electrical and electronic products in Restriction of Chemicals. a manner that prevents waste. When waste anyway occurs, it is to be The Directive came into effect throughout the EU on 1 June 2007 and collected and reused or recycled in an environmentally sound manner. REACH regulations will be introduced gradually through 2018. REACH is Manufacturers and importers are to pay for future recycling of products based on the principle that it is the party that manufactures or introduces and ensure that collection and environmentally sound recycling is a chemical into the market who is responsible for determining the risks performed. associated with the chemical before it is put into use. In Sweden, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is the Chemical manufacturers and users shall prepare data on the chemicals’ regulatory body. Clas Ohlson's GRI profile A complete version is available at http://about.clasohlson.com/en Clas Ohlson reports at C level. Performance indicators Page Financial impact EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations 60-63 and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Environmental impact EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 43 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source. 43 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 43 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 43 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and reductions achieved. 31, 42, 43, 44 Social impact LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment terms and region. 41, 75 not 31 LA2 Employee turnover. 40 LA10 Average number training hours per employee and year per employee category. 38 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority 40, 78, 79 group membership, and other diversity indicators. Human rights HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights, and actions taken. 7, 35 HR4 Number of cases of discrimination and actions taken. 36 HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant 36 risk, and actions taken to support these rights. HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the 36 elimination of child labour. HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures taken to 36 contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour. Product responsbility PR1 Lifecycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage 43, 44 of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Sustainable development 45 Clas Ohlson AB (publ.) SE-793 85 Insjön, SWEDEN Phone: +46 247 444 00 Fax: +46 247 444 25 www.clasohlson.se Corporate identity number: 556035-8672
