and sustainability 2010 There is no solution to climate change without responsible commercial forestry During the process of photosynthesis, leaves use energy from the sun to convert carbon Trees and plants are dioxide into organic essential to a stable compounds, climate. They help especially sugars. remove heat-trapping The water absorbed carbon dioxide gas from through the roots the air by storing carbon ‘transports’ these in their leaves, wood, nutrients throughout roots and soils. the tree. As the leaves store carbon, they give off oxygen. Wood is produced in the trunk of a tree. Tree trunks are made up of 45% cellulose, 30% hemicellulose, In Sappi’s plantations, 20% lignin and logging is balanced with 5% extractives. re-growth and twigs and The lignins are stumps are left behind, removed before leading to continuous making coated ﬁne enrichment of the soil. paper and resultant black liquor, a source of renewable energy in integrated pulp mills. The roots also absorb water and minerals from the ground and send them up through the trunk and out through the branches. Approximately 50% of the weight of a tree is water and this is used in the manufacturing process. Renewable • Recyclable • Biodegradable 2010 sustainability report 1 Contents Who we are and 2010 highlights 2 Key issues 14 Message from the chief executive ofﬁcer 4 Report-back on targets and Charter commitments 19 Sustainable organisation 6 – Prosperity 20 Sustainable ﬁbre 7 – People 28 Sustainable manufacturing 10 – Planet 36 Sustainable products and marketplace 12 External accolades and benchmarks 44 Our vision Our Sustainability Charter To embed the 3Ps of Prosperity, We define sustainable development as “development which meets the needs of the present without compromising the People and Planet into our ability of future generations to meet their own needs”.* We incorporate the principles of sustainable development everyday business processes to into our everyday business practices by developing a culture add value to all stakeholders, and of compliance. Sappi’s people commit to the following goals: to help achieve our goal to be, Prosperity on a sustainable basis, the most  Focus on long-term profitable growth proﬁtable company in paper, pulp  Promote an ethical culture and chemical cellulose solutions.  Drive customer satisfaction through technology and innovation  Build on our competitive position in our core markets Our mission statement  Maintain our licence to trade  Create value for all stakeholders. fulfils this aspiration Delivering on sustainability by: People  Focusing on ethical Performance in keeping  Provide training and development opportunities with our values of Excellence, Integrity and Respect  Cultivate an inclusive, diverse workplace  Generating Prosperity as our ability to remain  Be a great place to work a sustainable player is founded on generating  Prioritise wellbeing, safety and health proﬁts in the shortand long-term  Engage with stakeholders openly and constructively  Improving the lives of People through products  Partner with communities. and services that enrich their lives and by providing an environment in which they can develop their full potential Planet  Safeguard biodiversity by promoting sustainable forestry  Treading more lightly on the Planet by balancing our needs with our impact on the Earth.  Reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase our use of renewable energy  Continue our commitment to independent environmental, wood and fibre certification systems  Reduce solid waste and improve water quality An expanded version of this report, together with the GRI G3 indicators, can be found on our website  Promote the recovery and use of recycled fibre www.sappi.com  Conform with best environmental practice and legislation. * The Brundtland Report, Our Common Future 2 Who we are Founded and incorporated in South Africa in 1936, Sappi is today a global paper and pulp company. We are a leading producer of coated ﬁne paper widely used in books, brochures, magazines, catalogues and many other print applications. We are also the world’s largest producer of chemical cellulose, used primarily in the manufacture of viscose ﬁbre, acetate tow and consumer and pharmaceutical products. In addition, we produce newsprint, uncoated graphic and business papers, premium quality packaging papers, a range of coated speciality papers and a range of paper grade pulp. Sappi works closely with customers, both direct and indirect, in over 100 countries to provide them with relevant and sustainable paper, paper pulp and chemical cellulose products and related services and innovations. Sales US$6,572 million Employees 15,586 Sappi Fine Paper Sappi Southern Africa Sappi Trading 76% of group sales 24% of group sales 153 employees Sales US$5,011 million Sales US$1,561 million Network of International sales Paper capacity 5.4 million tons Paper capacity 1.180 million tons and distribution offices Pulp capacity 2.1 million tons Pulp capacity 1.8 million tons Also co-ordinates shipping and logistical functions Research & Development Sales offices:  North America Sappi Fine Paper Europe Innovation Hub  Central America  South America  Europe 55% of sales  Environmental  Fibre processing  Africa  Australia  Asia  Paper  Tree improvement  9 mills  16 Sales offices Research & Development Jiangxi Chenming Paper Co Research & Development Centre Sappi Paper and Paper (China JV) Packaging  Base paper  Pulp fibre 34% ownership  Coating  Printing  6 mills  4 Sales offices Sappi Fine Paper Sappi Chemical Cellulose North America 21% of sales  1 mill  3 mills  4 Sales offices Research & Development Research & Development Saiccor Technology Centre Technology Centre  Chemical cellulose  Fillers and coatings  Printing  Casting release Forests Plantations (pulpwood and saw logs) Research & Development Tweedie Research Centre  Forestry Research & Development: Sappi Technology Centres Research and development take place at our technology centres in North America, Europe and South Africa which all have their own specific areas of expertise. In focusing on innovation, our main objective is to ensure that our business stays relevant for stakeholders through appropriate technology, ongoing product development, as well as listening to our customers’ needs. 2010 sustainability report 3 2010 highlights Each of our businesses generated positive profit for the year and in the final quarter, the group achieved its highest quarterly operating profit (excluding special items) since 2002.  A Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) transaction was concluded which saw 30% of Sappi’s South African business becoming empowered.  The interactive eQ tool launched by Sappi Fine Paper North America is aimed at educating our stakeholders on our North American business’ environmental footprint.  We significantly increased the procurement of our certified wood fibre from 51% to 61% in North America, from 70% to 82% in South Africa, while in Europe it remained unchanged at approximately 75%. Under the heading of “Code of Ethics: are we walking the walk?” we conducted a survey on the updated Sappi Code of Ethics. Over 90% of respondents from North America believed that the Code was being followed by their managers and colleagues versus 77% and 75% in Europe and South Africa respectively. Almost all employees correctly identified all three of Sappi’s core values: Excellence, Integrity and Respect. 4 Message from the chief executive officer Ralph Boëttger Sustainability has moved from the fringes of business into the mainstream and we are determined not to relegate sustainability to being a checklist exercise. We believe that the essence of sustainability is to protect and to create stakeholder value over the long-term. This will be achieved by being responsive to the changing trends of dynamic marketplaces, considerate of the expectations and needs of our stakeholders and sensitive to the fact that we operate in an industry which has a high potential environmental impact. The further we integrate sustainability into our everyday business processes, the more we understand the interdependent nature of the 3Ps of Prosperity, People and Planet. Energy is a case in point. Our operations are energy intensive. Our longterm strategic plan involves the reduction of greenhouse gases (GHGs) and a concerted focus on the use of renewable and self-generated energy. By reducing our carbon footprint we generate cost savings as well as achieving greater control on this key input in terms of selfh fi fin anciiaal and sufficiency. Having the ability to generate our own energy is important ge b o t economically and from an environmental perspective. We mana k s an d mpacts iim al r ciia i s is In terms of Prosperity, to drive our return to profitability, management non-ffiinan real busiin ness actions over the last year have included closure of under performing o a c h ie ie v e n order t iin lu lu e a dd for ou r operations (Kangas Mill in Finland and Usutu Mill in Swaziland), the and v a consolidation of our paper division in South Africa into Sappi Paper and beneffiits Paper Packaging South Africa, the re-engineering of our customer stakeholld ders. processes and service offerings in Europe and various well-received marketing campaigns dealing with new products and with the sustainable nature of our products. The structural changes in South Africa are aimed at meeting customer requirements and developing new business opportunities. Globally we continue to explore technical innovation opportunities delivering variable cost reduction and improvement in procurement, 2010 sustainability report 5 waste management and capital expenditure. We also concentrate on Safety is an ongoing challenge. We have worked very hard to create a growth areas of our business, developing relationships at all levels with culture which prioritises safety at all times and incorporates contractors our customer base and launching a range of innovative products to into this culture. While our safety performance improved further in the meet their specific needs. year under review, I deeply regret having to report that there were four We view Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) as a fatalities – one in Europe and three in our South African operations. We key requirement for sustainable growth and social development in will continue to focus on entrenching a strong safety culture with the South Africa and we have long been committed to participating in the ultimate target of zero harm. country’s transformation and development through our South African In working to achieve our goal of treading more lightly on the Planet, we forestry and manufacturing operations. are now producing the average sheet of fine paper with less fossilDuring the past financial year we concluded a BBBEE transaction based energy and water and with less impact on landfill than we did which has enabled us to meet our BBBEE equity targets. Effectively, three years ago. Going forward we will focus on continuous improvement 30% of the equity in our South African business is now in the hands of through our pursuit of best practice forest management standards, all South African employees below middle-management level (62.5%), efficient manufacturing practices, renewable energy generation, fibre our black managers (15%), the communities in which our South African recovery and responsible use of all resources. business is economically active (12.5%) and a strategic empowerment partner group (10%). Shifting stakeholder expectations together with new knowledge and innovations in technology are constantly challenging us to make choices In terms of People, the abovementioned transaction was aimed at in the way our operations, products, services, and activities impact on creating wealth on a broad basis for our employees and black managers our financial viability, on our stakeholders and on the earth. who, in the majority, do not participate in other company share incentive schemes and at attracting and retaining core skills. I would like to thank those who have worked hard in the past year to leverage the opportunities and deal with the challenges of this dynamic Communities, in particular those located near our operations, are key environment. The sustainability journey is often unpredictable, sometimes stakeholders and as such we believed it appropriate to include them in difficult, but always stimulating and I look forward to taking on the the equity package. We will continue to promote their advancement through our corporate social investment projects, particularly through challenges that await us in the year ahead. educational and entrepreneurial initiatives. The transaction has also elevated our South African business to a ‘Level Three Contributor’ which means that 110% of the value of all purchases from Sappi’s South African business qualifies as preferential procurement Ralph Boëttger spend by our South African customers and gives our products a Chief executive officer competitive advantage in this region. Sappi Limited 6 Sustainable organisation Message from group head: legal and sustainability our environmental data from those mills. The issue of having our sustainability information assured in some way has been under Balancing the economic, social and environmental aspects of the consideration for a period of time. Our intention is therefore to involve business within a transparent, ethical corporate governance framework our internal audit department in conducting an assessment of certain underpins our approach to sustainable development. social and environmental performance indicators during 2011. We will The Sappi Code of Ethics is the foundation of this approach. In the year report back on progress made in next year’s report. under review, we rolled out a global survey to assess our employees awareness and understanding of the Code, including whether they Ria Sanz see it as adding value to the organisation and the extent to which they Group head: legal and sustainability abide by it. Sappi Limited The survey indicated a high awareness of Sappi’s core values of Excellence, Integrity and Respect. The majority of employees would report fraud or unethical behaviour to their line managers, with the Sappi Hotlines being the second line of recourse. Sappi Limited Board Key developments A key development in the year under review was the elevation of the executive sustainability committee into a board committee which continues to be chaired by Jock McKenzie, an independent nonBoard Sustainability Committee executive director Rudolf Thummer a non-executive director, was appointed during the year to the sustainability board committee. The committee agrees sustainability objectives and monitors targets quarterly. The latter are set out on page 19, with the annual data reflecting that we have achieved some, but not all, of our goals during Group Sustainable Development Council the year. Governance was strengthened further by formalising our approach to sustainability-related issues in the form of global group policies. This Regional Sustainable Development Councils has given everyone within our geographically diverse group a common blueprint for engaging with stakeholders and has enhanced understanding of our stance on certain key issues. Annually our mills in the European Union are certiﬁed under the EcoNorth America Europe South Africa Management Audit System (EMAS) which involves external auditing of Scope of this report This report is aligned with our annual report and covers the period which we introduced last year – an approach which provides a very 28 September 2009 to 26 September 2010. In terms of joint ventures, clear link between sustainability and strategy and meets King III’s we have a 34% stake in our joint venture in Jiangxi Chenming Mill in the recommendation for integrated reporting. We report in accordance with People’s Republic of China and only have an indirect influence. Hence the GRI G3 indicators and this year, have declared ourselves as a level this mill is not covered in our report. LignoTech South Africa, our 50:50 A reporter. joint venture with Borregard at Saiccor Mill is also excluded as we do The printed report is aimed at giving the reader a broad overview of not manage the operation.(1) We report on a regional and global basis, our triple bottom line performance. Our online report (http://sappi. wherever possible presenting data over five years to make the investoreports.com/sappi_sdr_2010) follows the same structure, but information relevant, accessible and comparable. incorporates more details. Our compliance with the UN Global Compact, About this report to which we are a signatory, is also detailed in the online report. As Sappi Limited is headquartered in South Africa and has its primary The information presented has been determined on the basis of our listing on the JSE, we abide by the King III Code on Corporate ongoing engagement – formal and informal – with our stakeholders Governance (King III).(2) and has been assessed against the backdrop of current business We have once again reported in terms of our 16 Sustainability Charter operations, as well as prevailing trends in our industry and the global commitments in terms of the performance against objectives grid economy. (1) LignoTech SA produces lignosulphanate, which is based on the binding agent of wood, and a co-product of pulp production. Lignin-based products are used as dispersing agents in concrete, textile dyes, pesticides and ceramics and as binding agents in briquetting, animal feed and dust suppression. (2) The King Report on Corporate Governance for South Africa was published in 2009. It followed a 1994 report commonly known as King I, and a 2002 report commonly known as King II. From June 2010, companies listed on South Africa’s JSE Limited must comply with King III. 2010 sustainability report 7 Sustainable fibre One of the greatest benefits of paper and All manufacturing activities have some impact on the Planet and ours is no exception. However, we are treading increasingly lightly. We now paper packaging and chemical cellulose produce the average sheet of fine paper with less energy and less water is that the wood fibre they are derived than we did three years ago. In addition, the solid waste we sent to landfill decreased. Globally, we use over 49% renewable energy from is a sustainable, renewable resource. to manufacture our papers – and we’re working on increasing this We use independent, internationally accredited forest certification percentage. systems like the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification All of this, together with the fact that our papers are recyclable and (PEFC) the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), and the Sustainable biodegrade without leaving harmful residue in either the soil, the air or Forestry Initiative (SFI®). These internationally recognised, independent auditing procedures mean that it is possible to trace our virgin fibre from the water when they do degrade, offers a truly planet-friendly solution. source to end product. Our papers are produced using labour drawn from local communities, Globally, approximately 75% of the fibre we procure is certified, with the and the services of small and medium enterprises situated in the areas rest being procured from known and controlled sources. We do not around plantations and production facilities. We also have a bestsource from old-growth or endangered forests anywhere in the world. practice training programme and, through our corporate social Our wood fibre is a renewable resource, grown in sustainably managed responsibility programme, are investing in the socio-economic forests (North America and Europe) and plantations (South Africa). development of the communities in which our workers live. Sustainable fibre continued > Birch Pine Maple Eucalyptus Poplar Fibre origin and species South Africa Europe Focus of Tweedie research centre: Maximisation of pulp yield and No owned plantations or land. Wood fibre sourced from forests close to modification of fibres to enhance characteristics for end products. each mill. Softwood and hardwood pulp is sourced from Europe and the Americas. Species grown: All timber in SA is sourced from plantations (planted forests of exotic trees) of softwoods and hardwoods. The soft woods Tree species used: Spruce (used for mechanical pulp and softwood are all pine species including Pinus patula, Pinus elliottii, Pinus taeda chemical pulp) and beech (used for hardwood pulp). Lanaken Mill can and some hybrids. The hardwoods consist of eucalypts including also process significant amounts of poplar. Eucalyptus grandis, Eucalyptus dunnii, Eucalyptus nitens, Eucalyptus smithii and a range of hybrids, and the wattle, Acacia mearnsii. North America Propagation: Seeds and cuttings come from Sappi’s own seed No owned forest plantations or land. Wood sourced from landowners orchards where the parent trees have been specially selected for their and commercial loggers. Wood procured from temperate forests in growth qualities and desirable timber characteristics. Maine, New Hampshire, Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin and from Seedlings are grown in Sappi’s own nurseries in the provinces of the Canadian provinces of New Brunswick, Quebec and Ontario. Mpumalanga and KwaZulu Natal. Tree species used: Maple, poplar, aspen, beech and birch (hardwoods) All seedlings leaving the nurseries are assessed in terms of the Sappi and spruce, pine and fir (softwoods). Plant Quality Index (PQI). Developed in-house to assess the quality of seedlings and cuttings, thus ensures that they meet certain physical and physiological specifications and that acceptable survival and growth is achieved. 8 Sustainable ﬁbre continued GROWING South Africa Planting  Softwood and hardwood planted in roughly equal proportions to a density average of 1,667 trees per hectare.  Tree species are matched with the soil type and climatic conditions.  Watercourses are carefully delineated to ensure our trees do not use water stored in these systems. Water use  The trees in our plantations are not irrigated. Commercial forestry plantations account for a little less than 3% of total water use in South Africa while irrigation for agriculture accounts for Many millions of tree seedlings are grown in Sappi’s tree nurseries approximately 60% of all water used in the country. each year Photosynthesis During the process of photosynthesis, trees use energy from the Maintenance sunlight to convert carbon dioxide (CO2) into organic compounds  Silvicultural practices to maintain stands of trees include periodic (foods) essential for their growth storing carbon and releasing oxygen weeding, as well as protection from fire, pests and diseases. in the process. Plantations and natural forests thus help to mitigate  Biocontrol methods used to combat infestation by wood wasp the impacts of global warming. in the pine-growing regions of Mpumalanga. Biodiversity  Approximately 30% of land is managed for biodiversity endangered species: the Cape Parrot, the Wattled Crane and the conservation, 5% is used for infrastructure and 65% is forested. Blue Swallow). A wide range of rare and endangered animals and  Over 450 bird species have been recorded on Sappi land (over plants has been recorded and is conserved. half the species recorded in South Africa, including the critically HARVESTING  Every tree that is harvested is replaced with new growing stock. Safety and forests  The growth rate of trees in our plantations is approximately three Forestry can be a hazardous activity which means safety management times faster than that of similar trees in the northern hemisphere. is a core commitment. Having most of our forestry operations contracted out makes safety management more complex and difficult.  Hardwood (eucalypts) harvested at ten years, softwood (pines) at Over the last two years we have developed a Contractor Safety 18 years. Management System which has now become fully operational  Harvesting: 58% mechanical, 42% manual. and has resulted in significant improvements in the safety performance  When biomass is harvested and used to generate energy, the of our contractors, so much so that we have achieved record safety carbon it contains is released as carbon dioxide (CO2) into the performance indices. atmosphere. This process is considered to be ‘carbon neutral’ Employment as the carbon dioxide generated is the same amount that was  The forestry industry is a significant employer in rural areas. bound from the atmosphere by the process of photosynthesis during the growth of the trees. Forests only contribute to net carbon  Sappi employs about 12,000 contractor employees during planting, emissions when biomass is harvested faster than it grows back. growing and harvesting, all of which are outsourced. A sustainably managed forest landscape is considered to be a net  We support approximately 10,000 emerging timber farmers under carbon sequester despite the removal of biomass during harvesting. the Project Grow scheme. At Sappi, logging is balanced with re-growth and twigs and stumps are left behind, leading to continuous enrichment of the soil. 2010 sustainability report 9 CERTIFICATION South Africa North America Origin of non-certified fibre In terms of non-certified fibre, wood/pulp Sappi’s lands are 100% FSC certified and are  61% of fibre procured is third-party certified. is sourced from known and trusted also ISO 14001 certified. In this region, 82%  Our involvement in initiatives to promote suppliers close to each mill, regularly visited of the fibre we procure is certified. third party forest certification include: by our buyers. FSC-controlled wood and PEFC non-controversial sources – A partnership with Time Inc, Hearst requirements are incorporated into our Europe Corporation and two of our competitors purchasing specifications and contracts to help smalland medium-sized and in line with our ISO 14001-accredited  75% of fibre p procured ured is third party certified. third-party landowners lan in Maine achieve third-party purchasing policy. Environmentaland forest for certification. forestry-related information (including wood sources) is obtained from every pulp – The Sustainable Forestry Programme. supplier on a regular basis and this data is Op Operating from Skowhegan, Maine. then evaluated by a team of experts. chemes: The programme is comprised of a team ification s Main cert rsement h of highly-trained forest professionals, m e fo r the Endo incl including licenced foresters, dedicated gram  the Pro n (PEFC) a to assisting woodlot owners in the state o re s t C ertificatio SC) M of Maine develop and manage their of F ouncil (F s t S te w ardship C woo woodlots. Certified as an FSC group ve (SFI ) ®  the Fore s try Initiati man management scheme. le F o re stainab  the Su Sustainable manufacturing TRANSPORT South Africa Europe North America >  Sappi’s revolutionary timber trucks are 22%  In 2009, Sappi Fine Paper North America longer and permitted to carry 20% more joined the US Environmental Protection load than their predecessors in the industry, Agency’s (EPA) SmartWaySM Transport and are 18% more fuel efficient per ton Partnership, an innovative collaboration transported. Sappi was the first forestry between the EPA and companies that company in South Africa to benefit from provide and hire freight delivery services, the use of these vehicles on a and is designed to increase energy commercial basis. efficiency while significantly reducing greenhouse gases and air pollution. In FY2010, we continued to communicate the benefits of the SmartWaySM programme to our carriers and merchant partners, and built upon the trend of increasing the number of certified carriers in our network moving our products. ISSUES South Africa Europe and Limits on land for planting Maximising fibre yield North America We aim to expand our landholdings to Over 15 years, our research efforts have increase our wood ﬁbre base. We achieved resulted in a 60% improvement in eucalypt Fibre supply this in 2010 by purchasing the 14,500ha plantation yield. We have implemented In both Europe and North America, we are Sjonajona plantation in Mpumalanga. extensive planting of more drought-resistant able to mitigate fibre supply risk through eucalypt species. a combination of approaches which include Drought both shortand long-term wood supply We have permanent sample plots measured Pest control agreements and shareholdings in wood annually (eucalypts) or bi-annually (pines) Ongoing research and collaboration with sourcing co-operatives. to determine the effect of drought on industry and tertiary institutions to develop current annual increment as an input to biocontrol measures and breed genetically long-term planning. We have implemented more resistant planting stock. extensive planting of more drought-tolerant Fires eucalypt species. Extensive risk mitigation between planted stands of trees as well as in open areas and under the tree canopies in vulnerable areas. 10 Sustainable manufacturing INPUTS Integrated mills Energy Chemicals r Wate micals + Purchased electricity, steam, gas, coal, heavy fuel oil, Pigments, fillers, binders, additives. + Che rgy biomass. Necessary to enhance the Ene Pulp and paper operations are energy-intensive and in performance properties of paper. some regions, purchased power is our major energy Bleaching source. In certain regions, electricity generation is mainly plant coal-based and this has obvious carbon implications. Lime mud Globally, around 49% of the energy we use comes from Lime mud, a renewable sources (waste products from our production by-product of the processes, black liquor, bark and sludges, as well as pulping process, is used by farmers to purchased biomass). control soil pH. Recovery Water boiler Ash The ash created by burning bark, The majority of water used is branches and other biomass from drawn from rivers. Other sources: trees in some form of our mill dams, boreholes (Europe and SA), PU boilers, can be used as fertiliser LP recycled sewage water (Enstra and a soil additive. and Adamas Mills). IN All current papermaking G solid waste processes use large amounts of water – to hold, transport and Digester distribute the fibre that becomes the sheet of paper. Water is also an integral part of the steam Lignosulphanate systems used to generate energy. A joint venture in South Africa and a whollyowned subsidiary in Europe produces lignosulphanate which is based on the binding agent of wood and is a co-product of pulp production. Lignin-based products are used as dispersing agents in concrete, textile dyes, Fibre pesticides, ceramics and as binding agents in briquetting, animal feed and dust suppression. Wood fibre, logs, thinnings and sawmill by-products for Chipper Tall oil integrated mills which do their At some mills, tall oil from organic soaps is sold to own pulping. a convertor and used to make lubricants, detergents and paint additives. Bagasse (sugar cane waste residue) – Stanger Mill (Triple Green and Masuga ranges). solid waste Recovered fibre We are driving the use of recovered ﬁbre throughout our operations. The majority of our products are recyclable. En erg y+ Ch em ical s+ Wa ter Energy Chemicals Water CO2 In integrated mills, the black Chemicals are 90% of water drawn is treated Our mills emit carbon dioxide (CO2), liquor created during the re-used wherever before it exits the process and one of the main greenhouse gases pulping process is a primary possible, otherwise is returned to the environment. (GHGs) responsible for global source of renewable energy. they enter the Globally, total suspended solids warming. Globally our CO2 emissions Black liquor is burnt in the waste stream or (TSS) and chemical oxygen demand from fossil fuels have declined by recovery boiler, producing are beneficiated. (COD) – indicators of water quality 25% over the last five years. steam and power which in effluent – show a declining trend. is used in the mill. OUTPUTS (recycling) Energy, chemicals and water are recycled throughout the process 2010 sustainability report 11 Pulp Integrated and non-integrated mills Waste ﬁbre recycling Screens Ene rgy + Ch em De-inking sludge ica De-inking sludge, ls + Papermaking Wa containing ink and ter varnishes, is used as PA a fuel substitute. PE R MA KI NG AN solid waste D G IN SH NI Solid waste – all mills FI Sustainable products and market place Waste sludge Waste sludge can be combusted for heat gain or used in applications such as the manufacture of bricks, cement or household products such as cat litter. Dried residual Coating sludge can also be used and as animal bedding calendaring > material. Coarse pigments At some mills, coating colour is also recovered from effluent and reprocessed. This shows our five top categories of waste. Boiler ashes are the most significant waste category, resulting from the use of coal. Methane Methane, a GHG with a global warming potential approximately 23 times more potent than CO2, is emitted from landfills. Globally, G the amount of solid waste we send to landfill P IN shows a steady decline, in line with our move R AP away from coal-fired boilers to gasand W biomass fired boilers (Gratkorn and Tugela Mills). Since 2006, specific solid waste sent A ND N G to landfill has dropped by 4.6%. T TI CU Delivery Our markets See our sustainable products and markets on page 12 and 13 To mitigate our carbon footprint, we are increasingly moving our product by rail rather than road. collection cleaning and de-inking recycled fibre (for recycling) screening 12 Sustainable products and marketplace Description and typical uses Demand trends Woodfree Coated: Higher level of smoothness than uncoated paper achieved by applying Demand for coated woodfree paper is a coating on the surface of the paper. As a result, higher reprographic quality expected to continue to grow on a global paper made and printability is achieved. Uses include marketing promotions and brochures, level, but the impact of electronic media is from pulp catalogues, corporate communications materials, direct mail, textbooks likely to result in a gradual decline in paper produced in and magazines. consumption in developed economies a chemical over the long-term. Advertising, retail sales, and consumer demand for printed process products are primary drivers of demand. Uncoated: Uses include business forms, business stationery, tissue and Over the last few years, strong demand photocopy paper as well as cut-size, preprint and ofﬁce paper. Certain brands in the cut-size business has helped the are used for books, brochures and magazines. uncoated ofﬁce markets. There is a growing trend to print some brochures and magazines on uncoated grades such as Tauro. Speciality: Can be either coated or uncoated. Uses include bags, labels, ﬂexible Flexible paper packaging driven by and rigid packaging and release paper for casting innovative surface textures steady consumption growth in the healthy (eg, artiﬁcial leather, decorative laminates) for use in the textile, automotive, food and drink markets. Paper based furniture and engineering ﬁlm markets. packaging is highly regarded as a sustainable solution. Release paper demand is expected to grow along with the textile and automotive industry, as well as in new and innovative applications. Mechanical Coated: A coated mechanical ﬁbre-based paper, primarily used for magazines, Magazines, one of the main end-uses catalogues and advertising material. related to this product group, doing paper made marginally better than last year mainly from pulp due to growing consumption in special produced interest magazines. As with CWF, in a advertising expenditure is a key demand driver. mechanical process Uncoated: Mechanical ﬁbre-based printing paper used primarily for the printing As woodfree grades become more of books, and advertising inserts. expensive, the demand for improved newsprint and mechanical uncoated grades increases. Newsprint: Uses include advertising inserts and newspapers. Demand is highly dependent on newspaper circulation and retail advertising. Electronic media has led to newsprint demand declines in most markets across the globe. Packaging Packaging paper: Heavy and lightweight grades of paper and board used for Packaging demand is driven by primary and secondary packaging of fast moving consumer goods, agricultural population growth, higher standards products and industrial products. Products include containerboard (corrugated shipping of living, urbanisation and globalisation. containers), sack kraft (multi walled shipping sacks) and machine glazed kraft Paper packaging is seen as playing (grocery bags). Can be coated to enhance barrier and aesthetics properties. an increasingly important role in an environmentally-conscious world. Pulp Paper pulp: Main raw material used in production of printing, writing and With gradually improving global demand packaging paper. Pulp is the generic term that describes the cellulose ﬁbre for paper products, demand for paper derived from wood. These cellulose ﬁbres may be separated by mechanical, pulp is expected to continue to recover. thermo mechanical or chemical processes. The chemical processes involve removing the glues (lignins) which bind the wood ﬁbres, to leave cellulose ﬁbres. Paper made from chemical pulp is generally termed woodfree. Uses include paper, paperboard and tissue. Chemical cellulose: Manufactured by a similar process to paper grade pulp, Chemical cellulose has a wide range but puriﬁed further to leave virtually pure cellulose ﬁbres. Chemical cellulose is of applications, demand for many of used in the manufacture of a variety of cellulose textile and non-woven ﬁbre which is expected to continue growing products, including viscose staple ﬁbre (rayon), solvent spun ﬁbre (lyocell) and at good rates. The textile uses in particular ﬁlament. It is also used in various other cellulose-based applications in the are predicted to show increasing levels food, ﬁlm, cigarette, chemical and pharmaceutical industries. These include the of growth as the growth in the supply of manufacture of acetate ﬂake, microcrystalline cellulose, cellophane, ethers and cotton becomes increasingly constrained. moulding powders. Timber Sawn timber for construction and furniture manufacturing purposes. As consumer and housing markets recover in South Africa, demand for products timber products is expected to recover. 2010 sustainability report 13 Share of sales Our market in 2010 Examples of Sappi’s product brands Demand is still recovering from the low levels of 2009 (as the economy improves), although at a slower pace than in 51% 2010. Magazine advertising pages and increased mailing of catalogues have helped the demand recovery. Magno is a highly trusted brand for professionals because it adds quality. Rich After a slow start in the ﬁrst few months, and vibrant in colour and the uncoated market in Europe detail, Magno is a promise 7% rebounded strongly throughout 2010. proved. The world’s most recognised paper brand. Strong recovery versus 2009 in the packaging and labelling markets. The release market also had a good recovery, 7% particularly in terms of Asian demand. The best of the best, McCoy boasts a remarkably rich, tactile feel that captures ﬁne Demand still below 2008 levels, but a details, cool crisp blue tones strong recovery from the low levels of and provides unparalleled 2009, particularly in the second half of readability and clarity. 13% ﬁnancial 2010. The changing school curriculum in South Africa is resulting in increased demand for book printing grades. Triple Green, produced from Some recovery in demand in South Africa waste sugar cane ﬁbre, is the for newsprint, but pagination is still low. responsible route to quality printing and provides 7% assurance of an environmentally responsible manufacturing process. After a weak start to 2010, global packaging markets and our primary market in South Africa started to recover as economic conditions improved. Flo Digital’s balance of cost and quality makes it the ideal The global pulp market was characterised house sheet for many printers. by increasing demand, rapidly increasing It is the dependable economy prices and some supply shocks in 2010. paper that helps you stretch your budget without compromising quality or environmental responsibility. 14% The global chemical cellulose market remained strong throughout 2010 and demand in many cases exceeded supply. Saiccor’s brand promise is to be the global leader in The South African timber market was innovative and sustainable 1% weak in 2010 with lower demand and an excess of supply. solutions inspired by the chemistry of trees. 14 Key issues The issues set out below are sustainability-related challenges that we believe may have a material impact on our viability as a business either by directly impacting our ability to operate profitably or by affecting our reputation and the trust stakeholders have in Sappi. The economy and demand for our products The downturn in the global economy has accelerated the For example, in South Africa, a leading grocery retailer now offers not decline of paper use in the developed world as consumers only paper grocery bags, but also a variety of paper-based packaging turn to electronic media to access news and to e-readers throughout the store. All bakery products as well as all fresh produce for books and magazines. are packaged in paper bags. The delicatessen will also make use of a range of paper-based packaging made from our innovative Resilio While the plethora of devices such as e-readers has impacted on paper range of papers, which are not only strong and greaseproof, but also use in the developed world, paper use in the developing world, where fully recyclable. The new paper grocery bags have been carefully electronic media is often inaccessible and unaffordable, is growing. engineered to ensure that the switch to more eco-friendly options does not compromise on convenience. The new bags, which are also being In addition, paper plays a key role in promoting literacy throughout the tested at other pilot sites, offer shoppers a fully-recyclable and fullydeveloping world and many researchers contend that printed materials biodegradable option. In addition, they hold up to 10kgs in weight, and are more conducive to an in-depth reading experience than electronic have reinforced handles and a square bottom to ensure excellent media. carrying capacity and convenience. Our position: Our own and other industry campaigns educate consumers that paper Going forward, we believe that digital media will not necessarily is a natural, renewable, biodegradeable resource. As these campaigns overtake print. This is highlighted by the fact that as the line between gather momentum, we believe that educated consumers will increasingly print and digital continues to blur, new technologies are underlining the turn to paper and paper packaging, particularly in light of consumer relationship between the two. Quick Response (QR) codes are a good concerns about the high use of fossil fuels and ocean debris that example – they’re new technology that uses a cell phone to scan characterise many of the alternatives. information from print – including magazines, billboards, even t-shirts. Similarly, chemical cellulose is a renewable resource with a multitude Once the QR code is scanned, it opens up a world of information, of uses, from textile fibres, cigarette filters, plastics alternatives, whether it’s a discount or offer, a video, or even a direct link to a website. pharmaceutical binders, food thickeners and almost certainly more We are only just beginning to see the promise and synergistic opportunities to come. Viscose fibre producers are our largest customers. Viscose of combining print with new mobile and web technologies. fibres, either alone or in blends with oil-based fibres are important in the Sappi is countering the trends away from paper in the developed world overall textile mix because they are absorbent and therefore comfortable by moving into more specialised paper solutions, including intelligent to wear. Consequently, they are an excellent substitute for cotton, packaging, security papers, label and food-safe papers and papers which has long-term supply limitations. Hence increasing use of viscose designed to meet specific customer needs. and cellulosic fibre is expected to drive growth in textile fibres. Fibre supply The implications of a constrained fibre source would have  Breeding for specific pulping characteristics which reduces wastage; dramatic consequences for our business.  Breeding for disease resistance; Both South Africa and North America sell as much or a little more pulp  Selecting eucalypt hybrid crosses for cold tolerance; and than we need to buy, giving us a high degree of pulp self-sufficiency. Many of our mills in Europe source pulp from South America which, like  Ongoing research, including collaboration with industry and various South Africa, is expected to feel the impact of climatic changes and research institutes to improve silvicultural practice, develop biowater shortage in the shortto medium-term. control measures and breed genetically more resistant planting stock. Our position: In Europe and North America, fibre is sourced from forest owners In Southern Africa, we own, manage and lease 555,000ha of land, so close to each operation, with whom we have long-standing relationships. have a certain level of control over our fibre sources. In this region, we In these regions, we mitigate fibre supply risk through a combination of continue to invest in developing our low cost fibre base and are approaches which include both shortand long-term wood supply mitigating fibre supply risk by: agreements and shareholdings in wood sourcing co-operatives.  Expanding our land holdings when an opportunity is presented – in 2010, we bought the 14,500 Sjonajona plantation in Mpumalanga from Mondi;  Rehabilitating our 20,500 hectares of fire-damaged plantations in Swaziland;  Getting more from each tree – over 15 years, we have increased the fibre yield of eucalyptus plantations by 60%; 2010 sustainability report 15 Energy As pulp and paper production is highly energy intensive, the In addition to renewable energy from the production of black liquor in cost and availability of energy is a key consideration for Sappi. some of our European mills, we also use renewable energy which originates from the production of biogas in the anaerobic digestion of Energy costs as a percentage of operating costs have been rising for sludge. Since July 2007, Gratkorn Mill in Europe has operated a several years and currently account for just under 11% of operating Combined Heat and Power Generation Plant (CHP). This arrangement costs. We mitigate this risk by focusing on increasing renewable energy, has resulted in the exchange of over 50% of the coal used with natural promoting cogeneration and investigating biofuel opportunities. gas. Because of the increase in efficiency in the arrangement, fossil Renewable energy based CO2 emissions have dropped by approximately 10%. The We have a major advantage over other industrial companies in our high project also incorporates the option of switching between different fuels in the fluidised bed boiler. This means different fuels can be used use of renewable energy, derived from black liquor, sludges and according to variations in fuel prices. biomass. This results in a high degree of energy self-sufficiency and lower levels of greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuels and helps  Biorefining cushion us from proposed carbon taxes, emission caps or other limits We continue to explore biorefining projects in all regions to reduce on fossil fuel use. In North America, more than 88% of all energy used exposure to future energy price increases and provide a stable supply is derived from renewable resources (black liquor, bark, sludges and of energy. Further, bioenergy projects may represent important new purchased biomass). The percentage of energy derived from renewable revenue streams. resources for South Africa is 35% and for Europe is 34%, with Sappi’s global figure standing at 49%. Our position: Our high use of renewable energy and high levels of energy selfIn integrated mills, the black liquor created during the pulping process sufficiency help cushion us from proposed carbon taxes as well as is a primary source of renewable energy. The reason for the much energy supply constraints such as those experienced in South Africa higher percentages of renewable energy in Sappi’s mills in North in 2006 because of inadequate supply by Eskom. America and South Africa than in Europe is that a much greater proportion of our product originates from kraft-type integrated pulp and Our progress in becoming more energy efficient is highlighted by the paper mills which typically have a higher degree of energy selffact that between 2005 and 2010, the amount of specific (ie per ton of sufficiency than non-integrated mills. pulp produced) purchased energy decreased by 32% and from 2000 – the year we started measuring GHG emissions – specific fossil-based In Europe and North America, one of the key issues we face is carbon dioxide emissions reduced by 30%. competition for biomass as feedstock for energy. Regulations related to the promotion of biomass for energy in Europe and North America Competitive analysis of our environmental performance in North could have a negative impact on wood fibre supply. In both regions, it America, for example, has shown that Sappi Fine Paper North America has been demonstrated that wood fibre delivers far more value to the has the lowest carbon footprint, based on energy use, of the major US economy when used for the pulp and paper industry than for energy. coated free sheet suppliers. This would put us at a competitive cost A CEPI study (A bio-solution to climate change) estimates that wood, advantage should a carbon tax or cap and trade system be when used for papermaking, delivers eight times more added value and implemented. In addition, print buyers need to purchase fewer carbon creates 13 times more jobs than if used for energy. offsets for Sappi products versus our North American competitors’ products.  Combined heat and power Combined heat and power generation is a very efficient method to We will continue to identify and evaluate renewable energy, coconvert energy. Conventional (condensation) power plants generate generation and biorefining opportunities related to current and/or just power and dispose of their ‘waste’ heat by means of river cooling anticipated regulatory requirements. Opportunities are being reviewed water or cooling towers. The efficiency ratio of condensing power for achieving the required payback hurdles as the electricity supply plants is well below 40%. In other words only 35 to 45% of the energy industry, electricity price, and regulatory environment change in each content of the primary fuel is converted into usable energy. region where we operate. Combined heat and power generation converts a much higher share of the primary fuel at levels of 75 – 90% into usable energy. Heat and Power can be converted from any fuel type biogenic or fossil. In Europe we operate combined heat and power (CHP) plants at all of our mills. When natural gas is used, the most attractive state of the art method is the combination with a gas turbine (a stationary jet-engine) that drives a power-generator. The hot off gases of the gas turbine are used as inlet air for a steam boiler and the subsequent steam produced is used to generate power again using a steam turbine and using the extracted steam in our production. This technology of gas-steam combined heat and power generation plant is in operation at our Gratkorn, Lanaken, Maastricht and Nijmegen mills. During the year in South Africa we entered into an agreement to supply renewable energy to the state power utility Eskom, from Saiccor Mill. We are in discussions to sell Eskom the additional power we are able to generate from our Ngodwana Mill. North America (mainly Westbrook Mill) exported and sold 13.3% of power used while Europe sold 16.9% of total power used (Alfeld, Ehingen, Gratkorn, Maastricht and Stockstadt Mills). Going forward, cogeneration opportunities will remain Fibre in Europe and North America is supplied by large and small a key focus in all regions. scale tree owners 16 Key issues continued Environmental legislation Environmental legislation in the regions where we operate the United States Environmental Protection Agency has enacted or is potentially making compliance more burdensome and proposed several rules relating to emissions reporting and reductions. requiring increased capital expenditure. One such proposal, issued in June 2010 would require industrial, South Africa commercial and institutional boilers and heaters to use “maximum The primary South African environmental laws affecting our operations achievable control technology” to reduce harmful emissions that erode include the National Water Act, which govern our forestry operations air quality and pose a public health risk. According to the Industrial and mills through water licences, and the National Environmental Energy Consumers of America, (IECA), an industry group that Management: Air Quality Act. Our mills are in the process of receiving represents companies with 750,000 employees and US$800 billion in air registration certificates from the authorities which will clarify the sales, the proposed Boiler MACT, standards are so stringent that not impact the latter will have on our business. The requirements under even the best performing sources could meet them. Signiﬁcant capital these statutes, predominantly with respect to air emissions from our expenditures could be required for emissions control equipment at our mills, will result in additional capital and operating expenditures, some mills in order to comply with the Boiler MACT and/or other proposed rates regulating GHGs. We are currently awaiting issuance of the final of which may be signiﬁcant. rule in January 2011. Europe Our position: Our European facilities are subject to extensive environmental regulation In South Africa, we are in frequent contact with regulatory authorities in the various countries in which we operate, including the Integrated during the phasing in of new legislation, in an attempt to manage the Pollution Prevention and Control directive (IPPC) which regulates air transition period. As we are based in a developing country which has emissions, water discharges and defines permit requirements and best ratified the Kyoto Protocol, we are in a position to utilise the Clean available techniques (“BAT”) for pollution control. While the EU Chemicals Development Mechanism for energy-related projects and we are Regulation REACH (1907/2006/EC) is not directly applicable to pulp continuing to explore opportunities in this regard. and paper, it does apply to a number of raw materials that we source. In Europe, we have long been subject to the EU Emissions Trading The countries within which we operate in Europe have all ratified the Scheme (EU ETS). Reductions in carbon limits for the third phase of the Kyoto Protocol and we have developed a strategy to comply with EU ETS are still being determined. Subject to the enactment of these applicable GHG restrictions and to manage emission reductions costs limits, our expenditures related to GHG compliance in Europe are not effectively. The EU is considering introducing specific carbon limits per expected to be material. mill for the pulp and paper industry. This could prove challenging. In North America the environmental laws will continue to engage with North America industry associations and regulators to reach agreement regarding Sappi Fine Paper North America is subject to stringent environmental various emissions control requirements. In terms of climate change laws. Although the United States has not yet adopted a Federal legislation, the nature, scope and timing of such legislation is highly programme for controlling GHG emissions, Congress is considering uncertain and, currently, we do not know what effect, if any, such comprehensive Federal legislation regarding climate change. In addition, legislation will have on our financial condition and operations. In our European mills we only use a small amount of permitted water abstraction limits 2010 sustainability report 17 Water Climate change is expected to have a profound impact on manufacturing does use large quantities of water, we return approximately the world’s rainfall patterns, river flows and freshwater 90% of the water we draw back to the environment. reserves. Any decrease in available water supplies could Europe significantly affect our fibre supply and production processes. In terms of quantity, the surface and ground water supply to our European Water shortages in the regions from which we source fibre mills has proven abundant even in very dry summers. We currently use could significantly affect fibre supply and our production only a small amount of permitted water abstraction limits. processes. Trees require water in order to grow and water is Alfeld, Ehingen and Gratkorn Mills’ waste water treatment plants have essential in papermaking to produce the fibre that becomes anaerobic reactors which reduce the chemical oxygen demand (COD) the sheet of paper and is an integral part of the steam of the effluent and increase the production of biogas. During the systems which generate energy. anaerobic biological process, special micro-organisms transform the The World Resources Institute (WRI), classifies water stress as meaning organic load in the wastewater into biogas. The process has both that per capita water supply is less than 1,700 m³/year. In these terms, environmental and economic value, as the biogas is used for heat and South Africa is a water-stressed country and is facing supply/demand power generation and sludge disposal costs are reduced. shortages in the shortto medium-term. North America Despite common perceptions that Europe has an abundance of water, None of our operations are situated in areas where water shortages the continent’s use of water is unsustainable, the European Environment might have an impact. Agency (EAA), the European Union’s environmental advisory body, has warned. (Water resources across Europe – confronting water scarcity Our position: and drought). In South Africa, our businesses are already experiencing water problems following two years of below-average rainfall. The possibility In North America, water is unevenly distributed, with the states in the of increased water tariffs in South Africa and Europe could have a south-west suffering from water shortages and states in the Great negative impact on our profitability/pricing. Reducing water usage Lakes region having an abundance of water. within our mills and improving water quality continues to be a key area South Africa of focus. Abstraction of water, discharge of effluent and management of forests Between 2008 and 2010, globally specific water use decreased by are all regulated under a licence system in which first allocations go to, 9.1%. Over the same period, total suspended solids (TSS) and among other things, human consumption, before allocations are made chemical oxygen demand (COD) – a measure of effluent quality – to agriculture, industry and forestry. All water use is subject to a charge. dropped by 16.0% and 24.9% respectively. The plantations from which we source fibre are not irrigated but use As with energy, it makes economic sense to intensively manage our rainwater and groundwater. Contrary to popular belief, forestry only water usage. Each of our operations may be likened to a very large heat uses 3% of available water, while agriculture uses approximately 62%. exchanger with the input water being heated in various ways and In addition, agriculture impacts heavily on the quality of water resources, locations in each operation due to the combustion of fuels to produce typically through the diffused runoff of salts and fertilizers (nutrient steam and heat. If the effluent is simply allowed to run off (with enrichment). In this we have a competitive advantage over other crops, appropriate treatment) then a huge amount of heat is lost. For this in that we only use a small amount of fertilizer once in each rotation. reason one of the most effective ways of retaining heat in an operation, The majority of our mills are situated on rivers from which they draw and hence using less energy (fuels) and thus generating less fossil GHG water, the exceptions being Adamas and Enstra Mills which use 70% emissions (for the fuels that are fossil based), is to maximise water and 50% recycled sewage water respectively. While pulp and paper recirculation and minimise effluent. In 2009, the Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI), to which Sappi belongs, joined the European Water Partnership (EWP) as their first federation member. The EWP’s aim is to put water on the mainstream political and media agenda and to develop an awareness of water challenges among policy makers and business. CEPI has also joined the Water Footprint Network which aims to develop a water footprint for the pulp and paper industry which will measure direct and indirect impacts. The Water Footprint Network has suggested the following ways of classifying water: Blue footprint The blue water footprint is the volume of freshwater that has evaporated from global blue water resources (surface water and ground water) to produce the goods and services consumed by the individual or community. Green footprint The green water footprint is the volume of water evaporated from global green water resources (rainwater stored in the soil as soil moisture). Grey footprint The grey water footprint is the volume of polluted water associated with the production of all goods and services. The latter can be estimated as the volume of water that is required to dilute pollutants to such an extent that the quality of the water remains at or above agreed water quality standards. The water footprint of a business consists of two components: the direct water use by the producer (for producing/manufacturing or for supporting activities) and the indirect water use (in the producer’s supply chain). 18 Key issues continued In Europe and North America ﬁbre is sourced from forest owners close to each of our operations Climate change As our major raw material input, wood fibre, is a renewable Europe natural resource, climate change could affect Sappi. Climate change could well alter the suitability of whole regions in Europe The physical risks of climate change are similar to those for for certain forest types, forcing a shift in natural species distribution and the agricultural sector. leading to changes in growth of existing stands. In addition, extreme events (storms, forest fires, droughts and heat waves) are expected to South Africa become much more common and/or severe. (CEPI: Protecting Europe’s The Southern African landscape is prone to, and ecologically adapted to, forests against climate change). frequent fires. Under normal conditions this risk can be managed through comprehensive fire prevention and protection plans. In 2007 and 2008, North America South Africa experienced a number of extreme weather events which The mountain pine beetle is endemic to the western forests of North resulted in disastrous plantation fires across vast areas of eastern South America. A decade of warmer temperatures has caused the beetle to Africa and Swaziland, affecting 14,000 hectares and 26,000 hectares proliferate at an unprecedented rate, devastating over 16 million hectares respectively, of our plantations. of Canadian pine forest between 2000 and 2009. As our operations in North America source some of their fibre from Canada. The impact of The risk of plantation fires is always present during the dry winter the pine beetle could affect long-term supply of softwood fibre if the months. Since the devastating fires of 2008, we have implemented an dead wood is not harvested and the land reforested appropriately. extensive fire protection strategy. This deals with increased community participation in fire prevention to reduce the incidents of fires through regional and district Fire Protection Associations. In addition, significant Our position: investment has improved detection, while fire crew training and In South Africa we continue to mitigate risk associated with climate improved equipment have significantly improved response times to fires change through an intensive focus on species and hybrid development that occur. Thirdly, fuel load management within plantations helps that will be adapted to changing climatic regimes and to minimise contain fires where they occur and has prevented major losses. Fire losses due to pest, disease or drought. In addition, we conduct losses in 2009 and 2010 were minimal. extensive research into pest control and disease prevention and have a fire prevention strategy based on community co-operation, rapid Our exposure to climate change related risk in Southern Africa is response time and fuel load management. moderated by the diversity of commercial species and hybrids which we currently deploy across a wide range of climatic conditions. We In North America the risk is not as immediate as it is in South Africa anticipate that certain species or hybrids will become more dominant and is more likely to affect us in the long-term. Europe’s non-integrated than others under changing climatic regimes. This will help to mitigate mills which source fibre from South America could be affected by any increased threat from pests and disease or from drought. climatic change. 2010 sustainability report 19 Report back on targets and Charter commitments Despite differing environments, assets and markets our businesses the growth of regional economies and allows for reinvestment into are faced with similar challenges. Consequently we have established all stages of the business cycle. overarching goals which are refined regionally to apply to local circumstances. Our goals are reported through the regional targets In a world and in an industry where skills are in short supply, gaining reflected below and through our performance grid based on our 18 competitive advantage through our people makes sound business Charter commitments which follow hereon. sense and adding value to the communities in which our operations are situated further integrates Sappi into the life of these communities. Regional targets were established in 2008 and are internally reported on quarterly. In order to manage our sustainability profile Reducing fossil fuel use/GHG emissions and water together with we have chosen to concentrate on three global targets which are adding value to waste streams, has environmental as well as fundamental to all our businesses: economic beneﬁts. Given the highly energy intensive nature of our Improving the profitability of our business underpins the viability of processes and concerns over global warming, improvements in our organisation. Financial success creates employment, stimulates these areas will continue to be investigated by our R&D centres. Prosperity – improving the profitability of our business  SA and NA – Generating revenue from new products/services (less than five years old) SA slower than expected time-to-market for new fine paper products resulted in the target of 20% not being achieved. NA target of generating 25% of revenue from new products and services was exceeded (41% achieved) although this target is becoming increasingly challenging for the core business. New products from the speciality business and product modifications from our core business will maintain customer satisfaction. Europe – M-real integration We achieved the successful integration of M-real’s graphic paper business acquired at the end of December 2008. We exceeded the target set of €120 million in the three year timeframe. The synergies achieved include procurement benefits, sales and administration cost reductions, asset optimisation, product recipe changes and manufacturing efficiencies. People – gaining competitive advantage through our people and positively adding value to communities  SA, NA and Europe – Skills and leadership training SA exceeded the 45 hours per employee target by achieving 85 training hours per employee, influenced by Saiccor training and specific regional initiatives. NA records indicate that this region’s training totalled 46 hours per employee thus exceeded the 40 hours per employee target. Europe did not achieve the required 30 hours training per employee. SA, NA and Europe – Corporate Social Responsibility The group exceeded its target of spending 1% of its Net Profit After Tax (NPAT) during the year. A total of US$2.1 million which represents 3.2% of the group’s NPAT was allocated to educational, environmental and cultural projects. Planet – reducing fossil fuels/GHG emissions, water and waste  SA, Europe and NA – Fossil fuels/GHG emissions SA the target of 15% reduction in the use of fossil fuels in our operation by 2015 was partially achieved by 6% this year through small reductions in each mill. This region exceeded the target in relation to purchased electricity by reducing this element by 16% versus a target of 10%. NA achieved 50.3% reduction in GHG emissions across all sites versus a target of 40%. Europe significantly exceeded its target of 1% reduction of specific direct fossil CO2 emissions and purchased power, reducing these by 5.8% and 9.7% respectively. SA and Europe – Water SA the foundation for achieving the target of reducing its total specific fresh water use by the year 2015 of 10%, were well established with a reduction of 2.8% in the year under review. Europe this region reduced specific water use (m3/t production and cooling water) by 6.7%. NA – Waste The target of reducing organic content of solid waste by 50% across all sites by 2012 was reached during this year (61%). 20 Report back: Prosperity In 2010, Sappi Fine Paper Europe published “What’s Next” magazine, aimed at educating and informing readers about issues shaping the print industry. The cover of the ﬁrst edition is featured here 2010 sustainability report 21 Prosperity Focus on long-term profitable growth Performance indicators Objectives FY2010 Actual performance FY2010 Objectives FY2011  ROCE  Progress towards net debt  Our net debt reduced to approximately  Reduce net debt to total reduction of US$800 million US$2.2 billion capitalisation to <50% by 2012  Operational efficiencies  Achieve synergies from M-real  Successful integration of M-real mills  Successful roll-out of Project transaction of €120 million and achievement of targeted synergies Breakthrough in Europe by 2011  Successful integration of Sappi Paper and Paper Packaging South Africa Streamlining our operational efficiency Sappi Fine Paper Europe launched an internal project, known as A dedicated team worked throughout the year in bringing to market the Project Breakthrough, with the objective of becoming more profitable proposition to customers that “It’s easier to do business with Sappi”. and offering superior services to make Sappi the preferred supplier in The outcomes of Breakthrough are being implemented from October the market. One major outcome of Breakthrough is the simplification of 2010. the sheet product range. This will mean less complexity, not only in In August 2010, our South African operations consolidated their production but also along the entire supply chain, with customers paper divisions to strengthen the region’s ability to meet customer getting the same product quality, but much better service. A simplified requirements and develop new business opportunities. Sappi Fine pricing and ordering system together with good value propositions Paper South Africa and Sappi Kraft have merged to become Sappi have also been developed. The result of all of this has been an Paper and Paper Packaging South Africa. organisational alignment and better resource allocation. Promote an ethical culture Performance indicators Objectives FY2010 Actual performance FY2010 Objectives FY2011  Code of Ethics  Employee survey on Code  Survey carried out globally to assess  Communicate outcomes from of Ethics understanding employees’ awareness of the Sappi survey and compliance Code of Ethics  Refresh Code of Ethics and introduce on-line training  Governance  Sustainability executive committee  Progress internal assurance elevated to board committee with of key sustainability indicators two non-executive directors and report outcomes  Europe’s Regional Sustainability  Introduce on-line sustainability Council (RSC) was reorganised to training in all regions incorporate manufacturing and  Extend internal ambassador commercial representatives programme to all regions  SA’s RSC was also reorganised to include a broader spectrum of functions cti ctions ons ns he ad ea din di ngg Coode of of E hiics Etth de e of E Eth css u hiic under the h d S Sa pp i C o od 0.. he e thrree earr ol ea e--yye ep tem ptte berr 201 mbe 10 A ssu veyy of th urrvve ed iin uctte nS Se ng in g h th e w al k? k ?” was conduc ?” r w ith ith he th e C od o dee, of “Are of re we walkin k p on en de d nt s ts were familia ilia 8 %o off re r sp es of e th tho Alltth ou g more th ugh an tha n 85 a annd en d sstrre gth gt ng heened visibility un u ic tio at a io n d for ongoin ng comm ing he th n ed e ne r gionss.. ss s s stro st rongly from all re ly fro e ca c amm e ac a ro r Cod o 22 Report back: Prosperity continued Drive customer satisfaction through technology and innovation Performance indicators Objectives FY2010 Actual performance FY2010 Objectives FY2011  Margins and market  Secure a leading position in  Europe launched two new digital  Explore opportunities in share in the profitable the emerging segments, while papers (see opposite) digital and other fast growing and fast growing digital taking a profitable share in the market sectors print sector in Europe already developed digital print segments. New product solutions will be launched in Europe in early 2010  Investment in new  Review current portfolio  Europe introduced Parade Prima HP  Continue to develop niche products of brands and product as its new high bulk label paper, products in selected markets selection offering costs savings due to unique  Explore new technologies and bulk to substance ratio and continued applications in partnership the development of in-mould label with customers paper in collaboration with an  Leverage Westbrook Mill’s equipment manufacturer and of flexible speciality technology into packaging material with a new markets manufacturer of bio-polymer film  SA: good progress on super mechanical grades and bleached sack, and launched Masuga, bagasse-based text grade  NA: Ultracast Bling release paper launch receives best of show award at the Asia Pacific Leather Fair  Investigate ROCE  Use of metrics and stage gate  Annual assessment and selection of  Maintain projects meeting assessment of R&D process lead to clearer projects, new and in progress, against agreed criteria and terminate management and focus on agreed parameters those that do not projects that reflect Sappi’s long-term strategy  Understanding customer/  Inclusion of customer-centric  Attain recognition as a strong end-user needs and objectives as part of Project customer-centric organisation Sappi’s performance Breakthrough deliverables in Europe in satisfying these  Europe to achieve its goal of being easier to do business with  Technical Innovation  Continue to promote  NA winning team who jointly invented  Further promote development Awards (TIA) development of disruptive and commercialised a revolutionary of new technologies and technology through TIA process to manufacture laminate recognise key contributors awards were the overall winners of this year’s TIA Awards  SA winning entry involved the fingerprinting of tree DNA  EU winning team developed a new wet-end technology  Invest in wood fibre  Continue collaborating in  Development of finger printing of tree  SA forestry division to further genetics development the enhancement of wood DNA, so that the thousands of its research into the areas of fibre in SA individual trees in SA’s tree breeding fibre genetics, pests and fire programmes can be identified resistant wood fibres and monitored 2010 sustainability report 23 Setting new benchmarks for standard wet-glue paper Sappi Fine Paper Europe has set new benchmarks with the launch of an improved and of a new Parade Prima grade. Parade Prima Advanced is a one-sided coated label paper which allows for easier, faster runability and can be laminated for the perfect visual image. Sappi also developed Parade Prima High Performance which has 25% higher bulk and 50% more stiffness than a traditional, standard label paper. What this means in real terms is that a 70g/m2 of Parade Prima High Performance can be used instead of a 80g/m2 label paper resulting in higher yields of labels per ton of paper. In South Africa, we launched Masuga, a text grade made from 90% bagasse (sugar cane waste) sourced from emerging farmers. Going digital Personalised communication is one of the trump cards of modern marketing. Digital print is extremely flexible as it allows printers to personalise and update brochures, changing text and pictures for individual readers, while producing adequate quality at much lower cost for relatively small jobs. It is customisable with small stocks, fast changes and fast delivery. The market is showing rapid growth, particularly in the on-demand direct mail and book segments. Sappi Fine Paper Europe launched TOP, a new digital toner paper range at the IPEX fair in Birmingham at the end of May 2010. The range combines the best image reproduction with the specific digital functionalities needed for optimum performance. The Sappi quality guarantee is backed by third party testing and the paper will be shortly approved for use on the HP Indigo, Kodak NexPress and Canon imagePress systems. It will also be thoroughly tested on Xerox systems. A new product, Jaz, which forms the basis of Sappi Fine Paper Europe’s inkjet product range, is currently in a trial phase. Bling wins award at Asia Pacific Leather Fair In March 2010, the Sappi Fine Paper North America Release Papers business received the ‘Best Man-Made Material Innovation Award’ at the Asia Pacific Leather Fair (APLF) – Materials, Manufacturing & Technology Trade Show for our newest texture, ‘Bling’. This eye-catching, geometric texture brings dynamic movement to any application. As one of the only five winners for this award category, this was a tremendous honour for Sappi given that there were over 1,000 exhibitors from 48 countries and regions. North America – global winners of the Technical Innovation Awards Through a partnership with Kronospan, one of the world’s largest laminate flooring manufacturers, the North American Release Papers business jointly invented and commercialised a revolutionary process to manufacture a new decorative flooring product. The companies are jointly patenting the invention. Together, they turned a sixstep process into a two-step process that now features an Ultracast component to produce a printed surface with superior properties that is more environmentally-friendly at significantly lower costs. This innovation in turn led to a new technical innovation (which Sappi has also patented) that allows us to manufacture textured films. The substantial volume that we have secured with the flooring manufacturer is expected to result in an annual business improvement of US$1.8 million. The Sappi team from manufacturing, R&D and sales were the global winners of the internal Technical Innovation (TIA) Awards, aimed at stimulating, recognising and rewarding innovation. Improving tree breeding efficiency Sappi’s tree improvement programmes in South Africa need to keep track of thousands of individual trees over long generation cycles of between 8 to 15 years and through the many steps of tree breeding activities. Mislabelling of individuals means that incorrect individuals are used for crosses, or are carried through into the next generation of breeding or are used in seed orchards for operational seed production. The impact of this mislabelling is dilution of genetic gain which can translate into less timber yield at harvest than predicted in original breeding trials. In collaboration with the University of Pretoria, Sappi’s tree breeders at the Tweedie Research Centre developed a reliable DNA fingerprinting tool to improve breeding efficiency. This project was the regional winner of the annual TIA awards. 24 Report back: Prosperity continued Build on our competitive position in our core markets Performance indicators Objectives FY2010 Actual performance FY2010 Objectives FY2011  Promotion of the  Explore further initiatives with  Continued reputational enhancement  Bring to life the refreshed Sappi brand designers and printers through initiatives such as Ideas that Sappi brand and review the Matter and Life with Print marketing proposition  NA modified their regional Printer of  Rebuild of Sappi website the Year contest to assist each winner with strategic marketing initiatives  SWOT analyses with  Set and measure against  Concluded background work on our  Consolidate brand lines to respect of our main targets what we must brand proposition in Europe simplify product offering competitors improve, reduce, eliminate, and SA create  Monitor developments such  Public policy developments  Consider requests from as Walmart Sustainability communicated to management and stakeholders regarding supply Index and Newsweek’s green Sappi board sustainability committee chain disclosures, including rankings supplier evaluation criteria/ matrix  Sappi Fine Paper North America to conduct sustainability pilot study with select suppliers  Understanding customer/  NA customer survey shows 5% year Carry out internal survey of end user needs and on-year growth in recognition of Sappi certain sustainability indicators Sappi’s performance Fine Paper North America as a in relation to main competitors in satisfying these sustainability leader  Conduct semi-annual or  The 2010 SFPE customer satisfaction annual customer satisfaction survey shows a growing appreciation surveys of our sustainable profile in Europe Opus – satisfying customers “Opus helps us deliver great results and still stay within budget. That’s not an easy thing to do these days.” Leora Zuckerman Manager: marketing production at Ann Taylor Large scale would be a good word to describe the average print job that Leora Zuckerman manages every day. In fact, Leora managed the printing of over seven million inserts for national publications in 2009 for Ann Taylor Stores. As print production manager, Leora selects Opus for a variety of sheetfed and web jobs, including everything from direct mail and in-store collateral, to PR and other corporate projects. Leora trusts Opus because “it’s always been a well-performing sheet that we can count on.” From a value perspective, Opus delivers a variety of choices without compromising quality:  Opus PS – specifically engineered for the direct mail market;  Opus Digital, which answers the need for customisation and quick runs; and  Opus 30, which ensures print quality is not sacrificed when using an environmental paper offering 30% post consumer waste. 2010 sustainability report 25 Promoting the power of print Sappi Fine Paper Europe’s Print Media Efficiency Award recognises outstanding advertising campaigns that have innovatively integrated print media in the most efficient way, using a minimum of 40% print as a medium. In 2010, Ogilvy Amsterdam won the prestigious award for its IBM Roi Rapido campaign, designed to change perceptions of IBM as an expensive and complex organisation. With a limited budget of €50,000, Ogilvy Amsterdam employed direct mail and created the character of Roi Rapido, the incarnation of result driven action. Time is mon ey. Hello, my nam e is ROI. The Roi Rapido concept proved to be a fantastic way to open a new market, You know me: I’m here for your retur n achieving over 10% of new business leads from a mailing list of 400 IT share my secr on inv et with you. Of cour se you anything with already knew It’s actu ally very si that, but have yo managers. The original revenue target was exceeded by more than 100% – that know ledg e? With ever y IT investmen t, it’s not just from €3,300,000 to €6,972,000 – and IBM’s core message of cost efficiency be take n into the amo u cons ideration, recover the your situation costs. And but, more impo you can redu rta ce this sub was reinforced, demonstrating that a limited budget combined with a clever withi n 9 mon Stor age Man ths! For exam ager with ProtecTI ER ple, by a fold paper-based strategy can deliver exceptional results. i choose paper The ‘i choose paper’ campaign was developed in South Africa in response to increasing consumer demand for safe, environmentally-sound and sustainable packaging, and for information about both its benefits and how it’s produced. ‘i choose paper’ is designed to give consumers the information that they need when making purchasing decisions. www.ichoosepaper.com Here’s something that’ll put a smile on your face Sappi, South Africa’s very own global paper group, is introducing a whole new world of choice in innovative and environmentally-sound paper packaging solutions. That means you’ll be able to choose convenient, attractive, sustainable and fully biodegradable packaging at your favourite retailers and restaurant chains. Look out for the “paper by Sappi” logo on the custom-designed packaging we’re developing with our packaging industry partners and SouthAfrica’s leading retailers. It makes it easy for you to make the right choice. www.ic hoosepaper.com We’re also on Facebook Doesn’t that make you want to smile? Demonstrating that interactive doesn’t just happen on screen Sappi Fine Paper North America released The Standard No. 4, Scoring and Folding, a Sappi guide to designing for print in 2010. Aside from offering technical tips to optimise printing results, The Standard is intended to show customers the advantages of printing on paper. Unlike online media, print allows designers to control how the message is delivered and received. It’s tactile, dramatic, versatile… and even in the case of fascinating folds, interactive. The Standard No. 4, Scoring and Folding, is supported with print and online advertising, webinars and events across North America. Life with print Despite all predictions that the 21st century would see print eclipsed by electronic media, it continues to play an essential role in our everyday lives and is more powerful than ever. To share our enthusiasm for the bright future of paper with our customers, Sappi Fine Paper Europe has created the highly regarded, informative series, Life with Print. Each edition of Life with Print is packed with qualitative examples of the value of print in the media mix. The series also highlights experts and companies throughout the world who share Sappi’s passion for print. 26 Report back: Prosperity continued Maintain our licence to trade Performance indicators Objectives FY2010 Actual performance FY2010 Objectives FY2011  Compliance with legal  Group legal compliance programme  Implement the frameworks reviewed by Internal Audit recommendations from internal audit report  South African “Green Scorpions”*  Continue and finalise visits to Ngodwana and Enstra Mills. discussions with Department Ngodwana Mill queries responded to, of Environmental Affairs Enstra Mill in discussions on preliminary matters  In SA Broad-based  Strategise BEE ownership  Completion of BEE transaction  Continue to drive preferential Economic options and execute to resulting an effective 30% BEE procurement, particularly from Empowerment enhance ownership scorecard shareholding interest in Sappi’s South SMMEs (BBBEE) scorecard  Achieve a “level five African business and elevation to rating contributor” (BEE rating) “Level Three Contributor” and preferential procurement recognition level of 80% in 2010  Participation and  Continue making use of  Participated in the World Dow Jones  As external benchmarks help inclusion in external external benchmarks to Sustainability Index, Carbon Disclosure to drive progress, continue to indices assess sustainability Project and the JSE Socially participate in selected indices performance Responsible Investment Index  Continue to implement  Implement lessons learned  Formalisation and disclosure of group lessons learned, particularly in from external assessments strategies and policies terms of People and Planet  Report on level of GRI  GRI reporter status not available at  Confirm our ‘A’ level GRI compliance and obtain time of printing rating assessment of sustainability reporting by GRI  UN Global Compact  Continue reporting on  Ongoing compliance  Continue to report on compliance with UN Global performance and compliance compact principles  Copenhagen  Report back on progress in  Quarterly updates provided to board  Report back on any decisions Communiqué terms of Copenhagen climate sustainability committee and made by the COP in Cáncún on climate change change objectives monitoring of developments that could have a material impact on our business * Environmental Management Inspectorate, a network of environmental enforcement ofﬁcials from different government departments (national, provincial and municipal). BBBEE transaction Following South Africa’s transition to democracy in 1994, legislation relating to Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) was introduced to accelerate economic and social transformation. As a company headquartered in South Africa, with significant assets and people, BEE is an important component of our reputation and licence to trade. In the first half of 2010, the shareholders of Sappi Limited approved a BBBEE equity transaction involving the issuing of approximately 4,5% (24,3 million shares) of the group’s issued share capital, which translates into the empowerment of 30% of Sappi’s South African business. The total value of the transaction was ZAR814 million. The transaction recognises the contribution made to the company by our South African employees; will help attract and retain staff and in particular highly skilled black managers; and reinforces Sappi’s position As many of our employees were first-time share owners, we rolled out as a responsible corporate citizen within the communities where we a communications campaign to educate them about the benefits of operate. Furthermore, the transaction accommodates the key principles share ownership in general as well as the specific details of the Sappi of BBBEE and maximises the ownership component in terms of the scheme, known internally as ‘Sefate’ (meaning ‘to grow’). The booklet Forest Sector Charter with Sappi moving from a Level Six Contributor was made available in English, Xhosa, Zulu, Siswati and Tswana. to a Level Three Contributor on the Charter scorecard. Sappi will continue to focus on improving performance with regard to the other scorecard criteria. 2010 sustainability report 27 Create value for all stakeholders Performance indicators Objectives FY2010 Actual performance FY2010 Objectives FY2011  Value add, direct and  Value add, direct and indirect,  Development of reporting criteria  Continue to assess value add indirect, to parties with to parties with which Sappi ongoing of each mill which Sappi engages engages  Approach stakeholders from each stakeholder group to understand their view of Sappi’s sustainability risks and opportunities Adding value to people and to the economy Value added statement The pulp and paper industry contributes positively to increased wealth for the year ended September 2010 and well being particularly in rural areas, both by contributing to forest One measure of wealth created is the amount of value added to the management and via its presence in the countryside. It directly supports cost of materials and services purchased. This value added statement vital employment in rural areas which indirectly leads to the establishment sets out the value added by the Sappi group and how it was distributed of infrastructure and services in these regions. among stakeholders. South Africa The forestry sector directly employs 170,000 people and the pulp and US$ million 2010 2009 2008 paper subsector provides approximately 13,200 direct and 10,700 indirect employment opportunities. Taking a conservative view of the dependency ratio in rural areas, this means that the forestry sector Sales 6,572 5,369 5,863 supports over 860,000 people1. Annually, forestry and forest products Income from investments 30 72 55 contribute about 1.27% to GDP, with the value of forest products Proﬁt on sale of non-current assets 4 – – exports increasing from ZAR9.5 billion in 2001 to ZAR14.8 billion Less: Paid to suppliers for materials in 2008.2 and services 4,625 3,865 4,077 Europe Total value added 1,981 1,576 1,841 The industry provides direct employment for about 245,000 people, and Distributed as follows: indirect employment to some 1.8 million people, 63% in rural areas. To employees as salaries, wages The European pulp and paper industry has an annual turnover of and other beneﬁts 1,129 1,002 965 €79 billion and a value add of €25 billion. It invests €4.7 billion per year, To lenders of capital as interest 272 205 179 with more than 10% specifically dedicated to direct environmental To shareholders as dividends – 37 73 protection.3 To governments as taxation 74 76 89 North America Total value added distributed 1,475 1,320 1,306 The industry accounts for approximately five percent of US manufacPortion of value added reinvested to turing GDP; is among the top 10 manufacturing employers in 48 states; sustain and expand the business 506 256 535 and employs nearly 900,000 people earning US$50 billion annually. In Total value added distributed addition, industry companies produce US$175 billion in products and reinvested 1,981 1,576 1,841 annually.4 In the state of Maine, where our Westbrook and Somerset Mills are Taxation situated, the paper industry is the backbone of Maine’s economy. In Taxes paid to governments 74 76 89 2009, the industry contributed nearly US$900 million to Maine’s (Including US$6 million direct taxes economy. In total, the pulp and paper industry accounts for 22 percent recoverable from governments as at September 2010; of all manufacturing wages in the state. In some communities, paper Payable direct taxes September mills represent 60 – 80 percent of total tax revenues.5 2009 US$3 million; September 2008 US$6 million) – Employees’ taxation deducted from remuneration paid 169 148 158 – Net value added taxation (VAT) (120) (149) (47) Total 123 75 200 a outh Afric ana Mill is na Mill, S re Ngodw Ngodwa pu m a la n a, whe g e Mpumala nga 1. Forestry SA th e p ro vince of M co n trib ution to th billio n per 2. Agriculture, forestry and ﬁsheries – integrated growth and development plan In econom ic ly ZAR2.9 2011 – 2031, published by the National Department of Agriculture , S a p pi’s ro xi m ate situated app and 730 009 was 3. CEPI website, www.cepi.org GDP in 2 mployees province’s loys 1,1 00 own e on-permane nt 4. Source: American Forests and Paper Association (AF &PA) Sustainability Report e mill emp ccount n 2010 n u m . Th n g in to a 3 ,00 0 an rs. Taki s over 3 5. Trade group sides with manufacturers of paper, Morning Sentinel, 23/10/2010 t contracto ill support 6 ants). permanen d depend 6. Mpumalanga Economic Development Review 2004 – 2009, published by the m ea ns that the m cto rs an Department of Economic Development and Planning contracto rs, this s, contra employee p le (in clu ding own peo 28 Report back: People Sappi’s integrated mills use wood chips to make the pulp used in our papermaking 2010 sustainability report 29 People Provide training and development opportunities Performance indicators Objectives FY2010 Actual performance FY2010 Objectives FY2011  Targets set on training  Classify and report on training  Each region has classified and  Continue to report globally in hours and spend per in global categories reported its training spend in terms terms of established employee of the agreed training framework framework  Increased safety training and Adult  Intensity focus on ABET Basic Education and Training (ABET) in SA  Sappi Leadership  Sappi Fine Paper North America  Support completion of 2-year Academy 250 managers participated LEADS programme in NA in Leadership Excellence and  Roll out ‘nine conversations’ Development at Sappi (LEADS) to lower level teams programme and the region also conducted extensive sustainability training of the sales force based on the new eQ tool  Fifth SFPE 250 Leadership Academy management and manufacturing trainee programme started in April with 13 participants  In SA, ‘nine conversations’ introduced as supplementary leadership tool  We successfully continue to run a situational leadership training module across Europe, aimed at enabling managers to adjust their leadership style to the task  Talent and succession  Report on talent pipeline  Talent reviews co-ordinated annually  Improve the quality of the planning review and succession planning and talent talent review and succession reviews bi-annually to the board planning process Adding value to our people Global training spend in 2010 was US$9.8 million (2009: US$9.1 million), amounting to 12.7% of total employee costs. We recognise that there is a direct link between our people and our sustained business performance. Accordingly, our aim is to add value to our human capital base by developing our employees’ skills and abilities and by providing them with opportunities to learn and develop. To determine the annual training and development agenda, a needs analysis is undertaken, underpinned by the performance management process. Our approach to training and development is decentralised with each mill, function, business unit and region taking responsibility for training. Training is broad and includes: Training spend (US$) and hours by category per employee per region Management and Knowledge and capacity Skills programmes and Sappi World of Work leadership development building individual development Comprises all training that Comprises training that Comprises formal Comprises training that is is associated with enhances individuals’ programmes/self-study mandatory for legal, safety, management, supervisory skills for current or future that have both practical and health, environment and and leadership development positions for a best practice theoretical components that quality compliance organisation may lead to educational qualifications n South Africa 3.7 hours US$90 27.3 hours US$164 41.8 hours US$346 12.4 hours US$147 n Europe 3.2 hours US$85 14 hours US$339 2.5 hours US$55 5.5 hours US$95 n North America 3.7 hours US$32 10.6 hours US$92 1.4 hours US$12 30.3 hours US$262 30 Report back: People continued Cultivate an inclusive diverse workplace Performance indicators Objectives FY2010 Actual performance FY2010 Objectives FY2011  Promotion of gender  Monitor employee diversity  Monitored quarterly by SA lead team  Continue monitoring and race equality profile and equity discussed monthly at every progress quarterly unit’s equity forum  Continue to attract, develop  In Europe, increased focus and and promote female talent openness to bringing different nationalities and senior managers (outside the traditional papermaking background) into mill management positions  In NA, maintained our gender split  Increase the diversity of at senior management levels candidates for key positions  Achievement of South  Review targets  Equity indicators communicated to SA  Intensify efforts to reach Africa’s Employment lead team quarterly equity targets Equity indicators  Discussions being held on the equity targets submitted to the Department of Labour in 2009 Valuing diversity As a global company, we employ a diverse workforce. We value this diversity, believing that it contributes to innovative thinking and our ability to service diverse global markets. We strive to create a workplace free from discrimination and harassment, acknowledging and accepting differences among our people with respect to age, class, ethnicity, gender, physical ability, race, sexual orientation, and spiritual practice. Although English is the primary language used throughout the group, key communication materials are disseminated in the prevailing languages of each region. 2010 sustainability report 31 Be a great place to work Performance indicators Objectives FY2010 Actual performance FY2010 Objectives FY2011  Global engagement  Implementation of action  Various initiatives were established  Conduct new survey survey plans flowing from results in each region (see below)  Analysis and communication of global survey of results  Regional recognition  Continue with Employee Achievement  Continue with regional programmes Awards in SA and risk-taking and recognition awards ingenuity programme in NA  Reward/remuneration  Identified as an issue in  Global grading project which focused  Review bonus schemes based on merit employee engagement survey on job size was completed as appropriate  Absenteeism and labour  Report on employee wellbeing  The results from Sappi Fine Paper  Establish wellness turnover statistics programmes and outcomes North America’s drive to promote programmes focused health risk assessments used to on Sappi specific health establish Sappi-specific health risk risks in NA programmes  Finalisation of project to improve employability of SFPE staff  Overall absenteeism of <5%  Down in SA to 2.8%, NA to 4.3%,  Further reduce absenteeism Sappi Trading to 1.3%, up in Europe  Maintain voluntary turnover of  Voluntary turnover of <10% to 5.1% 10% to allow for new thinking  Up in SA and Sappi Trading to 17.8% and younger employees to be and 13.9% respectively. Down in brought into the company Europe and NA to 7.4% and 12.1% respectively Promoting wellbeing Initiatives flowing from global employee Globally, the Employee Wellbeing Programme includes various initiatives engagement survey and awareness programmes, eg substance abuse, cancer awareness In 2009, we conducted our second employee engagement survey. The days, weight-loss programmes and awareness programmes related to survey identified certain areas of concern which we addressed in the testing cholesterol, blood glucose, body mass index, blood pressure and, following ways: in South Africa, HIV/AIDS. Focused interventions differ in each region. South Africa South Africa After analysing the data and focus group discussions, participants Using the statistics from our in-house medical aid scheme, we are able designed their own action plans to adress their respective three top to establish on an annual basis the health and wellbeing risks experienced areas of concern. A dipstick survey was conducted to measure by employees and this helps develop our annual agenda. In addition to progress and impact of action plans. In addition, the region designed fulfilling various awareness programmes, employee wellbeing practitioners and launched ‘My Sappi’ attributes and behaviours in a branded provided focused attention on the financial upskilling of employees to employee value proposition followed by a book containing stories address their financial wellbeing. Further effort was made in better written by employees about their Sappi working experience. managing the reintegration of temporary and permanently disabled employees in their return to work. North America The region launched a two-year LEADS training programme and Europe conducted targeted site and departmental engagement activities. Employee wellbeing in Europe is decentralised with each mill determining their annual calendar activities based on their needs. Europe Europe continued to invest in a high performance culture through reActivities range from flu vaccinations and counselling for employees vitalisation of the performance management process and training for whose wellbeing is affected by work or external factors, support of managers in performance management; leadership training for all employee sports and social activities to consultations with a dietician. levels; and core communication and feedback skills for first line North America managers. In addition, each of the mills defined three action steps they In 2010, the region rolled out a health risk assessment to obtain Sappiwill take to especially address the relatively lower levels of discretionary specific health risk data that is critical to the development of a effort for blue-collar workers. A toolkit was developed to explain in a comprehensive wellness programme. Participation in wellness ‘simpler way the purpose of the survey to the HR team, as well as how programmes is shown to control the trend of medical plan utilisation, to analyse the results, how to get to the root-cause as well as a library thereby reducing the annual premium increases in the future. Survey of recommended action steps. results received to date identified several key wellness risk areas for Sappi employees and families. They are: weight, blood pressure, stress and lack of physical activity. The two areas that we will focus on in 2011 are weight loss and stress management initiatives. 32 Report back: People continued Prioritise wellbeing, safety and health Performance indicators Objectives FY2010 Actual performance FY2010 Objectives FY2011  Measurement,  Reduce LTIFR and fatalities  Reduced fatality rate from previous  Continue to aim to achieve monitoring to zero year to four, one in Europe and three zero fatalities and management of in SA safety indicators in terms of employees and contractors with the aim of achieving zero harm  Focus on executing safety  Contractor safety management system  Monitor and improve on strategies which include developed with IRCA in Sappi Forests safety performance further training, visible senior in SA, proved successful in reducing leadership and improved fatalities and injuries contractor vetting, management and safety performance  Mills’ safety milestones  Increase number of mills  Achieved by Enstra Mill  Improve mill safety achieving safety diamond performance in all regions status  Internationally  Cloquet, Somerset and Westbrook recognised certification Mills all attained OHSAS 18000: 2007 standards, such as certification during the year. OHSAS and OSHA  HIV testing and  Identify the risks that influence  In SA risk workshops on factors that  Establish interventions to mortality rates the HIV prevalence within influence HIV prevalence were held mitigate identified risks Sappi employees in various locations Identifying HIV risk areas in South Africa Of the predicted HIV-positive Sappi employees, 57.7% are registered on managed care programmes. The South African Department of Health (DoH) has launched Counselling and Testing (C&T) campaigns aimed at encouraging people to know their HIV status and linking to treatment, care and support. Through key HIV prevention messages, the DoH also encourages people to take proactive steps towards a healthy lifestyle, irrespective of their HIV (or TB) status. In 2010, Sappi participated in the campaign and partnerships were formed with the DoH to encourage employees, contractors and partners to ensure they know their HIV status. At Sappi on average more than 50% of the employees participated in the campaigns with the participation at one mill being more than 90% for the third year in a row. Special focus is given to the identification of the external risks that could lead to an increase in the prevalence of HIV in the company. One of the key internal risks is non-compliance with medical protocols. In the past year, employee wellbeing layworkers helped to promote compliance with medication. The initiatives described here had a positive effect on the mortality rate of Sappi employees, which, at 0.36% is the lowest in 12 years. 2010 sustainability report 33 Safety performance – at a glance Improvements in reducing fatalities and lost time injuries are evident down to machine operators were trained by the insurance throughout the group. Nevertheless, we remain committed to the goals consultants on aspects such as safety understanding, risk analysis of eliminating fatalities and lost time injuries and achieving constant and responsibilities. These consultants are tracking the integrated “front of mind” safety awareness for all employees and contractors. To safety programme on an ongoing basis. that end we have reviewed and requested improvements to our safety – Kirkniemi Mill: workplace risk assessments were conducted and management systems, including developing safety dashboards. a culture of zero accidents was reinforced through safety talks  North America: There were no fatalities reported in FY2010. The by supervisors, the Global Safety Awareness Day and initiatives Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) however, increased due conducted with the Finnish Zero Accident Forum. In the first mainly to minor strains and sprains. Renewed programmes have quarter of FY2011, the mill will launch the safety analysis risk been put in place to reduce such incidents. The strict policy on assessment (SARA) throughout the mill and will institute behaviourcontractor safety resulted in there being no contractor lost time based safety (BBS) programmes. injuries for the year. – Stockstadt Mill: in May this year, the mill re-focused its safety  South Africa: The contractor LTIFR was the lowest ever recorded in programme with the help of external consultants. First step was South Africa. Unfortunately, there were two fatalities in Sappi Forests an in-depth safety analysis of all areas in the mill, achieved through and one at Saiccor Mill. both interviews and inspections. Second step was to implement a workgroup to define measurements to improve safety performance In 2010 we instituted a web-based facility in Sappi Forests, the based on the results of the external safety analysis report. Going Hannington Quality Management Software (HQMS) solution for forward, the mill’s main focus will be on the clear setting and identifying and addressing the root causes of injuries. HQMS is communication of safety targets, reorganising function and work an integrated web-based SHEQ management system which is of safety experts in all departments and the start of behaviourinexpensive for contractors and has been well received and utilised, based safety work audits. allowing the the region to identify areas for improvement.  Europe: Safety performance improved for both contractors and employees. Sadly, a Sappi Kirkniemi employee was fatally wounded. Safety mpany, Last year, we reported that our safety systems at Biberist, Kirkniemi nufacturing co As a major ma on e priority. and Stockstadt Mills needed re-energising and that we would r nu mb er safety is ou a safe engage with external consultants to strengthen safety programmes itted to creating We are comm ye es and for em plo at these mills. We progressed this at each mill: workplace contractors. – Biberist Mill: external insurance consultants completed safety audit, people with managerial responsibility from top management 34 Report back: People continued Engage with stakeholders openly and constructively Performance indicators Objectives FY2010 Actual performance FY2010 Objectives FY2011  Regular contact with  Chief executive officer and  Achieved regular contact with  Continue to further expand shareholders and management to maintain high customers and other stakeholders via interaction with new and customers level of visibility and roadshows and one-on-one interaction existing stakeholders accessibility to all stakeholders  Internal and external  Focus communication  Sustainability website regularly  Communicate results of life communications to target audience via updated with case studies and cycle analysis of printing and all channels other news writing grades developed with  Launched eQ tool in NA (see below) American Forest and Paper Association  Launch of ‘i choose paper’ campaign in SA  Extend eQ tool format to other regions  Green ambassador programme in SA  Customer sustainability training in Europe  Participation in industry  TwoSides paper campaign in Europe  Remain engaged and involved association initiatives  Why Print Is Green campaign in NA in regional industry associations and relevant  Sappi Fine Paper North America initiatives co-sponsored the development of the paper lifecycle  Feedback from  Each NA mill has a community  SA: Stanger Environmental communities connection group that is focused on Liason Forum to be converted surrounding our interacting with the local community to a broader forum operations  SA: Environmental liaison committees are in place Sappi Fine Paper North America launches eQ Tool In 2010, Sappi Fine Paper North America launched its eQ Tool – an interactive web-based tool that allows users to explore a full range of factors behind choosing a sustainable paper. The eQ Tool illustrates Sappi’s industry-leading approach to carbon management, explores the best use of recycled fibre, and brings to life our progress in forest certification and waste reduction. The environmental performance of a paper supplier is an increasingly relevant and critical factor in choosing a product brand. The eQ Tool provides stakeholders with the foundation to engage with the broader environmental considerations when choosing a paper supplier. The eQ tool also provides users with the ability to generate a customised product statement that summarises the environmental benefits of choosing Sappi Fine Paper North America’s papers for a print job. The region publishes the eQ journal which covers a broad range of sustainability topics. Green Ambassador programme extended in South Africa Sappi ReFibre (previously Sappi Waste Paper), has extended its Green Ambassador programme, initiated in 2009, by awarding Green Ambassador Accreditation status to acknowledge companies, organisations and individuals who are truly making an effort to recycle. Participants have to actively implement recycling and a Sappi recycling agent has to be linked to the recycling initiative to service the project. The volume of recyclables collected must be measured and reported to determine the success and impact of the project while participants also have to undergo training on the basic principles of recycling. I’langa Mall in Mpumalanga was the first shopping complex in South Africa to be awarded Sappi’s Green Ambassador Accreditation status. 2010 sustainability report 35 Partner with communities Performance indicators Objectives FY2010 Actual performance FY2010 Objectives FY2011  Corporate Social  Review areas of spend  Reviewed and maintained Responsibility (CSR) spend on literacy, skills  Report on impact of projects  Methodology established  Roll out methodology to development, education, major projects job creation, health, environment and HIV/AIDS We adopt a participatory approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) by identifying the needs of communities surrounding our operations, consulting with them and then tailoring specific programmes to meet their identified needs. Most of Sappi’s CSR spend takes place in South Africa, given the development needs of the country. Promoting reading P To support literacy in our communities and promote the reuse of books, the US$) ittyy ((U biililit sib Community Connections committees at each site at Sappi Fine Paper North Co so soc ia esponsi al rre America held a book drive whereby local non-profit organisations in the Am rpo Corp ra ra t te e sociia all community were identified. Employees were rallied to bring in specific types of co Corpora ratte spe nd en onnsibibiltltltyy ((CCSR) sp used and new books. The aim of the campaign was to bring in more books than us esssp re po p e ed o d tto 1 0 am am ou nt there are Sappi employees and this was achieved with over 4,000 new and used the n 2010 in x. err tax. aftte %o pro off pr offitit a books being sent to nine non-profit organisations in the communities where our bo 3.2 2% sites are located. site KwaDukuza Resource Centre – celebrating ten years Established by Sappi in 2000, the KwaDukuza Resource Sappi employees in North America donated books to local schools Centre near Stanger Mill gives every member of the surrounding community the opportunity of using state-of-theart information technology, regardless of personal means. The Helping Haiti Centre comprises a digital village with computers, a dedicated During June, Sappi Fine Paper Europe made a one Euro donation for every ton study centre and reference library, as well as televideo and of paper sold to clients. The funds raised went towards building schools for the DVD sets. children of Haiti. Education outreach at the KwaDukuza Resource Centre Haitian children benefited by the donation of funds by Sappi in Europe for school buildings, teachers, books etc at the Stichting Naar School 36 Report back: Planet One of the greatest benefits to Sappi’s paper, paper packaging and chemical cellulose is that the wood fibre is derived from sustainable and renewable resources 2010 sustainability report 37 Planet Safeguard biodiversity by promoting sustainable forestry Performance indicators Objectives FY2010 Actual performance FY2010 Objectives FY2011  Tree improvement  Continue funding support  Ongoing collaboration with tertiary and  Continued collaboration with programme to increase and technical expertise to scientific institutions where needed tertiary and scientific yields per hectare facilitate breakthrough in institutions for molecular  Progress made in relation to targets fibre molecular research breeding for the year programme  Development of softwood and hardwood species to meet Sappi’s requirements, including the construction of a new cuttings nursery in KZN to accommodate demand  Pest and disease  Develop detection and  The development of remote sensing  Additional research into resistance quantification methods tools by Sappi Forest SA enabled drought resistant hybrid trees for control of wood wasp more effective targeted search will be conducted for wood wasp  Continued implementation of  Establish an industry-wide  Task team established with various trials into control of PCF task team to develop an industry and academic partners.  Implement shift to commercial understanding of the potential Numerous projects initiated production of more PCFto control pitch canker fungus resistant pine hybrid families (PCF) in the nursery  Continued use of the successful biocontrol methods to combat wood wasp  Biocontrol  Continued to use biocontrol methods to combat wood wasp  Management of riparian  The programme to delineate and  These areas will then be zones remove commercial timber from all managed to re-establish wetlands and riparian zones will be natural vegetation completed by December 2010  Involvement of  Investigate the use of offset  In EU we participated in tree planting  Continue with long term offset communities in programmes in the Sonian Forest, in NA the Living established programmes conservation/tourism Lands and Waters programme, and and partnerships initiatives in SA the GreenforBlue initiative Promoting biodiversity by planting trees This operates a series of a social development projects that help communities. Disadvantaged children in rural communities grow the Europe seedlings and then barter the trees for food, clothes, bicycles and other In 2010, over 40 staff at Sappi’s office in Brussels, Belgium, participated basic necessities. in planting 1,250 trees in the Sonian Forest to celebrate World Forestry Day. The aim was to create wildlife corridors and enhance biodiversity North America locally. Over the past 150 years, there has been a sharp decline in native nut South Africa bearing hardwood trees in America’s Midwest due to over harvesting, In 2008, Sappi Limited and car manufacturer Volvo South Africa flooding and disease. As part of Sappi Fine Paper North America’s established a joint initiative GreenForBlue, whereby Volvo drivers are continued commitment to the environment and sustainable forestry, encouraged to sponsor the planting of indigenous trees for each Volvo in 2010 we provided free, two-year-old oak seedlings to our merchants car bought to mitigate the emissions of harmful gas from engines. located in Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Ohio, Minnesota, Kentucky and GreenForBlue trees are planted on Sappi’s lands, including land near Wisconsin. roadsides and between plantations, ensuring that they will be properly The tree giveaway is part of The Million Trees Project, sponsored by looked after. GreenForBlue is linked to Sappi’s Sandisa Imvelo (Growing Living Lands & Waters, a nonprofit environmental organisation that Nature) campaign. works to protect, preserve and restore America’s major rivers and Sandisa Imvelo oversees the planting of trees which are sourced from watersheds. The MillionTrees Project’s goal is to grow one million trees the ‘Trees for Fees’ programme of the Wildlands Conservation Trust. in the Midwest within the next five to ten years. 38 Report back: Planet continued Reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase our use of renewable energy Performance indicators Objectives FY2010 Actual performance FY2010 Objectives FY2011  Energy consumption  Explore cogeneration  Progress was made in relation  Monitor and report back and biofuel opportunities to a number of projects (see below)  CO2 emissions  Monitor regulatory  No clear direction following the Summit  Develop initiatives developments following the but we monitor regulatory and measure Copenhagen Climate Change developments and report back commercialisation Summit to board sustainability committee opportunities  Report on carbon footprint  SA and Europe have finalised their  Europe and SA engaging with methodology methodologies which cover scope customers 1, 2 and 3  Engage with AF&PA  NA scope 1 and 2 concluded on methodology for Scope 3 GHG emissions  Percentage of  Increased during  Achieved 49% for the group  Assess further opportunities renewable energy the year to over 50% to capitalise on new for the group and co-generation initiatives  Monitor regulatory developments  Percentage of  SA’s Saiccor Mill to sell power to  Monitor regulatory self-generated power Eskom, discussions under way to sell developments power from Ngodwana Mill  Completion of US$36 million  NA and Europe exported and sold recovery boiler upgrade at 13.3% and 16.9% in terms of sold Somerset Mill to used power respectively  Each year Cloquet Mill generates approximately 150,000 MWh of certified renewable energy Reporting on our carbon footprint In the absence of a standard carbon footprint methodology for the forest products industry, our challenge to date has been on finding an internationally recognised, technologically-sound, transparent methodology in order to provide our stakeholders with credible information regarding the carbon footprint of our mills and products. In South Africa and Europe, we have decided to use the Forestry Industry Carbon Assessment Tool (FICAT). This comprehensive methodology was co-developed by the National Council for Air and Stream Improvement (NCASI) and the Confederation for European Paper Industries (CEPI) and uses the CEPI ‘Ten Toes’ approach to provide scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) information. We have completed carbon footprints for our South African and European operations and will complete carbon footprints for products manufactured in these regions in 2011. The black liquor produced in is Sappi’s integrated mills is all renewable In North America, we report on direct and indirect (scope 1 and 2), but and this is the dominant fuel for Sappi’s operations (30.7%). ‘Own not scope 3 emissions. We are monitoring the development of two new renewable fuel’ does not fall within the EN-3 definition for direct fuel, but standards from the development of two new standards from the World is included here for its relevance to Sappi’s energy self-sufficiency. As it is a biomass-derived fuel, it promotes reduced consumption of fossil fuels Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council on with a concomitant decrease in greenhouse gas emissions. The next most Sustainable Development including the: Product Life Cycle Accounting dominant fuel is coal, used extensively in SA. The decreasing trend in coal and Reporting Standard and Scope 3 Accounting and Reporting use is due to Gratkorn Mill which converted from coal use to gas. This is Standards. Going forward, we will engage with the American Forest & shown by a corresponding increase in gas usage. Paper Association (AF & PA) and other resources to develop industryThe increase in purchased steam is due to its use in Biberist Mill which was specific guidance on Scope 3 emission. acquired by Sappi in 2009 as well as Cape Kraft Mill, which converted from coal-fired boilers to purchased steam. The decrease in own renewable fuel in 2010 was due to the closure of Usutu Mill, responsible for approximately Note: Black liquor is the spent cooking liquor from the kraft process which results 4 million GJ/annum. The declining trend in purchased HFO is due to our NA when pulpwood is digested into paper pulp by removing lignin, hemicellulose and mills replacing HFO with purchased biomass. ‘Own renewable fuel’ does not other extractives from the wood to free the cellulose fibres. The resulting black fall within the EN-3 definition for direct fuel, but is included here for its liquor is an aqueous solution of lignin residues, hemicellulose, and the inorganic relevance to Sappi’s sustainability. As this definition includes biomasschemicals used in the process. Black liquor contains more than half of the energy derived fuel, it indicates the extent to we are able to generate our own fuel content of the wood fed into the digester. and hence reduce our consumption of fossil fuels. 2010 sustainability report 39 Co-generation in South Africa Saiccor Mill has signed a Medium Term Power Purchase Programme (MTPPP) agreement with Eskom, the South African power utility, to sell 20MW of electrical power per annum into the grid. We are in discussions with Eskom to sell additional power from Ngodwana Mill. Other cogeneration opportunities we are currently examining in the region include:  A project at Lomati sawmill to use waste wood (currently 47,000 For Sappi, purchased power and steam are the only energy types that tons) for cogeneration and condensing power; fall under the ‘indirect energy’ category. The values for North America are  A combined cycle gas turbine at Tugela Mill which would ultimately very low since they generate most of their power needs internally (85.1%), result in the mill being independent of Eskom; consequently requiring very little purchased power and no purchased steam.  The utilisation of bark as a fuel for a new cogeneration project at Saiccor Mill to generate more steam and electrical power, making the mill less dependent on coal and more energy self-sufficient (current level of energy self-sufficiency: 44%). The prefeasibility study will be concluded by the end of December 2010. In South Africa we are looking at a number of biofuel projects, including the collection of biomass currently left in-field after harvesting for use as a fuel source and in the creation of wood pellets. Improving our energy efficiency and lowering our carbon footprint in North America As part of our commitment to investing in our assets, continuous improvement and operating sustainably, Sappi Fine Paper North America’s capex spend of US$36.3 million on the recovery circuit enabled the Somerset Mill to increase the utilisation of black liquor, a renewable fuel generated as a by-product of the pulping process. This increase in black liquor utilisation is equivalent to the energy contained The negative ﬁgures for indirect emissions for Europe and North America in 100,000 barrels of oil per year. In the process we will lower costs, are due to the fact that these mills sold more power to their respective grids than they purchased. The decline in global direct emissions is a measure of improve energy efficiency and further reduce our carbon footprint as greater fuel efﬁciency. well as increase pulp production. Note: Unless otherwise indicated, all data is given in specific form. This means that the actual quantity during the year indicated, whether energy, water, emissions or solid waste, is expressed in terms of a production parameter. For Sappi, as with other pulp and paper companies, the parameter is air dry tons (adt) of product. (The term ‘tons’ is used in this report to denote a metric ton of 1,000 kg). Our carbon footprint Key CO2 = Carbon dioxide N2O = Nitrous oxide SF6 = Sulphur hexafluoride HFCs = Hydrofluorocarbons CH4 = Methane PFCs = Perfluorocarbons 40 Report back: Planet continued Continue our commitment to applying independent, environmental, wood and fibre management systems Performance indicators Objectives FY2010 Actual performance FY2010 Objectives FY2011  Use of FSC, PEFC  Increase percentage of certified  On average 75% of the fibre used by  Maintain the average and SFI® certification fibre in pulp and paper Sappi is certified percentage of certified fibre to systems above 75%  Continue to support initiatives focused on establishing more certified forest land in North America Promoting forest certification in North America Comparing PEFC and FSC – at a glance Winning the SFI® President’s Award Third party forest certification has long been a challenge for about 10 million family forest owners who account for more than 60 percent PEFC FSC of private forest lands. Many are not certified because they lack Organisational focus Open, in Europe: Enterprise resources and certification is not economically feasible. Sappi, in regional approach approach collaboration with two of our key customers, Time Inc and Hearst Voting power in NGOs: 10% NGOs: 20% Corporation, and two of our competitors, formed a partnership to help steering groups Woodland owners: Woodland owners: smalland medium-sized landowners in Maine achieve third-party forest (simple voting) 50% <10% certification the Sustainable Forestry Initiative® (SFI®) and the American Use of pesticides Used only as a last Use of pesticides Tree Farm System (ATFS). resort, no restriction only in plantations of use on wood piles if ordered by In 2010, the partnership received the SFI® President’s award for making along forest roads authorities forest certification more accessible. Reference area Explicit focus on For forest land over integrated approach. 1,000ha in extent, Sappi Fine Paper North America’s sustainable forestry programme No forest land has to 5% has to be left achieves FSC group certification be set aside. Expert untouched as a groups deﬁne species reference area In June 2009, Sappi Fine Paper North America launched the Sustainable Dead wood Protection of nesting Signiﬁcant amount Forestry Programme. Operating from Skowhegan, Maine, the programme trees. Adequate of deadwood – dead is comprised of a team of highly trained forest professionals, including amount of deadwood wood strategy required licenced foresters, dedicated to assisting woodlot owners in the state of Maine to develop and manage their woodlots for the future. The Choice of species Mixed stands with Long-term focus on programme offers a variety of services to help landowners statewide adapted species native species only develop a forest management plan, determine the value of their woodlot, Chain of Custody Physical separation, Physical separation conduct timber harvests that plan for the future while maximising return, percentage method percentage method and also assist with wildlife management and aesthetics. In the year under review, the programme was certified as Forest rest Stewardship Council (FSC) Group Managers in terms of the FSC’s C’s Small and Low Intensity Managed Forests certificate. This initiative e is designed to help small and private landowners access and retain FSC SC sed ms lly recogni tion syste We use in ternationa ems such as Certiﬁca forest management chain of custody certification on smaller tracts of sy st d safety safety health an sure the land. Our programme can help landowners with the process of getting ng 000 to en 9000 and OHSAS 18 le as well as ISO their woodlot certified to the Forest Stewardship Council standard. p ental of our peo uality and environm ely. rq spectiv 14001 fo em s re ent syst managem Group certification in South Africa In South Africa, our own owned, managed and leased plantations are 100% FSC-certified. However FSC certification for small growers such as those participating in Project Grow, our tree-farming scheme for subsistence farmers, is still a challenge. A group scheme developed by the FSC was tested by ourselves and other members of the industry but proved to be unworkable. As part of the process to develop a South African FSC standard currently underway, a separate small low intensity managed forests (SLIMF) initiative is being developed, but it is unclear when it will be ready to roll out. 2010 sustainability report 41 Reduce solid waste and improve water quality Performance indicators Objectives FY2010 Actual performance FY2010 Objectives FY2011  Solid waste sent to landfill  Decrease waste to landfill and  Waste sent to landfill dropped by 25.4%  As for F2010 and solid waste increase waste combusted combusted  Use of process water  Focus on decreasing total  Decreased by 9.4% globally specific water use  Measurement of total  Improve the quality of effluent  TSS and COD dropped suspended solids (TSS) by 16% and 10.9% respectively* and chemical oxygen demand (COD) * Saiccor Mill does not treat its efﬂuent and is excluded from this data. Increases in water consumption for 2009 were the result of decreased Sending solid waste to landﬁll is the least favourable method of disposal as production – when production stops or slows, water still has to be consumed landﬁlls generate methane, a greenhouse gas with approximately 21 – 23 to keep machines running. In 2010, with production having increased, times the global warming potential of CO2 . We have reduced the amount speciﬁc water consumption decreased and the reducing trend prior to 2009 of solid waste to landﬁll over three years by 44%. We’ve achieved this by continued. Note: Water consumption by source is detailed in our expanded combusting solid waste for heat gain, sending boiler ashes for brick making sustainability report at www.sappi.com and giving lime mud to farmers. In Europe, only inert material may be landﬁlled (ashes, sorted inorganic building rubble, etc). Innovative solutions for fibre sludge In South Africa, we are examining the use of fibre sludge at Tugela Mill to produce a long-burning carbonised briquette capable of burning for up to eight hours. The briquettes could prove to be extremely beneficial to the informal market in particular. In this market, an estimated four million SA households still rely on unprocessed fuels such as coal and firewood and, in addition, a significant percentage of households rely on paraffin for cooking, heating and lighting. The benefits of this project Southern African mills generally have high efﬂuent COD as the legislation include enhanced revenue, minimisation of a waste stream (fibre sludge) is not as stringent as in the other regions, particularly Europe. Saiccor Mill which otherwise goes to landfill (diverting the waste stream helps to is a special case and does not treat its efﬂuent. Its efﬂuent COD levels are minimise the methane emissions associated with landfill), reduced GHG signiﬁcantly higher, approaching the 1,000 kg/adt. Its data is excluded. emissions by lower income households and the health benefits Generally all regions except SA experienced a drop in COD levels. associated with the elimination of GHGs and reduced use of paraffin. Helping farmers and reducing landfill At our Cloquet Mill in North America, we identified an opportunity to beneficially use lime mud and boiler ash (byproducts from our production process). Through a collaboration with the University of Minnesota Carlton County Extension Agency, Sappi and the Agency assist local farmers to use these lime mud and boiler ash to improve the soil characteristics which in turn improve crop yields. Annually, we distribute 25,000 to 30,000 tons of these byproducts to local farmers in the Cloquet area, saving them over US$1 million per year in soil As with COD, SA mills generally have higher TSS in their efﬂuent streams. The data for Saiccor Mill has been excluded. TSS in this region is 30 – 40 kg/ amendments, while significantly reducing our landfill volumes. adt. The increase for NA for 2010 resulted from larger than normal TSS levels for Somerset Mill. These resulted from excessive secondary sludge build up in the treatment pond. This has now been attended to. 42 Report back: Planet continued Promote the recovery and use of recycled fibre Performance indicators Objectives FY2010 Actual performance FY2010 Objectives FY2011  Use of post-consumer  Continue to meet customer  Production of new Triple Green tissue  Review product offering in and post-industrial needs for products containing and Masuga text grade at Stanger Mill relation to customer needs waste post-consumer and in SA and Algro Nature in Europe post-industrial waste  Globally, use of recycled fibre increased by 9.2% Sappi Waste Paper becomes Sappi ReFibre In September 2010, Sappi Waste Paper was re-named and re-launched as Sappi ReFibre. Based on a business model that draws on and empowers an extensive network of independent agents around the country, the division is leading the development of innovative models to facilitate the recycling of paper and the minimisation of waste. Sappi ReFibre procures board and paper for recycling from its agents, who source it directly from homes, offices, wholesalers and retailers, as well as from manufacturers in both the formal and informal sectors. Many of our papers contain recycled fibres, and Cape Kraft Mill uses only recovered paper and board in its manufacturing process. Triple Green tissue products launched Stanger Mill in South Africa is one of only a few mills in the world that uses bagasse (sugar cane waste) as its primary source of pulp. The Triple Green range of fine paper has built up substantial brand equity amongst environmentally-conscious end-users. The mill, which is already a leading manufacturer of virgin tissue wadding products has entrenched the Triple Green brand further with its range of Triple Green tissue products launched in July 2010. The range offers all the desirable characteristics of good tissue products such as whiteness, softness and absorbency. Fully compostable coated paper launched in Europe Sappi Fine Paper Europe recently launched Algro Nature, a one-side coated paper with fully renewable organic raw material content which is officially certified as compostable. Algro Nature is a one-side coated paper grade with much better on-shelf appearance compared to uncoated papers. The binding agents in the coating pigments used for Algro Nature originate from entirely vegetable sources. Developing the product was challenging: One of the main advantages coated papers have over uncoated papers for packaging applications is their excellent gravure printability. This allows for high quality reproduction of photos and fine printing screens but requires a very smooth and flexible surface. As vegetable-based binding agents are normally very brittle, it took more than half a year of laboratory testing to achieve the good printing level that Algro Nature now offers. The packaging is suitable for all kinds of flexible packaging application: high quality wrappers, sachets, inner liners and flexible pouches. A new avenue of use is in the catering business, for example at open-air events. The compostable packaging can be thrown away with the food remains. This is not only environmentally-friendly but also highly practical because the waste does not need to be separated. Similarly, with packaging in stores – if fruit or vegetables get too old, they can be composted together with their packaging. The paper is currently offered in grammages of 50, 60 and 70g/m² . The logo on the packaging material shows end-users that they can compost the packaging. 2010 sustainability report 43 Conform with best environmental practice and legislation Performance indicators Objectives FY2010 Actual performance FY2010 Objectives FY2011  Local legislation  Leverage opportunities  Close monitoring of developments  Prepare for anticipated created by changes in carbon changes legislation  Participate in industry groups  Engage with industry regulators  Remain active in industry to influence legislative to combat dumping of paper imports engagements with regulators changes in relevant markets  In SA engagement with NERSA to influence inclusion of black liquor as a renewable energy source Dumping of paper imports Europe The European Union’s market is open while a number of other pulp and paper producing countries are protecting theirs, putting at risk the region’s exports. Examples of these include: Vietnam’s discriminatory tariffs in favour of ASEAN producers and Israel’s anti-dumping investigations against recycled containerboard and fine papers produced in Europe. The European Commission imposed provisional anti-dumping duties with respect to imports of coated woodfree paper from China with effect from 18 November 2010. The duties range from 19.7% to 39.1%. North America In September 2009, Sappi, together with two of its competitors and the USW1 filed unfair trade cases, with the Commerce Department and the US International Trade Commission (ITC), alleging that certain coated paper from China and Indonesia had been dumped and subsidised by considerable margins, resulting in injury to the domestic industry and its employees. During October 2010 the ITC imposed anti-dumping and countervailing duties on imported coated sheet paper from Indonesia and China. The duties, which range from 25.2% to 313.8% are expected to re-establish a level playing field in the United States. Focusing on renewable energy In South Africa, as around the world, there is increasing emphasis on renewable energy. In March 2009, the National Energy Regulator of South Africa (NERSA) announced and approved the landmark renewable-energy feed-in-tariff (REFIT2) guidelines, which included wind, small hydropower, landfill gas and concentrating solar power (CSP). Biomass was initially excluded, but solid biomass (ie 100% forest wood and solid fuel, ie pellets and bricks produced as a result of physical processing of municipal waste) was subsequently included in REFIT, published in 2010. Sappi engaged with NERSA with a view to broadening the definition of solid biomass to include black liquor, sugar bagasse, residue from mill waste and all forms of invader bush. This was not achieved which means that we are unable to use REFIT to capitalise on opportunities such as black liquor, on site renewable waste such as bark and fibre and new projects or investments such as upgrades to existing assets such as boilers. We continue to engage with NERSA and await further developments. 1. The United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied 2. REFIT is a mechanism to promote the deployment of renewable energy that Industrial and Service Workers International Union (United Steelworkers or places an obligation on speciﬁc entities to purchase the output from qualifying USW) is the largest industrial labour union in North America, with over 700,000 renewable energy generators at pre-determined prices. members. 44 Our external accolades  Recognised as one of the 20 most GRI-compliant companies in South Africa in a survey assessing 399 companies conducted by Sustainability Services.  Included in the Gold Leadership Index of the South African Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) on the basis of our carbon disclosure and mitigation strategies.  Cloquet Mill received one of the 2009-2010 Minnesota Governor’s Awards for Pollution Prevention for work in reducing the mill’s impact on community odour.  Sappi Fine Paper North America Release Papers Business received the Best Man-Made Material Innovation Award at the Asia Pacific Leather Fair (APLF) – Materials, Manufacturing & Technology Trade Show for our newest texture, ‘Bling’.  Recognised as a top performer on the JSE’s SRI (Socially Responsible Investment) Index in 2009.  A partnership in which Sappi Fine Paper North America is involved received the SFI® President’s Award for making forest certification more accessible. Our benchmarks In addition to internationally accredited, independently verified certification systems such as forest certification systems, OHSAS 18001 and OSHA health and safety standards, ISO 14001 environmental standard and ISO 9001 quality standards, we entrench sustainability governance further by using external indicators and benchmarks, set out below. Benchmark (in alphabetical order) Sappi’s application of benchmark Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) As our primary listing is in South Africa, we participate in the South Representing over 500 investors with US$64 trillion under African CDP. We have participated in the CDP since it was first launched management, the CDP is the largest repository of greenhouse gas in South Africa in 2007. In 2010 we were included in the Gold Leadership data anywhere in the world. Index of the South African Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) on the basis of our carbon disclosure and mitigation strategies. Dow Jones World Sustainability Index (DJSI World) We were invited to participate in this index in 2010. We improved our Tracks the financial performance of the leading sustainability score to 71% compared with the sector average of 64%. We have companies to provide asset managers with reliable, objective considered key learning points from the exercise and are using some of benchmarks to manage sustainability-related investment portfolios. these to drive our sustainability initiatives. GRI G3 indicators We began the process of formally reporting in terms of the G3 guidelines The GRI guidelines are indicators that are used internationally to in 2007. In 2009 we declared ourselves as an ‘A’ level reporter and have assess sustainability performance. Launched in 2006, the G3 done so again this year – in both years, our rating has been confirmed guidelines are the so-called “Third Generation” of the GRI’s by the GRI. reporting guidelines. JSE Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Index We have been included in the index every year since inception. In 2008, Launched in May 2004, the JSE’s SRI Index was the first of its kind we were recognised as one of the top performers on the Index. in a developing market. It has been a driver for increased attention to responsible investment into emerging markets like South Africa. UN Declaration of Human Rights Our commitment to the principles of this declaration has always been The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) is a milestone inherent in all our policies and practices, but in 2009 we formalised this document in the history of human rights. Drafted by representatives commitment with the adoption of a policy on human rights. with different legal and cultural backgrounds from all regions of the Commitment to the Declaration has also been established in our supplier world, the Declaration was proclaimed by the United Nations policy, which also makes use of the following external reference points: General Assembly in Paris on 10 December 1948 as a common standard of achievements for all peoples and all nations.  International Labour Organisation Core Labour Standards  International Standards Organisation 9001 (ISO 9001)  International Standards Organisation 14001 (ISO 14001)  Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series 18001 (OHSAS 18001)  OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises  United Nations Global Compact UN Global Compact We joined the UN Global Compact in 2008 and reported in accordance This is a chief executive officer-led strategic policy initiative which with the ten principles since then. Our report for 2010 can be found gives signatories a platform for advancing their commitment to at www.sappi.com. sustainability and corporate actions. The Compact has two principal objectives: mainstream the ten principles which businesses commit to and catalyse actions in support of broader UN goals, including the Millennium Development goals. Paper specifications Acronyms This report is produced on Magno Satin, one of the world’s most AF & PA American Forest and Paper Association widely speciﬁed papers. We used Magno Satin 150g/m2 produced at Gratkorn Mill in Austria for the text and Magno Satin 250g/m2 BBBEE Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment produced at Maastricht Mill in The Netherlands for the cover. CEPI Confederation of European Paper Industries As a group, one of Sappi’s key strategic goals is to reduce our CSR Corporate Social Responsibility carbon footprint by improving energy efﬁciency levels and decreasing EMAS Eco-management Audit System our reliance on fossil fuel. The combined heat and power (CHP) generation plant at Gratkorn Mill which came on stream in mid-2007 EU Europe highlights the success of this approach. The plant has resulted in decreasing coal usage by 10% – 20%, reducing CO2 emissions by FSC Forest Stewardship Council 5% – 10% and increasing the use of biofuels by 5% – 10%. Excess GHG Greenhouse Gases electric power generated is sold to the public grid. ISO International Standardisation Organisation Maastricht Mill only operates on natural gas and its highly efﬁcient NA North America gas-steam combined heat and power (CHP) plant sells surplus electricity to the local grid as well as heat for heating and cooling PEFC Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certiﬁcation municipal and resident buildings and a local shopping centre. The SA South Africa mill minimises its carbon footprint further by shipping in raw materials, including market pulp, pigments and ﬁllers, by barge. SFI® Sustainable Forestry Initiative The installation of an anaerobic reactor to Gratkorn Mill’s waste water tons used to denote a metre ton of 1,000kg treatment plant in 2009 has reduced the chemical oxygen demand (COD) of the efﬂuent and increased the production of biogas. During the anaerobic biological process, special micro-organisms transform the organic load in the wastewater into biogas. The process has economic value, as the biogas is used for heat and power generation and sludge disposal costs are reduced. Sappi was the ﬁrst paper company in Europe to hold chain-ofcustody certiﬁcation for its entire European operations under both the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certiﬁcation (PEFC) schemes. Gratkorn and Maastricht Mills are also ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and EMAS (Eco Management and Audit system certiﬁed). Cover Making Sappi’s commercial and conservation land available to birders as well as recreational and competitive mountain bike riders is one example of our close engagement with and support for our local communities as well as special interest stakeholder groups. Cover photo: ©Media and Kelvin | kelvintrautman.com www.sappi.com This report has been compiled and produced by Sappi 2010© Sappi House • 48 Ameshoff Street • 2001 Braamfontein • Johannesburg • South Africa www.sappi.com Inspired by life “Look deep into nature, and then you will understand everything better” – Albert Einstein This inspiration and the insights we gain informs our technical excellence, our innovations, our relationships and the use of our resources. It is the spark that ignites the passion in our people and makes the end solutions relevant and successful.
