2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Table of Contents To Our Stakeholders 2 About This Report 4 Reporting Methodology 4 Profile and Governance 7 Vision, Mission, Values 7 Company Profile 8 Key Indicators 8 Organization and Governance 14 Our Responsibility 19 Corporate Responsibility Approach 19 Corporate Responsibility Strategy 20 Dialogue with Stakeholders 21 Business Ethics and Management of Sensitive Aspects 22 Our Stakeholders 29 Clients 29 Employees 41 Shareholders 53 Suppliers 59 Environment 63 Community 75 Annexes 82 VUB’s adhesion to the Global Compact Principles 82 Global Reporting Initiative Indicator Table 83 Statement of External Verifier 89 1 To Our Stakeholders To Our Stakeholders Space for improvement We realize that responsible business conduct is a continuous process where there is always space for improvement. We examine our employees´ opinions and especially practical ideas for process improvement as part of our ZAPNi employee programme. The fact that in 2010 we received 107 new ideas proves that our employees are enthusiastic enough to work on increasing our clients´ satisfaction. We closely monitor our clients´ needs and opinions in regular satisfaction surveys. We are pleased that last year we received fewer complaints filed by our clients. The improvement in the customer care was also reflected in the Dear partners, growth of satisfaction index – from 82.3 at the end of 2009 to 83.6 at the end of 2010. A professional, but at the same time a human approach at our branches continues to be our key priority. In VUB responsible business conduct is based on two main pillars. The first one is our commitment to contribute to sustainable development and to improve the quality of life of our employees, clients and other 2011 plans partners. The other pillar is that our business, conducted in compliance with the ethical standards, brings not only profits, but also lasting values. Business and responsibility are not in contradiction. On the contrary, we strive for responsible business because only such delivers real value, sustainable growth and development. The attention of the threeyear plan of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group is focused on three main priorities, namely: we must become faster and simpler; we need to get to know our clients thoroughly, and be more innovative. This year we 2010 – Economic recovery and floods will also celebrate the 10th anniversary of the entry of Intesa Sanpaolo into the Slovak market through its subsidiary VUB. The last year saw a recovery of the market following the deep recession of 2009. The economy grew by four percent, which was a great improvement compared to the five percent contraction in 2009. In this In Bratislava, March 31, 2011 context, the last year can be viewed as successful for VUB. Despite the turmoil in the market we have tried to maintain our profile of a retail bank that wants to be close to people. Traditional values and prudent approach, aimed at long-term sustainability and not short-term profits, were reflected in the year-end results. By adhering to the principles of prudence we belong to the leaders in the Slovak banking market with the lowest number of outstanding loans. We continue to complete our mission of being the best bank for our clients. Both clients and experts appreciate our professional approach. We won again the Banka roka (Bank of the Year Prize) awarded by TREND weekly and The Best Bank in Slovakia Award given by the British Euromoney magazine. We confirmed our dominance in the Zlatá minca (Golden Coin) contest in which our products received 15 awards. The jury judged the VUB products to be the best in the market for the fifth consecutive year. All Ignacio Jaquotot this recognition tells our clients that their money is in good hands. CEO and Chairman of the Management Board Všeobecná úverová banka, a.s. However, the summary of 2010 is not so positive for many of our clients and Slovak inhabitants. Slovakia was struck by heavy floods, the worst in the last 150 years. VUB was flexible also in this situation. We were the first bank that immediately responded to the situation and helped, at least in part, reduce the consequences of floods that hit some families in Slovakia. The affected communities received financial aid from the VUB Foundation and the bank. We tried to accommodate our clients whose life was complicated by the floods by introducing various special measures. Some of VUB employees were also the victims of the floods and the bank helped them, too. Responsible business conduct award Last year, VUB received the Via Bona award for its responsible approach to business and corporate philanthropy. We have received this award four times. For several years we have been involved in activities that are based on the principles of responsible business conduct – among others, we introduce internal ethical standards and policies, we develop customer care programs, we spread the principles of responsible business conduct among small and medium-sized enterprises, we help improve the quality of university education, we support arts and cultural heritage. We consider this award to be the best proof of the fact that the responsibility to clients, employees and other partners is an indispensable part of VUB values. 2 3 About This Report About This Report Compliance with Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines The content was compiled under the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the third edition of the Global Reporting Initiative Edition. Reported is the profile, management approach and 47 indicators. The annex contains a transparent table listing the reported indicators and management approach for each indicator category. Compliance with the GRI guidelines was verified by the external verifier the Pontis Foundation, which is an organizational stakeholder of GRI in the Slovak Republic. The verifier’s statement is contained in the annex to this report. The verifier did not deal with verification of quantitative or qualitative data contained VUB Bank is issuing already its fourth annual corporate responsibility report in a row compiled under in this report. the G3 version of the international Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) guidelines. The Report informs on VUB’s performance in the financial, social and environmental areas. The report being submitted contains qualitative data for the calendar and simultaneously the financial year 2010. They are comparable with the previous financial periods of 2009 and 2008. Similarly to the last year, the report is distributed to Pursuant to VUB’s stakeholders along with the financial annual report. It is published at http://www.vub.sk/o-banke/ the GRI hodnoty-principy/spolocenska-zodpovednost/. In the interest of saving the natural resources, we are issuing guidelines C C+ B B+ A A+ the report in electronic version only. Reactions and questions can be sent to csr@vub.sk. Mandatory Self Declared ✔ Overview of Corporate Responsibility Reports Issued Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Issue Date Level of Reporting Under GRI Methodology 2010 Report 31/03/2011 B+, audited Third Party 2009 Report 31/03/2010 B+, audited ✔ Checked 2008 Report 31/03/2009 B+, audited Optional 2007 Report 20/08/2008 B+, audited GRI Reporting Methodology Checked Structure and Content The report is divided into several chapters mapping individual areas of our impact on the individual stakeholder categories. The whole content is split into two main parts. The first part contains the Profile and Governance, chapter describing VUB Group’s profile, identity, governance system, mission, values and the Our Responsibility chapter focused on corporate responsibility management and implementation of its principles. The second part of the report consists of chapters dedicated to individual stakeholder categories, i.e. those entities that are significantly impacted by VUB Bank’s activity and towards which we feel the greatest responsibility. These are the clients, employees, shareholders, suppliers and the community. In a separate chapter, we also deal with our impact on the environment. When identifying these categories we took into consideration the corporate responsibility strategy of our parent bank Intesa Sanpaolo, which used the methodology under the AA1000 principles (in particular the AA1000 SES standard) issued by the London-based Accountability Institute. The report documents the results which the Bank achieved with respect to the objectives set out within its business plan. All data had been collected and processed by the members of the VUB corporate responsibility working group and the Corporate Social Responsibility Staff Unit. The report documents exclusively the activities of VUB Bank, whereas the activities of its subsidiaries are not included. The only partial exception is the area of our responsibility towards the community, where the information and data related to the activities of VUB Foundation overlap. This procedure was chosen in case of activities that VUB Bank and its foundation performed and financed jointly. Annex to the report is an overview processed under the GRI guidelines containing the publishing of profile, management approach for all indicator categories and the list of performance indicators. 4 5 Profile and Governance Vision, Mission, Values Vision To be the Best Bank in Slovakia for customer satisfaction, while maintaining excellence in profitability and operating efficiency. Vision, Mission, Values Mission We are part of this country and we want to grow together with our customers, be it a big corporation or an individual. We should make our customers feel that they are the most important to us, that their Company Profile satisfaction is in the centre of any decision we make. Values Financial Indicators We provide our clients with bank and financial services on a high level. At the same time, by means of our services, we create and activate the tools for development of the economic system of Slovakia. Our aim is to build a relation with clients and shareholders based on trust and satisfaction, solidarity of our employees and closeness to the actual needs of the whole society. Therefore, VUB’s corporate culture and Organization and Governance Code of Ethics contain the values that help us be successful and accomplish the expected results. Values direct our behaviour in situations when we must choose from among several paths. They form the basis for our success at work as individuals and also as a bank. They are published on page http://www.vub.sk /o-banke/hodnoty-principy/. We act We improve We are We respect fairly quality transparent differences We do not We listen We are discriminate attentively responsible 6 7 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Profile and Governance Company Profile VUB Shareholder Structure Key Indicators By Shareholder Type Value of shares in € * Stake in % Intesa Sanpaolo Holding International S.A. – majority shareholder 416,875,694.61 96.76 Financial 2010 2009 2008 Other legal entities 3,611,761.60 0.84 Loans to customers in euro 6.1 billion 5.6 billion 5.3 billion Individuals 10,331,607.60 2.40 Customer deposits in euro 7.3 billion 6.6 billion 8.1 billion TOTAL (VUB share capital) 430,819,063.81 100.00 Share capital in mil. euro 430.82 430.82 430.79 By Shareholder’s Citizenship Values of shares in €** Stake in % Number of clients 1,257,033 1,248,236 1,240,602 Intesa Sanpaolo Holding International S.A. – majority shareholder 416,876 96.76 Number of sales points 249 253 258 Local shareholders 12,809 2.98 Percentage of local suppliers 91 92 90 Other foreign shareholders 1,134 0.26 TOTAL (VUB share capital) 430,819 100.00 Social Number od VUB Bank´s employees (without the branch 3,465 3,456 3,561 * Value of VUB shares in € means the value of owned shares of VUB expressed by nominal value in euro multiplied by the number of shares owned. in the Czech Republic) ** Number of shares by shareholder’s citizenship is expressed in thousand EUR. – thereof women 2,591 2,617 2,735 – thereof with grave disability 17 19 18 As at December 31, 2010 the shares of VUB were held by 44,797 shareholders. Foreign shareholders come Turnover percentage 12.0 12.6 14.6 from the following 10 countries: Luxemburg (96.763 %), Germany (0.077 %), Switzerland (0.074 %), Czech Republic (0.059 %), Austria (0.047 %), United Kingdom (0.004 %), U.S.A. (0.001 %), Romania, Number of injuries 8 8 12 Poland and Cyprus. The year 2010 saw no changes in the share capital issued Support to non-profit organizations (in EUR thous.) 108.0 90.7 138.3 Environmental About Intesa Sanpaolo Group Energy consumption per employee (kWh) 11,434.9 11,411.9 11,852.2 Paper consumption per employee (kg per year) 177.3 151.6 86.3 The Italian banking group Intesa Sanpaolo, based in Turin and Milan, is the majority shareholder of VUB Bank with a stake of 96.76 % in the Bank’s share capital. It was established in Water consumption per employee (litres per day) 59.2 51.4 52.7 January 2007 by a merger of two significant Italian banks, Banca Intesa and The Italian banking Sanpaolo IMI. The Group has a leading position in Italy and it is one of the VUB Bank was established on January 1, 1990 by spinning off commercial activities for corporate leading banks providing financial products and services to households and group Intesa Sanpaolo clients in the territory of the Slovak Republic from the Czechoslovak State Bank. VUB Bank is a public also companies across Europe. Intesa Sanpaolo has a strategic business repreis the majority joint-stock company operating in the Slovak and Czech Republics. A break-through for our activities sentation in the region of Central and Eastern Europe and in the area of the was the year 2001, when a significant Italian banking group IntesaBci (nowadays Intesa Sanpaolo) Mediterranean Sea. Through its subsidiary banks, it operates in Serbia, where shareholder. acquired a majority stake in VUB Bank. VUB Bank is currently the second largest bank in Slovakia. It it ranks first, then in Albania, Croatia and Slovakia, where it controls the seadministers deposits amounting to EUR 7.3 billion and loans worth EUR 6.1 billion. The Bank’s portcond largest banks in the market, in Hungary with the third largest bank, fifth largest bank in Bosnia folio holds currently more than 1 million retail clients, 90 thousand sole traders, 9 thousand small and Herzegovina and in Egypt and in Slovenia, where it owns the sixth most significant bank. The and medium enterprises and 600 large corporations. For the past years, VUB has been one of the Group is represented also in Ukraine, in the Russian Federation and in Romania. most profitable banks in Slovakia. Intesa Sanpaolo in Figures VUB Group Providing a Wide Range of Services As at 30/09/2010 As at 31/12/2009 As at 31/12/2008 Total number of clients 19.9 mil. 19.6 mil. 19.8 mil. – in Italy 11.3 mil. 11.1 mil. 11.3 mil. – worldwide 8.6 mil. 8.5 mil. 8.5 mil. Total number of branches 7,669 7,933 8,399 Banking Leasing Factoring – in Italy 5,877 6,041 6,366 – worldwide 1,792 1,892 2,033 Total assets in billions of euro 677 652 636 Loans to customers in billions of euro 379 375 395 Customer deposits in billions of euro 435 421 430 Consumer Asset Pension Finance Management Saving 8 9 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Profile and Governance Presence of Intesa Sanpaolo in the Region Market Shares As at 31/12/2010 As at 31/12/2009 As at 31/12/2008 Total assets 18.7 % 17.9 % 17.2 % Customer deposits 17.5 % 17.5 % 19.8 % Loans to customers 18.1 % 17.7 % 16.7 % Mortgage loans 44.1 % 37.5 % 34.5 % Branch network 20.4 % 20.7 % 20.6 % Payment cards –* 25.5 % 23.5 % ATMs –* 24.2 % 23.9 % EFT POS terminals –* 18.4 % 20.5 % * data not available The complete financial performance is published in VUB’s 2010 Annual Report (www.vub.sk/o-banke/profil-banky/vyrocne-spravy/). VUB Bank’s Headcount (without the branch in the Czech Republic) 2010 3,465 2009 3,456 2008 3,561 2007 3,554 Employee Structure as at 31/12/2010 Management Board members 9 Managers 577 Non-managers 2,888 Financial Indicators Subsidiaries with Majority Stake of VÚB, a.s. The year 2010 was a year of a gradual economic recovery from a deep recession of the previous year. The economy grew in real terms by four percent, which represented a significant ■■ Consumer Finance Holding, a. s. improvement after its drop by nearly five percent in 2009. Economic recoveIn the year of gradual Stake of VÚB, a. s., 100 % ry most significantly translated into better financial indicators of the corpoCore business: Provision of non-banking loans rate sector that was gradually improving its profitability reaching the preeconomic recovery we crisis levels. Yet, the recovery was still not sufficiently robust to bring about achieved profit and ■■ VÚB Asset Management, správ. spol., a. s. a considerable improvement in the labour market. The number of unemStake of VÚB, a.s., 100 % ployed persons registered with the labour offices at year-end of 2010 stood improved efficiency. Core business: Collective investment, portfolio administration and management at 380 thousand, which was identical with the level at the end of 2009. Nevertheless, positive fact was that unemployment rate was not deteriorating over the year and citizens’ ■■ VÚB Factoring, a. s. fear of losing employment gradually receded. This lead to a gradual recovery of demand for financial proStake of VÚB, a. s., 100 % ducts, including mortgages representing one of the carrying elements of VUB Bank’s product portfolio. Core business: Factoring and forfaiting transactions On the background of a gradual recovery of the Slovak economy, VUB Bank had a successful year. We ■■ VÚB Leasing, a. s. managed to use our sound financial condition to improve our share in the total loan volume, be it in loans Stake of VÚB, a. s., 100 % to businesses or citizens. We achieved the planned performance in terms of profitability indicators. Also Core business: Financial and operational leasing last year, we managed to improve our efficiency indicators. Looking forward, the year 2011 will be about how we manage to follow up on a decent beginning of a new era in approach and thinking after the times ■■ VÚB Leasingová, a. s. in liquidation of economic instability. We will pay attention to these basic priorities – we must be faster and simpler, we Core business: Leasing business must thoroughly know our clients and be more innovative. The firm was in liquidation and was not in operation 10 11 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Profile and Governance ■■ VÚB Poisťovací maklér, s. r. o. Awards Stake of VÚB, a. s., 100 % Core business: Insurance mediation Banka roka (Bank of the Year) The economic weekly Trend honoured VUB Bank with a prestigious award Banka roka (Bank of the Year). ■■ Recovery, a. s. VUB received this award for the second consecutive time. The Trend evaluation model traditionally comStake of VÚB, a. s., 100 % pares the ability of banks to grow their market shares in deposits and also Core business: Administration, collection and purchase of receivables loans, their profitability and operating efficiency. In 2010, the evaluation was VUB Bank received extended by a new parameter focused on monitoring of risk costs. ■■ VÚB Generali, dôchodková správcovská spoločnosť, a. s. important awards Stake of VÚB, a. s., 50 % Euromoney Awards for Excellence – Best Bank in Slovakia including the Trend Bank Core business: Management of old-age pension saving funds According to the prestigious financial magazine, VUB was the best bank in of the Year and Best Slovakia in 2010. Euromoney grants awards recognizing banking excellence Business Network in global categories in 110 countries worldwide. The jury evaluates not only Bank in Slovakia. financial indicators of a financial institution, but also the service level, modThe VUB business network servicing more than 1.26 mil. clients, is the second largest in Slovakia. VUB’s maernization or customer approach. VUB was honoured with the award for the second consecutive time. nagement is based in Bratislava. Zlatá minca (Golden Coin) 2010 2009 2008 Also in 2010, VUB became the most successful banking house in the Zlatá minca (Golden Coin) competiRetail branches 206 210 215 tion. Within the competition, products of financial institutions are assessed by experts from the circles of financial journalists, representatives of broker companies, universities, research companies, professional Mortgage centres 11 11 11 associations. VUB Bank won in the categories of debit cards, housing loans, business loans and car loans. Corporate branches 32 32 32 The Bank was awarded silver coins in the categories of bank accounts, electronic banking, consumer Number of ATMs 554 558 541 loans, business accounts and term deposits. The collection of coins is supplemented by one bronze coin in the credit cards category. Awarded were also products of VUB Bank’s subsidiaries – 2 gold, one silver and 2 bronze coins. Via Bona Slovakia In the 10th annual Via Bona competition announced by the Pontis Foundation, VUB won the main award for large corporations. The award presented was for a comprehensive approach to corporate responsibility. The Bank was also one of the nominees in the category Award for Long-term Positive Impact on Society and Community with the project Restoration of Calvary in Banská Štiavnica. VUB was honoured with the Via Bona award already for the fourth consecutive time, thereof twice with the main award. Membership in Organizations In 2010, VUB Bank held membership in 25 associations and professional associations. The most important professional association is the Slovak Banking Association, which is a key association in the Slovak financial sector and the only organization representing the interests of banks operating in the Slovak Republic. Other significant organizations, in which VUB Bank was a member, include the Italian, U.S. and German Chambers of Commerce, the Association of Securities Dealers and the Slovak Chamber of Commerce and Industry. We are a member of the Business Leaders Forum association joining leaders in enforcement of corporate responsibility principles in Slovakia. 12 13 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Profile and Governance Organization and Governance Staff U. Corporate Social Trading Change Management Depository Responsibility Office Supervisory Supervisory Board Board Internal Audit & Staff U. Customer Sales Corporate & Mark. Control Institutional Sales Care Communication Management Management Board Board Assets & Liabilities Staff U. Custody Corporate Strategy & Management and Financial and Sales Support Institutions Relations Econ. Research Business Continuity CEO CEO Corporate Governance Units Compliance Management General Legal Secretariat Services Deputy CEO Deputy CEO Business for Support for Business Strategy Business Support Units Operational Finance, Planning & Risk Corporate Retail VÚB CR Prague IT Human Resources Services Controlling Management Banking Banking Branch IT Support Banking Tax Strategy & Enterprise Risk Personnel Relationship Corporate Small Business Office Operations Management Program Management Management Customers Segment Management Delivery Corporate Middle Administrative and Market Training and Small & Medium Product and Alternative Centre Office Financial Governance Risk Development Enterprises Channel Development Cash Flow Planning & Operational Risk & Compensation Corporate Business Customer Relationship IT Development Management Controlling Capital Management and Benefits Development & Support Management Facility Fin. Reporting & Corporate and Personnel Retail Branch IT Operations Leasing Administration Account. Governance Retail Underwriting Administration Management Global Asset Quality Trade Payment Cards Security Reconciliation Management Finance Internal Project & Real Estate Private Recovery Services Finance Banking Archival Policy & Services Methodology Procurement Internal Banking Recovery, a.s. CFH, a.s. VÚB Generali DSS., a.s. VÚB Factoring, a.s. Accounting VÚB Leasing, a.s. VÚB Leasingová, a.s. Slovak Banking Credit VÚB AM, (incl. subsidiary VÚB Bureau, spol. s r. o. správ. spol., a.s. Poisťovací maklér, s.r.o.) Support units Control units Support Units Business units 14 15 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Profile and Governance Governance The Management Board mainly: Similarly to its parent company Intesa Sanpaolo, also VUB Bank applies a dual administration and con■■ exercises the executive management of VÚB, a.s., trol model, within which the control activities and strategic management are separated from the manage■■ exercises the rights of the employer, ment of business activities performed by the Bank’s Management Board. Ownership and management ■■ convenes General Meetings, are thus clearly defined and the Supervisory Board functions as a filter between the shareholders and the ■■ implements decisions made by the General Meeting and the Supervisory Board, Management Board. The Bank’s management disposes of a full execution power, whereas the Supervisory ■■ ensures the keeping of accounting and other records, commercial books and other documentation of Board performs the control function. This model provides for transparency and reduces the risk of conflict VÚB, a.s., as prescribed, of interest. ■■ after prior approval by and upon a proposal by the Supervisory Board, submits proposals to the General Meeting, Bank Bodies ■■ holds responsibility for generating, executing, monitoring and reviewing business plans of the Bank. General Meeting As at 31/12/2010 the Management Board had nine members: General Meetings are the Bank’s top decision-making body representing all shareholders and their deciName Position, Area of Responsibility sions approved pursuant to applicable legal regulations and Bank’s Articles of Association are binding for Ignacio Jaquotot Chairman of Management Board and Chief Executive Officer all shareholders. The General Meeting consists of all attending shareholders. Members of the Supervisory Tomislav Lazarić Deputy Chief Executive Officer for Business and Management Boards regularly attend General Meetings facilitating their smooth course and simulElena Kohútiková Deputy Chief Executive Officer for Support taneously answering the questions and inquiries presented by shareholders. The Management Board is obliged to convene a regular General Meeting within the period of three months from the compilation of Domenico Cristarella Finance, planning, controlling regular financial statements and its verification by an auditor. Should the interests of VÚB, a.s. require so Daniele Fanin VÚB Prague branch and in cases stipulated by legal regulations an extraordinary General Meeting may be convened. Jozef Kausich Corporate banking Silvia Púchovská Human resources Supervisory Board Alexander Resch Risk management Adrián Ševčík Retail banking Supervisory Board is the top control body of the Bank. It supervises the Management Board and performance of the Bank’s business activities. Save for members of Supervisory Board elected by the employees of VÚB, a.s., a member of the Supervisory Board may not be an employee of VÚB, a. s. The curricula vitae published in the 2010 Annual Report (http://www.vub.sk/o-banke/profil-banky/vyrocnespravy/) and on page in the About Us/Bank’s Profile section contain information on professional qualification The Supervisory Board inspects and submits conclusions and/or recommendations to the General Meeting of Supervisory Board members and Management Board members in the area of finance and banking, as well regarding the following: as information on their practical experience serving as assurance for an efficient management of the com■■ fulfilment of tasks assigned to the Management Board by the General Meeting; pany in line with the Bank’s strategy in financial, environmental and social spheres. All Management Board ■■ compliance of VÚB, a.s.’s activities with the Articles of Association, and with legal regulations; and members are evaluated on the basis of key performance indicators (KPIs), for which they bear responsibility. ■■ business and financial activities of VÚB, a.s., accounting, documentation, accounts, condition of property, All managers in the respective positions are evaluated depending on the fulfilment of these KPIs also with payables and receivables of VÚB, a.s. respect to financial, social and environmental performance. The number of Supervisory Board members is minimum three, out of which one is the Chairman and at Internal Audit and Control least one is a Vice Chairman. Members of the Supervisory Board are elected and removed by a decision of The mission of the Internal Audit and Control Department is to provide independent, objective assurance the General Meeting. The term of office of the Supervisory Board members is three years. In 2010, the VUB and consulting services designed to add value and improve VUB’s and its affiliates‘ operations. It helps General Meeting repeatedly elected György Surányi to the position of Supervisory Board Chairman and memVUB Group accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluation and ber, and Adriano Arietti to the position of a Supervisory Board member. Simultaneously, elected were also improvement of the effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes. Independence three new members Fabrizio Centrone, Antonio Furesi and Massimo Malagoli – whereas Fabrizio Centrone of the Internal Audit and Control Department is expressed in the organizational structure by its direct was elected to the position Supervisory Board Vice Chairman. The term of the Supervisory Board member reporting to the Supervisory Board, which established also an Audit Committee for the needs of a more Paolo Grandi expired in 2010 and Massimo Pierdicchi and Paolo Sarcinelli resigned on their positions. detailed communication concerning the Bank’s internal control system. Supervisory Board as at 31/12/2010: Committees ■■ György Surányi – Chairman of Supervisory Board In VUB Bank, the following bank-wide top committees are charged with the task of coordinating, escalat■■ Fabrizio Centrone – Vice Chairman of Supervisory Board ing and adopting decisions in the following bank-wide procedures and initiatives: ■■ Adriano Arietti ■■ Antonio Furesi ■■ Assets and Liabilities Committee, ■■ Massimo Malagoli ■■ IT – Business / Risk / IT Architecture Committee, ■■ Janka Finková ■■ Corporate Credit Committee, ■■ Ján Gallo ■■ Credit Risk Committee, ■■ Juraj Jurenka ■■ Operational Risk Committee, ■■ New Product Committee, Management Board ■■ Audit Committee, ■■ VUB Crisis Management Committee.  anagement Board is the statutory body governing the Bank’s executive management. It is authorized to M act on behalf of the Bank in all matters and to represent VÚB, a.s. in relations with third parties, in front 16 of courts or other authorities. 17 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Approach Corporate Responsibility Governance Management board Corporate Responsibility Approach CEO CSR unit Dialogue with Stakeholders Businees Ethics and Management of All Bank divisions CSR working group Sensitive Aspects Corporate Responsibility Staff Unit The unit is included in the Bank’s organizational structure as an independent department reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer. It is managed by the corporate responsibility manager, who is simultaneously a member of the international coordination group for corporate responsibility of the parent company Intesa Sanpaolo. The department’s task is to provide support, guidance and where necessary also coordinate the corporate responsibility activities through designated representatives from each bank division. Corporate Responsibility Group A bank-wide corporate responsibility group has been continuously working in the interest of implementing corporate responsibility principles into all aspects of the Bank’s activities. Representatives for each bank division were nominated to this group by the Management Board. The group is responsible for: ■■ implementation of corporate responsibility principles into the division’s activities, ■■ management and monitoring of all corporate responsibility aspects in their divisions, ■■ supply of qualitative and quantitative data for the purposes of compiling the annual corporate responsibility report, ■■ quarterly supply of qualitative and quantitative data for the parent company. Managerial decisions in the area of corporate responsibility are in the competence of the Chief Executive Officer, whereas all activities are regularly reported to the Bank’s Management Board on a quarterly basis. Codes and policies concerning corporate responsibility are always approved by the Management Board, which is responsible for performance in the financial, social and environmental areas. 18 19 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Strategy Dialogue with Stakeholders VUB Bank runs several programs aimed at dialogue and communication with our stakeholders influenced by our business activity. We focus mainly on dialogue with our key stakeholders by means of the following channels: ■■ customer satisfaction surveys, Satisfied clients Satisfied employees ■■ solving of client inquiries, ■■ employee surveys and polls, ■■ discussion between employees and Bank’s management, ■■ communication with the community. Greatest attention is paid to the category of clients, mainly through several types of client satisfaction Our aim surveys. The survey is built on the basis of a recognized European indicator ECSI – European Customer Satisfaction Index. Client inquiries and complaints are examined by the Customer Care Department, which consistently accepts and analyzes all inquiries, their justification and causes providing a feedback to other sub-departments in form of proposals for improvement in processes, products and prevention of similar potential wrongdoings in the future. For more details refer to the Clients chapter. Attentive listening and dialogue are important also in relation to employees. Their satisfaction is periodiSatisfied shareholders Satisfied public cally examined in form of employee surveys and by promoting Bank’s values and principles anchored in the Code of Ethics. In 2010, an international survey identifying employee satisfaction was performed in the whole Intesa Sanpaolo Group. During the whole year, we are carrying out also internal polls on various topics. Employees have a chance to pose questions directly to the Chief Executive Officer by means of an Intranet form. For more details refer to the Employees chapter. Subsidiary banks implement into their activities corporate responsibility values, policies and principles In order to learn about the needs of communities the Corporate Responsibility Staff Unit organizes meetidentical with the ones of their parent bank Intesa Sanpaolo. The model that the parent bank applies ings with the representatives of communities, the third sector, education system and other entities. is based on the premise that equally as the bank itself also all employees are owners of responsibility in All forms of dialogue and communication with stakeholders we engage in are specified in individual chaptheir day-to-day activities. Important is a complex approach to sustainability and addressing the needs of ters of this report. The stakeholder dialogue results in measures and commitments that the Bank impleBank’s individual stakeholders, whether it is company owners, employees or clients. The result is implements into its business and action plans. All these measures help us deliver the Bank’s mission, improve mentation of unified corporate responsibility policies and principles. our services and products, as well as manage our relations with the Bank’s stakeholders in order to achieve an evenly balanced relation satisfying for both parties. Advocating Corporate Responsibility Principles Corporate Responsibility Section on Intranet VUB Bank engages also in advocating corporate responsibility principles and raising awareness among enOn the Intranet there is a special section for employees dedicated to corporate responsibility. It contrepreneurs and the wide public alike. Since 2004, it has been a member of an informal association called tains all corporate responsibility related documents adopted (Code of Ethics, Internal Code of Conduct, the Business Leaders Forum joining leaders in enforcement of corporate responsibility principles in Slovakia. policies), corporate responsibility reports, presentations and information materials. Basic corporate reVUB Bank has been actively participating in the association’s activities and is a member of working groups sponsibility documents of our parent bank are available to employees as well. In 2010, all employees for corporate philanthropy reporting (Community Investment Standard) and for climate change. were distributed an internal brochure on VUB’s corporate responsibility. Also in 2010, VUB Bank continued advocating the corporate responsibility principles in the segment of small and medium enterprises (SME). We supported a series of seminars on corporate responsibility for this target group organized in cooperation with the Business Leaders Forum association. We also continued in compiling and issuing corporate responsibility reports for our SME clients. For companies that accepted this offer, we prepared their own corporate responsibility reports free of charge documenting their performance in the financial, social and environmental areas. COMMUNITY 20 21 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Responsibility Business Ethics and Management of Sensitive Aspects ■■ Policy for Management of Relations with Political Parties and Politically Engaged Parties, Clients Operating in Armament Industry and Risk Industries, Clients from Risk Countries and Transactions with We are a bank that committed itself to corporate responsibility and our clients, shareholders, employees Risk Countries in VUB Group. and suppliers expect us to be ethical in conducting our business. This is the very reason why VUB decided to implement ethics into its business taking specific steps and within various important measures it introCode of Ethics of Intesa Sanpaolo Group duced also a Code of Ethics. It is a set of principles, which have a strategic meaning for us and regulate the The Code of Ethics defines values honoured by the Intesa Sanpaolo Group and represents one of its behaviour of our employees. Each employee, without any exception, is required to get familiarized with it, corporate culture pillars. The Code applies to all subsidiaries of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group around the while its observance is continuously monitored and its breach penalized. This Code of Ethics is followed world. It represents a framework of ethical and moral values, observance of which is the basic prerequp by a corporate anti-corruption program with specific system and organizational measures, including uisite for a successful growth and sustainability development. It contains principles of conduct in relaan internal audit control system. tion to all stakeholders which raise the level of standards that each individual within the company must adhere to in order to have the trust of all parties involved. Values, which Intesa Sanpaolo proclaimed by Considering the great responsibility that we as a bank bear towards our shareholders and naturally tomeans of the Code of Ethics, express its corporate culture and history. As a management tool and a part wards our clients, we must comply with a variety of legal regulations. Their observance is supervised by of a wider vision of the Group’s social and environmental responsibility, the Code of Ethics attributes regulators. But we take it even further. We follow also such rules that are not imposed on us by any law the highest importance to all stakeholder relations. Electronic version of the document is published on or required by any authority, but which we consider commonplace as they give our business an ethical http://www.vub.sk/o-banke/hodnoty-principy/. dimension. Internal Group Code of Conduct Overview of 2010 Proceedings The Code sets the basic principles of conduct by the company’s representatives, employees and external agents, who are obliged to execute their functions responsibly, honestly, VUB Bank was a party to a proceeding heard by the Antimonopoly Office of the Slovak Republic in the fairly and professionally, while promoting the Bank and Group’s interests as well as taking EMPLOYEES matter of a suspected conclusion of agreement with other two banks limiting the competition. The adinto consideration the interests of clients and shareholders. Therefore, execution of deministrative proceeding was lawfully terminated in 2009 and VUB Bank was sanctioned with a penalty cision-making authorities and each business activity must reflect all values and principles amounting to EUR 3,810,461. Since, in the opinion of VUB Bank, the administrative proceeding was contained in the Code. The parent company and all Group’s companies promote by not conducted in compliance with the law, in January 2010 the Bank brought a legal action against means of suitable internal control system and adequate trainings and information systems – respecting of the Antimonopoly Office of the Slovak Republic to the respective court appealing the decision. In its applicable laws and regulations as well as compliance with general principles of conduct specified in the ruling dated September 28, 2010, the Regional Court in Bratislava cancelled the appealed decision of Code on all executive and operational levels and in every geographical context, where Intesa Sanpaolo the Antimonopoly Office of the Slovak Republic and returned the matter to it for further action. The performs its activities with the aim of protecting property, integrity and reputation of each company and Antimonopoly Office of the Slovak Republic filed an appeal against this ruling. the whole group. Ethical Codes Environmental Policy Environmental Policy represents a written commitment to environmental protection, which No lying. We repeatedly state these words, which reflect the essence of all ethical codes VUB Bank acsets a mission and objectives in the area of environmental management. The policy defines ENVIRONMENT ceded to. The effort to bring clear and true information is a reflection of one of our basic values in practice, VUB Group’s approach to prevention, management and where possible also reduction of being the transparency. direct and indirect environmental impacts it generates as a result of its business activity. As a responsible company, VUB committed to manage the impacts of its business activity and ■■ Consumer Protection Code of Ethics reduce the impacts of its activities on the environment in cooperation with its stakehold■■ European Agreement on a Voluntary Code of Conduct on Pre-Contractual Information for Home Loans ers. We do not belong among significant direct polluters of the environment, but we preferentially strive to ■■ The European Code of Conduct on Home Loans (ESIS) minimize potential negative impact on the environment to the lowest level possible. ■■ Ethical Code of Advertising Practice Arms Policy Versions of all ethical codes are published on the Internet site http://www.vub.sk/en/about-us/valuesIn accordance with values and principles of the Code of Ethics, this policy of Intesa principles/compliance/codes-ethics/. Sanpaolo Group defines a ban on financing and enabling transactions related to import and export of arms and armament systems (in Italy subject of Act No. 185/90). Members CLIENTS Internal and External Ethical Standards of the Group can assist clients in transactions concerning the existing intergovernmental agreements or other transactions for national armies, police and other state armed forces VUB Bank has continued in a targeted building of its Corporate Governance and in cooperation with its which could be considered compatible with the spirit of an “unarmed bank – a bank nonparent company Intesa Sanpaolo has been setting up its own internal corporate responsibility rules sigsupportive of arms“, on the basis of authorization by the designated Intesa Sanpaolo department. nificantly beyond the basic scope required by the Slovak legislation. In the period 2009-2010, we adopted these internal regulations in this area: UN Global Compact VUB is a signatory of Global Compact, a strategic initiative of the United Nations aimed at corporate re■■ Compliance Policy, sponsibility. Worldwide, it was joined by over 5,000 companies from more than 100 countries. VUB com■■ Internal Group Code of Conduct, mitted to support the ten basic principles concerning human rights, labour conditions, environment and ■■ Gift Acceptance Policy, anti-corruption with its activities. These principles fully correspond with VUB’s values. ■■ Query Resolution Policy, 22 23 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Responsibility Equator Principles compliance/spracovanie-dovernych-udajov/ we post and continuously update the list of third parties that Intesa Sanpaolo committed to observe the so-called Equator Principles. It consists of a set were provided data of our clients: of international rules for project financing designed by a group of international banks ■■ List of VUB’s mediators in the area of personal data processing and parties provided personal data conbased on the policies of the International Finance Corporation. The principles are based CLIENTS stituting a bank secret, on environmental and social standards of the World Bank and applied in project financ■■ List of third parties and recipients provided and made available personal data of clients and data coning worth more than EUR 10 million. The principles assist financial institutions in selectstituting a bank secret. ing projects with the aim of reducing social and environmental risks in project financing. They oblige the financing applicants to prepare a compulsory report on environmental impacts. These Investor Protection (MiFID) principles are observed also by VUB. VUB keeps providing the highest possible level of protection not only to its retail clients, but also to clients Gift Acceptance Policy included in the higher category of professional clients. It implements several measures aimed at invesThis internal policy deriving from the Code of Ethics of VUB Bank governs principles and limitations to tor protection and solving of investors’ complaints. This legal regulation is embedded in the directive on behaviour of Bank’s representatives and employees in accepting unsolicited gifts. It also sets the limits and financial markets, the so-called “MiFID” (Markets in Financial Instruments Directive), implemented in the rules of behaviour in gift acceptance. The policy has been valid since 2009 and in 2010 it underwent small Securities Act. Our clients have online access to documents that will help them to better understand the changes specifying the individual rules in more detail. financial instruments and provision of investment services. Policy for Management of Relations with Political Parties and Politically Engaged Parties, Clients Operating Client Protection in Payment Services Provision in Armament Industry and Risk Industries The policy was approved by the Bank’s Management Board in late 2010. It stipulates mainly: VUB Bank continues in application of effective measures aimed at a better awareness of clients in provision ■■ management of relations with political parties and politically engaged parties in the interest of preservof payment services in connection with implementation of the new “PSD“ (Payment Services Directive) ing impartiality and independence directive in Slovakia by means of the Payment Services Act. Simultaneously, the Bank keeps enhancing Aiming to prevent potential reputation risk related to political parties and politically engaged parties, VUB the knowledge of its employees through internal training activities as to guarantee the highest possible Group is obliged to act impartially and independently. This means that companies, which are a part of comfort in practical use of the payment services by its clients. VUB Group will approach the starting of business relations with political parties and politically engaged parties with utmost prudence. Client Protection in Financial Mediation ■■ management of relations with clients operating in the armament industry In the course of 2010, VUB Bank brought its activity into compliance with the requireIn connection with preservation of values and principles outlined in the Code of Ethics, the main goal of ments of the Act No. 186/2009 Coll. on Financial Mediation and Financial Advisory and this policy is to prevent that VUB and its subsidiaries participate in the financing of activities and transon the Amendment and Supplementation of Certain Acts as amended, as to provide CLIENTS actions concerning manufacturing of arms equipment as well as trading of this equipment for military clients with the protection required by law. In the interest of securing a higher protecpurposes. tion of client rights, in financial mediation VUB Bank is trying to approach each client as a non-professional client. The basic information on financial mediation, products subject ■■ management of relations with clients operating in risky business fields (industry risk) to it and on affiliated and subordinated financial agents, with whom VUB Bank cooperates, is published Within VUB Group, clients and potential clients operating in the below industries / business fields are on our Internet pages. considered as risky: Client Protection in Consumer Lending – exchange offices; – pawnbroker’s shops; During the first half-year of 2010, VUB Bank adjusted the provision of consumer loans to new require– bars, night clubs, casinos; ments ensuing from the Act No. 129/2010 Coll. on Consumer Loans and Other Loans for Consumers and – gambling rooms with more than 3 gambling machines; on the Amendment and Supplementation of Certain Acts as amended. – security agencies; – sex shops and pornography distributors; Conflict of Interest Policy – debt collecting agency; – broker companies; VUB Bank commits to avoid a conflict between private interests of its employees and the interests of – betting offices. the Bank. The employees are liable to take all required measures in order to avoid a conflict of interest. In case a conflict of interest occurs, employees shall solve such a conflict to the benefit of the Bank. The ■■ management of relations with clients and transactions from/to risk countries (country risk) employees may never misuse their connection with the Bank to promote their personal interests or harm Pursuant to the requirements of the binding regulation and Intesa Sanpaolo regulations, clients and pothe Bank’s reputation by their actions nor can they misuse their position or confidential information to tential clients from selected countries are considered risky, as well as all types of transactions and payprefer a job applicant or a person aiming to start a business relation with the Bank. The Bank evaluates ments from and to these countries. the measures and procedures implemented to prevent, minimize and solve a potential conflict of interest on a regular basis. VUB introduced measures for minimization of occurrence of an external conflict of Confidential Data Processing interests in economic activities of employees and in transactions between the Bank and an employee or a person related to an employee. The employees should consult their working activities outside their main We respect client privacy and protect it. Pursuant to the law, we handle our clients’ data with utmost care employment or involvement in business activities with their superior. The Bank has no objections against and principally with their awareness and consent. On page http://www.vub.sk/o-banke/hodnoty-principy/ employees getting involved in activities outside their work as volunteers or otherwise provided that the 24 25 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Responsibility activity does not obstruct performance of their regular work for the Bank or is not in conflict with internal The Bank does not conceal the detected corruption and fraud cases from its employees, but on the conrules of the Bank and the Group. trary it decided to inform and educate its managers in order to constantly improve their work and eliminate shortcomings and errors in this area in the future. Due to this reason, the managers are informed of VUB also applies and adheres to special measures designed to prevent conflicts of interests in the area of some cases that occurred in the past. financial analyses. Their main aim is to prevent conflicts of interests or cope with inevitable conflicts of Within initial trainings, all new hires in the retail network are given a special presentation on fraud and interests as to prevent the risk of harming the clients’ interests. These measures are monitored and their corruption risks including typical signs of a risky behaviour. The main objective of this training activity is to efficiency is regularly evaluated. In relation with occurrence of a potential conflict of interest, VUB Bank increase prevention and/or minimize occurrence of these cases. declares that it will notify clients of the nature and source of the conflict prior to provision of an investment service or prior to performing an activity and in case of their provision or execution it will always prefer Discrimination Ban the clients’ interests to its own ones. In case of a conflict of interests between the clients themselves it will ensure an equal and fair treatment of all clients. On all levels and in relation to all its stakeholders, VUB Bank observes the non-discrimination principles, which are firmly anchored in our Code of Ethics and system of values. Anti-money Laundering and Anti-terrorism One of VUB’s values is that “We do not discriminate – We commit that we shall exclude EMPLOYEES from our actions any discrimination and shall respect differences based on gender, age, In the anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing, we are progressing in line with the Slovak and race, faith, political opinion, participation in unions, language skills or impairment.“ For also the European legislation ensuring protection of our clients as well as of the Bank itself. In the bankmore information on its application refer to the Employees chapter. ing sector, we are a stakeholder of the Financial Investigation Unit (FIU), which operatively evaluates the clients’ behaviour signals we report and is under a permanent supervision of the regulatory authority of Corruption and Fraudulent Actions the National Bank of Slovakia. Clearly Defined Approach and Principles Our activity in the area of Bank’s protection against money laundering or terrorist financing is intensifying and we dedicate this area greater attention. We do not want to support these negative phenomena not VUB Bank has been fulfilling and committed to fulfil high moral and ethical standards built on clearly deeven indirectly by enabling financial flows by means of our products, services or in any connection with clared principles. All bank employees have been informed of these principles by means of various forms the Bank. Therefore, we follow strictly set up internal rules to prevent money-laundering and terrorist (distributed brochures, internal campaign, posting on Intranet). The principles are as follows: financing in form of detection of unusual business transactions. For this purpose, the Bank developed and ■■ The Bank requires all its employees to act honestly, with integrity and protect sources and information implemented its own program of anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing activities deriving in their work environment or for which they bear responsibility. from: ■■ The Bank committed to ensure that fraud and corruption risk would be reduced to the lowest level possible. ■■ Slovak legislation, ■■ These principles relate to all unusual cases involving employees as well as external consultants, suppliers, ■■ European legislation, contractual stakeholders and/or any third party in a business relation with this organization. ■■ international FATF recommendations, recommendations of The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ■■ All employees must take decisions individually in line with the Bank’s interests. They must not act with and Wolfsberg Principles, US Patriot Act, the aim of gaining financial or other material advantage for themselves, their family or close ones. ■■ group rules of Intesa Sanpaolo against risky entities and countries. Zero Tolerance We apply Customer Due Diligence pursuant to the valid legislation and take into consideration the risk profile of individual clients. VUB Bank clearly proclaims its absolute zero tolerance principle regarding corruption and frauds. All bank employees are informed about the following principles: Within its organizational structure, the Bank defined a specialized unit charged with implementation, ex■■ The Bank shall not accept any form of fraudulent or corrupt acting, therefore each case will be thorecution and coordination of activities related to protection of the Bank against its misuse for the purposes oughly examined and relevant measures drawn from it. of money laundering or terrorist financing. The unit reports directly to the Deputy CEO and is respon■■ Each participation in a fraud or fraud attempt shall lead to dismissal and potential criminal charges. sible also for detection of unusual business transactions and cooperation with the respective regulatory ■■ Necessary investigation shall be performed irrespective of the relation of the given person to this orgaauthorities. It also ensures monitoring of all financial transactions required by law and the international nization, his/her work position or employment duration. legislation. The unit’s activities include also evaluation of international payment transactions in real time constituting first-level prevention of connection between the bank sector and a sanctioned or risky person Measures for Corruption and Fraud Reduction and/or entity. Internal Control System Awareness The Bank incorporated into its processes various control mechanisms in order to reduce the corruption and fraud risk to the minimum level possible. The Bank clearly sets the necessity of a control mechanism The Bank created a specialized unit dedicated to disclosure of frauds and corruption, which is a part of the for each bank process, where corruption and fraud risk is imminent (e.g. verification of decisions, 4-eyes Risk Management Division. It closely cooperates primarily with the Internal Audit and Control Department control, access rights management etc.). The internal control system consists of three levels: statutory, and the Compliance Department. All bank employees are informed of internal ethical standards and the executive and control. zero tolerance principle while having access to the basic information on the steps that are necessary to take in case of any corruption or fraud suspicion. Since the Bank has an eminent interest in disclosing corruption and frauds, it implemented the so-called Whistle Blower Policy enabling each bank employee to communicate his/her suspicion preserving his/her anonymity. 26 27 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Our Stakeholders Internal Audit Clients The Bank established an internal audit and control unit, which is an independent supervising body (unit directly reporting to the Bank’s Supervisory Board and not to the Management Board). One of its main roles is to verify the functionality of internal control system, compliance with external and internal legislation including the Bank’s Code of Ethics, verification of internal control failures and internal fraud suspicions. In 2010, the Internal Audit and Control unit examined the internal control system in all corporate branches, in approximately half of the retail branches and it also carried out several specialized audits related to internal fraud and corruption risk. Verified were also all key processes in the Bank selected based on an annually prepared risk map. On the grounds of the risks identified within individual audits, the Bank immediately adopted corrective measures and set up a regular monitoring of such areas and if necessary notified the respective state bodies. CLIENTS Individual clients Corporate clients Public and Non-profit sector Financial markets area 28 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Clients are one of our most important stakeholders and therefore our priority and in the centre of our Client Segmentation interest. We strive to offer them products and services they request in order to achieve their utmost satisfaction. It does not matter if the client is an individual or a large company, we treat every client equally We continuously monitor and every three months evaluate changes in the structure of our clients. This responsibly and professionally. A prerequisite for permanent success is the ability to correctly identify evaluation allows us to regularly revise and improve the offer of our services. clients’ needs. Therefore, we continued in the Listening 100 % project aimed at enhancing the quality of Bank’s services, improvement of its processes, innovation of its products and distribution channels. Our Individual Clients Classification by Age Our Clients age: > 61: 204,463 age: 0 – 25: 196,614 Individual (Private) Clients The focus of our interest lies in retail banking, where we provide services to more than 1.2 million clients: ■■ citizens – individuals, ■■ small businesses and sole traders, ■■ self-employed, ■■ non-governmental organizations. age: 41 – 60: 397,921 age: 26 – 40: 354,999 In many banking areas, we hold a significant market position in this segment (mortgages, credit cards, direct banking), whereas we are often the first ones to bring new product solutions to the market. Average age of a VUB client is 43.3 years. Corporate (Business) Clients Classification by Relationship Duration Corporate clients represent a significant segment. A network of 32 corporate branches around Slovakia ensures the clients professional and personal approach, whether they are small, medium or large compaless than 1 year: 50,402 over 10 years: 551,012 nies, towns and municipalities, farmers or administrators of flats and apartment buildings. We leverage our local expertise connected with an international know-how, which enable us to provide a variety of 1 – 3 years: 181,369 attractive banking products and services starting with classical and ending with specialized and tailored products and services. Moreover, we offer also products aimed at contributing to sustainability of the environment. Municipalities 4 – 6 years: 187,862 VUB Bank belongs to the most significant players in the segment of self-administrations, which was con7 – 10 years: 183,352 firmed also by the fact that in 2010 we fortified our position in the financing of investment plans and account maintenance and deposits of self-administrations. We participated to a great extent in co-financing Average duration of a client’s relationship with the Bank is 9.57 years. of projects supported from EU funds aimed at renewal and reconstruction of towns, municipalities and regions. Our Corporate Clients Financial and Capital Markets Number of Corporate Clients We render services to a wide spectrum of clients, which are financial institutions and the business clientele 12,000 including legal and natural entities. We support and have a close cooperation with the clients of retail and 31/12/2010 private banking and communicate with many partners in the global interbank market on a daily basis. 10,000 31/12/2009 At the end of 2010, VUB Bank counted 1,257,033 clients. 8,000 6,000 2010 2009 2008 individual clients 1,153,997 1,146,865 1,142,080 4,000 corporate clients 103,036 101,371 98,522 2,000 TOTAL 1,257,033 1,248,236 1,240,602 0 SME MuniciNon-proﬁt Large Total The year 2010 saw a slight increase (0.62 %) in the number of individual clients. The number of corporate businesses palities organizations corporates clients grew by 1.65 % compared to 2009. Average duration of a business relationship with VUB Bank is 9.57 years. 30 31 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Closer to Clients Number of Barrier-free Branches As at 31/12/2010 VUB Bank’s clients had at their disposal: 200 200 ■■ 206 retail branches, 160 160 ■■ 11 mortgage centres, ■■ 32 corporate branches. 120 120 In 2010, 3 new retail branches were opened and 7 retail branches cancelled. All branches are available to 80 80 clients 5 days a week. Six retail branches operate 6 days a week and 17 retail branches and 1 mortgage centre are open even 7 days a week. Corporate branches of VUB Bank are located in all big towns around 40 40 Slovakia in order to be as close to our clients as possible. 0 0 Available is also the Contact Centre providing services to all clients, whether in Slovakia or abroad, for 2010 2009 2008 2007 Slovak Republic citizens and also foreigners. It operates non-stop 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The operators ensure service and consultancy by telephone and also e-mail. Direct Banking ATM Network and Its Safety In 2010, VUB Bank continued to improve the quality of our non-stop banking services including the services Kontakt, Internet Banking, Internet Banking Plus, Mobile Banking and Business Banking. As at As at 31/12/2010, VUB Bank operated 554 installed ATMs. They are all equipped with an anti-skimming 31/12/2010, the Bank counted more than 720,000 clients with activated electronic banking services. device. Over the year, we installed 26 automatic machine tellers in new locations, more interesting for our Compared to 2009, we recorded an increase in the number of clients with Nonstop Banking services. In clients. payments, the number of transactions performed through electronic channels went up by 39 %. Number of ATMs Number of Clients with Activated Electronic Banking Services 600 600 740,000 740,000 540 540 480 480 680,000 680,000 420 420 360 360 620,000 620,000 300 300 240 240 560,000 560,000 180 180 120 120 500,000 500,000 60 60 0 0 440,000 440,000 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Availability to Physically Disadvantaged Citizens Security and Personal Data Protection We strive to make our branches easily available to people with physical disabilities. All newly opened sales points dispose of a barrier-free access and when reconstructing older sales points we always make sure Protection of confidential data and privacy of our clients is commonplace for us. All information and docuthey are barrier-free. Fifty percent of ATMs have hardware arrangements for communication with sightments about our clients, which are not publicly accessible, mainly the information on clients’ transactions impaired individuals. with the Bank and on account balances, are subject to bank secret. Branch Security COMMUNITY All VUB Bank branches are, in compliance with the relevant regulations, equipped with a security camera system and other security equipment. The basic security rule at branches is that security and protection of our clients’ lives and health come always before the protection of the Bank’s property. 32 33 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Direct Banking Security Query Types 2010 2009 Complaints 206 386 In the area of improvement of electronic banking security, in 2010 we implemented several measures: Claims 14,103 14,035 ■■ use of SSL certificates with extended verification of the applicant, Requests 2,042 4,650 ■■ stricter rules for increasing the transaction limit, ■■ reduced limit for confirmation of transaction by Grid Card to EUR 1,000, ■■ bank systems were modified in order to enable the use of stronger encryption algorithms for comQuery Resolution munication with the Bank. Query 2010 2009 Payment Card Security No. % No. % Accepted (justified) 9,248 56.6 13,522 70.9 VUB Bank committed to increase the security of payment card use by transferring to a chip technology Rejected 6,645 40.6 5,296 27.8 in the whole portfolio of its payment cards. We delivered on this commitment. All new cards are issued as chip cards and the existing clients are issued chip cards automatically after expiration of their original Unclassified 458 2.8 253 1.3 cards. Higher security was reached also by introducing a compulsory insertion of a PIN code. Total 16,351 100.0 19,071 100.0 Another form of securing payment cards is insurance in the event of misuse, of a lost or stolen card. This insurance is available to holders of payment cards for legal entities. It is provided automatically and withoThe most frequent client queries in 2010 concerned transactions through payment terminals and ATMs, ut any fees. The insurance covers unauthorized transactions made during 24 hours prior to reporting the deposit products and electronic banking. blockage of the lost or stolen card. In 2010, we performed the following improvements and new initiatives: ■■ unification of all inbound channels, Active Listening and Dialogue with Customers ■■ improvement of data monitoring and mapping, ■■ number of justified claims and complaints related to a specific sales point or employee enters the branch Customer Care and Query Resolution quality evaluation and directly influences remuneration, ■■ continuous staff trainings, The Customer Care Department was established in 2008. Its priority rests in constant improvement of ■■ in case of an error on our side, we provide for its rectification and take measures to avoid its recurrence. services, listening to clients and finding the ways within mutual communication. In performing its mission, the Department takes for basis feedbacks from clients addressed to the Bank. The feedbacks involve variIn resolving queries, we apply the following principles: ous comments, opinions, recognitions, and inquiries, which are further divided in complaints, claims and ■■ transparency and ethics have the same value as technically and administratively flawless servicing, requests. Despite negative feedback, which the Bank sometimes obtains, we appreciate clients´ honest ■■ we respect each client and make effort to understand his/her view individual and empathic approach, and constructive efforts to highlight our positive and negative points. The opinions of our clients allow ■■ each query is solved professionally, us to identify the ways for improvement. For this reason, we offer several possibilities for the clients to ■■ we are consistent in examining the reasons of queries and we try to solve them in the shortest time possible, contact us and forward their queries to the Bank: ■■ sensitive client data are handled confidentially within the scope of client consents and in compliance ■■ electronically (using the Internet form) through the Kontakt tab on www.vub.sk, with legal regulations, ■■ by a freely formulated e-mail sent to the Contact Centre, Customer Care Department or any Bank’s elec■■ clients are always provided true, correct and verified information and clarifications, tronic address (its forwarding to the correct place is internally ensured), ■■ we make effort to give advice and find a satisfactory solution for the client. ■■ telephonically to the Kontakt Service, ■■ in writing to the Customer Care Department, The result of query resolution is communicated to clients in a manner identical to the one they used when ■■ in person at any of the Bank’s sales points. submitting their queries. Maximum period for claim/complaint resolution is stipulated by law and we Major cases are sent for assessment also to the independent department Internal Control and Internal observe it at all times. From the perspective of time, the average time of query resolution was shortened Audit. By doing so, the objectivity of decisions is increased and the cases are examined more deeply by compared to 2009. qualified employees. Average Query Resolution Time (number of days) The fact that our clients still prefer personal contact is shown also by the figures below: 20 20 Communication Channels Used by Clients to Send Queries to the Bank Number of Queries % 18 18 16 16 branch network 7,956 48.7 14 14 telephonically – Kontakt Service 6,541 40.0 12 12 Head Office – Customer Care Department 1,127 6.9 10 10 electronically – Internet form, mail 727 4.4 8 8 6 6 2010 2009 4 4 Number of Queries 16,351 19,071 2 2 0 0 2010 2009 2008 34 35 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Client Satisfaction 3. survey of retail clients’ satisfaction with Internet Banking service – the survey included randomly selected clients and all answers from completed questionnaires were statistically processed. The We realize that not only figures, charts or volumes, but also the “client satisfaction” category is the indicaaim was to identify the level of satisfaction with the Internet Banking service and based on the answers tor of and key to our success. It is rooted in quality service and our effort for continuous improvement on identify problems to subsequently provide for improvements. For each fully completed questionnaire, the basis of communication and feedback from clients. In order to make our actions speak louder than VUB Bank donated 1 euro to the Plamienok (Flicker) children hospice. words, we implemented the program of our mother bank Intesa Sanpaolo “Listening 100 %“ focused on measurement and improvement of client satisfaction. It includes a joint preparation of steps for constant Quality Management and Integration and Branch Evaluation enhancements by employees cooperating across all levels. The information is processed under the international standard ECSI (European Customer Satisfaction Index). We believe that clients´ satisfaction goes hand in hand with quality of services which are delivered to our customers. The Sub-department Quality Management and Integration was established for these purIn 2010, we ran three different types of satisfaction surveys in cooperation with the mother bank: poses. This unit fully covers all client’s satisfaction surveys. At the same time, the Sub-department is responsible for quality management at branches and conducts quality assessments. Top quality of the 1. r etail and SME client satisfaction survey – we addressed nearly 20,000 clients, spent more than rendered services is acknowledged by “Certificates of Quality”. The certificate awards are reviewed quar5,000 hours doing telephone interviews and posed over 1,500,000 questions. We were finding out terly. Objective of this process is to identify strong and weak points of a specific branch, define method for how our clients perceive our bank, how they are satisfied with our services, products and our approquality enhancement and thereby increase number of satisfied clients. In contrast to quantitative appraisach. The results of surveys serve as input for elaboration of action plans aimed at improvement of areas als, the “Certificates of Quality” imply quality assessment of the rendered services and sale. where the satisfaction value does not reach desirable values. The Listening 100% supplements the ZAPNi (SWITCHon) employee program aimed at capturing valuEuropean Customer Satisfaction Index able ideas and implementing them into practice as efficiently as possible. For more details refer to the Employees chapter. 85.00 % 85.00 % 84.40 % 84.20 % 84.40 % Product Development and Innovation 83.90 % 83.80 % 83.50 % 83.60 % 83.60 % 83.60 % 83.80 % Quality Product Offer 83.30 % 83.30 % 83.20 % 83.30 % 83.20 % VUB Bank dedicates attention to a continuous development of products and services and improvement 82.80 % of the existing ones. In 2010, we confirmed our achievements from the past four years and became again 82.60 % 82.60 % the most successful banking institution (four gold, five silver coins and one bronze coin) in the financial 82.00 % 82.30 % 82.00 % products competition entitled the 2010 Golden Coin (Zlatá minca). Awarded were also products of our I. Q 2008 II. Q 2008 III. Q 2008 IV. Q 2008 I. Q 2009 II. Q 2009 III. Q 2009 IV. Q 2009 I. Q 2010 II. Q 2010 III. Q 2010 subsidiaries VUB Leasing, VUB Asset Management and Consumer Finance Holding. For more details refer to the Profile and Governance chapter. 2. interbank satisfaction survey of retail and SME clients (Bank benchmarking, retail customers 2010) Individual Clients carried out by external company on a sample of 2,250 respondents. Within the survey, addressed were clients of the largest Slovak banks. Within fierce competition, they evaluated VUB as a bank, the In 2010, in retail banking VUB Bank brought its clients the following innovated and new products: services and products of which they are definitely most satisfied with. Our aim is to maintain a leading position and continue to increase the quality of products and services we provide. Saving and Investments ECSI Index ■■ flexi deposit extra allowing to flexibly dispose of account funds during the deposit’s fixed period, ■■ possibility to open a deposit product through Internet Banking. VÚB 81.0 Current Accounts Competitor No. 1 80.3 ■■ changes in flexi account and flexi business account, ■■ pilot of the so-called interactive sale of flexi account that will enable the client to set up his/her flexi Competitor No. 2 80.1 account according to his/her needs on a special touch display directly in the branch, ■■ based on a legislative change, we introduced the so-called basic banking product. This is a current Competitor No. 3 75.9 account designed for individuals, whereas its composition is precisely set by the legislation. The reason behind the introduction of this product was achieving higher transparency of bank products and serCompetitor No. 4 78.3 vices for individuals – citizens. ■■ protection of client accounts against SEPA collection. 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 36 37 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Payment Cards Simplicity and Transparency in Communication ■■ debit cards for children as young as 10 years old, We want our bank’s cooperation with clients to be always simple, comfortable and beneficial. We are con■■ use of VISA Electron debit payment card also for payments through Internet, cerned about them being able to exercise their rights and knowing the Bank’s obligations towards them. ■■ self-service kiosks in the TESCO stores chain – a cash register integrated with a payment terminal As a signatory of Consumer Protection Code of Ethics we inform clients on everything in the most open where the buyer himself/herself scans the individual items purchased and also pays himself/herself for manner possible. We provide them with information on our products and services through: the purchase by a payment card, ■■ employees, ■■ MasterCard contactless cards, ■■ sales points, ■■ Extension of services provided by means of POS terminals at merchants – payment of invoices and ■■ information flyers, credit recharge for mobile prepaid cards. ■■ brochures and user handbooks, ■■ web pages (www.vub.sk, www.flexihypoteka.sk, www.flexiucet.sk; www.flexibiznisucet.sk; Lending www.startkonto.sk). ■■ participation in the state aid program for citizens, who were having problems repaying their mortIn addition to up-to-date information about the Bank and its products and services, clients and the genergages as a consequence of job loss during the crisis, al public as well are made available also various interactive calculators, e.g. for calculating the maximum ■■ possibility of a complete deferral of a mortgage repayment for clients, who lost their jobs as a reloan amount. In order to raise the clients’ financial awareness, on our Internet site we prepared a section sult of the crisis and were facing problems with mortgage repayment, dedicated to financial education, where clients and non-clients alike can: ■■ assistance to flood stricken clients – possibility to defer mortgage or flexi loan repayment free of ■■ get information on the financing options in various life situations, charge for 6 months or prolong the loan repayment period (and so get a reduction of monthly instal■■ explore the world of bank products and see that it is not so complex, ments), ■■ learn to manage their finances in a more efficient and time-saving fashion. ■■ free of charge provision of flexi loans for housing with convenient interest rate to clients affected by floods, For clarification and facilitation of working with Internet Banking, we prepared instructional videos for our ■■ flexi loans for newly weds. clients (one to two-minute video instructions containing advice on how to proceed in individual operations). Small Business Lending Professional Associations ■■ possibility of complete instalment deferral in case of profihypo loan, We honour our clients and therefore we adjust our range of products and services to their needs and ■■ convenient conditions for flood stricken clients – free of charge deferral of loan instalments for as specific requirements. One of the forms of coming closer to our clients is to cooperate with professional many as 6 months or prolongation of loan maturity without any fee. associations (chambers and associations). It is our interest to foster possibly most intense cooperation with professional associations in terms of mutual communication, promotion of their activities, marketing activIn connection with a legislative change in the Consumer Loans Act, VUB Bank implemented condiities and utilization of bank products and services by their members. The cooperation is intended to make tions and processes ensuing from the new legislation. The most significant change is that a client may withthe Bank’s products and services as available to the members of professional associations as possible. For draw from a concluded agreement to a loan product (credit cards, flexi loans, all purpose flexi mortgages this reason, our website features a special section for professional associations. Our partners include: with maturity up to 10 years, refinance mortgages) within 14 days from agreement conclusion also in case ■■ A ssociation of Private Physicians, the loan has been drawn or totally disbursed. In such case, the client is obliged to return the disbursed ■■ Chamber of Slovak Republic Veterinaries, amount without sanctions. ■■ Slovak Dentist Chamber, ■■ Slovak Medical Chamber, With the purpose of raising awareness of clients and in compliance with the Consumer Loans Act, VUB ■■ Slovak Sole Trader Chamber, Bank provides the loan applicants with more detailed information by means of the Standard European ■■ Slovak Agricultural and Foodstuffs Chamber, Consumer Credit Information form. Upon request, clients can also get a level repayment schedule ■■ Slovak Chamber of Commerce and Industry – Banks and Insurance Companies Section, (overview of loan repayments and their splitting into principal and interest). ■■ other chambers with special offers. Corporate Clients ENVIRONMENT We strive to make our offer of products and services correspond to the requirements of our clients. In 2010, we dedicated intensified attention to the areas of agriculture, selfadministrations, renewable energy sources and energy efficiency. Our innovated products and services include: ■■ loans for the Flat and Apartment House Owners Associations – with aim to support the projects, which enhance energy efficiency, we were focused on the segment comprising associations of flats and apartment houses owners in 2010. New, and for a client favorable conditions of this product, have been set up. ■■ loans for farmers and municipalities – in 2010, our loans supported the projects in the sector of agriculture and those related to recovery and development of towns and villages in Slovakia. ■■ extended range of services for the foreign corporate clients provided via S.W.I.F.T. involves acceptance of payment orders in XML format and broader scope of information provided on account statements (MT940). 38 39 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Employees EMPLOYEES Employees and their families Trade union 40 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Strategy Staff Structure by Gender Since we realize that our success is based on expertise of our employees and quality of services provided Men: 874 to our customers, we consider creating interesting work and a stimulating environment the main tasks in developing the human capital. In relation to our employees, we follow the principles of the Code of Ethics of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group. We committed that we would exclude any discrimination from our actions. We honour the value, contribution and professionalism of each individual as well as the uniqueness of conditions in which he/she operates. Our strategy in 2010: ■■ We continued to support the development of our employees’ professional careers by preferring internal Women: 2,591 staffing of vacancies, which helps us retaining qualified and highly performing employees. ■■ We were laying emphasis on planning careers of staff with a potential for managerial positions in the regional retail network. We managed to execute an extensive program of mapping of current managerial competencies of retail network managers. Consequently, they were enabled to develop the necesStaff Structure by Age sary skills in targeted manner within training activities “tailored” to their individual development needs. ■■ Within an international training project, we focused on development of leadership skills on the senior 50 – 59 years: 447 60 years and over: 16 management level. Simultaneously, this program gave rise to working and friendly contacts with colleagues from international banks of Intesa Sanpaolo Group. up to 29 years: 900 ■■ We performed an employee survey to compare the working climate against the previous year and set up action plans for improvements. ■■ We concentrated on efficient management of Bank’s performance through a transparently set up system of targets and staff performance evaluation. ■■ We developed a new employee discount system as an employee benefit in all regions of Slovakia. 40 – 49 years: 877 30 – 39 years: 1,225 Type of Employment Agreement 2010 % 2009 % Indefinite period 3,017 87.07 3,171 91.75 Definite period 448 12.93 285 8.25 Average Employment Duration Type of Employment 2010 % 2009 % Full-time 3,458 99.80 3,443 99.62 Men Women Total Part-time 7 0.20 13 0.38 2010 7.60 10.23 9.56 2009 7.50 9.91 9.32 Employment by Region 2010 % 2009 % 2008 7.07 9.22 8.72 Bratislava 1,507 43.49 1,467 42.45 Trnava 233 6.72 238 6.89 Trenčín 246 7.10 248 7.18 Staff Structure by Education Nitra 270 7.79 278 8.04 Žilina 287 8.28 290 8.39 Secondary without secondary Basic education: 2 (0.06 %) Banská Bystrica 365 10.53 368 10.65 school leaving examination: 24 (0.69 %) Prešov 286 8.25 299 8.65 University education: 1,530 (44.16 %) Košice 271 7.82 268 7.75 Secondary with secondary Staff Structure by Position Typee school leaving examination : 1,744 (50.33 %) Number Men Women Bachelor’s degree: 165 (4.76 %) Senior management positions 68 38 % 62 % Other managerial positions 509 Non-managerial positions 2,888 23% 77% 42 43 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Job Classification by Regions Overview of Departures in 2010 No. of men No. of women men in % women in % gender number of departures turnover in % average headcount Head Office Total 506 743 14.60 21.44 men 112 13.0 862 Corporate Network Total 51 87 1.47 2.51 women 304 11.7 2,598 Regional Management Bratislava 10 13 0.29 0.38 total 416 12.0 3,460 Regional Management – West 15 26 0.43 0.75 age category Regional Management – Centre 10 27 0.29 0.78 below 30 162 18.0 902 Regional Management – East 16 21 0.46 0.61 30 – 39 145 11.8 1,231 Retail Network Total 317 1,761 9.15 50.82 40 – 49 62 7.1 867 Regional Management Bratislava East 55 145 1.59 4.18 50 – 59 43 9.7 444 Regional Management Bratislava West 47 172 1.36 4.96 60 and over 4 25.4 16 Regional Management Banská Bystrica 23 200 0.66 5.77 region Regional Management Košice 28 200 0.81 5.77 Bratislava 146 9.7 1,507 Regional Management Nitra 34 197 0.98 5.69 Trnava 34 14.7 231 Regional Management Poprad 39 202 1.13 5.83 Nitra 27 9.9 274 Regional Management Prešov 29 187 0.84 5.40 Trenčín 29 12.3 236 Regional Management Trenčín 23 185 0.66 5.34 Žilina 35 11.9 294 Regional Management Trnava 32 205 0.92 5.92 Banská Bystrica 69 19.1 362 Regional Management of Alternative Poprad 43 15.1 285 7 68 0.20 1.96 Distribution Channels Košice 33 12.2 270 Total 416 12.0 3,459 Compared to last year the table does not contain the region of Poprad, which was divided between the regions of Žilina, Košice, Prešov and Banská Bystrica. Recruitment Turnover In recruiting and hiring new employees we follow the rules based on assessment of individual knowledge, In 2010, the turnover (employee departure) stood at the level of 12 %. In comparison with 2009, the skills and personal prerequisites for the vacant position being staffed. We pay due care to adhering to the turnover thus slightly dropped by 0.6 %. In total, 416 employees quit, thereof 112 men and 304 women. principles of impartiality and avoid protectionism or discrimination. Job applicants interested in working The reduction in number of departures and turnover reflects the current market trends, which are demwith us can refer to our Internet page in the “Career with Us” section, which provides an overview of onstrated also by a stabilization of labour force in the labour market. Besides these external factors, we the current vacancies. Using an electronic questionnaire, the job applicants can apply for the vacancies supported the decrease also by the following factors: and send their curricula vitae. ■■ elaboration of an adaptation plan at joining of each employee, ■■ continuing in regular meetings with new hires within the trial and adaptation period, One of the most important sources in the process of staffing vacant positions is the VUB employee base ■■ continuous motivational interviews with the employees following the adaptation period with the aim of itself. Once an employee is successful in the internal recruitment, he/she has to go through a standard adobtaining their feedback, aptation period, which will enable him/her to better manage the process of joining and learn the new job ■■ improving quality of recruiting tools in key positions, in the position. We continued in the Find Your Colleague activity aimed at engaging internal employees ■■ preventive solving of personnel issues through HR relationship managers in regions and at the Head in searching for and recommending candidates for vacancies. Office. During 2010, about 30,000 people showed interest in employment with us, which represents an increase by more than 2,000 participants against the previous year. Thereof 436 were hired. We staffed 365 vacancies with candidates from internal sources. 44 45 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Performance Management and Career Development Benefits We guarantee equal opportunities in professional development and growth, approach to development The Bank provides its employees with a wide range of benefits (i.e. financial and non-financial benefits). tools and work positions. We provide all employees with a possibility of expressing their individuality and They are equal for all employees irrespective of their job classification. In 2010, we managed to sustain the creativity at work in the best way possible, we support innovations. Professional development and growth quality and financial coverage of provided benefits on the existing level. of employee´s performance is covered by the Performance and Development Management System aimed at: The greatest share was formed by benefits provided in form of benefit vouchers. The employees can use ■■ creating conditions for individual development of employees and enabling so the Bank’s development them upon consideration for regeneration, healthcare, education, culture, sport, etc.. The Bank provides an as a whole, allowance at the birth of a child and financial aid to employees facing complex life situations. We also make ■■ strengthening the employees’ engagement in Bank’s development, contributions to supplementary pension saving, while the contribution made by the employer and by the ■■ arrange that all VUB employees be efficiently involved in performance of our goals, employee is 1:1. The retail network staff in daily contact with clients are provided a clothing allowance. The ■■ increasing transparency and fairness of the compensation policy. employees can use some products under more favourable conditions e.g. free-of-charge bank account maintenance, favourable interest rates on term accounts, consumer or mortgage loan at favourable interest rates We enable our employees to develop their careers horizontally and also vertically. The point of this deor discounted rates on insurance. In 2010, we introduced a new employee discount system providing more velopment path is that everybody gets a systematic support in development of their competencies that than 700 benefits and discounts on various products or services from external partners around Slovakia. Also he/she needs in order to succeed at work. It starts with an adaptation preparation, which is followed by this year, employees’ children got a present at the occasion of the International Children’s Day. In the sumtrainings according to the type of position, knowledge and skills required to accomplish tasks. mer, 30 children spent two weeks in a children camp in a facility of Intesa Sanpaolo. An important part of the Performance and Development Management System is the evaluation process. Employee Benefits Contributions Its main task is to evaluate the employee’s targets for the past period and plan key tasks and targets supporting the Bank’s strategy for the future period. Each year, all employees are evaluated by their direct Form of Employee Benefit 2010 (%) 2009 (%) 2008 (%) superiors subject to their work position and classification. Within the whole process, an important role is Third pillar / supplementary pension insurance 25.46 26.30 26.53 played by the employee himself/herself, who declares his/her ambitions and ideas regarding his/her future Retention Program 14.12 14.83 13.40 career. The superior employee, based on employee’s performance, motivation and potential coordinates his/her further development and growth. Day off under Collective Agreement – health care 13.23 13.81 11.71 Day off under Collective Agreement – lone mothers 0.29 0.28 0.30 Based on evaluation results and upon meeting criteria defined in advance, the Bank’s employees can be Work disability, non-work, work injury 3.90 4.30 3.78 nominated into a program for stabilization and motivation of key employees the so-called Retention Care of employees’ children 0.80 0.61 0.76 Program. In 2010, 330 employees were nominated. Housing and rental allowances 0.22 0.35 0.41 Clothing allowances 8.31 8.01 8.84 Compensation Cafeteria system / Flexi benefits 26.94 26.88 28.20 Social contributions in emergency 1.20 0.79 1.09 Main principles of our compensation policy are honesty, equal treatment and merit. Its level is set up as to Anniversary bonuses 5.54 3.83 4.73 enable the VUB Bank to be competitive in the labour market and at the same time sufficiently motivating and attractive for its employees. The Bank monitors and reacts to the wage and inflation development in Slovakia so that the real wages would correspond with these trends. The Bank accommodates its employees by means of several measures supporting a more efficient harmonization of their work and private life. These measures include flexible working hours (beginning optional The compensation policy is made up of a fixed and a variable component. The fixed component reflects between 7.00 am and 9.00 am and end between 4.00 pm and 7.00 pm), four days off in a calendar year the work position, its “size” and complexity, while the variable component corresponds to the employee’s beyond the framework of legal title to holiday for intensified healthcare. Single employees taking care performance and it is simultaneously a motivation tool designed to increase the personal involvement of of a child under 15 years of age (in case of disabled children until 26 years) and pregnant women from employees in accomplishing the tasks set and to reward their performance and contribution to the Bank. the fourth month of pregnancy are allowed to use two additional days off per year. In case of organizing events for Bank employees’ children, the employer will release from work and provide a day off paid as Overall as well as individual results are evaluated by the Compensation Committee consisting of CEO, the base wage to an employee supervising the children. deputy CEO for support, deputy CEO for business, Executive Director of Finance, Planning and Controlling Division, Executive Director of Human Resources Division. The Committee is also charged with approval of annual evaluation results, bonuses, base wage adjustments as well as nominations to the Retention Training and Development Program. VUB Bank creates preconditions for a continuous and systematic growth of its employees’ qualification, supporting their training in the areas crucial from the perspective of the Bank’s needs and their personal development. Specific training requirements are addressed in collaboration with external training organizations in the Slovak Republic and abroad. VUB Bank has its own training centre – VUB Academy – which organizes technical The staff is trained at the courses and also corporate and personal development courses. In own educational center VUB 2010, the total time of employee trainings organized by the Bank reached 23,785 days, which means a slight increase vis-à-vis 2009. Academy and by the e-learning The average number of training days was 6.9 days (in 2009 the avsystem AMOS. erage was 5.9 days). E-learning training time reached 36,314 days. 46 47 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Employee Survey In 2010, we continued evaluating managerial skills as a part of the manager development system, the In 2009, an employee satisfaction survey coordinated directly from the head office of our parent bank was so-called 360-degree feedback. It is a tool by means of which the staff get a feedback from those performed, identifying the climate and satisfaction among employees across the whole Intesa Sanpaolo that cooperate with them – superiors, inferiors, colleagues or customers. The aim of the 360-deGroup. The total participation was 10,078 employees, thereof 2,348 (58.3 % of all employees) for VUB. In gree feedback is to deepen the evaluated employee’s knowledge of his/her strengths and areas of the electronic questionnaire, the employees could anonymously express their views on five areas. The survey development, which forms the basis for further increase of his/her work performance, contributes outcomes showed that the overall satisfaction reached 82.7 %, which within the Intesa Sanpaolo Group to the growth of individuals as well as of the whole organization. The evaluation was performed is a better result than the average countries. The key words characterizing the Group the best our employanonymously in form of an on-line system and 72 employees including Management Board memees used were stability, profit and quality. As much as 87.2% bers, Heads of Departments and Regional Retail Network Managers participated in the evaluation. of employees considered their work important, qualified and we are The evaluation does not affect the bonuses. Following the evaluation, 47 managers underwent three useful, yet a majority of them would like to be more engaged we are our work is proud of satisfied important two-day trainings in the parent company Intesa Sanpaolo. Further 25 managers took these trainings in the decision-making process and also dispose of adequate in VUB our work in the VUB Academy due to a language barrier. information. For the future, we would like to help our clients by reducing bureaucracy and improving competitiveness. The 82.7 % 87.2 % 94.1 % majority of staff perceive the Intesa Sanpaolo Group as prestiIn 2010, we kept using e-learning and e-testing. Within the e-learning system AMOS, we internally develgious, stable, growing, competitive and reliable. oped 101 e-courses, 808 e-tests and 13 e-questionnaires. Compared to last year, we doubled the number of e-courses and grew the number of e-tests by five times. They are available in the AMOS application at Suggestions from the employee survey and subsequent focus groups resulted in proposal of seven areas any time and the users can repeat them several times. of improvement approved by the Bank’s management as priorities and they were incorporated in an action plan. The key suggestion for improving efficiency of team work and communication among individual Number of Training Days by Position 2010 2009 2008 Bank units was the employees’ effort to have adequate information available. In terms of increasing the Managers 5,190 days 2,255 days 3,618 days quality of services and removal of bureaucracy, we again accelerated several processes directly impactOther 19,060 days 18,628 days 29,045 days ing the final customer (e.g. loan approval speed or waiting period at branches). In late 2010, we carried another employee satisfaction survey. Its results will be evaluated in early second quarter of 2011 and subsequently implemented. Average number of training days in case of the managing employee’s was 8.6 days and in case of specialists 6.4 days. Diversity and Equal Opportunities Already for several years, the Bank has been traditionally organizing a so-called Welcome Day for new employees. It is held each month and the Bank’s managers present there. New employees get a basic VUB committed not to discriminate, respect the principles of equal treatment, exclude from its actions any overview of history of the Bank and Intesa Sanpaolo Group, its market position, portfolio of products and discrimination and respect differences based on gender, age, race, faith, political opinion, participation in services provided, company structure but also of employee rights, obligations and benefits. unions, language skills, impairment, marital or family status, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property or other position. By signing the Collective Agreement, it also undertook to observe the Another program, in which we are trying to form our own professionals, is the Mentoring Program. discrimination ban in compliance with the Labour Code. The employees must not be harmed for exercising Employees in senior positions become the mentors, who hand over their practical experience to junior coltheir rights ensuing from industrial relations. In 2010, no action was filed regarding a case of discriminaleagues, mostly to the newly hired employees or female employees after returning to work from maternity tion. The Bank provides everybody with equal opportunities for personal and professional growth giving leave. With the mentor’s assistance, the employee will adapt to the working position more easily. each employee an equal opportunity to assert himself/herself. Differentiation of employees according to their work prerequisites and performance is however not considered discrimination. Within the ZAPNi (SWITCHon) program, we give our employees space to search for innovative solutions with the purpose of improving satisfaction of clients or employees themselves. In 2010, the staff submitted altogether 107 suggestions for improvement, thereof 12 ideas were already implemented and 50 are The majority of our employees are women – at the end of 2010, there were 2,591 women working in the currently being implemented. Bank out of a total of 3,465 employees. This disproportion in favour of women occurs mainly in the retail business network, it is mostly women that work at the branches. Two women are represented on the Throughout the year, we continued in a weekly testing of employees in the retail business network. The Bank’s Management Board and one on the Supervisory Board. In 2010, we were employing 17 disabled testing is carried out according by positions and aimed at changes in regulations and procedures. This is citizens. intended to reduce erroneousness and increase the satisfaction of our clients. We also organized trainings of sales skills development in order to enhance the quality of sales interviews and client satisfaction. The indicator in regard to protection of rights of aboriginal inhabitants is not relevant due to the geoWithin a special financial training activity, we ensured compulsory legislative training for individual graphic location of our business activities. Equally, the indicator related to forced, child or compulsory positions in form of e-learning courses. By December 31, 2010 our employees in the basic level of profeslabour is irrelevant in view of the nature of VUB Bank’s activities. sional expertise were educated in form of e-courses in the sectors: insurance or assurance sector, deposit receipt sector, capital market sector, lending sector, general knowledge and legal aspects of financial market. 48 49 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Protection of Health at Work Total 2010 year 8 342 495 Total 2009 year 8 427 596 The Bank considers its obligation to create a working environment and conditions pursuant to the Slovak Total 2008 year 12 172 234 technical standards and hygiene regulations. The topics of safety and protection of health at work are contained in internal regulations and Collective Agreement. The rights of all employees in this respect are repFreedom of Association and Collective Bargaining resented also by the Trade Union representatives. In accordance with Article 20 of the Act of the National Council of the Slovak Republic No. 124/2006 Coll. on Safety and Protection of Health at Work, the main Freedom of association and collective bargaining are regulated by the Labour Code, Collective Bargaining Work Safety Commission is nominated in the Bank. It consists of 7 members: 4 employee representatives Act and the Act on Freedom of Association. Collective Agreement governs relations between the em(trade union members) and 3 employer representatives. Besides the main commission, nominated are also ployer and employees, which are more convenient than the ones stipulated by the Labour Code or any regional work safety commissions for each region, which carry out regular annual preventive inspections. other generally binding legal regulation. The Bank committed to preserve the trade union rights, namely The regional commission works at least in a five-member set up: employee representative, two employer the freedom of association of employees in trade unions and collective bargaining in accordance with the representatives, work safety technician and representative of a work medical service. Altogether, there are generally binding legal regulations. Collective Agreement is concluded for the period of 3 years between 294 work safety commission members, i.e. the percentage of the total workforce represented in formal VUB and the Council of VUB Trade Union Representatives. It applies to all employees in an employment joint work safety commissions falls in the category of up to 25% of the total employee count. relation with the employer irrespective of their membership in the trade union. The provisions of the Collective Agreement supersede the Bank’s internal regulations in the scope of commitments concluded in the Collective Agreement. As at 31/12/2010, the Bank’s Trade Union counted a total of 616 members, Types of Trainings, Risk Preventions and Controls which accounts for 17.78 % of employees. Each new employee is obliged to participate in an inception training pursuant to Act No. 124/2006 Coll. Notification Duty on Safety and Protection of Health at Work and on amendment and supplementation of some acts. A periodical training on safety and protection of health at work in accordance with the above-stated legislation The Labour Code imposes on the employer a notification duty against employee representatives in connecis taken by all Bank employees every two years in electronic form. The Bank ensures also training for emtion with the economic and financial situation and the projected development of its activities. Notification ployee safety representatives (trade union members) and a first aid course. Activities in the area of safety is to be performed “in a comprehensible manner and at a suitable time“. Under the Labour Code, the and protection of health at work (annual inspections, provision of personal work protective equipment, employer is obliged to negotiate fundamental changes regarding, among the other, status, structure and training, investigation of work injuries, measures for enhancement of work environment, updating of inprojected development of employment, decisions that could lead to fundamental changes in the organiternal regulations) are semi-annually submitted for evaluation of Collective Agreement. Training and conzation of work as well as organizational changes with employee representatives in advance. Provision of sultancy concerning the employees is ensured by the work safety technicians from an external company. further information including specific deadlines is agreed, under the wording of the Labour Code, in the Collective Agreement. Within prevention and risk control, a Work Medical Service performs an inception audit at the opening of a new branch as well as regular annual inspections aimed at safety and protection of health at work with Internal Communication and Dialogue the participation of a work medical service. Medical services, first aid trainings, workplace supervision and preventive medical examinations according to the type of work performed are ensured by a work medical In VUB Bank, we understand that if we expect our employees to deliver the best possible performance, service from an external company. The Bank ensures safe working conditions not detrimental to health we must regularly inform them of what is happening and why and where the organization is heading in premises where cash is handled and in premises where works of technological nature are performed. and what is the place of each of them in this fulfilment. At the same time, we are giving them the space In case an employee uses a company car, he/she is obliged to take a driving capacity examination every 2 to voice their own opinions and ideas engaging them also in the decision-making processes. Internal years and simultaneously the Bank, ensures medical examinations for him/her. As our company operates communication is based on the seven values common for the whole Intesa Sanpaolo Group and helps in the banking market, at times it happens that employees find themselves in situations endangering their to deliver our vision and mission. In 2010, we were directing our activities towards improvement in the lives, e.g. in case of a branch’s robbery. In these rare cases, they are provided professional psychological quality of cooperation among employees and different units. Similarly, drawing on the outcomes of the assistance and are entitled to 5 business days off for recovery. employee survey performed in 2010, we concentrated on balancing the working and private life. We launched a new concept We strive for a bidirectional Despite the above-mentioned measures taken within the trainings on safety and protection of health at of competitions entitled VUB ART focused on supporting our emcommunication with the staff. work, prevention and risk control, in 2010 we recorded 8 occupational injuries and related 342 business ployees’ hobbies in the fields of photography, fine arts and video. days out of work. Out of 8 injuries recorded, two injuries were classified as grave occupational injuries. In The corporate intranet VUB NET kept gaining importance as a key and most efficient internal communicathe given year, we did not record any diseases related to the performance of profession. tion tool. Periodicity of the internal magazine WORLD remained also in 2010 on the bi-monthly basis. Its design and also content sections were harmonized with the overall concept of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group, Number of Work Injuries, Days Lost and Out of Work as a Result of Work Impact which brought the employees more information from the international level. We are thus giving our employees a wider perspective and bringing them answers to questions not only pertaining to the Bank’s loRegion no. of employees no. of business days no. of calendar days cal operation. The magazine is further on distributed in the volume of 4,000 copies to all employees of the Bratislava 5 137 197 VUB Group including the subsidiaries. The Chief Executive Officer regularly informs the staff on key events in an electronic bi-monthly newsletter. Also an electronic HR newsletter informing on human resource Trnava 0 0 0 topics and benefits was first time launched into existence in 2010. Trenčín 2 43 64 Nitra 0 0 0 In good internal communication, paramount is not the communicator, i.e. person sending out the inforŽilina 0 0 0 mation, but the person that receives it. We do not want the communication to be unidirectional. We are Banská Bystrica 0 0 0 interested in creating space for dialogue and interaction. For example, the employees have the opportuPrešov 1 162 234 Košice 0 0 0 50 51 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report nity to ask the CEO questions through the Intranet form, voice their opinions on the topic of satisfaction Shareholders with catering ensured by the Bank, system of benefits, form and content of Intranet and the magazine within the Intranet discussion forum. On an annual basis, we also organize surveys and evaluation of internal communication channels. Active Engagement of Employees into Bank’s Life In 2010, we shifted internal campaigns as a unique and original method of communication with the employees to a level of even higher interactivity mainly in the manner of engaging people into specific topics. Each month, employees are presented a new topic, up-to-date for the given period. The face of the campaign is always an employee involved in the topic. Thus, he/she becomes the carrier of the information, which gets closer to the others fostering a better understanding of the message. In supporting the company’s brand perception, values and naturally also the business we make use of all internal communication channels including posters, Intranet, magazine or personal e-mails, or for example also computer screen savers. With the aim of supporting the team spirit and informal relations, a sports and nomination event named VUB Cup was held. The best employees from the event went on to represent the Bank at international sports tournaments organized by the parent company. At year-end, we had the traditional Christmas meetings that were supplemented for the first time by announcement of the best sales persons and branches in individual regions for the whole year. The meetings were organized in three towns, while transportation was arranged as to enable all employees to attend. In order to support the delivery of business objectives, motivation and competitiveness in 2010 we continued in the employee competition called VUB Super League. SHAREHOLDERS Legal entities Individuals 52 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders VUB Share Capital and Shares ■■ Method and place of dividend payout, ■■ Change of shareholder’s address or name – whom to notify and how, The share capital amounts to € 430,819,063.81 and is divided into: ■■ Inheritance of VUB shares – legal steps and title to dividend, ■■ Donation of VUB shares – legal steps, ■■ 4,078,108 registered and book-entered shares with a nominal value of EUR 33.20 per share and ■■ Power of Attorney for payout of dividend from VUB shares and transfer of the right to dividend, ■■ 89 registered and book-entered shares with a nominal value of EUR 3,319,391.89 per share. ■■ Power of Attorney for participation at the General Meeting, ■■ Requirements related to documents legally certified abroad, VUB paid up its whole share capital. VUB shares are traded in the public equity market organized by ■■ Participation of shareholders at the General Meeting of Shareholders – rights and requirements, the Bratislava Stock Exchange, under share numerical code ISIN – SK 111 000 1437 in the total number of ■■ Full wording of documents and draft resolutions subject to discussion at the General Meeting, 4,078,108 units. Information on these VUB shares is also available at the official web page of the stock ■■ Results of voting at the General Meeting. exchange under the section securities traded and listing prospectus of VUB share. In addition to the above shares, VUB Bank issued also 89 registered shares that are, however, not publicly tradable. Besides the above-mentioned procedures, the web site provides shareholders also with the following useful information: Information on VUB shares traded on public equity market ■■ Decisions on dividend payout for individual years, ■■ Information on their taxation, Name Share of Všeobecná úverová banka, a.s. ■■ Historical development of VUB share price, Form book-entered share* ■■ Information on Bank’s share capital and VUB share distribution, Type registered share ■■ Information on shareholder structure, Issuer Všeobecná úverová banka, a.s. ■■ Information on the majority shareholder, Country of Issuance Slovak Republic ■■ List of Bank’s Management Board and Supervisory Board members, Number of Shares Issued 4,078,108 units ■■ Press releases and analytical reports, ■■ Financial statements and important basic information on the Bank’s activities, Nominal Value € 33.20 ■■ Information on VUB Bank’s market position and its evaluation, Placement of Shares Issued Bratislava Stock Exchange ■■ Market shares, Equity Market Main listed stock market ■■ Rating, Trading Currency euro (€) ■■ Bank’s vision and mission and its awards, ISIN ISIN SK 111 000 1437 ■■ Abstract of VUB Bank’s data from the Commercial Register of the Slovak Republic, Ticker symbol 1VUB02A ■■ Annual reports. Share index SAX # Overview of Dividend Payout from VUB Share Note: * a book-entered share means an electronic record in the register of the Central Securities Depository of the Slovak Republic Dividend for Year Dividend Amount per VUB Maturity Date Share VUB has a great number of minority shareholders, who acquired their shares in the first wave of the 2009 4.50 euro June 4, 2010 coupon privatization in 1991. The number of shareholders fell from the original approx. 80,000 to the 2008 0.00 euro – current number of over 44,000 shareholders. The majority shareholder is the Italian bank group, Intesa 2007 4.48 euro June 2, 2008 Sanpaolo, which became the owner of VUB in 2001. The shareholder structure is described in detail in the 2006 7.20 euro June 4, 2007 Profile and Governance chapter. 2005 9.46 euro June 5, 2006 Dialogue with Shareholders Note: Dividend maturity date is the date when the dividend payout starts and it was determined by the decision of the General Meeting. The priority of VUB Bank is to strive for good communication with all the Bank’s shareholders and ensure that they are informed accordingly. The General Secretariat Staff Unit provides for a constant dialogue with the shareholders and the Corporate Strategy and Economic Research Department bears responsibility VUB Share Development for communication with the rating agencies and analysts. Information on the current price of VUB shares in the public equity market is regularly published in daily The dialogue with shareholders involves several forms, formal and also informal, in the Slovak and also press with national coverage releasing stock exchange news, e.g. PRAVDA, Hospodárske noviny or on the English language, in written form, over the telephone and by means of personal meetings. The main web site of Bratislava Stock Exchange (www.bsse.sk). The VUB share is included in the Slovak Share Index medium is the Bank’s web site www.vub.sk, where in the sub-section http://www.vub.sk/en/informationSAX and influences its development to a significant extent. service/information-shareholders-vub/ necessary information, instructions and forms are published. It contains also practical procedures for legal acts related to the transactions most frequently required by the Bank’s shareholders, mainly: 54 55 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Average Development of VUB Share in EUR Prior to the General Meeting, VUB Bank sends all shareholders an invitation with an agenda including basic information that will be subject to the discussion at the General Meeting. Additional information is available to the shareholders for viewing in the Bank’s registered office or upon request. The invitation and basic documents are also published on the Bank’s web site and in periodical press with national coverage publishing stock exchange news. Instructions on shareholder rights under Article 180 Sect. 1 and 82.6 Article 181 Sect. 1 of Commercial Code and documents and data pursuant to Article 184a Sect. 1 and 2 of Commercial Code are published on http://www.vub.sk/informacny-servis/informacie-pre-akcionarov-vub/ 76.2 at least thirty days prior to the General Meeting. Members of the Supervisory and Management Boards regularly attend all General Meetings facilitating their smooth course and simultaneously answering the questions and inquiries presented by shareholders. 69.8 VUB Bank accepts all its obligations resulting from the legislation with regard to the shareholders. The Bank observes the provisions of the Commercial Code applicable to protection of shareholders’ rights, in particular the provisions on timely supply of all relevant information about the company and provisions on 63.4 convening and conducting its annual General Meetings. The Bank adheres to the principle of equal access to information for all shareholders pursuant to the Code. 57 30. 9. 2009 13. 1. 2010 8. 4. 2010 19. 7. 2010 11. 10 2010 30. 12. 2010 2010 Shareholder Protection Initiatives The 262 Project was launched in VUB in September 2007. The aim of the 262 Project is to achieve compliance with the requirements of the Italian Act No. 262 inspired by the American Sarbanes Oxley Act. Source: Bratislava Stock Exchange The Act 262 was issued in order to ensure significant strengthening of protection of investments. The measures deriving from the Act cover a wide area and are aimed at various activities, such as governance of joint-stock companies, rules for accounting audit, rules for financial instruments, conflict of interests, Shareholder Rights and Obligations transparency and market regulations. This Act is a part of a legal scenario aimed at consistent enhancement of governance. The basic objective of the activity related to Act No. 262 in VUB is to review the The rights and obligations of shareholders are stipulated by legal regulations and the VUB Articles of internal control system, identify its shortcomings and based on the results adjust it in order to eliminate Association. All shares are attached a shareholder’s right to take part in the management of VUB Bank the potential risk and ensure a true and fair representation of the financial situation. and the title to a share in its profit. The shareholder’s right to take part in the management of VUB Bank can be exercised at the General Meeting. Profit distribution to shareholders in form of dividends is subject The Act No. 262 requires that individual companies identify processes, which influence the financial inforto the General Meeting’s decision. The shares are freely transferable either by registering their transfer in mation, evaluate associated relevant risks and based on this propose adequate design of internal controls the Central Securities Depository of the Slovak Republic or by registering their transfer with a member of with the purpose of eliminating potential risks. The fundamental objective of the project was to identify the Central Depository based on a transfer and/or transition registration order. and promptly respond to a potentially insufficiently functioning of the internal control system as to assure improvement in the quality of financial reporting also by means of business ethics, efficient internal auThe General Meeting is the Bank’s top decision-making body representing all shareholders and its decisidits and good corporate governance. The Act No. 262 unambiguously assigned the responsibility for the ons approved pursuant to applicable legal regulations and Bank’s Articles of Association are binding for contents of financial reports, accounting procedures applied, adequately set up control system and proceall shareholders. It is competent for the following most important decisions: dures and a true and fair view of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and cash flows to the Chief Executive Officer. Both the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer sign a representation confirming ■■ decision on amendment of the Articles of Association, that adequate and efficient procedures of accounting and financial reporting have been applied. Benefit ■■ decision on increase and decrease of share capital and decision on authorizing the Management Board of the whole project is providing shareholders with security concerning a true and regulatory presentato increase the share capital, tion of the capital, economic and financial position of the VUB Group and adequacy and efficiency of the ■■ decision on issuance of preference bonds or convertible bonds, internal control system and procedures. ■■ decision on change of rights connected with any type of VUB shares and on limitation of transferability of VUB shares, ■■ election and dismissal of Supervisory Board members, with the exception of Supervisory Board members elected and dismissed by VUB employees, ■■ approval of regular and/or extraordinary individual and/or consolidated financial statements, decision on profit distribution or settlement of losses and determination of the amount of profit bonuses, ■■ decision on distribution of retained earnings from previous years and/or settlement of unsettled losses from previous years, ■■ decision on utilization of reserve fund, ■■ decision on amount, method and place of dividend payout and determination of the decisive date for designation of persons entitled to exercise their title to dividends. 56 57 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Suppliers SUPPLIERS Small and medium enterprises Large supplier firms and chains 58 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Strategy Share of Purchased Volume of Goods and Services by Individual Purchase Areas 2009 Suppliers represent one group of VUB Bank’s stakeholders that are significantly influenced by our corpoFacilities: 22.55 % rate responsibility and observance of the Code of Ethics ensuing therefrom. VUB Bank requires that its suppliers adhere to principles it itself believes in and which form a part of its business. VUB Bank realizes that the Bank’s good business performance is a benefit for all stakeholder groups, a significant position among which belongs to the suppliers. VUB bank is one of the largest Slovak companies Technology and security: 52.63 % and as such it also has a broad network of suppliers. By purchasing goods and services it indirectly generates benefits for the society in form of employment and financial performance of its suppliers. Marketing, material and services: 24.82 % One of the VUB Bank’s commitments with respect to suppliers includes responsible practices in the social and environmental areas. Origin of Suppliers The attributes, which most adequately characterize VUB Bank’s responsible approach in relation to suppliers are transparency, equality of opportunities and efficiency, in selection of suppliers as well as Italy: 1.1 % Other countries: 6.0 % in the process of defining internal supplier processes. An efficient manner of spending funds for goods and services that VUB Bank needs for its activities, is one of the basic prerequisites for its success in the competitive market. The total amount of such costs directly impacts the Bank’s profit. Suppliers in Figures In 2010, VUB purchased goods and services in the total amount of approximately EUR 93 mil.. The total numSlovak Republic: 91.2 % United Kingdom: 1.7 % ber of our suppliers represented 1,279, thereof at least 91 % were companies based in the Slovak Republic. Overview of Development of Purchase Volume and Number of Suppliers Year Goods and Services Procured in Euro Number of Suppliers 2010 EUR 93 mil. 1,279 Transparent Selection of Suppliers 2009 EUR 92 mil. 1,362 Suppliers of VUB Bank are significantly influenced by observance of the Code of Ethics. In relation to 2008 EUR 109 mil. 1,457 suppliers, the Bank professes values such as fair play and transparency and its intention is to principally cooperate with those suppliers that respect these values in the interest of creating and building an open partnership. Share of Purchased Volume of Goods and Services by Individual Purchase Areas 2010 Procurement in VUB Bank is open to a wide spectrum of suppliers. VUB Bank gives a chance to all that are not its business partners yet and have an ambition to cooperate ETHICS Facilities: 22.21 % with us, while for the existing partners it simultaneously presents a challenge to continuously improve the quality of their products and services in order to be a valuable partner of VUB Bank also in the future. VUB Bank expects its partners to have a flexible, proactive and forthcoming approach and a high effiTechnology and security: 48.38 % ciency. We are interested in developing long-term business relations built on open prices with the aim of achieving the most convenient supplier conditions possible. Marketing, material and services: 29.41 % Application of Electronic Auctions System For selecting suppliers VUB Bank has been using, in the maxiFor selection of suppliers we use mum possible extent, the electronic auctions called Access the system of electronic auctions Point (http://accesspoint.vub.sk). This system enables suppliers to submit their price bids in electronic form at the same time Access Point. and in one virtual place. Electronic auctions are thus available to 60 61 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report all companies meeting the conditions set in advance and VUB Bank transparently accelerates and makes Environment the procurement process as well as correct price negotiation more effective. Electronic auction is one of possible forms of negotiation ensuring in procurement of goods and services equal opportunities and fair play in the process of supplier selection. Out of the total number of tenders, in 2010 VUB Bank performed approx. 26% of price negotiations by means of using the electronic e-auction. The percentage reflects the fact that this form of selection may not be applied to all purchases (excluded are e.g. purchase of software solutions, purchase of utilities or media through monopoly suppliers etc.). Legislation Governing Procurement Process in the Slovak Republic and Its Impacts on VUB Bank’s Activities Selection of suppliers in VUB Bank is not subject to the Public Procurement Act applicable in the Slovak Republic. In 2010, VUB Bank was not imposed any fines for inobservance of any laws or regulations concerning procurement and purchase of products and services. Pursuant to the Act on Employment Services, each employer in the Slovak Republic employing more than 20 employees is obliged to employ disabled citizens. Another option is using a supplementary solution by submitting orders or purchasing goods and services from a sheltered workshop employing disabled people, from a citizen with a grave disability or from an COMMUNITY employer employing citizens with grave disabilities. In view of the above-stated legal obligations, VUB Bank gives a part of its orders to sheltered workshops also despite the fact that prices they offer are oftentimes higher and delivery deadlines longer than with common suppliers. For more information refer to the Community chapter. Environmentally Responsible Procurement Materials VUB Bank manages the usage and consumption of office paper, consumption of toners for copying machines and printers, collection and liquidation of packaging used. In the area of facility management, it cooperates with ISO 14001 certified companies (this system helps the companies to successfully participate in domestic and also international tenders, but it also ensures growth of value, company’s economical operation as well as increased trust of customers). Purchase of office paper is limited to chlorine-free (TCF) and recycled papers. We use also recycled envelopes for account statements for clients, their number stood around 80% of the total number of envelopes used in 2010. Renewed materials are used mainly in case of printer cartridges. At least 85% out of the total number of cartridges are renewed. In the area of facility management and maintenance, VUB Bank cooperates with companies with a sysENVIRONMENT tematic approach to environmental protection through their activities in all aspects of their businesses. In Employees the area of redesign, reconstructions or other construction works VUB Bank collaborates with construcClients tion companies that include environmental care in its business strategy and also common operations. The same applies also to the suppliers of lighting and interior, the activities of which are, in addition to Suppliers production and provision of services, oriented on energy saving, waste minimization and minimization of Future generations environmental fees and sanctions for pollution of the environment. Since VUB Bank is not a production company and its activity does not result in products that would require purchase of input materials, the report does not deal with materials used or recycled input materials used in greater detail. For more information refer to the Environment chapter. 62 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Strategy Management Approach VUB Bank is not a producing company or a direct polluter of the environment and therefore the environOur management system defines rules and processes related to implementation of the environmental mental impacts of our business are not significant. Yet we committed to reduce our negative impact on policy. As already mentioned, VUB Bank is not a direct polluter of the environment, our impact can therethe environment to the minimum level possible. We are looking for solutions beyond the scope of the fore be split into: legislation, we are interested in our environmental performance in relation to the inputs and outputs, we have been mapping the relevant environmental indicators. Indirect: ■■ we comply with international and national environmental protection protocols, Measures for reduction of direct (resulting from our activities) and indirect (generated by clients and sup■■ we support projects with a high environmental value (loans), pliers) environmental waste are stipulated in VUB Group’s Environmental Policy. As ■■ our lending system clearly incorporates standards concerning the environment and the Equator a member of an international banking group, we adhere to the Equator Principles and Principles. VUB Bank principally does not grant funds for financing of certain activities that could UN Global Compact. We have firmly defined internal regulations and our decisions on SUPPLIERS endanger the environment; investments and lending take into account both social and environmental risks. We try to influence our impact on the environment also by procedures for selection of suppliers. Direct: We prefer those suppliers that respect the environment and adopt necessary measures to ■■ energy saving measures, minimize negative impacts of their activities. ■■ introduction and observation of internal regulations and notices, e.g. – economical usage of electricity in the offices, VUB Bank’s main initiatives and investments in environmental protection in 2010 ensue from our appli– air-conditioning (principles of its utilization), cable environmental policy aimed at: – cooling and heating, ■■ support of projects focused on energy saving and renewable sources, – turning off of computers overnight and during the weekends. ■■ saving measures for reduction of energy and consumer material consumption, ■■ separation of waste and measures for reduction of its production. Our environmental management involves: ■■ Departments Facility Management and Procurement, Environmental Policy ■■ external suppliers of products and services, ■■ Risk Management Division (ensures control of project financing and lending), This document defines VUB’s objectives in environmental protection and and sustainability. Environmental ■■ regular inspections and controls in branch and also headquarters buildings focused on reduction of policy is a written commitment to environmental protection, which sets the Bank’s mission and objectives energy consumption and identification of potential savings, in the area of environmental management. It forms the basis of management and also the business strat■■ internal regulations and notices, egy. It defines the principles and guidelines concerning direct and indirect impact on the environment. It ■■ internal communication employee awareness. allows the Bank to communicate its intentions and objectives to employees and other partners. In 2010, we focused on the following direct activities regarding environmental protection: UN Global Compact ■■ waste separation, ■■ collection and liquidation of waste classified as hazardous (toners, fluorescent lamps) in cooperation VUB Bank undertook to act in accordance with the international standard UN Global Compact, to which with external service supplier, it acceded in 2009. It includes also principles aimed at environmental protection. ■■ utilization of electronic mail and electronic banking to reduce paper consumption, ■■ use of envelopes made of recycled paper for all mail consignments to our clients, Equator Principles ■■ energy saving technical solutions saving the environment, ■■ employee awareness raising – lectures, e-mails, articles in the internal magazine, We take a responsible approach to project financing. Managing a great volume of funds, we significantly ■■ taking care of greenery in the vicinity of branches and in their interiors, impact the flows of capital. Therefore, it is important for us that projects, which we decide to finance do ■■ collection and ecological liquidation of non-functional mobile telephones, accessories and batteries. not have a negative impact on the environment we live in. Compliance with the Equator Principles confirms our commitment to the society. Environmental Management Indicators Number of employees directly appointed to implement environmental policy within their job description 1 Education and Awareness Number of internal specialists 0 Number of external specialists 2 VUB Bank is not limited to minimization of negative impacts of its business on the environment, but rather supports also ecological thinking and behaviour of its employees. Over the year, all staff are encouraged Percentage of employees regularly informed of environmental policy implementation 100 in form of awareness raising activities and internal notices to save paper and consumer material, turn off their PCs outside working hours and on holidays and to separate waste. 64 65 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Materials Energies Among the aspects influencing the environment, we include consumption of office paper, consumption of toners for copying machines and printers, collection and liquidation of used packaging and also cooperaDirect Energy Consumption tion in the area of facility management with ISO 14001 certified companies. Purchase of office paper is limited to chlorine free paper (TCF) and recycled paper. VUB Bank is constantly striving to reduce the consumption of energies. Similarly to last year, also in 2010 we were putting emphasis on purchasing highly efficient cooling and heating equipment for an efficient Paper Consumption (kg) and economical heating and cooling of our premises and on selection of possibly the most economical lighting units in our premises. 650,000 650,000 VUB Bank needs for its operation two primary sources of energy – electricity and gas. In 2010, electric520,000 520,000 ity consumption dropped compared to 2009 by 1.98 % and gas consumption by as much as 24.6 %. This drop is a result of an ongoing effort to lead employees towards an efficient utilization of sources, purchases of highly efficient equipment and last but not least continuous supervision of used technology 390,000 390,000 and its regulation. Direct Energy Consumption 260,000 260,000 2010: 130,000 100,000 ■■ Electricity: 17,500,480 kWh 2010 2009 2008 ■■ Gas: 1,295,968 m3 = 12,182,099 kWh ■■ Total: 29,682,579 kWh Consumption of Recycled Paper in kg and its Percentage Share out of Total Quantity of Paper Consumed 2009: 85,000 85,000 ■■ Electricity: 17,997,537 kWh ■■ Gas: 1,372,193 m3 = 12,898,614 kWh 68,000 68,000 ■■ Total: 30,896,151 kWh 2008: 77,357 kg 2008: 51,000 51,000 25.2 % of total paper consumed ■■ Electricity: 18,290,073 kWh 2009: 84,703 kg ■■ Gas: 1,559,432 m3 = 14,658,661 kWh 34,000 34,000 16.2 % of total paper consumed ■■ Total: 32,948,734 kWh 2010: 81,331 kg Notes 17,000 17,000 13.2 % of total paper consumed 1) 1 m3 = 9.4 kWh 2) The data were obtained from counter statuses of contractual supplier 0 0 2010 2009 2008 Recycled paper is used for envelopes we use to send clients their account statements. In 2010, a project Electricity is supplied by the largest local suppliers (ZSE, VSE and SSE). These companies guarantee that for electronic sending of statements was implemented. This was reflected in a reduced consumption of a minimum of 15 % of the energy they supply is produced from renewable sources. In accordance with recycled paper. Number of recycled envelopes for client account statements stood at the level of 80 % of the relevant provisions of Act No. 656 / 2004 electricity suppliers in the Slovak Republic must inform their the 2009 volume. Renewed materials are used mainly in case of toners for printers. At least 85 % of the buyers on the share of individual types of primary energy sources in produced and supplied energy, includtotal number of toners are renewed toners. ing the supply of electricity produced in other EU member states and third states. In 2010, the share of primary sources for production of electricity supplied by our suppliers was: Since VUB Bank is not a production company and its activity does not result in products, which would ■■ Renewable (water, air) 16 % require purchase of input materials, the report does not deal in more detail with materials used or recycled ■■ Coal 25 % input materials used. ■■ Nuclear 56 % ■■ Other 3% Gas is purchased from a local supplier, which is Slovenský plynárenský priemysel. Heat is procured from various bigger and smaller heat energy producers; therefore it is not possible to state the primary energy source. 66 67 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Share of Energy Savings Indirect Energy Consumption year energy savings in kWh energy savings in % 2010 2,506,000 7.92 Secondary Energy Purchased (heat energy in the form of heat) in kWh 2009 2,000,000 5.07 10,000 10,000 2008 374,091 0.87 Energy Consumption in thous. kWh 9,400 9,400 8,800 8,800 Water 8,200 8,200 All VUB Bank’s branches in the whole territory of the Slovak Republic are supplied water by local water companies. In 2010, water consumption grew by 11.37 % mainly due to construction modifications per7,600 7,600 formed on buildings. Total Water Consumption (in m3) 7,000 7,000 2010 2009 2008 75,000 75,000 Compared to 2009, heat consumption increased by 13.13 % due to disposal of one boiler room (we do not produce heat by gas combustion, but we buy it). 68,000 68,000 61,000 61,000 Total Energy Consumption 54,000 54,000 Total Energy Consumption (heat + electricity + gas) in kWh 47,000 47,000 43,000 43,000 Energy Consumption in thous. kWh 40,000 40,000 2010 2009 2008 39,750 39,750 In 2010, our average daily water consumption was 207 m3, which is on average 59.2 l a day per employee. 36,500 36,500 Average Daily Water Consumption Per Employee (in litres) 33,250 33,250 70 70 60 60 30,000 30,000 50 50 2010 2009 2008 40 40 Vis-à-vis 2009, the total energy consumption increased by 0.46% due to very cold weather across Slovakia. 30 30 Saving Measures 20 20 10 10 Saving measures are actually VUB Bank’s investment into environmental protection and modernization of 0 0 its operations. Majority of them concerned thermal insulation and prevention of heat loss, reconstruction 2010 2009 2008 of lighting systems and boilers modernization. Owing to saving measures implemented, we managed to save approx. 418 MWh of energy, which translates into savings of more than EUR 170,000. VUB Bank is not a production company, so our water consumption is not significant. We use water mostly for personal hygiene, watering and minimally for the operation of facilities (heating, cooling circuits, etc.). At present, we do not initiate any measures aimed at reducing water consumption, since we are convinced that we use water efficiently and our consumption falls below the Slovak average. We do not take water directly from a water source, but from water companies or small local suppliers. We do not request our suppliers to provide us with the data about water sources and use of recycled water. Our activity does not significantly influence local water sources in any way. 68 69 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Biodiversity Hazardous Waste – Packaging Containing Remnants of Hazardous Substances (in kg) 2010 600 None of VUB Bank’s activities affects the biodiversity. We do not perform any activity that would directly 2009 950 disrupt the environment, and therefore indicators related to biodiversity are not relevant for us. VUB does 2008 850 not own any facility, neither does it dispose of any leased premises that would interfere with or be directly located in a protected territory. Types of Wastes Liquidated (in kg) For 2010, we do not record any contamination of environment in the surroundings of our facilities. Since waste toner from printers 50 we are not a production company, we did not cause any considerable water pollution. We do not own favoluminous waste 3,410 cilities, from which sewage would be discarded into the environment and pose a threat to the biodiversity lead batteries 310 of water reservoirs. Water is drained off in a standard way to the sewerage system and then processed in plastic and rubber 480 waste treatment plants. discarded equipment 12,890 We contribute to protection of the environment also by keeping accounts and providing loans and borrowdiscarded equipment containing hazardous parts 150 ings to companies and non-governmental organizations having as their core business ecological activities. Waste – separated paper (in kg) Emissions of CO2 and Substances Damaging Ozone Layer 60,000 60,000 54,000 54,000 Being a financial institution, we do not produce significant volume of harmful emissions. However, we are 48,000 48,000 42,000 42,000 aware of the least we ourselves can influence (use of passenger cars, business trips, logistics, etc.). So far, 36,000 36,000 we have not been measuring the emissions attributable to electricity use, nor do we employ any individual 30,000 30,000 specialists that would be dedicated to this activity. The production of CO2 emissions from gas combustion 24,000 24,000 was reduced to zero as a result of the reconstruction of heat sources performed. 18,000 18,000 12,000 12,000 Pursuant to Act No. 286/2009 Coll., based on which each operator of cooling equipment is obliged to 6,000 6,000 inform the relevant District Environmental Authority data on fluorinated greenhouse gases, the Bank 0 0 fulfilled its notification duty and provided information on volumes of substances directly influencing the 2010 2009 2008 damaging of the ozone layer. Our supplier submitted to us an overview of all cooling equipment (in operation) containing more than 3 kg of refrigerant in the circuit. These are refrigerant mixtures such as R407c, R410a, R22. In 2010, the total volume of such refrigerants was approximately 2,340 kg. Environment and Lending Policy It is impossible to state the volume of emissions produced by company cars, since this information was not monitored in 2010. Due to the same reason, we are not stating NOx, SOx and other significant emissions into the atmosphere. Green Energy and Energy Efficiency – “Twin Pillars“ – Projects Sustainability of the environment is one of the basic pillars of our corporate responsibility strategy. Within Wastes our lending policy, we do not finance companies breaching the legal regulations concerning the environment. We do not support companies not meeting the requirements for environmental protection stipuWaste separation is the responsibility of all employees. Waste separation is managed through the process lated by the legislation of the Czech and Slovak Republics or the European Union or in conflict with the we have in place, which is binding for all employees. Its wording is available on the Intranet page and the EBRD/IFC (European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and International Financial Corporation) employees have been informed of it in form of personal e-mails. In our objects in the whole territory of requirements. Loans within corporate financing are granted also to clients from sectors, where environSlovakia, we separate paper waste only. In the VUB Bank’s Head Office building in Bratislava we separate mental risks can be expected, however we examine them in detail. waste into: ■■ paper (cardboard), From the green-energy oriented perspective, we offer product contributing to sustainability of the envi■■ plastic, ronment. We confirmed our effort to bring to the market new or innovated products and services also in ■■ metal, 2010, while paying increased attention to the areas of: ■■ glass, ■■ agriculture, ■■ mixed communal waste, ■■ self-administrations, ■■ hazardous. ■■ renewable sources, ■■ energy efficiency. The correctness of our strategy is evidenced also by the technical awards we were presented. The projects financed contribute to environmental protection – reducing the CO2 production and thereby improving 70 71 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders the environment, protecting people’s health and also natural resources, contributing to reduction of air If a client consciously engages in areas risky from the environmental point of view, the Bank requires a due pollution and reducing energy consumption. diligence aimed at client’s environmental risk management. Below, we specify examples of risky activities and business areas from the perspective of the environment: VUB Bank supports the “Twin Pillars” projects aimed at energy savings and energy production from al■■ storage of hazardous waste, its modification and liquidation, ternative energy sources (water power plants, biogas stations, biomass combustion equipments and pho■■ production or trading in freon-containing equipment and appliances, tovoltaic power plants). We have a team of people providing financial and professional assistance to po■■ production or trading in electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB), tential investors in preparing and executing these types of projects, ■■ production or trading in products containing asbestos, whether in the industrial, agrarian or communal area. In 2010, we VUB supports green energy ■■ foreign trade in waste or waste products. executed tens of “Twin Pillars“ projects. We assisted our clients projects and energy efficiency in searching for the best possible form of financing – either by diElectronic Account Statements rect financing or co-financing (EU structural funds, SLOVSEFF proprojects. “Paperwork belongs to the museum” was the slogan of the communication campaign aiming to achieve gram). replacement of paper account statements by electronic ones. Not only because an electronic statement is more modern and easily available in one place and at any time, but it is rather also a demonstration of our Our several years’ cooperation with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development bore its fruit responsibility towards the environment. The motivational campaign targeted employees and retail clients. in 2010, namely in the form of an award presented to the best projects financed from the SLOVSEFF I and SLOVSEFF II programs aimed at supporting development of energy efficiency in the industrial sector, in the Employees area of renewable sources and in the apartment housing sector. ■■ 45 % have set up sending of electronic statements on their current accounts, ■■ 78 % have set up sending of electronic statements on their term accounts. Owing to these project we received awards in the categories: ■■ Industrial sector – project with highest savings of CO2 emissions, A high percentage is related also to a higher financial literacy and intense internal communication (training – c lient Východoslovenské stavebné hmoty, a.s.; VUB Bank co-financed the reconstruction of a cement materials, video conferences, e-learning, advertising campaign, mail supporting communication). grinding plant in Turňa, ■■ Renewable sources sector – innovative project, Clients – client BPS Huncovce, s.r.o.; VUB Bank financed a biogas station. ■■ 3 % have set up sending of electronic statements on their current accounts, ■■ 41 % have set up sending of electronic statements on their term accounts. Overview of Executed Projects: Besides saving the mailing costs of EUR 37,000 (this amount represents costs that the Bank would have Renewable Sources to incur during 2010, if the clients stayed at their original frequency of paper statement sending) also consumption of paper for statements went considerably down. We used several forms of external comProject Type No. Investment Volume in € munication to communicate with the clients (posters, flyers, inserts in statements, Internet Banking, web), Photovoltaics 16 54 mil. which were promoting the benefits of electronic statements as well as the possibility of winning an attractive financial prize. Water energy 2 3.5 mil. Biogas 2 4 mil. Community Projects Energy Efficiency Through VUB Foundation, we supported also several ecological projects and events organized by nongovernmental organizations. The most significant of them included: Project Type No. Investment Volume in € ■■ Ekotopfilm – international film festival on permanently sustainable development connected with ecoEnergy savings and reduction of CO2 emissions 1 0.8 mil. logical education of children and youth, ■■ Clean Waters – a project focused on cleaning of mountain tarns, lakes and rivers in the protected terriReplacement of grinding plant technology 3 1.6 mil. tory of High Tatras, Thermal insulation for apartment buildings 87 15.9 mil. ■■ Grants for primary schools within the employee grant program. Thermal insulation for administrative buildings 10 6.9 mil. Ecology was also the theme of the 2010 Photo of the Year – VUB Foundation’s Award to Young Photographers competition. In its third annual edition, participants could send their photography artInitiatives for Reduction of Environmental Impacts of Our Products and Services works with the theme Attractive Earth. Lending Policy One of VUB Bank’s main activities, the lending, incorporates standards concerning the environment. The COMMUNITY Bank does not provide funds for financing of some activities from the environmental point of view including: ■■ trading in wildlife and products made of it, ■■ release of genetically modified organisms into the natural environment, ■■ production, distribution and use of prohibited pesticides, herbicides, chemical or agrochemical substances, ■■ fishing by means of floating nets, ■■ radioactive substances including radioactive waste. 72 73 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Community COMMUNITY Society NGOs Non-profit organizations State institutions 74 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders This chapter points out the strength of our voice in the communities either in the area of sponsorship, Other EUR 20 thousand were donated to help families, for which their closed ones asked for support in donation or cooperation with the non-profit sector. Also in 2010, VUB Bank continued in helping the coma television show. munity, where our clients, partners and employees live. We perceive our responsibility in the social sphere mainly as an investment into the society. VUB Bank engages in this area together with its foundation. Non-financial Aid In 2010, we donated to community projects funds in the volume exceeding EUR 108 thous., whereas the most significant activity in the field of donation was assistance to communities stricken by devastating In 2010, VUB Bank donated 38 units of excluded IT equipment to applicants including mainly hospitals, floods. medical facilities, non-profit organizations and schools. Our activities to the benefit of the community have been concentrated for a long-time on the support of: 2010 2009 2008 2007 ■■ third sector, Number of IT Equipment Units Donated 38 89 60 463 ■■ education, ■■ sheltered workshops. Other Types of Aid Similarly to the past, our most significant project was the support of the Good Angel humanitarian system by means of our charity payment cards. By elaborating and issuing Corporate Responsibility Reports Cooperation with Non-profit Sector for small and medium enterprises and organizing a series of technical seminars, we were supporting the VUB Bank has cooperated with the Good Angel non-profit organization already for the fourth year, for promotion of corporate responsibility principles. We continued in assisting women in starting up their which it issued unique charity payment cards. One percent of the paybusinesses with the EMMA Business Academy project. ments performed goes to the account of the Good Angel non-profVUB Bank issues unique charity itable organization which provides help to oncological patients and payment cards Good Angel, In philanthropy we followed up on our long-term initiatives aimed at preservation of cultural heritage and families with gravely sick children. This percentage is not donated by support of fine arts. Through VUB Foundation, we contributed to the restoration of twenty historic monuthe cardholder, but by VUB Bank on his/her behalf. This is thus a nonwhich help families with serious ments. We held two self-organized exhibitions of young contemporary art in the fields of fine arts and phostandard manner of matching without a client’s primary deposit, as chronic diseases. tography and sponsored the preparation of an extensive exhibition tour of contemporary Slovak fine arts in he/she is helping only with his/her good will and willingness to help. the Slovak National Gallery in Bratislava. In the area of education support, we facilitated engagement of two international professors, who were hosting at two Slovak universities during the whole semester. 2010 2009 2008 Number of Good Angel Maestro cards issued 19,704 15,631 9,936 VUB Bank systematically develops its philanthropic activities and financially supports its foundation in difVUB’s contribution in euro (1% from payments performed by clients’ cards) 121,025 90,373 49,721 ferent ways: ■■ by donating 2 % of its income tax (EUR 915,419 in 2010), ■■ in terms of personnel, With the purpose of helping to motivate employees or clients to contribute to the Good Angel system, ■■ from the material and administrative perspective, we annually ran a campaign entitled “The Good Angels’ Month“. During the campaign, as many as 2,365 ■■ by providing know-how and services of its suppliers. standing orders were submitted at branches and through Internet Banking. Via the ATMs were performed 275 deposits. VUB Foundation is a separate legal entity, however, it executes some of its activities and projects in close managerial and financial cooperation with VUB Bank and this is the reason we list these activities also in 2010 2009 2008 this report. All activities of VUB Foundation in 2010 are presented comprehensively in the Annual Report Standing orders submitted by clients 87,017 33,363 8,434 of VUB Foundation published on the web site www.nadaciavub.sk. Amount in euro donated by clients 469,222 316,146 429,839 Financial Aid Cooperation with Schools VUB Bank supports projects in identical fields, which are targeted also by VUB Foundation in order to VUB Bank has had a long-term cooperation with universities and secondary schools. We support the achieve a synergic effect. These are the areas of education, culture and charity. In 2010, VUB Bank funded growth of education sector’s quality and in the interest of making education in the finance, banking and 31 entities with sponsor donations in the amount of EUR 108 thousand. legal fields more attractive we perform: ■■ consultation activities in elaboration of a thesis or annual school project, Overview of Funds Donated 2010 2009 2008 ■■ possibility of an expert internship for secondary school or university students, ■■ technical topical lectures at secondary schools and universities. Number of entities funded 31 29 40 Total amount of donations in € 108 thous. 90.7 thous. 133 thous. Also in 2010, we co-participated in the activities for students of schools mainly of economic and technical and mathematic specialization. Several our managers give lectures at universities around Slovakia. We The most significant activity in donation was our assistance to communities stricken by the June devascontinued providing consultations in thesis and annual school projects in majority dealing with economic tating floods. By means of VUB Foundation, we donated for this purpose EUR 20 thousand. Along with topics such as retail banking or credit risk, but represented were also topics from marketing communicaother financial institutions joined in the Slovak Banking Association, we made a donation of EUR 33,878. tion. Several students participated in an internship, mainly in the corporate business network, risk man76 77 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders agement or human resources. A great synergic effect is created by interconnecting these activities with 2010 Most Significant Community Projects the VUB Foundation, which annually provides Slovak colleges and universities with: ■■ grants for engaging international professors during a whole semester – the Guest Professor grant scheme, Assistance to Flood Stricken Communities ■■ award to young economists for a scientific paper – Economicus. In the previous year, Slovakia was stricken by extensive floods, worst in the past 150 years. VUB Bank decided to help communities stricken by this natural disaster. VUB Foundation made a financial donaCooperation with Sheltered Workshops tion of EUR 5 thousand to the organization “Človek v ohrození” (Human in Peril) to finance humanitarVUB Bank aimfully supports also the functioning of sheltered workshops by purchasing their products ian aid in the regions of Spiš, Šariš and Zemplín. Families with children appreciated assistance in form and services. The Bank gives a part of its orders to these sheltered workshops also despite the fact that of a stay of 30 children in a summer camp, where, at least for a short time, they could forget about prices they offer are oftentimes higher and delivery deadlines longer than with common suppliers. In the difficult situation in their homes. Another amount of EUR 10 thousand was designated for mitiga2010, we purchased from them goods and services in the amount of EUR 69,433. tion of flood consequences for specific families in the affected regions. Simultaneously, VUB helped also families, for which their close ones sent a wish for housing reconstruction to a television show. Products and Services Purchased from Sheltered Workshops We lent a helping hand also to our employees that suffered property damages. We likewise brought several measures for clients to facilitate this difficult period for them, for example a free premature 2010 2009 2008 2007 withdrawal from term deposits or 100-day grace periods in case of instalment purchase. For more Products in euro 68,892 11,310 31,960 64,728 details refer to the Clients chapter. Services in euro 541 5,039 29,606 27,883 Total in euro 69,433 16,349 61,566 92,611 In addition to purchasing products, the functioning of sheltered workshops is supported also by VUB Corporate Responsibility Reports for Small and Medium Enterprises Foundation, which provides grants for creation of new workplaces. Sheltered workshops can obtain supIn 2010, we continued in the SME project. We addressed a selected sample of our clients from among port in the annual open grant scheme. In 2010, grants worth EUR 32 thousand were awarded to seven the small and medium enterprises and offered them to elaborate and issue for them their own corposheltered workshops. rate responsibility reports. Within the project’s execution, we used the following tools: Engaging Employees in Community Life ■■ information brochure on corporate responsibility for SME, Just like in the recent years, we ran an internal employee campaign focused on the topic of donating ■■ project flyer, 2 % of individuals’ income tax and individual donations. Many employees have activated the Good Angel ■■ structured questionnaire for data collection, charity payment card. Each year, the employees make a donation of blood during the campaign “VUB ■■ personal meetings with VUB staff. Blood Drop“ organized in cooperation with the National Transfusion Service. The activity always enjoys big popularity, in 2010 the participation was 52 donors. Altogether, they donated nearly 24 litres of the Based on the data supplied from clients, we elaborated their corporate responsibility reports and lifesaving liquid. distributed them to the clients in printed form on ecological paper and also in electronic form. In elaborating the reports, we used the Global Reporting Initiative indicators so as to present the firms in In the effort of engaging VUB employees in the activities beneficial for the community and supporting a comprehensive form – they contained the data on how they were faring financially, but also informatheir volunteering, VUB Foundation created two employee grant programs. In the Treasures of My Heart tion on how they approached their employees, product development or people and environment in program, employees can receive financial support for preservation of cultural and natural heritage objects. which they operated. A number of clients welcomed this offer since the reports helped them achieve The employees submit these projects in cooperation with the non-profit sector and self-administrations. a higher transparency and as a results also higher competitiveness. This project was a follow up on In 2010, our employees submitted 72 projects and received support in the total amount of EUR 105,093. a series of regional seminars for SME that VUB has organized already third year in cooperation with the Business Leaders Forum association. In 2010, the seminars took place in Banská Bystrica, Košice In the second type of employee program, employees can submit projects of educational and charitable and Hostětín. nature. The condition for obtaining the grant is the employee’s active participation in the project’s execution in form of volunteering. Employees submit the projects in cooperation with non-governmental organizations, schools or local self-administration. This is a way to support the ideas and projects that VUB Trainings for Starting Female Entrepreneurs Bank employees consider meaningful and useful: together they are solving a certain problem in the comIn collaboration with the Emma magazine, VUB Bank continued in the training project Emma Business munity, support community activities or a civic association, in which the employees are involved. In 2010, Academy. It is designed for women, who are fresh graduates, after maternity leave, unemployed and our employees submitted altogether 88 projects and received support in the amount of EUR 30,649. In would like to start a business. In the project’s second year, the course was attended by 17 women. They the evaluation committees, aside from experts from the given areas, represented are also the Bank’s emacquired the know-how that will help them in starting up their own businesses. The lectures were given ployees. by VUB managers – experts in the areas of finance, business loans, marketing and advertising. Also female entrepreneurs that have been already for several years successfully running their businesses including the Support of Employee Projects successful first-year academy attendees came to support and advise them. The “female students“ learned of the possible forms of running a business, how to get a business license or establish a trading company. 2010 2009 2008 They also learned of suitable forms of marketing and sale. In the practical section, they tried to prepare Number of projects submitted 160 146 127 a business plan and compile a financial plan. Number of projects supported 31 17 14 Grants provided in euro 135,742 86,844 58,234 78 79 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders 2010 VUB Foundation Activities Treasures of My Heart The interest of VUB Foundation is to achieve that attention be paid also to monument objects of regional VUB Foundation has developed its activities in the field of philanthropy already for seven years. Last year, significance, the preservation of which is equally important as the restoration of national cultural monuit contributed to several community projects with the amount of over EUR 1 mil., whereof the majority of ments. For this purpose, we created a unique grant program Treasures of My Heart, in which funds for funds went to the area of charity (39 %) and support of art and cultural heritage (35 %). preservation of cultural and natural heritage objects in various regions of Slovakia can be obtained. Owing to the support of this program, it was possible to preserve several Slovak treasures such as the altar in the Overview of Grants Provided wooden articular church in Hronsek, hundred-year old fire engine in Hodruša-Hámre, renaissance portal at the Frauenberg cemetery in Banská Štiavnica, staircase to the church in Špania Dolina or historic organ 2010 2009 2008 2007 in Vyhne. In the fourth year of the program’s existence, VUB Foundation supported 16 projects with the Support provided in euro 1.2 mil. 903 thous. 547 thous. 514 thous. amount of EUR 105 093. Number of projects supported 174 138 73 42 Also the general public is engaged in the decision-making on monuments to be supported. Last year, 12 historic clocks from various regions of Slovakia in need of support were competing for people’s votes in an For Hope Foundation Program Internet voting. Based on results of the voting, which was held during the whole month of November on a special Internet page, VUB Foundation supported the reconstruction of four clocks – mechanic in Trnava, A program aimed at charity that helps various disadvantaged groups to equalize their chances in life. It supPrešov, Sobotište and solar in Hlohovec. More than 28 thousand voted for preservation of the clocks. ports the development of sheltered workplaces, sheltered living, funds therapy for the disadvantaged and also assists foster families. In the area of healthcare we donated EUR 66 thousand for medical therapies Restoration of Calvary in Banská Štiavnica and purchase of equipment of hospital wards. The grant recipients included Children´s Faculty Hospital in In 2010, the cooperation between VUB Foundation and the Calvary Fund Association in the project of Bratislava and ADELI Rehabilitation Centre in Piešťany. With the amount of EUR 30 thous., the Foundation preservation of the Calvary in Banská Štiavnica continued. This UNESCO protected national monument supported the “Barrier-free Living” project of the Association of Disabled Citizens’ Organizations, which Calvary in Banská Štiavnica has been in a dilapidated condition for a long period of time and in 2007 it funds compensation aids for the disabled. was put on the list of 100 most threatened monuments in the world. Over the period of 10 years, VUB Foundation will annually provide the Fund with EUR 66,400. For Education Foundation Program Support of Contemporary Fine Arts The Foundation has been intensely dealing also with the area of eduInspired by the example of its parent bank, VUB engages itself also as a supporter of art. In cooperation cation. It supports mainly universities of economic and technical speVUB Foundation granted with the Foundation, each year it organizes a competition for young fine arts talents entitled Painting cializations. In 2010, it announced the Guest Professor grant scheme support to hosting VUB Foundation’s Award to Young Artists for an Artwork. In 2010, the fifth annual competition was held aimed to enable engagement of significant international experts at with 87 artists enrolled. Artworks by the competition finalists were showcased for two months in the Slovak universities in the area of economic science and research. Our international experts at Slovak Slovak National Gallery in Bratislava. Besides direct financial support of artists, the competition also helps universities can thus intensify their cooperation with international uniuniversities. promoting the contemporary fine arts. The marketing budget of the Bank was used, among the other, to versities and research institutes and bring international experience and finance the organization, catalogue for the exhibition of competition’s finalists and creation of a virtual pedagogical procedures to Slovakia. For hosting of the international gallery for the presentation of competition’s finalists at www.nadaciavub.sk. Moreover, VUB Foundation professors we allocated EUR 100 thous. within the scheme. The pedagogues were engaged in the ausupported an accompanying exhibition “Maľba po maľbe” curated by the SNG. tumn semester of the school year 2010/2011 – at the Faculty of Mathematics, Physics and Informatics of the Komenský University in Bratislava and at the Faculty of Economy of the Technical University in Košice. Objective of the competition Photo of the Year – VUB Foundation’s Award to Young Photographers is to support young artists under 35 years of age and promote artworks in the category of photography. For Art Foundation Program Theme of the second annual edition was one of the values of the co-organizer, VUB Bank, “We listen attentively“. Announcement of winners took place in February along with an exhibition opening in the The activities of VUB Foundation focused on cultural heritage and future of fine arts derive from the tradipremises of the University Library in Bratislava. tion of enhancing the country’s artistic and historical heritage, which is characteristic also of the Italian owner of VUB Bank, the banking group Intesa Sanpaolo. In identifying and selecting the monuments in need for help, we cooperate with local partners and experts. Besides reconstructions, our objective is also to disseminate awareness of the treasures of our country and at the same time of our national heritage’s vulnerability. In 2010, VUB Foundation contributed to preservation of cultural heritage with the amount of more than EUR 155 thousand, which was dedicated to execution of projects in different corners of Slovakia. 80 81 Annexes Annexes Annexes VUB’s adhesion to the Global Compact Principles Globaladhesion VUB’s ReportingtoInitiative the Global Compact Indicator Principles Table Global Compact Principles VUB action GRI KPI 1.Businesses should support • Code of Ethics page 7 Human Rights: Description GRI Coverage Page and respect the protection of • Internal and External Ethical Standards page 22 HR4, HR6, Strategy and analysis internationally proclaimed human • Non-arms Policy page 23 HR7, HR9 rights • Adherence to international standards in project finance Labour Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 1.1  2–3 Human rights (Equator Principles) page 24 Practices: Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 1.2  2–3 • Social inclusion of disadvantaged people page 78 LA4, LA6, LA7, LA8, Organizational Proﬁle LA9, LA13 Name of the organization. 2.1  89 2. Businesses should make sure they • Code of Ethics page 7 Human Rights: Primary brands, products, and/or services. 2.2  8, 37 – 38 are not complicit in human rights • Internal and External Ethical Standards page 22 HR4, HR6, abuses • Promote social and environmental sustainability pages 61 – 62 HR7, HR9 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating 2.3  14 – 17 3. Businesses should uphold the • Labour/management relations page 51 Labour companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. freedom of association and the Practices: Location of organization’s headquarters. 2.4  12 effective recognition of the right to LA4, LA5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with 2.5  10 collective bargaining either major operations or that are speciﬁcally relevant to the sustainability issues 4. Businesses should uphold the • Code of Ethics page 7 Human Rights: elimination of forms of forced and • L abour/management relations pages 49, 51 HR7 covered in the report. Labour standards compulsory labour Governance: Nature of ownership and legal form. 2.6  9 4.8., 4.12. Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 2.7  10, 11 5. Businesses should uphold the • Code of Ethics page 7 Human Rights: effective abolition of child labour • L abour/management relations page 51 HR6 customers/beneﬁciaries). Governance: Scale of the reporting organization. 2.8  11 4.8., 4.12. Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or 2.9  9 6. Businesses should uphold the • Enhancement of human resources pages 45 – 46 Labour elimination of discrimination • Respecting differences pages 42, 49 Practices: ownership. in respect of employment and LA2, LA13 Awards received in the reporting period. 2.10  13 occupation Human Rights: HR4 Report Parameters 7. Businesses should support • Environmental Management System and Strategy pages 64 – 65 Governance: Reporting period. 3.1  4 a precautionary approach to • Adherence to international standards in project finance 4.8., 4.12. Date of most recent previous report. 3.2  4 environmental challenges (Equator Principles) page 24 Economic • Green Energy and Energy Efficiency Projects page 71 Performance: Reporting cycle. 3.3  4 • Environmentally Responsible Procurement page 62 EC2 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 3.4  4 8. Businesses should undertake • Strategies for the environment, adhesion to international standards Environmental Process for deﬁning report content, including determining materiality; prioritizing 3.5  21 initiatives to promote greater page 64, 65 Performance: Environment environmental responsibility • Environmental culture page 23, 64 EN1, EN2, topics within the report; and identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use • Green initiatives and community projects page 72 – 73 EN4, EN5, the report. EN6, EN8, Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint 3.6  4 EN14, EN16, EN 19-20, ventures, suppliers). EN22 State any speciﬁc limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 3.7  4 9. Businesses should encourage • Green Energy and Energy Efficiency Projects page 71 – 72 Environmental Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 3.8  4 the development and diffusion • Fostering innovative green technologies page 71 – 72 Performance: of environmentally friendly • Financing energy savings projects page page 71 – 72 EN2, EN5, operations, and other entities that can signiﬁcantly affect comparability from period to technologies EN6, EN10 period and/or between organizations. 10. Businesses should work against • Code of Ethics page 7 Society: Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. 3.9  4 corruption in all forms • Internal and External Ethical Standards page 22 SO2, SO3, SO4 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier 3.10 Not relevant Anti-Corruption • Transparency in internal processes pages 61 – 62 • Internal control mechanisms page 25 – 27 reports, and the reasons for such re-statement. 83 82 83 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Annexes Profile Disclosure Disclosure on Management Description GRI Coverage Page Page Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or 3.11 Not relevant Economic measurement methods applied in the report. Economic performance 8 – 12 GRI Content Index. 3.12  82 – 87 Market Presence 8 – 12 Assurance. . 3.13  88 Indirect Economic Impacts 19 – 25, 76 – 81 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Environmental Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the 4.1  9 Materials 65, 66 highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or Energy 65, 67 organizational oversight. Water 65, 69 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 4.2  17 Biodiversity 65, 70 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of 4.3  16 Emissions, Effluents, and Waste 65, 70 the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Products and Services 65, 72 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction 4.4  49 Compliance 65 to the highest governance body. Transport. 65, 70 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior 4.5 17 Social managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s Labour Practices and Decent Work performance (including social and environmental performance). Employment 42 – 44, 46 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.6  16 – 17 Labor/Management Relations 51 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest 4.7  16 – 17 Occupational Health and Safety 49, 50 governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, Training and Education 47, 48 and social topics. Diversity and Equal opportunities 49 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles 4.8  7 Human Rights relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their Investment and Procurement Practices 60 – 62 implementation. Non-discrimination 49 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s 4.9  16 – 17 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 51 identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, Child Labor Not relevant including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with Forced and Compulsory Labor Not relevant internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Indigenous Rights Not relevant Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly 4.10  16 – 17 Product Responsibility with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Customer Health and Safety 26 – 39 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed 4.11  28 Product and Service Labeling 26 – 39 by the organization. Marketing Communications 26 – 39 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or 4.12  22 – 25, 64 Customer Privacy 26 – 39 other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Compliance 26 – 39 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ 4.13  12 Society international advocacy organizations in which the organization. Community 76 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 4.14  19 – 21 Corruption 27 – 28 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 4.15  19 – 21 Public Policy 23 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type 4.16  21, 34, 35, 51, 54 Anti-Competitive Behavior 22 and by stakeholder group. Compliance 22 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, 4.17  30 – 31 and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 84 85 Správa o zodpovednom 2010 Corporate podnikaní Responsibility za rok 2010 Report Annexes Performance Indicators Description Labor Practices and Indicators Coverage Page Decent Work Aspect Indicators Coverage Page Employment LA1. Total workforce by employment type, employment  42 Economic contract, and region. Economic Performance EC1. Direct economic value generated and distributed,  8, 10 – 11, 76 – 81 LA2. Total number and rate of employee turnover by age  44, 45 including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, group, gender, and region donations and other community investments, retained LA3. Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not  46, 47 earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major Market presence EC6. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally 60 – 62 operations. based suppliers at signiﬁcant locations of operation. Labor/Management relations LA4. Percentage of employees covered by collective  51 Indirect Economic Impacts EC8. Development and impact of infrastructure investments  76 – 81 bargaining agreements. and services provided primarily for public beneﬁt through LA5. Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational  51 commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. changes, including whether it is speciﬁed in collective agreements. Environmental Indicators Coverage Page Performance Indicators Occupational health and LA6. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal  49, 50 Materials EN1. Materials used by weight or volume.  66 safety joint management–worker health and safety committees that EN2. Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials.  66 help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety Energy EN3. Direct energy consumption by primary energy source.  67 programs. EN4. Indirect energy consumption by primary source.  68 LA7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and  50 EN5. Energy saved due to conservation and efﬁciency  69 absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities by region. improvements. LA8. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk 50 EN6. Initiatives to provide energy-efﬁcient or renewable  72, 73 control programs in place to assist workforce members, their energy based products and services, and reductions in energy families, or community members regarding serious diseases. requirements as a result of these initiatives. LA9. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements  50 Water EN8. Total water withdrawal by source.  69 with trade unions. EN9. Water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal of 70 Training and education LA10. Average hours of training per year per employee by  47, 48  water. employee category. EN10. Percentage and total volume of water recycled and 70 LA11. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning  47, 48  reused. that support the continued employability of employees and Biodiversity EN11. Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, 70 assist them in managing career endings.  or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity Diversity and equal LA13. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown  42, 49 value outside protected areas. opportunity of employees per category according to gender, age group, EN14. Strategies, current actions, and future plans for 70 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity..  managing impacts on biodiversity. Human Rights Indicators Coverage Page Emissions, Efﬂuents, and EN16. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by  70 Waste weight. Non-discrimination HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions  49 EN17. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight.  70 taken. EN19. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight.  70 Child Labour HR6. Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for  49 EN20. NO, SO, and other signiﬁcant air emissions by type and  70 incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to weight. the elimination of child labor. EN21. Total water discharge by quality and destination.  70 Forced and Compulsory HR7. Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for  49 Labour EN22. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method.  70, 71 incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures taken to EN23. Total number and volume of signiﬁcant spills.  70 contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. EN24. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated  70 Indigenous Rights HR9. Total number of incidents of violations involving rights  49 waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention of indigenous people and actions taken. Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value  70 of water bodies and related habitats signiﬁcantly affected by the reporting organization’s 86 87 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Annexes Product responsibility Coverage Page Statement of External Verifier Product And Service Labeling PR5. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including  36 – 37 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Marketing Communications PR6. Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and  39 voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Compliance PR9. Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance  62 with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Society Coverage Page Community SO1. Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and  76 – 78 practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on Statement on the 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. of Všeobecná úverová banka, a.s. Corruption SO2. Percentage and total number of business units analyzed  22 – 28 for risks related to corruption. SO3. Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti 22 – 28 Všeobecná úverová banka, a.s. (VÚB bank) has published its 4th report on corporate corruption policies and procedures. responsibility according to the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption.  22 – 28 Guidelines (GRI Guidelines). The Pontis Foundation was in charge of providing an assurance on the usage of the third version (G3) of the GRI Guidelines. The report was Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7. Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive  22 prepared solely by the VÚB bank and the VÚB bank is fully responsible for the accuracy behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their of the data provided in the report. outcomes. Compliance SO8. Monetary value of significant fines and total number  22 According to our best knowledge, the report fulfills all the conditions of application level B+. The report contains all the necessary profile information and more than a required of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and number of indicators. regulations. A report prepared using these Guidelines is easily comparable with reports from previous years and also across the sector. The report shows changes (positive and negative) in company performance and its impact in all three measured areas. The report is written in an appropriate language and can be easily understood by every stakeholder. We appreciate a fast preparation of the report and the publication of the report alongside with the financial report. We advise VÚB bank to consult stakeholders in the process of choosing indicators and also try to get feedback on the report from them. We also advise to explain the worse performance in some areas, such as the use of paper and to set goals for the next reporting period. The company should consider publishing the report on the internet in an interactive way. Bratislava, March 31, 2011 Janka Ružická, Michal Kišša, Lenka Surotchak Reviewers Director Pontis Foundation Pontis Foundation 88 89 Issued by: Všeobecná úverová banka, a. s. Mlynské nivy 1 829 90 Bratislava Slovak Republic www.vub.sk csr@vub.sk External Verifier: Pontis Foundation, Bratislava Layout: Istropolitana Ogilvy The report was issued on March 31, 2011 The 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report has been translated from Slovak into English solely for the convenience of international readers. The original document in Slovak prevails over any translation and will be made available upon request.
