Sustainability Report 2010 3 Aledson Ferreira da Silva e Thiago Caser, na Lanielder Sousa, Cleide Costa, Unidade Mucuri (BA) Amilton Kanieski, company employees at Suzano’s Teresina (Piauí) office Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 About the Report Suzano Financial 13 Profile Capital 14 Mission, Vision and Values Capital Built 36 Financial and economic performance 15 Acknowledgement 41 Risk Management 16 Key Indicators 28 Operating performance 44 Intangible assets 19 Message from the CEO • Forestry Business Unit 46 Corporate governance 22 Strategy and management model • Pulp Business Unit 48 Shareholding Structure • Paper Business Unit 48 Organizational structure 4 Annual Sustainability Report Human Capital Natural 94 Ibase Social Report 50 People Capital Social 96 GRI Summary Capital 78 Environmental 64 Customers 102 Corporate 66 Suppliers information 68 Government and society 70 Community Seedling nursery in the municipality of Cidelândia (Maranhão) 5 Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 2010 Highlights Record production of 2.7 million tons of pulp and paper Record-breaking Net Revenue: R$ 4.5 billion Over 415,000 seedlings planted daily EBITDA was R$ 1.7 billion, 47.6% higher compared to 2009 The company achieved the 108 million mark of planted eucalyptus seedlings Suzano 2024 Plan, acquisition of 6 the Conpacel plant and the KSR distribuitor for R$ 1.5 billion First company in the industry to quantify its products’ carbon footprint Personnel development: over 292,000 hours of training Annual Sustainability Report About the Report The purpose of this Sustainability Report is to provide information on our economic, social and environmental initiatives that were adopted in 2010—many of which have been ongoing since before this period and have already been covered in the previous report related to 2009, disTo raise the most relevant matters for our stakeholders, closed in April 2010, which did not require revision. Unthis year we combined two methodologies: (1) we once less stated otherwise, the information contained herein is again sent questionnaires to people who had responded related to the operation of all of our units in Brazil and last year and (2) we systematized all of the dialog tools that abroad. In order to provide a transparent report, for the we have with our audiences. fifth consecutive year, we have adopted the third edition (1) The questionnaire was sent to 40 people, including of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) model, self-declaremployees, customers, suppliers and community meming level C application, presented with the same measurebers; of these 15 responded. Most of them (93%) deem ment methods as previous reports. Financial and economic the Report to be excellent or good. One of the suppliers information is compliant with current law in Brazil and was stated that “all of the aspects stated identify the potenaudited by Ernst & Young. (GRI 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, tial impacts and solutions applied, in a clear and objective 3.10, 3.11, 3.13). manner (...), as well as the information shown in charts The consolidated financial statements were prepared and tables, which makes the year over year comparison and reported according to accounting practices adopted in easier.” Among weaknesses, stakeholders point to the Brazil, which encompass Brazilian Securities and Exchange fact that the Report does not mention future goals and Commission (“CVM”) Standards and Edicts, Guidelines, tends to focus on strengths. The chapters on the environ7 and Interpretations issued by the Brazilian Accounting Stanment and relationships with suppliers and employees were dards Committee (“CPC”) and are in accordance with the the ones deemed most interesting in 2010. International Financial Reporting Standard (“IFRS”) issued (2) We also systematized the information from some of by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”). the dialog tools we have with our audiences, namely: The 2009 figures were adjusted for comparison purposes. • The Suzano em Campo (Suzano in the Field) book, Operating and financial information are presented based which shows the demands of the communities neighboron amounts consolidated in Brazilian reais. ing our forestry units; All executive officers, as well as several department • Customer Satisfaction Survey, carried out by our Pulp managers, were consulted to select the data and informaBusiness Unit as well as by our Paper Business Unit; tion included in this report. (GRI 3.5) • ICCT (Instrumento de Caracterização de Comunidades Tradicionais – Traditional Communities Characterization Tool), which seeks to listen, identify, and characterize the communities with traditional traits in the areas surround93% ing our operations; • Social Dialog, which includes discussion and action forums with communities in the state of São Paulo; We also take into account the comments made by Bureau Veritas Certification an external consulting firm hired to audit this Report. of the stakeholders Please see the consolidation of the results below, listed deem the Report to be by stakeholder: (GRI 4.17) excelente or good Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Stakeholder Topics of interest Company practices to preserve biodiversity; use of water for company plantations and mills; and Communities eucalyptus plantations that threaten food security at the sites. Suzano’s care in relation to the environment and with the communities where the products they Customers purchase are produced; information about company certifications; Suzano growth strategies and impacts to the production chain. Suppliers Suzano growth strategies and the company’s relationship with strategic audiences. Company practices to preserve biodiversity; use of water for company plantations and mills; social Employees projects developed in the communities; Suzano growth strategies; and the company’s relationship with its strategic audiences, especially its employees. Topics of interest Where to find the Report In addition to our compliance with environmental legislation, which includes maintaining Legal Company practices Reserves and Permanent Preservation Areas (PPA), we use other practices related to this topic which to preserve biodiversity can be found in the Environment/Biodiversity and Ecofuturo chapters. Consumption indicators and information on water management can be found in the chapter on the Environment. We also suggest that you visit our website (www.suzano.com.br), where Use of water for the “Eucaliptocultura e Desenvolvimento Socioambiental” (Eucalyptusculture and Social and company plantations and mills Environmental Development) publication can be found, which contains comparative data on water consumption in eucalyptus farming. In the Community chapter and in the Investment in Social and Environmental Responsibility table, Food security in the there is information on our social projects, which seek to generate income and develop agriculture in locations in which we operate the communities where we operate. Suzano’s environmental measures and care for the communities Information is provided throughout the Report, mainly in the Community and Environment chapters. where our products are produced. Information on company certifications Suzano has many certifications. The complete list is available in the Certifications chapter. Suzano growth strategies and Information can be found in the Suzano, Strategy, and Management Model chapters. 8 its impacts on the production chain Company relationship with In the Report, there are chapters for our many stakeholders, including information about Suppliers, its strategic audiences Customers, Employees, Communities, and Society in general. Social projects developed in The Community chapter and the Investment in Social and Environmental Responsibility table provide communities information on our social and environmental projects. The result of these consultations and the quantitative • Human capital: Includes health, knowledge, skills, indicator survey was structured based on SIGMA Sustainmotivation and our employees’ capacity for building reability – Integrated guidelines lationships. Guidelines for Management, which seeks to protect • Social capital: Demonstrates added value to our ecoand improve the five types of capital: manufactured, finomic activities through our relationships, partnerships, nancial, human, social, and natural. This concept was deand cooperation for human development. veloped by the British Standards Institution (BSI), which • Natural capital: Shows how we address our relationidentifies these capitals as the foundation on which the ship with natural resources and the processes involved in company’s bottom line is produced, in line with sustaindelivering our products and services. able development. For questions and suggestions regarding the content of • Manufactured capital: This includes assets and infrathis Report, please contact us using the following comstructure that contributes to our production. munication channels: • Financial capital: Shows the business’ perforSuzano Responde: 0800 774 7440 or mance and our level of success in relation to sharesuzanoresponde@suzano.com.br holders and investors. Investor Relations: ri@suzano.com.br (GRI 3.4) Annual Sustainability Report 9 Employees Adilson Tenorio da Silva and Issamu Fukuda, Suzano Unit (São Paulo) Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Suzano 10 In line with the Suzano 2024 Plan, Suzano acquired FuturaGene, a benchmark company in Biotechnology Annual Sustainability Report 11 Employee Dikla Melech at the Futuragene lab in Israel Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 310,000 hectares of planted forests, mainly in the states of Bahia, Espírito Santo, São Paulo, Minas Gerais, Maranhão Piauí, and Tocantins 12 Annual Sustainability Report Profile We are a forestry-based listed company controlled by Suzano Holding and belonging to the Suzano Group. We have been operating for 87 years in two segments: market pulp, sold in 31 countries, and paper, sold in 86 countries, whose portfolio is composed of four lines, approximately 30 brands, among which Report®, TpPremium® and RecicSuzano Pulp lato®. We are the second largest producer of eucalyptus pulp in the world, among the top ten in market pulp, and Organic growth of pulp in the the leader in the paper market in Brazil and Latin America. amount of 3 million tons/year will (GRI 2.1, 2.2, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8) We operate through three Business Units – Forestry, be made possible with our new Pulp and Paper. In 2010, we defined a new strategic Maranhão and Piauí Units plan that includes extending our operations to two more fronts: biotechnology, via acquisition of the Futuragene company, and renewable energy, with the announceuting print production, SPP-Nemo. Our administrative ment that we had organized the Suzano Renewable Enheadquarters is located in the city of São Paulo, where we ergy company which will start operations in 2013. The employ 4,352 direct employees and have around 8,000 organic growth of pulp will be made possible through outsourced employees. Suzano owned, leased, and Suour new units in the states of Maranhão and Piauí, which zano partner forests total approximately 671,000 hectwill add 3 million tons per year to our production capacity ares, with 310,000 hectares being forestry farms which 13 by 2015. We also acquired the remaining 50% of Conpaare concentrated in the states of Bahia, Espírito Santo, cel (São Paulo Pulp and Paper Consortium) assets and the São Paulo, Minas Gerais, Maranhão, Piauí, and Tocantins. KSR Distributor, which belonged to Fibria, which will be (GRI 2.3, 2.4 e 2.8) controlled by Suzano as from February 01 and March 01, We have three sales offices abroad, in China, the United respectively. (GRI 2.9). States and Sweden, and two subsidiaries, one in England Our three industrial units in Brazil are located in Suzano (Sun Paper) and another in Argentina (Stenfar) that sell our (São Paulo), in Embu (São Paulo), and in Mucuri (Bahia) products. (GRI 2.3 e 2.5) and we also have a division which specializes in distribWe closed 2010 with a record net revenue of R$ 4.5 billion, 14.2% higher than in 2009, and a net profit of R$ 769 million. (GRI 2.8) Our new strategic positioning has been reflected in a new organizational reality for a forestry base company which, following a review in 2010 led us to redefine our Mission and Vision and to reinforce our Values. Our strongest competitive edge is being a forestry based company, positioned as one of the lowest cost producers of pulp in the world and a regional leader in the paper market in which we operate. We are also able to extract business adjacent to our forestry business such as renewable energy and biotechnology. (GRI 2.9) Report Multiuso 90g ® Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Mission (GRI 4.8) To offer renewable forestry-based, pulp and paper products, while being globally recognized for developing innovative solutions and continually seeking excellence and sustainability in our operations. Vision (GRI 4.8) Strong and kind. To be among the most profitable and best forestry-based companies in the world and to be recognized for practices that respect 14 people and the environment. Values (GRI 4.8) • Integrity and Safety • Social and Environmental Responsibility • Excellence • Global Vision • Leadership • Entrepreneurship • Quality Relationships • Passion Annual Sustainability Report Acknowledgment (GRI 2.10) Our actions in the economic, social, and environmental areas during the period have led us to achieve many titles and awards, namely: • Best Company in the Pulp and Paper Industry: Best in Agribusiness award, granted by Globo Rural magazine. • Best Company in the Pulp and Paper Industry, for the second consecutive year in the Isto É Dinheiro magazine ranking. • Model-company in Corporate Social Responsibility in Brazil from Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade, for the seventh consecutive year, this time for our Corporate Emissions Inventory. • Época Climate Change Award, awarded by Época magazine, for our Corporate Emissions Inventory. • RISI Latin America recognized our CEO, Antonio Maciel Neto, for the second year running as CEO of the year. Antonio Maciel Neto was also one of the five finalists for the Global CEO of the Year award, a category included in the PPI Awards. • Antonio Maciel Neto was considered the Best CEO in Latin America in the Pulp and Paper industry; Bernardo Szpigel, Best CFO in Latin America in the Pulp and Paper industry; and Andrea Fernandes, Best Investor Relations professional in the Pulp and Paper industry by Institutional Investor Magazine, nominated by buy-side analysts through the Latin Executive Team Ranking. 15 • Industry Award from the Brazil Pulp and Paper Technical Association (ABTCP), in the Sustainability and Forestry Development category. • Certified by the British Retail Consortium, a management system used in England, granted by the country’s retailers. • One of the ten most globalized companies in the Country according to the Brazilian Transnational ranking, developed by Fundação Dom Cabral. • Brazilian Environmental Benchmarking Program, in which our Social Performance Matrix was selected in the good social and environmental practices ranking. • Fernando Pini Brazilian Award for Graphic Excellence, awarded by the Brazilian Graphic Industry Association (Abigraf) and the Brazilian Association of Printing Technology (ABTG) to the Paper Business Unit, for coated printing papers and coated and uncoated paperboard for printing. • Graphprint Award, given by the largest printing companies in the country, for coated printing and writing papers, uncoated printing and writing papers, recycled papers, and paperboard. • 6th Mogi News/Chevrolet Alto Tietê Social Responsibility Award, given for water quality monitoring on the Paraitinga River. Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Key Indicators (GRI 2.8) Financial Indicators 2008 2009 2010 Net Revenue (millions of R$) 4,064 3,953 4,514 EBITDA (millions of R$) 1,469 1,161 1,703 Our EBITDA reached Net Profit (millions of R$) Volume Sold (thousand tons) (451) 2,428 947 2,896 769 2,763 R$ 1.7 billion, Ebitda Margin (%) 36 29 38 46.7% higher than Investments (millions of R$) Net Debt (millions of R$) 483 5,459 659 4,111 603 3,421 the 2009 result Net Debt/Ebitda 3.7 3.5 2.0 Evolution of production (thousand tons) 2008 2009 2010 Total production 2,664 2,678 2,745 Market Pulp 1,524 1,590 1,617 Total Paper 1,140 1,089 1,128 Coated P&W paper 124 118 134 Paperboard 258 235 252 Uncoated P&W paper 758 736 742 16 P&W: Printing and Writing Distribution of Added Value (DVA) – Consolidated (EC1) (millions of R$) 2008 2009 2010 Personnel 409,557 461,578 513,113 Salaries 326,308 324,426 408,504 Benefits 66,193 119,066 83,663 Employee Severance Fund (FGTS) 17,056 18,086 20,946 Taxes, Fees and Contributions (143.623) 321,950 181,572 Federal taxes (113.246) 406,527 205,401 State taxes (34.423) (88,098) (28,120) Municipal taxes 4,046 3,521 4,291 Third party capital remuneration 2,159,960 (510,439) 517,858 Interest 965,707 516,787 548,781 Leases 64.303 61,715 73,669 Monetary Variations 1,129,950 (1,088,941) (104,592) Earnings on invested capital (451,308) 946,521 768,997 Dividends/interest on invested capital 0 227,866 220,686 The 2009 and 2010 figures include Retained earnings/losses for the period (451,308) 718,655 548,311 adjustments introduced Total 1,974,586 1,219,610 1,981,540 by the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Annual Sustainability Report Investment in social and Net Revenue environmental responsibility millions of R$ Composition of millions of R$ the Net Revenue 4,514 81 4,064 3,953 7% Coated 58 54 55 58 52 45% 35% Pulp Uncoated 46 42 42 2008 2009 2010 13% Paperboard Foreign market (%) Domestic market (%) 2008 2009 2010 Ebitda/Margin Market value millions of R$ millions of R$ 38 36 6,284 6,043 1,703 29 3,708 1,469 17 1,161 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 EBITDA Margin/EBITDA (%) Environmental indicators (thousands) 2008 2009 2010 Investments related to the 9,970 7,014 24,704 Company’s production/operation Investments in programs and/or external projects 228 1,256 1,542 Total investments in the environment 10,198 8,270 26,246 Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 18 Eucalyptus plantation, city of Itapetininga (São Paulo) Annual Sustainability Report Message from the CEO (GRI 1.1) The year of 2010 will be remembered for the conclusion provement program, which began three decades ago and and dissemination of the Suzano 2024 Plan. After an inhas been carried out by our Forestry Technology Center. depth analysis of global macro trends, the strengths SuzaIn July, we announced the creation of Suzano Renewno has developed in the past 87 years, and our shareholdable Energy, an independent company that will begin ers’ and employees’ aspirations, we were able to define a wood pellet production activities. We will enter the biolong term outlook that runs to 2024, when Suzano Pulp mass market for energy generation in 2013. and Paper will celebrate its 100-year anniversary. This development was driven by our competency in the Many of the initiatives set forth in the Suzano 2024 forestry area, our ability to execute industrial developPlan were already developed in 2010. We have worked ments, our solid relationship with logistics operators and on many fronts in our developments in the Northeast. We the huge potential of the energy biomass market, espewill start up two industrial units, in the states of Maranhão cially in Europe. and Piauí, by 2013, increasing our pulp production capacAt the end of the period, and also aligned with the Suity by 3 million tons. We have made advances in obtainzano 2024 Plan, we announced the acquisition of a 50% ing the necessary environmental permits and by acquiring share in Consórcio Paulista de Papel e Celulose (Conpacel) land. We have hired approximately 2,500 people that are assets and a 100% share of KSR, the largest paper and already working on the Northeast operation. printing products distributor in Brazil, part of the Fibria One of the other fronts of the Suzano 2024 Plan develGroup. The transaction totaled R$ 1.5 billion. The transioped in 2010 is in the area of biotechnology. We acquired tions were made, respectively, on January 31 and FebruFuturaGene, a biotechnology company, with a research ary 28, 2011. This initiative will contribute towards Suzano and development center in Israel, as well as field tests in Pulp and Paper’s consolidation as the leader in the printing 19 Brazil, the United States, and China. In recent years, Fuand writing papers segment in Brazil and in South America. turaGene has developed technologies to improve eucalypIn turn, these initiatives also led us to adapt our corpotus productivity as well as for other forestry species used rate identity. Regarding the scope of the Strategic Planning for pulp production, power generation, and other applicaCycle, we established a new Mission and Vision and reintions. This acquisition reinforces our eucalyptus genetic imforced our Values, which were widely disseminated among employees and senior management. In July, we announced We have implemented many initiatives through strict execution of our Excellence in Management Model (MEG), the creation of Suzano including the Operational Excellence Program and the Six Renewable Energy. Sigma Program. In these cases, we had returns in the order of R$ 57 million and we identified many opportunities As of 2013 we will to improve our processes. We also developed important produce 3 million tons initiatives in Human Resources related to recruiting, talent development and retention, as well as improvements in of wood pellets. our compensation system. All of these initiatives have impacted our operations in a satisfactory manner. The Forestry Business Unit celebrated the milestone of having planted 108 million eucalyptus seedlings, or an average of 415,000 seedlings planted per business day during the year. That is an extraordinary record in Brazil. Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 In the pulp market, at the beginning of the year, we obWe reached a record of 108 million served a supply restriction, as a result of the earthquake in Chile. This issue was normalized during the year. planted eucalyptus seedlings or Consequently, prices presented a successive increase un415,000 seedlings planted daily. til mid-2010; yet, by the second half of the year they had been corrected as a result of bullish Chinese demand. The average price in 2010 was 57.8% higher than 2009 and sales reached 1.6 million tons. The Paper Business Unit focused on strengthening its come a benchmark in relationships with the communities relationship with customers, registering 3.6% growth in in which we operate. Along the same lines, we created sales volume compared to the previous year. In line with the Suzano Sustainability Advisory Committee, which will the operational excellence strategy, the Paper Business be composed of internal and external leaders and whose Unit also increased its use of assets and gained a higher objective will be to improve our social and environmental 0.6 percentage point rise in the rate of global efficiency for initiatives, providing guidelines so that we can apply susits machinery as compared to 2009. Additionally, six new tainable practices to everything we do. products went to market. Suzano Pulp and Paper’s activities in the area of sustainWe closed 2010 with record production volume of 2.7 ability reflect the commitment embedded in our corporate million tons of pulp and paper and a sales volume of 2.8 DNA and, in 2010, they were recognized by the marketmillion tons. Net revenue also reached record R$ 4.5 bilplace, resulting in many awards and titles. Among them lion and net profit was R$ 769 million. EBITDA was R$ are Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade Model Company and 20 1.7 billion, which represents a 46.7% growth compared Época Climate Change Award, from Época Magazine— to 2009. Investments totaled approximately R$ 603 milboth granted as a result of our Emissions Inventory. In adlion and include maintenance costs with our assets and dition, our Social Performance Matrix was included in the organic growth programs. These investiments were esBrazilian Environmental Benchmarking Program. sential for the Company’s economic sustainability in the We have been signatories of the Global Compact, creatmedium and long term. ed by the United Nations (UN), since 2003, and not only do We believe that building the foundation for sustainwe believe in these principles but they also pervade every able growth is much more than just keeping our operacorporate social responsibility initiative that we have detions competitive and presenting a good bottom line. It veloped along with our employees and service providers. encompasses social and environmental responsibility and quality relationships—beliefs that have led us to conclude I would like to share these acknowledgments, which are our Sustainability Master Plan, with which we aspire to bereason for great pride and encourage us to face challenges with all of those who, in their day to day help us to write new pages in this story of success: customers, suppliers, investors and especially, the Suzano team, recognized for their ambition and competence in the Brazilian and international industries. In 2011, we will proceed with implementation of the Suzano 2024 Plan, with a strong emphasis on operational excellence. Antonio Maciel Neto Chief Executive Officer Annual Sustainability Report Location Map (GRI 2.4, 2.5, 2.7) England Switzerland China EUA Israel Argentina 21 Piauí Mucuri Aracruz Maranhão Vitória Main destinations Embu of exports Suzano Brazilian and Limeira international offices Ports Santos Mills Forests Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Strategy and Management Model Our strategy was widely reviewed and updated in 2010, R$ 2.7 billion was obtained within the scope of the Strategic Planning Cycle. Reassessment regarding our top competencies and markets and through a financing operation the path we want to take resulted in the launch of a plan with the BNDES (Brazilian with a long-term vision: the Suzano 2024 Plan. This plan makes it clear that our competency in forestry Development Bank) for is our greatest source of competitiveness and, from there, investments in the our goal is to supply profitable products and services using our renewable forests. We will remain strong in the Maranhão Unit. paper segment, focusing on Latin Am erica, significantly increasing our production capacity in the pulp market and increasing our scope of action in new products and services, such as production of wood pellets for renewPaper able energy, third-party forestry management services, As a result of the Suzano 2024 Plan, we made a proand biotechnology. posal to buy 50% of the assets of the Consórcio Paulista We believe that with this focus on operations together de Papel e Celulose (Conpacel) and of the KSR distributor, with innovation, sustainability, and operational excellence, which belong to the Fibria Group. These acquisitions were 22 we will become one of the most important and efficient concluded on January 31 and February 28, 2011, respeccorporate organizations in the world focusing on the fortively. The quality of the assets and the strength of our estry–based industry by 2024—when we will complete distribution business will consolidate our strength in Brazil 100 years of operations. and in other Latin American countries. Growth in the Northeast In the pulp area, we reviewed and advanced the stages to expand our operations in the Northeast with the aim of hão Unit, and we are already in the negotiation stage with doubling in size by constructing two lines of pulp produccommercial proposals from our main suppliers. tion in Maranhão and Piauí. In the state of Maranhão (the In late 2010, an important phase was concluded with first line will start up in 2013), we moved forward in the the announcement of a financing operation contract with process of obtaining environmental permits and acquiring the BNDES in the amount of R$ 2.7 billion to build the lands, planting 7,000 hectares in 2009 and 2010, which industrial unit in the state of Maranhão and, among other will bring planted area to a total of 41,000 hectares. In things, to implement infrastructure and the necessary supPiauí, 35,000 hectares have already been planted, 23,000 port to operate the unit, build a cogeneration plant for of which to supply this unit. biomass energy, raise working capital, and purchase doAt the same time, we continued the process of obtainmestic machinery and equipment. Additionally, with the ing environmental permits, we identified an area near São purpose of making our capital structure more suitable, we Luis where we intend to build a port, we began basic enwill privately issue debentures that must be converted into gineering and signed technical proposals for the Marancompany issued shares totaling R$ 1.2 billion. Annual Sustainability Report Biotechnology We have also made headway on other fronts involving Its acquisition will therefore reinforce our eucalyptus gethe Suzano 2024 Plan. Acquisition of FuturaGene, in which netic improvement program which began three decades we held a 7% stake and with which we have had a techago and spearheaded by our Forestry Technology Center nological cooperation agreement since 2001, will result in (CTF), whose biotechnology division is now part of Futuraimportant synergies for developing our forestry production. Gene. Even without using biotechnology, the CTF had alThe company is headquartered in England and its main reready developed a eucalyptus genetic base capable of prosearch and development center is in Israel. Not only does ducing some of the highest yield forests in the world and it carry out field experiments in Brazil, the United States, with the potential to adapt to different soils and climate and China, but it has also developed biotechnologies to conditions and to several end uses. improve eucalyptus and other forest species used to manuIn addition to the gains expected for our operations, the facture pulp, generate energy, and be used in other apsynergies add potential to FuturaGene’s actions in the field plications. of forestry biotechnology as an independent business. 2 In the second half of 2010, we dedicated ourselves to integrating our operations with FuturaGene, as well as new businesses creating the organizational structure and the company’s were launched within the scope governance model, while it remained operational, with of the Suzano contracts closed in key markets and advances in research. 2024 Plan, namely Biotechnology and Renewable Energy 23 Renewable Energy Suzano Renewable Energy will begin operations in 2013. signing of Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs) with The decision to invest in the production of wooden palcustomers. We also began negotiations with state govlets was based on our experience with the concept of enernments in the Northeast Region (where Suzano Renewergy forestry, which involves specific clones and specialized, able Energy will be located) to acquire land, licensing, and denser, and higher productivity crops. Our ability to execute forestry crops. After many visits to the United States and industrial ventures, the solidity of our relationship with loEuropean countries, we discussed and chose the technolgistics operators, and the great market potential for renewogies to be employed, built a team that will act internally, able energy, especially in Europe, were the main reasons and contracted all of the equipment suppliers. that motivated us to enter this market. Suzano Renewable Energy will have an independent The company will absorb our experience in forestry manmanagement, however it will have two types of conagement and production to manufacture wood pellets to tracts with us: sharing non-operational services, such be used for generating energy for export. The pellets are as Human Resources, IT and Communications, and formed of ground, dehydrated and compressed wood parforestry management, in which we will be responsible ticles that are light, have a high energy content, and repfor the planting, harvesting, and seedling production resent the most efficient method of transporting biomass phases. The objective of the partnership is to avoid over long distances. redundancy in shared services related to research and To serve these purposes, in 2010, we made significant development and make the best of our competency in headway in the conceptual engineering of the project and the forestry area. Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 57 Management Model Since 2001, our management model has been based R$ on the concepts of the National Quality Foundation (FNQ) Management Excellence Model® (MEG). The Model has eight criteria–Leadership, Strategies and Plans, Customers, Society, Information and knowledge, People, Promillion cesses and Results. MEG is present in the day to day of was the total cost our employees and is taken into account by our Commitreduction absorbed by the Six Sigma tees, Subcommittees, and Work Groups. Alignment with methodology this model garnered us the Brazilian Quality Award (PNQ) in 2001 and 2008. Adopting the model allowed us to have a systemic view of all management processes and quarterly assessments compared to benchmarks, with the support of 20 facilitators. Employees Jean Kerley Lyrio da Silva, Eduardo Andrade de Oliveira, Wedson Pinheiro da Silva and Fabrício José da Silva, at the Mucuri Unit (Bahia) 24 Annual Sustainability Report Management Model Brazilian Quality Foundation departments jointly began development on mechanisms matio n and knowl I nfor edg e to create, standardize and disseminate guidelines and procedures, through the Document Pyramid. The pyramid is Customers a method that classifies all of the documentation used in the company according to its levels. To disseminate this concept throughout the entire company, key employees People are being trained to manage documents in each department. These initiatives will be essential to improve routine Leadership Strategies processes and avoid rework and overlapping efforts. Results and Plans To uphold our management model we count on tools such as the SAP system, which has gone through some updates throughout the year, and on other programs such Processes as Operational Productivity, whose objective is to increase productivity, which is one of the assumptions of the 2024 Plan and which will therefore increase our competitiveness. Society In order to train employees with in-depth operational e edg Info n and knowl rmatio and technical knowledge in each of the departments, we 25 have maintained the Boinas Verdes (Green Beret) program, which is based on the master/specialist relationship. When recruiting engineers at the mills to participate in courses The Strategic Planning Cycle is an example of a pracgiven by professionals with vast experience in specific protice aligned with MEG. As the foundation for building our cesses, in Brazil and abroad, the program helps to build business, it is carried out annually and includes five steps: new knowledge. That is, in addition to conveying informaStrategic Orientation, Strategic Planning, Multi-year Plan, tion, masters share critical issues and potential problems Budget, and Results and Targets. with specialists. They document the case studies and the Furthermore, we maintain technology management, solutions encountered. intangible asset, risk, and personnel policies and because We have adopted the Six Sigma methodology since we are aware of the importance of this system, in 2010 2007, which has accumulated cost reductions on the orwe moved forward in consolidating a knowledge manageder of R$ 57 million and has been incorporated more and ment model. The Internal Controls and Competitiveness more into our organizational culture. In fact, since late 2009, green belts have been trained internally by black One of the improvements made to belt instructors, demonstrating the maturity of the initiative, which has already trained 383 employees as green the knowledge management model belts, 37 as black belts, and 27 as executive black belts. In was the adoption of a Document 2010, as a program incentive, the Paper Business Unit held the second edition of the Six Sigma rally that selected the Pyramid, a method that classifies all authors of the best projects developed from among the 60 documentation used at the company participating green belts using this methodology. Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 26 Annual Sustainability Report Line 2 Drying machine and DCS system at the Mucuri Unit (state of Bahia) 27 Manufactured Capital In 2010, 2.7 million tons of pulp and paper were produced Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Operational Performance Our Business Units, Forestry, Pulp and Paper, as well as Twenty vessels will be required, FuturaGene, operate with the help of three internal Service providers that work to preserve our corporate values and with a total capacity of 50,000 reinforce differentials such as innovation. Therefore, we tons used to meet the demand of have significantly advanced in many operational segments. In procurement, thanks to the conclusion of the Stratethe Maranhão and Piauí Units gic Sourcing work that began in 2009, we created market intelligence and adopted the account executives concept, which led to stronger ties with our suppliers, by closing long term contracts, clearly understanding market demine the level of efficiency of this service and to improve mands, and increasing the amount of business opportuit, we have created 12 indicators, which throughout the nities. This strategy has also prevailed in our operations year have clearly shown how the department has evolved. abroad, in line with the purpose of making each departWe have also innovated in logistics with many initiatives ment international. For instance, by hiring a purchasing that have resulted and will result in significant cost reducexecutive in China, this market is being closely monitored, tions. One of them was adopted in Mucuri, where 25% of and therefore opportunities to purchase supplies and paper produced for exports is now packed into containequipment with a good value for money have become a ers at the mill instead of at the PortocelBarra do Riacho huge advantage. Specialized Terminal. In addition to expediting the process, In logistics, where 80% of the costs are directly related the measure has presented significant savings resulting 28 to exports, we were able to overcome many the challenges from the elimination of high operating costs in the port posed by the ups and downs in the international market, area. Our intention is to extend it to all production in the while also creating business partners. The business partindustrial unit, which further down the line will also hold ners get together on a weekly and monthly basis with the the customs warehouse area, for cargo to be sent directly Business Unit officers, and thus identify customer needs to the ships. and ways to service them appropriately. In order to deterAnother initiative approved at the end of the year by the Board of Directors was the creation of LogFácil, a Suzanoowned logistics company responsible for transporting pulp produced in Mucuri to Portocel. Up to that point, only 5% of the operation was carried out by the company’s own fleet. In addition to reducing costs, this initiative will allow the company to streamline logistics operators’ activities and have more control over the quality of services rendered. We have also recorded gains in efficiency with our shipments thanks to a project developed throughout the year, to make routes and schedules more suitable. The project allows us to consolidate orders and cargo so that the trucks can leave fully loaded, whenever possible. In 2010, Information Technology (IT) developments included the consolidation of a single internal technology platform, the conclusion of approximately 50 SAP system Annual Sustainability Report 29 Seedling nursery, city of Cidelândia (Maranhão) 50 enhancements to eliminate gaps, and the establishment of a partnership with IBM to improve our system security. We also initiated a process to outsource part of our IT infranew SAP applications were developed structure which up to now had been hosted at the Suzano to improve the system Unit. The idea is to expand system reliability to be able to and eliminate gaps meet the demand of our planned growth. From the industrial side we also took some significant steps in the past year. At the Suzano Unit, we reached record-breaking levels of overall efficiency – which is how we measure machinery efficiency, with some levels being global benchmarks. The level of stability at the manufacturing unit has been outstanding, resulting in increasingly departments were dedicated full-time to this preparation. competitive costs. Thus teams have already begun discussions with partners In addition to all of these developments, the Operations to resolve issues related to the construction of highways, area made every effort to prepare the Company in 2010 railways, ports and ships (a total of 20 vessels with 50,000for full compliance with the Northeast expansion goals. ton capacity will be required) specifically to meet the deTeams from the Procurement, Logistics, IT and Industrial mand from the Maranhão and Piauí units. Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Forestry Business Unit We were among the companies that planted the most We already hold a large part of the land acquired for during 2010 (67,000 hectares or 108 million trees or the new industrial units (Maranhão and Piauí). The Ma425,000 seedlings per business day) and consumed the ranhão Unit, for example, not only has its own forests, most planted forests (almost 8.3 million cubic meters or which have been in formation since 2008, but will also 34,000 hectares) in the pulp and paper sector in Brazil. rely on wood supplied by Vale forests (Vale Forestry ProWhat really sets us apart is how we have promoted susgram). In both locations we implemented new forestry tainable growth through forestry research and developpartnership programs. ment for 43 years. 256,000 We own approximately 671,000 hectares in states of São Paulo, Bahia, Espírito Santo, Minas Gerais, Tocantins, Piauí and Maranhão. Of this total 310,000 hectares are eucalyptus plantations, of which 11,000 hectares are on leased land; 29,000 hectares of our own land is used for infrastructure, 87,000 hectares are areas available for planting, and 256,000 hectares, or approximately 40% of hectares the total area, is earmarked for environmental preservaor approximately 40% of the total tion, legal reserves and other areas. area is earmarked for environmental preservation 30 Mucuri (Bahia) Annual Sustainability Report The largest number of forestry certifications in the world, with the ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, SA 8000, FSC®, and Cerflor Occupational Fitness Program, Mucuri (Bahia) Ginástica laboral, Mucuri (BA) Moreover, we have 100,000 hectares occupied by plantSince 2006, we have held the largest range of forestry ings of local producers in the states where we operate who certifications in the world, with the ISO 9001, ISO 14001, participate in the Forestry Partner Program and who are OHSAS 18001, SA 8000, FSC, and Cerflor. (EN30) Moreover, responsible for part of our industrial supply. the forests we own are nationally and internationally certiAverage productivity of our plantations is 44 m3 per fied, which is a testament to the fact that our management hectare per year. We continue to be above the national meets the highest socio-environmental standards. average (which is also the highest worldwide),of 41 m³/ We continue to expand certifications to certain areas hectare/year for eucalyptus trees, according to Brazilian within the Forestry Partnership program; an unprecedentAssociation of Forest Plantation Producers (Abraf) data. ed project in the pulp and paper industry. Our objective is We have reached 11 tons / hectare / year of pulp volume to have our partners become increasingly aligned with our in our productive areas. In our experimental plantings, new objectives of creating sustainable income opportunities, 31 clones have reached 13 tons / hectare / year or 18% more modernizing working relations and expanding know-how pulp produced using the same area. by sharing experiences. In 2010 we entered forestry asset sale agreements rangIn addition to all of these achievements, we have optiing over approximately 50,000 hectares in the state of mized our assets and have sought to identify new business Minas Gerais; around 13,000 hectares were eucalyptus opportunities as well as other uses for wood, in sync with plantations. The sale value of these assets totals R$ 334 our strategy to add value to our forestry assets. million. Demobilization of these assets will not impact curIt is also worth noting that our aim to become a referrent operations or future projects. ence in sustainable operations has reinforced the need for Additionally, because of our focus on forestry technolthe Forestry Business Unit to align its governance model. ogy development, we were able to begin planting in drier Innovations include creation of the Suzano Sustainability climates, such as in Maranhão and in Piauí. We have inConsultation Council, spearheaded by consultant Lineu vested in the diversity of our genetic material and develSiqueira Júnior, who has worked with companies and entioped clones with great potential for adaptation, ensuring ties such as the Norwegian Forestry Group (“NFG”), Imaproductivity and resistance to diseases. flora, and the Rainforest Alliance’s Sustainable Agriculture For the new units, we count on experience and the inNetwork (“SAN”), in which internal and external leaders vestment in forestry technology developed over a period of will take part. This Council is geared towards legitimizing three decades in region. This allows us to have commercial our socio-environmental actions, guiding application of plantations in these regions that have little silviculture hissustainable practices in our businesses, and monitoring actory and with expected productivity above 40 m /hectare/ 3 tivities within the scope of the Sustainability Master Plan. year, where tests were carried out with over 5,000 clones (Learn more about it and the changes in the governance and dozens of eucalyptus species. structure of the Business Unit in the Environmental chapter). Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Pulp Business Unit In 2010, the pulp market suffered a significant impact as In addition to good commercial results, the Pulp Busiresult of the three following natural events: the earthquake ness Unit has directed its efforts towards expansion projin Chile, the excessive amount of rain in the southern US ects in the Northeast which will increase our market pulp and the harsh winter in the Northern Hemisphere, which availability to around 4,700 tons. compromised the production of the companies located in To accomplish this, the Pulp Business Unit continued its those regions. All of this resulted in an imbalance, around efforts to strengthen bonds with customers by holding the world, between supply and demand and consequently and participating in a series of events, such as internaled to price hikes throughout the period. tional conferences held in London, Chicago and ShangIn this context of limited supply, we sold 1.6 million tons in hai, where our representatives met with top clients in or2010; a mere 9.7% less than the volume sold in 2009, which der to reinforce the unique qualities of our products and totaled 1.7 million tons. In 2009, however, we counted on the strategic philosophy that underpins the Company’s high inventory levels that were sold to China, since the delong-term commitments, and teamwork. We also held mand from the Chinese market exceeded past averages and meetings aimed at Brazilian customers, who account for analyst forecasts – factors that contributed to the exceptional approximately 20% of our portfolio, in order to share our result that year. In 2010, of the total volume commercialized, vision of the future with them and understand how to 39% was sold to Europe, 33% to Asia, 19% to Latin America provide them with even more support for development (including Brazil), and 9% to North America. of the domestic market. 32 Bale of SUZANO PULP, Mucuri Unit (Bahia) Suzano Pulp and Paper Office in Fort Lauderdale, Florida (USA) We started an organizational restructuring that will alBased on market research, we have also identified our low for more efficient management of our future market strengths and mapped opportunities for improvement. position. We held a meeting in São Paulo with commerAs a result, we have defined an action plan to improve cial teams from the Business Units, including the internaour service level through initiatives such as joint projects tional offices, known as the Sales Meeting, that resulted in technical development, improving our technical support in the formulation of commercial strategies and identifiand streamlining our logistics. cation of key customers and market niches selected to The preparation for our expansion in the Northeast 33 allocate production coming from expansion projects in shall continue in 2010. The Paper Business Unit’s internal the Northeast. The role of our international offices, which departments, the international offices, and departments are fundamental to the success of our global operations critical to the success of our commercial strategy, such as strategy, was reinforced by the creation of five-year Research and Development and Logistics, will continue growth plans, the hiring of associates who have mastered planning and executing the activities that will guarantee the local language and culture, and the transfer of execuour success in expansion projects. tives from China to Brazil. Pulp Sales Final destination Pulp sales per (thousands of tons) of pulp sales 2010 segment 2010 1,780 Sales volume 1,607 9% 7% Others North America 1,320 39% Europe 36% Printing & 85 Writing 82 19% Latin America/ 82 Brazil 25% Special: 18 15 18 2008 2009 2010 33% 32% Foreign market (%) Domestic market (%) Asia Tissue Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Aerial view of the Limeira Unit (São Paulo) Paper Business Unit The highlight of 2010 was the strong upswing in doWe have consolidated new concepts for managing and mestic market demand and the renewed demand in the servicing the Distribution channel in the domestic market. international markets where we operate. Through the Report® brand, we developed and remodThis scenario, along with price readjustments, resulted in eled promotional tools and established an unprecedented improved profitability. Total volume sold reached 1.2 milpartnership in the sector, together with Terracycle, with lion tons, 3.6% higher compared to 2009. the purpose of guaranteeing appropriate disposal of our Our sales in the Brazilian market reached 643,000 tons, product packaging. We held the first South America Cusgrowing by 8.7% compared to 2009. Paperboard, which tomer Meeting; we have increased the percentage of cusreached a growth of 13%, was especially noteworthy, tomers serviced directly by our sales team in this region 34 mostly as a result of the significant growth in the consumand carried out technical training events for customers in er industry which uses this product to produce packaging. order for them to get the best out of our several types of In the domestic market, some noteworthy measures papers. We participated in important events in our indusinclude those adopted by the São Paulo and Federal adtry, including the FLIP (International Literature Festival of ministration to hinder the improper use of tax exempt paParaty) and the Book Biennial, two of the most important per–purchasing tax exempt paper for school book printliterature-related events in Brazil. We also participated in ing–thus establishing more competitive behavior in the the Expoprint tradeshow, the largest business tradeshow domestic market. and means of disseminating new technologies in the Exports totaled 513,000 tons and were sent to South, Brazilian and Latin American printing market. We estabCentral and North America and Europe. Latin America, lished communication partnerships with renowned comincluding Brazil, accounted for 73.5% of our sales, panies from other sectors, with the purpose of leveraging which was 7.7% higher compared to 2009. The reaour brand awareness and informing our customers about son for this growth can be attributed to better ties with the features of our products. customers in the region and more focus on distribution We improved our price and income management model channels. by implementing analytical processes that are structured We promoted changes in organizational structure that and based on statistical models (through the Six Sigma allowed us to further strengthen ties to all of the links in methodology). We took significant steps in the process of our business chain allowing for a more effective contact innovation by launching new products and prospecting between users and transforming agents for Suzano Pulp ideas such as the “I Paperboard Technology Roadmap,” and Paper papers. We created a Technical Consulting a process developed using the main links in the developarea that has allowed our customers to achieve important ment and production chain for packaging in the domestic gains in productivity through better use of our products. market. We offered six new products to the market: Annual Sustainability Report • Art Premium Barr® paperboard, which is more grease resistant • Art Premium® paperboard with 30% post-consumer scraps • TP White® paperboard with an exclusive line for the North American market • uncoated Pólen Bold® paper with more body Paper production at the Limeira Unit (São Paulo) • uncoated Pólen Soft® paper with reduced production costs • uncoated paper with security components for the In the industrial area, we intensified integration between North American market the sales and production teams in an effort to guarantee These new products reinforced our portfolio that continthe best and most effective use of our productive assets. ues to include Report ColorLok, Report Senninha, Report ® ® ® We use the Six Sigma methodology to incorporate new imCores, Reciclato Suzano , Eclipse , Artwork , Cartolina Sen® ® ® provements into our commercial and production planning ninha , Supremo Alta Alvura , Supremo SBS Board , Supre® ® ® processes. We improved the efficiency of our conversion mo Duo Design®, Royal Tech®, Royal Quartz®, TP White®, equipment by reducing the number of SKUs produced. We TP White Pharma , TP White Zero Transfer , TP Premium , ® ® ® introduced new concepts into our working capital manArtPremium , Super 6 Premium , ExtraKot , Neopack , Pa® ® ® ® agement processes, which allowed us to obtain a signifipelcartão Reciclato , and others. ® cant reduction compared to the previous year. These measures, along with the advances in our Global Efficiency Program, have allowed us to reach an elevated rate of efficiency with our paper production machines. 35 Paper sales Sales volume 1,162 1,116 1,156 43 47 44 SPP-Nemo Expansion of our customer base, improvement in commercial initiatives, and structural improvements have 57 53 56 Foreign market (%) created major advances in all operational measures at Domestic market (%) SPP-Nemo, our division specializing in printing product dis2008 2009 2010 tribution in the domestic market. We have advanced in the digital world by including 4% Paper 10% Others social networks in SPP-Nemo’s strategy and have already Exports 2010 Europe reaped the first results, receiving our first orders through Sales Volume Twitter, with the transaction being concluded through the internet sales channel. Items sold were part of another pio12% North America neering initiative by the distributor: the Marque sua pre56% sença no Twitter (Be on Twitter) promotion. At the end of Brazil 2010, we had almost 400 followers; of these, 27.4% were printing companies and publishing houses and 28% were 18% opinion makers. South/Central America Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 36 Employees Ricardo Fernandes de Miranda and Monica Cristina Mariano Lozano do Carmo, at the São Paulo Office Annual Sustainability Report Financial Capital In 2010, net revenue reached a record R$ 4.5 billion 37 Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Financial and economic performance The Company’s consolidated financial statements for Reduction of the net debt/ the periods ending on December 31, 2010 and 2009, were prepared according to accounting practices adEBTIDA ratio from 3.5 times in opted in Brazil, which encompass Brazilian Securities and 2009 to 2.0 times in 2010. Exchange Commission (“CVM”) Standards and Edicts, Guidelines, and Interpretations issued by the Brazilian Accounting Standards Committee (“CPC”) and are in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standard Revenue from pulp sales accounted for 44.7% of total (“IFRS”) issued by the International Accounting Standards revenue in 2010 compared to 40.7% in 2009, reflecting Board (“IASB”). the recovery in pulp prices during 2010. Net Revenues EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, In 2010, our net revenues totaled a record of R$ 4,513.9 Depreciation and Amortization) million, 14.2% higher in comparison to 2009. The cash generation measured by EBITDA was R$ During this period we sold 1.6 million tons of pulp, 1,703.3 million in 2010, 46.7% higher than in 2009. 9.7% less in relation to the previous year; this was due to This increase was due principally to: successive increases the sale in 2009 of stocks accumulated in 2008, as a result in pulp prices in the domestic and international markets of the 2008 international crisis, and of 1.2 million tons of throughout 2010; paper price hikes in the international paper, 3.6% more than 2010, which was driven by the market and price stability in the domestic market; and in38 growth of Brazilian economy. creased paper sales in the domestic market. Additionally, The share of international paper and pulp sales in our this increase in margin was mainly impacted by the dispostotal net revenue was 57.6% or $ 2.6 billion compared to al of the aforementioned assets. EBITDA margin reached the 2009 figure of 58.1%. 37.7% in 2010, 8.4 pp higher in comparison to 2009. Forestry Unit Team at the Teresina Office (Piauí) Annual Sustainability Report Net Revenue Composition of EBITDA/Margin millions of R$ the Net Revenue millions of R$ 38 36 4,514 1,703 4,064 3,953 7% Coated 29 1,469 58 54 1,161 58 45% 35% Pulp Uncoated 46 42 42 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 13% Paperboard Foreign market (%) Domestic market (%) EBITDA Margin/EBITDA (%) Dividends Our corporate by-laws, in line with the principles of legislation in force, establish a minimum mandatory dividend of 25% of adjusted net profit for the period. The amount Net Profit granted to preferred class “A” and “B” shares will be 10% Net debt reached R$ 769.0 million in 2010 compared higher than that granted for common shares. to a profit of R$ 946.5 million the previous year. This was In 2010, R$ 207.6 million were distributed as interthe result of increased net financial expenses and of the est over our own capital, with R$ 58.8 million credited 39 accounting result of the net monetary and exchange variaand paid on September 10, 2010 and R$ 148.7 million tions impacted by the appreciation of the Brazilian Real. credited on December 30, 2010 for payment on March 15, 2011. Distribution of dividends totaling R$ 220.7 milIndebtedness and Ratings lion was approved at the Shareholders’ Meeting; of this On December 31, 2010, the consolidated net debt amount, the amounts forecast as interest on our own was R$ 3,421.0 million and EBITDA for the last twelve capital for fiscal year 2010 were discounted, therefore months was R$ 1,703.3 million. Therefore, the net debt/ leaving a remaining payable dividend balance of R$ 13.1 EBITDA ratio was 2.0x compared to the 2009 year-end million paid on May 9, 2011. figure of 3.5x. Cash and short-term investments were maintained at a 30 28 29 27 high level throughout the year and 2010 ended with a bal25 ance of R$ 3.7 billion, compared to $ 2.5 billion in 2009. 231 221 In December 2010, Moody’s provided a Baa3 (Invest161 138 114 ment Grade) rating in foreign currency to the issuance of USD 650 million in senior notes which will mature in 2021, as well as a Baa3 rating on the global scale and Aa1.br on the Brazilian domestic scale for the R$ 500 million in 2005 2006 2007 2009 2010 debentures issued which will mature in 2014 and 2019. The ratings perspective remains stable. Standard & Poor’s Earnings distributed (millions of R$) Payout (%) reaffirmed our BB+ corporate rating on the global scale There was no dividend distribution in 2008 given that we had loss (stable) and also related to the issuance of senior notes. of R$ 451 milion. Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 45.4% Free float was Capital market Our corporate capital is represented by 140,039,904 common shares (SUZB3) and 268,852,497 preferred shares (SUZB5 and SUZB6) traded on BM&FBovespa. Of this total, on December 31, 2010, the Company held 4,154,685 preferred shares and 6,786,194 common shares in treasury. of total shares. Our shares are part of Level 1 corporate governance and were included in the stock market’s Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) for the sixth year in a row. In late December, SUZB5 preferred shares were quoted Research of how we are perceived done by Institutional at R$ 14.78, having recorded a 6.9% loss in value during Investor recognized Suzano’s CEO and CFO as the best in the year. In the same period, Ibovespa and IBRX-50 showed the pulp and paper industry. Buy-side analysts also recogappreciation of 1.0% and 0.8%, respectively. The daily avnize the company as having the best Investor Relations erage of deals was 2,087 and financial volume reached R$ professional in the industry. 19.4 million, increasing 73.4%, and 56.7%, respectively. Suzano’s market value on December 31, 2010, was R$ 6.0 billion. Free float was 45.4% of total shares. Share dispersion (number of shareholders per asset level) 40 Share levels 2008 2009 2010 No. of Number No. of Number No. of Number shareholders of Shares shareholders of Shares shareholders of Shares Over 5.0 million 17 215.0 14 191.3 14 263.0 From 2.0 to 4.99 million 10 29.3 13 38.5 13 39.1 From 1.0 to 1.99 million 12 17.9 13 17.3 18 25.4 From 500 thousand to 0.99 million 22 14.9 25 17.2 34 22.4 From 200 to 499 thousand 52 15.4 73 22.2 75 23.5 From 50 to 199 thousand 126 12.9 156 15.8 179 18.5 From 10 to 49 thousand 274 6.2 354 8.0 450 10.1 From 100 to 9.9 thousand 2,465 2.9 3,404 4.2 5,517 6.9 Less than 100 shares 1,114 0.0 1,104 28.5 1,168 0.0 Total 4,092 314.5 5,156 314.5 7,468 408.9 Investments In 2010, our investments totaled R$ 603.1 million, 8.4% lower than the amount invested in 2009. Investments in maintaining current capacity totaled R$ 330.3 million, with R$ 97.9 million going to the industrial area and R$ 232.5 million to the forestry area. R$ 260 million were invested in expansion projects in Maranhão and Piauí and R$ 12.7 million were placed in other projects. Annual Sustainability Report Implementation of risk management to identify risks and create action plans for dealing with them. Marcelo Gomes and Gustavo Renaud during a meeting at the Suzano Renewable Energy office (São Paulo) Risk Management (GRI 1.2 and 4.11) The company has doubled in size in the past five years all of the people responsible for the areas involved with and this has posed many challenges, among which is the the project and identified 87 risks—ten of which were high challenge of continuously maturing our business process priority—and created and applied action plans to mitigate 41 control and risk management mechanisms. them. The idea is that this work is done continuously; that To face these challenges, we took important steps in is, during each new project phase any other eventual risks 2010, including establishment of the no surprise policy are identified and mitigated. This kind of activity also rewith the purpose of being followed by all managers when sults in potential business opportunities. conducting business, so as to provide top management Not only did it result in these activities, but it also resultwith all necessary information in due time to make the ed in continuous monitoring of all other risks to which we best decisions. are exposed and development of action and contingency Motivated by this intention, we created Internal Controls plans to mitigate them based on the methodology used by Management, linked to Controlling Executive ManageCommittee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway ment, which is responsible for coordinating actions for imCommission (COSO), a non-profit and globally recognized provement in business process controls framework, seekorganization that created a method to make operations ing to mitigate inherent internal and external risks, aligned control reports more effective and thus strengthen a comwith our growth strategy. The department has started to pany’s capability to manage risks inherent to business. work in an integrated manner with other business areas to Our internal framework includes a Risk Subcommittee, identify the existing controls, risks involved and minimum linked to the Strategy Committee, and the Risk Workgroup, mechanisms required to manage them. The diagnosis is coordinated by the departments. After establishing the monithe foundation for establishing in-depth control plans and toring methodology, the first step is to map and prioritize all for adopting monitoring tools. corporate risks. Each department will monitor their own risks, The dedicated team that is working on our extension in as well as establish action, contingency and control plans. The the Northeast also strengthened the activity risk manageRisk Workgroup is responsible for mapping, prioritizing and ment process during 2010. They held business talks with reporting action plan status of department risks. Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Financial risks We used the COSO (Committee External risk factors related to market price fluctuation of Sponsoring Organizations can create an undesired level of volatility to cash generation and the bottom line. To manage volatility so as not to of the Treadway Commission) create any distortion or losses to our consistent long term methodology to manage our growth, we have policies and procedures to manage financial risks. The purpose of the policies and procedures is to business risks. protect cash flow and net worth against any market price fluctuations of supplies and products, exchange and interest rates, price and correction indexes or even any other assets or instruments traded on net markets or not (market risks), where the value of our assets, liabilities or cash generation may be exposed. Additionally, we streamlined from exports is priced in US dollars, whereas a large part contracting of financial instruments to protect risk expoof production costs are backed by the BRL. That kind sure by using natural hedging and correlations between of structural exposure allows us to contract financing different asset and market prices. By doing so, we avoided for exports in US dollars at more competitive costs than wasting resources by contracting operations in an ineffilocal financing lines and conciliates financing payments cient manner. The purpose of these financial operations with sales flow receipts, resulting in a natural cash flow is to protect the company against exposure. Risks that do hedge for these commitments. Exceeding revenues in not result from our operational activities cannot be used. US dollars not backed by debt commitments and other 42 Our funding and exchange hedge policies are guided obligations are sold in the foreign exchange market by the fact that over 50% of the net revenues arising when resources are internalized. Market Risks Market risks are mainly represented by fluctuations in the economy of the markets in which we operate, which reflect consumption, and by fierce competition, as seen in 2010, for instance, in coated paper, as a result of the strong entry of imported products. These events were mitigated thanks to our diversification strategy, not only in products, but also in business lines. The paper business operates with four lines with the goal of launching five new products annually. In 2010, we included entry into two net market niches, biotechnology, which has already been consolidated, and renewable energy, in the guidelines established by our Annual Strategic Planning Cycle. Additionally, we maintain permanent practices to improve our ties to customers and try to establish long term contracts with them, resulting in high satisfaction and loyalty levels. Employe Iraci Candida da Silva, Rio Verde Unit (São Paulo) Operational Risks To avoid any eventual risks in growth project delays and mittee for our operations in the Northeast, composed the potential need to increase our previously defined inof representatives from all project fronts, which follows vestments to execute them, we have contracted financguidelines established by C.O.S.O. Committee of Sponing according to suitable conditions for our profile and soring Organizations. amortization term, at compatible rates. We also adopted Additionally, we continually monitor stages and investmitigation measures by creating an exclusive Risk Comments with the support of specialized partners. 43 DCS at Line 2, Mucuri Unit Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Intangible Assets Angela Maria Vieira da Silva and Michely Cristina Lopes at the Forestry Technology Center, city of Itapetininga (São Paulo) In our opinion, intangible assets are assets without physical or financial substance that meet the following two requirements: a) future economic benefits that can be attributed to them most flow to the organization; b) cost measurement of the intangible assets must be possible and reliable. In line with our strategic pillars—growth and profitability, competitiveness and sustainability—we also recognize that they are part of our capital since they differentiate us in the domestic and international markets. Based on this understanding, our own policy of intangible asset management establishes the guidelines so that we can identify, assess, develop, maintain and protect them. To do so we develop metrics to verify their growth and publish their statement annually to disseminate and share them with society, seeking to add value to our company. In order to comply with this policy, in 2010, we listed our main intangible assets: corporate image, processes and technology, products and services, sales channels, brands and patents, and employee know how. These as44 sets materialize into: • Management Standard Certifications: With the exception of Maranhão and Piauí, all of our units are ISO 14001-certified and audited by Bureau Veritas Certification. Moreover, all of our production areas comply with • Technology and new product management: Many Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) standards and guidelines. in-house programs feed our pursuit of operational excellence and one of our most important differentials: • Management model based on Brazilian Quality innovation. We also have a goal of launching at least Foundation criteria (FNQ): In 2001 and 2008, the five new products annually. (Learn more in Strategy and FNQ granted us the National Quality Award, for compliManagement Model chapter and Operational Perforance with the following criteria; leadership, strategy and mance/Paper Business Unit chapter). plans, customers, society, information and knowledge, people, processes, and results. • Personnel and team management: We defined quality relationships as one of our corporate values. In order • Relationship with capital markets: We have dedito attain that value, we developed a program, aligned cated teams and communication channels to maintain with the best market practices, to attract, retain and a direct relationship with investors, potential investors, integrate people through fair compensation, benefits, and capital market analysts. (Learn more in the Corpoand personal and professional opportunities for growth. rate Governance chapter). (Learn more in the People chapter). Annual Sustainability Report Our main intangible assets are: corporate image, processes and technology, products and services, sales channels, brands and patents, and employee know how • Strategy management: We have a Strategic Planning 45 Cycle, with five stages that add to and fine tune our sustainable growth strategy annually. (Learn more in the Strategy and management model chapter). • Knowledge built on workforce: That we are confident our workforce is our most important asset, therefor we many common mechanisms to promote: Develop and standardize procedures in all areas, through Which We seek to Consolidate the knowledge management model. (Learn more in the Strategy and management model chapter). • Brands and corporate image: Our image shows a path of achievements recognized by the market by the many awards and prizes received. It also adds value to the more than 30 brands of papers, many of which are established in the domestic and international markets. (Learn more in the Operational performance/ Paper Business Unit chapter). Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Corporate Governance 87% We ran our business based on policies and guidelines formulated using the principles of good corporate governance: transparency, equality, accountability, and responsibility. We are part of Level 1 corporate governance at BM&FBovespa and, for the sixth year running, we are also in this stock market’s Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE), which is made up of companies that are committed to creof our employees ating value in the long term for shareholders. participated in the Code of Conduct training course We have established continual and honest dialog with the capital market and investors and have placed all necessary information at their disposal so that they may assess our performance and its alignment with the growth strategies defined in the Annual Planning Cycle. Since 2006 we have maintained a Code of Conduct Two channels of communication are aimed specifically at that expresses the ethical principles that guide our corpothese stakeholders: the e-mail address ri@suzano.com.br rate behavior. In 2010, it was adapted to include some of and the phone number for the Investor Relations departour policies and has become the topic of an online course ment (5511) 3503-9061. given to associates through e-Suzano. (Learn more in the People chapter) (GRI 4.8) Our governance structure also includes a Conduct 46 Our principles were absorbed Committee, which is responsible for managing the Code of Conduct and for ensuring its compliance, and an Exterduring the development of the nal Ombudsman, a confidential channel which answers Sustainability Master Plan questions and submits reports of unethical conduct. The Ombudsman is run by an independent consultant and can be reached by telephone (0800 7714 060) and via e-mail: ouvidoriaexterna@austernet.com.br. Our financial statements have been audited since 2004 by the company of Ernst & Young Terco Independent Auditors which is also responsible for reviewing our internal controls. Reports issued are presented and discussed by the Audit Committee along with external auditors. Likewise, our principles were absorbed during the development of the Sustainability Master Plan, carried out during the year through a partnership with the Ecofuturo Institute, for which we were recognized as a benchmark in this matter. The Plan required some structural changes to the Forestry Business Unit. The changes included the creation of the Sustainability Executive Management, Regional Social and Environmental Managements, and the Corporate Sustainability Intelligence department. (Learn more in the Environment chapter) Annual Sustainability Report 47 Richard Lopes Novak, Flavio de Jesus Dvulatka, Daniel Turci Pedroso and Antonio dos Santos Maciel Neto, employees at the São Paulo office Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Organizational Structure We exercise corporate governance through the Board of DirecShare structure tors, supported by the Management, Sustainability and Strategy, and Audit committees, and through the Executive Board. We furthermore maintain a permanent Audit Committee made up of three full members and three alternates. (GRI 4.1) To reinforce this structure, 13 Committees, 17 Subcommittees, and several Work Groups have been established and tasked with Parent company Free Float promoting integration between areas while contributing to en52% 45% hancing and disseminating strategic topics and practices. (GRI 4.1) Moreover, our Business Units (Forestry, Pulp, and Paper) are supported by three internal Service Providers: Operations, Finance, and Human Resources. Treasury 3% 48 Board of Directors (CA) CA Committees 9 members (4 independent) Management Sustainability Investor and Strategy Relations CEO Strategy Audit Operations Service Suzano Energy Forestry BU Pulp BU Paper BU Biotechnology Provider Renewable Finance Service BU = Business Unit Provider Human Resources Service Provider PS = Service Providers Annual Sustainability Report Board of Directors Executive Board The Board is made up of nine members, one of whom is Is made up of one CEO and six officers, five of which between 30 and 50 years of age and the remaining eight between 30 and 50 years old and two above 50 years old. of whom are over 50. Four of them are independent and (LA14) one is an honorary member. The members gather every • Antonio Maciel dos Santos Neto – CEO quarter and, when needed, extraordinarily. In 2010 there • André Dorf – CEO of Suzano Renewable Energy were 26 meetings. (GRI 4.3, 4.9 e LA13) • AlexnadreYambanis – Head of Pulp Business Unit • David Feffer – Chairman • Bernardo Szpigel– CFO and Legal Officer • Daniel Feffer – Vice president • Carlos Aníbal de Almeida Júnior – Head of Paper Busi• Boris Tabacof – Vice president ness Unit • Jorge Feffer – Member of the Board • Carlos Alberto Griner – CHRO • Cláudio Sonder – Member of the Board • Ernesto Pousada Júnior – COO • Antonio Meyer – Independent member • João Comério – Head of Forestry Business Unit • Oscar Bernardes Neto – Independent member • Marco Bologna – Independent member (Executive board member bios are available in the Refe­ • Nildemar Secches – Independent member rence Form, at www.suzano.com.br/ri) • Augusto Esteves de Lima Junior – Honorary member (Board member bios are available in the Reference Form, at www.suzano.com.br/ri) 49 Support • Committees (CO) – Management Model, Standardization and Certification, Investments, Operational ExTax Committee cellence, Strategy, Personnel Management, Conduct The tax committee is composed of three effecManagement, Innovation, Fiscal-Tax, International Mantive members agement, Communication, Processes and Sustainability. • Luiz Augusto Paes • Rubens Barletta • Subcommittees (SC) – Facilitators of the Management • Jaime Luiz Kalsing Model, Credit, Risk Management, People Management, Quality, Cash Flow, TOT (operation, Fiscal, Tax), Invest(Tax committee member bios are available in the ments, Operational Excellence, Six Sigma, Forestry StanReference Form, at www.suzano.com.br/ri) dardization and Certification, SPP Standardization and Certification, Operations Service Provider Standardization and Certification, Innovation, Sustainability, Conduct Management and GAP Closure. • Workgroups (GT) – Workgroups are created when needed in order to debate, learn more about, and deliberate on the measures to be taken concerning specific topics related to our operations. Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 50 Marcio de Oliveira Ruas, Mucuri Unit (Bahia) Annual Sustainability Report Human Capital 51 People are the foundation of our growth Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 People In line with the strategy of multiplying our value through organic growth and diversification of business, the personnel management model focused on HR for Growth in 2010. Its goal is to promote the structure necessary to provide support for the expansion planned in the states of 16,000 professionals trained by 2014 in the Maranhão and Piauí regions Maranhão and Piauí which, by 2014, will include training for around 16,000 professionals in the region. (IFMA). The goal is to educate and train people in local We began formulating initiatives to train this contincommunities, creating jobs and strengthening developgent while identifying the educational infrastructure that ment in the region. This practice is completely in line with will need to be available to the regions of Imperatriz (Maour policy of prioritizing local people in order to therefore ranhão) and Palmeirais (Piauí) as well as the investments contribute to the development of the communities with needed for this. In that sense we are initially creating a which we interact. (EC7) consortium to train people to work at the project site, At the end of the year, we had a total of 4,352 direct with the support of the Maranhão State Government, city employees, most of whom (54%) are located in the southhalls, trade associations, unions, construction companies west region of the country and 61% of whom work in and others. We have also mobilized technical learning cenoperations. By moving forward in our primarization stratters, such as the Brazilian Industrial Learning Service egy, especially in forestry areas, 40 workers who (Senai) of Bahia, which is experienced in training had before been outsourced workers were people for working with pulp and will support absorbed during the year, which brought the 52 our actions in Maranhão, the Senai school of number of primarized employees to 300 by Maranhão, and the Federal Institute of Eduthe end of the year. Abroad, we maintained cation, Technology and Science of Maranhão another 186 professionals. Our turnover Vinícius Precioso, for the fiscal year was 15%. Mariana Zayat Chammas and Bruna Regis Machado at the São Paulo office Annual Sustainability Report Profile per region (LA1) 2008 2009 2010 Employees % Employees % Employees % South 23 0.6 14 0.4 14 0.3 Southeast 2,241 63.3 2,257 58.4 2,355 54.1 Midwest 3 0.1 2 0.1 3 0.1 Northeast 1,273 36.0 1,589 41.1 1,980 45.5 North – – – – – – Total 3,540 100 3,862 100 4,352 100 Profile per age group (in %) (LA13) 2008 2009 2010 less than From 30 Less than From 30 Less than From 30 Over 50 Over 50 Over 50 30 years to 50 30 years to 50 30 years to 50 years old years old years old old years old old years old old years old Officers 0 66.7 33.3 0 63.6 37.4 0 80 20 Managers 3.5 72.9 23.5 6.1 74.9 18.9 8.2 75.1 16.7 Specialists 22 65.6 12.4 24.5 62 13.5 28.9 58.2 12.9 Back office 32.6 56.5 10.9 35.1 55.9 8.9 33 56.9 10.1 Operational 32.4 62.1 5.5 33.3 61.1 5.6 35.6 58.6 5.8 Trainees 100 0 0 100 0 0 100 0 0 Total employees 27.8 63.1 9.1 29.2 62.1 8.8 31.3 60 8.7 53 Profile per gender (LA2) 2008 2009 2010 Employees % Employees % Employees % Women 368 10.4 402 10.4 545 12.5 Men 3,172 89.6 3,460 89.6 3,807 87.5 Total 3,540 100 3,862 100 4,352 100 Profile per gender (in %) (LA2) 2008 2009 2010 Women Men Women Men Women Men Officers 0 100 0 100 0 100 Managers 7 93 8 92 11,1 98,9 Specialists 28 72 29 71 34,5 65,5 Back office 26 71 28 72 25,4 74,6 Operational 2 98 2 98 3,9 96,1 Trainees 11 89 0 100 – – Total employees 10 90 10 90 12,5 87,5 Employee Bruna Bin and service provider Marjorie Cristina da Cruz, at the Rio Verde Unit (São Paulo) Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Company relations One highlight from the period was the consolidation of initiatives, all employees underwent performance evaluathe Personnel Performance Management System, whose tions and received development initiatives during the year. application advanced to the specialist level. Not only did it (LA10, LA11 and LA12) result in action and retention plans, but by using individual As a result of the promotions, the ratio between the lowcompetency assessments, this project was reflected in the est salary paid by Suzano and the current minimum wage payment and succession methodologies, strengthening in operational units is 2.6 monthly salaries. All employees the process of merit-based gains. Therefore, at the execuare guaranteed free choice of union association regulated tive level, 19 people were promoted, twice the amount by collective bargaining agreements, closed in the period compared to new hires. In the operational area, we continwithout any breaches and within the preestablished deadued our evaluation and feedback policies. Based on those lines, including notifications. (EC5, LA4, LA5 and HR5) Profile per type of job position and work contract (LA1) 2008 2009 2010 Full time Part time Total Full time Part time Total Full time Part time Total Officers 7 – 7 11 – 11* 15 – 15 Managers 312 – 312 359 – 359 425 – 425 Specialists 732 1 733 733 1 734 784 1 785 Back office 359 – 359 370 – 370 485 – 485 Operational 2,122 – 2,122 2,387 – 2,387 2,642 – 2,642 54 Trainees 7 – 7 1 – 1 – – – Total 3,539 1 3,540 3,861 1 3,862 4,351 1 4,352 *Up to 2008, officers only meant elected officers. As from 2009, we have included elected and non-elected officers. Karen Su Lam and Zilka Pimenta Saleh at the São Paulo office Annual Sustainability Report Turnover per region 219 Job turnover per region (Brazil) (LA2) 147 2008 South Southeast Midwest Northeast Admissions 5 202 0 159 Dismissals 5 252 0 116 2 0 Turnover rate (%) – 21.40 11.00 0.00 9.30 Dismissals South Southeast Midwest Northeast Total Turnover rate (%) 10.50 –Corporate dismissals 2009 Turnover per gender 311 South Southeast Midwest Northeast Admissions 0 247 0 505 Dismissals 9 251 1 183 Turnover rate (%) – 52.20 11.30 34.30 13.90 Dismissals Total turnover rate (%) – 57 12.50 Corporate dismissals 2010 Women Men South Southeast Midwest Northeast Admissions 1 312 1 538 Turnover per age group Dismissals 2 219 0 147 195 Turnover rate (%) – 14.50 9.50 0.00 8.40 Dismissals 55 Total turnover rate (%) – 9.10 122 Corporate dismissals 51 <30 years old 30 to 50 > 50 Turnover rate per gender (LA2) years old years old 2008 2009 2010 Women Men Women Men Women Men Total 68 305 68 376 57 311 Turnover 18.4 9.5 18.2 11.8 12.4 8.6 Total – Turnover rate (%) 10.5 12.5 9.1 Turnover rate per age group (LA2) 2008 2009 2010 From 30 From 30 From 30 less than Over 50 less than Over 50 less than Over 50 to 50 to 50 to 50 30 years years 30 years years 30 years years years years years old old old old old old old old old Total dismissals 116 193 64 147 231 66 122 195 51 Turnover rate (%) 11.5 8.6 19.9 14.9 10.3 20.6 10 7.9 14.1 Total – Turnover rate (%) 10.5 12.5 9.1 Total dismissals Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Our employees receive a wide range of benefits, above In line with one of our values (quality relationships), we and beyond what is set forth by law and which include, also promoted a qualitative leap in our Inclusion Program among other things, health and life insurance and food for People with Disabilities during the period. Different vouchers. Moreover, we have had a private pension plan than in previous years, when we were looking to fill our powith a defined contribution since 2005, Suzano Prev, in sitions, with experienced professionals, we have extended which employees can participate with up to 12% of their our program. We began to not only carry out recruitment salaries with the company matching 0.5% of the salary for and selection, but also to train these people, giving them those who receive up to R$ 1,849.30. For employees that the behavioral and technical skills to facilitate their placeearn more than this, we contribute up to 6% of the differment at the company and in their jobs. In 2010, 71 people ence between the total amount and the nominal salaries. with disabilities were hired, with 35 of them taking part in (LA3 and EC3) this program and undergoing two months of training before joining their departments. This led us to end the year with 141 people with disabilities in our units. Ratio between base-salary and gender (%) – 2010 (LA14) 2008 2009 2010 Men Women Men Women Men Women Officers ND ND ND ND ND ND Bernardo Giesta Romano, Paula Bottacin Managers 99.8 103.0 99.6 104.8 99.0 107.0 Koumbis Mandaloufas, Gilciane Magiero Specialists 102.3 94.0 103.6 91.3 107.0 86.0 Beltrame Cogo and Oseas Soares da Silva, Mucuri Unit (Bahia) 56 Back office 113.1 68.2 113.5 65.1 113.0 61.0 Operational 100.5 74.4 100.7 69.0 102.0 60.0 Trainees 100.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 – – Volunteer Work Diversity Management (%) – 2010 (LA13) Project 2009 2010 % Disabled persons 3.2 Suzano na Escola (Suzano African descent ND 20 45 125 at School – state of Bahia) Women 12.5 Suzano na Escola (Suzano at 0 46 n/d People under 30 30.1 School – state of São Paulo) People between 30 and 50 years old 60.9 Formare Suzano 70 141 101 People over 50 8.9 Formare Mucuri 60 67 12 Formare Embu 35 45 29 96% Total 185 344 86 Disabled employees (%) (LA13) 2008 2009 2010 Officers 0.0 0.0 0.0 Managers 0.0 0.3 0.2 Specialists 1.0 1.0 1.3 Back office 3.0 3.2 9.3 of professionals Operational 3.0 2.8 3.2 participated in the employee Trainees 0.0 0.0 0.0 satisfaction survey, an increase of 5 percentage points compared Total 2.0 2.3 3.2 to the previous cycle Under the same view in relation to diversity, we main212 young people, 54% of which have entered the labor tain and disseminate equal treatment for all, including market and 36 of which are working at Suzano. Another 57 compensation between men and women, and we moniinitiative is the Suzano at School project, in partnership tor, report, and manage actions resulting from incidents with Junior Achievement, which encourages public school of discrimination. Therefore, we have not registered any students from grades 6 through 9 to finish school and find cases of discrimination that were informed to our hotlines out more about careers and business. Volunteer employfor the period. (HR4) ees are also part of other initiatives with the purpose of Solidarity, another characteristic of Suzano, is encourstrengthening our ties with local communities and encouraged internally through the Volunteer Program, which in aging them to exercise their roles as a citizens. 2010 came to our administrative headquarters in São PauAll of these initiatives, and especially the manner in lo and was benefitted by the launch of the Volunteer Porwhich we execute them, were noted by employees in the tal (www.voluntariadosuzano.com.br), an online meeting Employee Satisfaction Survey carried out during the year place for increasing and potentializing volunteer activities. by the Hay Group, one of the largest consulting firms in At the end of the period, 344 employees and service prothis line of work. There was 96% adherence to the surviders, which is 86% more than in 2009, took part in two vey, an increase of five percentage points compared to the special initiatives in the area of education. They worked last cycle in 2007. Items that showed the largest increase as volunteer educators in the Formare schools, training compared to the previous survey were cooperation with young people for the job market. Since 2005, we have workteams (a 22% increase) and professional growth opmaintained three schools through a partnership with the portunities (a 21% increase). And more: 82% of particiIochpe Foundation, which are located in the Suzano (São pants stated they were proud to work for the company Paulo) and Mucuri units, and another in the Embu (São and 76% would recommend it as a good place to work. Paulo) unit since 2009. With 11 classes having graduated Survey results became the basis for the development of and three currently ongoing, the initiative has educated action plans at many different functional levels. Suzano Papel e Celulose 2 0 1 0 Training and Development In 2010, we intensified our training program, which totraining courses, talks, and other activities developed taled 292,000 hours—an average of 67.2 hours per prothroughout the year were also related to human rights fessional—and required investments of R$ 4.3 million, as practices and totaled 21,000 hours, involving 90% of part of the preparation for consistent growth. One of the direct employees. (HR3) main topics was the concept of “Strong and kind,” which The Intern program, in turn, was broadened and enis part of our Mission, Vision and Values and is spread hanced. With 157 members, 118% more than the prethroughout management at every level. (LA10) vious fiscal year, it included behavioral training modules Also as a result of the adjustment made to our organiand visits to mills. It was adopted by 90% of managers. zational identity, which involved over one thousand emIn the end, 51 interns who graduated during the last ployees, a multi-disciplinary team, including the executive cycle were incorporated into our workforce. To promote board and our CEO, went into the field to spread the new this initiative among college students and therefore Vision and Mission and the new Values to employees. facilitate the program’s objective of attracting and seThe Code of Conduct update brought about formatting lecting talent, we participated in recruiting events orof a module on document guidelines on E-Suzano, our ganized by academia, including the 9th FEA Junior USP distance learning portal. All employees received informaRecruiting and Career Tradeshow, the 20th Poli Junior tion on the new code and signed a term of acknowledgeUSP Integration Workshop, and the Virtual Curriculum ment, with 87% of them have already been trained. The Networks Tradeshow. Training by functional category (LA10) 58 (average h/empl./year) 2008 2009 2010 Officers 27.22 8.32 26.33 Managers 57.55 65.17 71.82 Specialists 37.93 36.9 34.42 Back office 27.29 24.61 25.61 Operational 61.58 96.88 84.10 Overall average* 52.72 75.34 67.22 Employees Lucas Costa Furtado, Rogerio Baldan and Eraldo Cordeiro * The overall average is the total of employees divided by total hours. Almeida Junior at the Suzano Leader Development Program Annual Sustainability Report 292,000 Safety, health and quality of life We work under the assumption that integrity, health and safety of our direct employees and outsourced personnel are values that we continually pursue. That is why it is part of our Social Responsibility, Health and Safety policy, certified by OHSAS 18001 and is disseminated among all employees who are committed to its guidelines and goals. hours in total 2010 In the scope of the Occupational Health and Safety Systraining hours tem (SSO), we have also maintained a strong commitment towards the continuous improvement of our routines by promoting audits of operational and behavioral deviations. Our commitment is also translated into improvement of processes, machinery, and equipment and the development and adoption of preventive and health campaigns such as the Safety Dialogs, daily meetings with operational employees and weekly meetings with back office personnel, to reinforce the need for 100% safe behavior, in addition to the Zero Accidents program which trains and awards teams for their performance in relation to safety indicators. We have Health and Safety Workgroups throughout all departments in our units which report to Directive Work 59 groups (GT SIG), made up of multidisciplinary representatives from several areas. We have established collective Marcos Vieira de Souza, employee at the Embu Unit (São Paulo) bargaining agreements with the unions that represent our employees, valid for all staff, which, among other meaa casualty at the Suzano Unit, resulting from a flaw in prosures, guarantees the use of personal protection equipcedure, which was not followed according to the safety ment and the right to refuse to work under unsafe condidepartment’s instructions. We have provided full assistions. In 2010, 100% of employees that work in the safety tance to the victim’s family, with an HR professional moniarea also participated in a course through the E-Suzano toring them directly and service from the PASSO program portal on the Code of Conduct, which includes guidelines (Family Assistance Program), which is part of our Quality of related to respecting human rights, totaling 2,145 hours. Life Program. (LA7) (LA6, LA9 and HR8) We believe that health and safety are directly related to Therefore, in 2010 our accident frequency rate (with or quality of life. We have continued many actions that seek without days away from work, of direct and outsourced to promote leisure and integration of our employees, their personnel) was 3.01%. The severity rate was impacted by family members and the communities during the period. These actions are included in our Quality of Life Program which is made up of four pillars: health, relationship, mind, and culture. The PASSO program, created in 2010, is an example of these actions. The purpose of the program is to provide support to employees so that they can deal with personal or family problems such as drug addiction, financial diffiSuzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 culties or others. Contact with the multidisciplinary team— including psychologists and social workers—is done through an toll free hotline, available 24/7 at all units. We have already serviced 289 people in the period within the scope of the new program. (LA8) The Saúde Nota 10 (Top Form Health) program promotes physical evaluations, incentives to quit smoking, quality of diet improvement, exercising and reducing obesity. In Olismar Santos de Matos, employee at the Itabatã nursery (Bahia) 2010, a total of 2,711 people participated. Another incentive connected to the Quality of Life Program was the inauguration in Mucuri of Cine Suzano, a accompanied by up to three family members, to learn movie theater providing employees and community memmore about the Mucuri Unit and the seedling nursery. In bers with leisure activity by presenting two monthly sesSão Paulo they can visit Parque das Neblinas park. With this sions—one for adults and another one for children—at initiative they have the opportunity to learn more about different locations in the city. our industrial and forestry processes by watching videos Along the same lines, we have a Corporate Visit Proand attending lectures. In 2010, 308 employees and famgram, which was extended during the period. Now, every ily members visited the Mucuri Unit and 418 visited Parque employee can participate in monitored visits also in Bahia, das Neblinas park. 60 Health and Safety Management* (LA7) 2008 2009 2010 Accident frequency rate 4.97 (1) 3.08 (1) 3.01(1) Days away from work rate 31.02 (2) 16.46 (2) 19.94 Absenteeism rate 1.1% (3) 0 (3) 2.1 Absolute number of casualties 0 1(4) 1(5) * Our records follow the NBR 14.280 standard. (1) Accidents with and without days away from work (direct employees and service providers). Data includes minor injuries. (2) Just accidents (does not include days discounted) (direct employees and service providers). (3) Takes into account all absences during the year. (4) Accident that resulted in casualty of a worker from a company rendering services at the SPP-Nemo distributor unit in São Paulo (São Paulo). (5) Accident that resulted in a casualty at the Suzano Unit (São Paulo) arising from failure to follow procedure as established by safety department guidelines. Severe Diseases Assistance Programs – 2010 (LA8) Education and Prevention/risk Treatment/ health Counseling Training control insurance Included in programs YES NO YES NO YES NO YES NO Employees X X X X Employees’ families X X X X Community members X X X X Annual Sustainability Report The PASSO Health & Safety Management by Unit (LA7) (Family Assistance Frequency rate with days away from work Program), launched 2008 2009 2010 in 2010, has Suzano Rio Verde 0.33 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.3 2 already serviced 2,711 Mucuri 0.19 0.70 0.56 289 people Embu Bahia/Minas Gerais 0.00 1.89 1.76 0.17 0.14 0 Forestry Unit São Paulo Forestry Unit 0.39 0.00 0.49 participants Maranhão Forestry Unit – 0.00 0 in the Top Form Piauí Forestry Unit – 0.00 0 Health Program SPP 0.00 3.21 5.2 São Paulo Office 0.00 0.00 0 Consolidated 0.23 0.27 0.52 Frequency rate without days away from work 2008 2009 2010 Suzano 6.23 6.40 3.69 Rio Verde 8.11 5.76 0 Mucuri 6.16 3.72 4.11 Embu 5.03 1.89 8.81 61 Bahia/Minas Gerais 2.07 1.08 0.81 Forestry Unit São Paulo Forestry Unit 5.12 1.65 1.98 Maranhão Forestry Unit – – 1.8 Piauí Forestry Unit – – 3.36 SPP 0.00 0.00 2.6 São Paulo Office 0.00 0.00 0 Consolidated 4.74 2.81 2.49 Number of days missed Suzano 64 0 18 Rio Verde 0 0 200 Mucuri 4 36 49 Embu 0 9 26 Bahia/Minas Gerais 23 28 0 Forestry Unit São Paulo Forestry Unit 53 0 30 Maranhão Forestry Unit – 0 0 Waldir Rosa da Silva, Piauí Forestry Unit – 0 0 employee at the Embu Unit (São Paulo) SPP 0 0 29 São Paulo Office 0 0 0 Consolidated 31 16 20 *Until 2009, Maranhão and Piauí unit figures were reported together. As from 2010, the figures are separate. Social Capital Quality and Respectful Relationships: Suzano values that reach out to our communities 62 Annual Sustainability Report Children at the Golfinho Community Association, Mucuri (Bahia) Customers The focus of our Business Units in 2010 was intensification A customer Satisfaction of relationship building with customers. Examples include events promoted by the Pulp area for its workers aimed at Survey showed a 65% further instilling the concept of adding value to the product and 66% favorability rate, to offer superior services in addition to research that was carried out by the Paper area to better understand the distriburespectively in the pulp and tion segment outside of Brazil and thus adjust and enhance paper areas operations. (Learn more in the Operational Performance/Pulp Business Unit and Paper Business Unit chapters). In addition to operational measures such as these, we With that same purpose, we participated in many maintained actions that sought to strengthen our relationevents during the period, including Brazil Day, within ships with customers, such as the Visitor Program, which the scope of ExpoTime—culture and business tradewas expanded during the year and brought 1,600 people, show in Shanghai, China—and Expoprint, the largest including customers and residents from neighboring comprinting chain technologies disseminamunities, to learn about our mill and forestry processes at tion and business meeting in Latin the Mucuri and Suzano units. America, held in São Paulo. SUZANO PULP booth at the International Pulp and Paper Congress and Exhibition promoted by the Brazilian Pulp and Paper Technical Association (ABTCP) 64 Annual Sustainability Report In order to measure customer perception of our products and services, we carry out periodical surveys. In 2010, they showed satisfaction levels of 65% and 66%, respectively for the pulp and paper areas. (PR5) We also adopted marketing actions to demonstrate the differentials of our products, among which was our participation in 2010 Earth Month, an initiative from one of the most important self-service chains in the world to increase the supply of sustainable products in its stores. At that time, Suzano participated with Reciclato® Branco paper (recycled white paper), which is used for printing the label on one of the most important chocolate powder drinks in Brazil. These initiatives as well as all of the specific campaigns developed throughout the period, including those directed at end users, were aligned with our internal standards and procedures in regards to sample requests and monitoring, supplier agreements, quote/payments controls, standards and procedures for contracting agencies, and hierarchy 65 levels for payment and contract approvals in the SAP system. That is because we have not adhered to any voluntary codes for communications and marketing. However, thanks to our internal measures, we have not registered Report® Colored Multipurpose Paper any noncompliance with advertising, promotion and sponsorship rules and codes. (PR6 and PR7) Likewise, we have not received any claims in relation to privacy violation or loss of customer data. The strict compliance with our Code of Conducts guidelines contributes to the aforementioned, where all information related to the industry. Therefore, we have not registered any noncustomers must remain confidential. Moreover, our stanconformities or impacts of our products and services on dard contracts include a non-disclosure clause and estabhealth and safety. In relation to labeling, supply and use, lish a breach of contract for a partnership in the event of our pulp’s packaging and safety data sheets contain all innoncompliance. Additionally, we have a contract with an formation on the product and service and the paper area independent company responsible for managing emails strictly complies with Brazilian law on this matter. Despite sent to customers, and a controlled access system restrictthis, an error in the metric description on the packaging or ed to electronic mail. (PR8) Report® Seninha paper caused us to receive three warnAlthough our products are not subject to health and ings from Instituto de Pesos e Medidas (IPEM – Measuresafety regulation, production processes are carried out ments and Weight Institute), resulting in a R$ 8,291.00 under strict internal control that complies with Brazilfine. The amount was paid and the packaging was fixed ian and international norms and standards applicable to immediately. (PR2, PR3, PR4 and PR9) Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Suppliers 8.5 Supplier management was deemed one of our strengths in the Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade 2010 (2010 Exame was the score that Sustainability Guide), which chose the 20 model companies Suzano received in Brazil in corporate social responsibility. Our score was 8.5, from the Exame Sustainability Guide much higher than the overall company average of 5.1. for corporate social One of the factors that allowed us to stand out was the responsibility fact that we give priority to local labor, resulting in benefits not only for the communities but also for both our own and our partners’ business. If on the one hand these professionals allow us to understand, respect and preserve regional cultures, on the other they are motivated by us to cause it strengthens the relationship of trust and guaranincrement their results. tees them the peace of mind they need to plan their flows. In that sense, one of the programs we have is the Suzano Our policy of preferring local partners was also applied Suppliers Award, given since 2006. The objective of the within the Northeast extension scope. We held two meetaward is to disseminate our practices directed at sustainable ings with these professionals, in Imperatriz and São Luis, management and to value our partners’ actions. Categories in the state of Maranhão, resulting in 186 companies reginclude supplies, services, logistics, and innovation. The proistered. Thus, we closed the year with 3,651 active suppligram also chooses the Supplier of the Year. In 2010, criteria ers – expenditures with these professionals was 66% in were restructured and we included topics related to occuSão Paulo, 8% in Bahia and 6% in Espírito Santo. (EC6) In 66 pational safety and social and environmental responsibility. order to select material suppliers or service providers, we Winners were Comgás (supplies), Tide Florestal (services), adopted strict criteria so as to comply with labor, fiscal and Embrac (logistics), and Dupont (innovation). Comgás was environmental laws as well as social and environmental chosen supplier of the year. conduct and to protect the health of these company’s emAnother one of our initiatives for adding value which ployees. These issues, as well as the adoption of practices was intensified during the period was closing long term that respect human rights, are also set forth in all of our contracts, an advantage for both parties: for us, because standard contract. Furthermore, we hold annual audits at they result in gains in costs and terms; for our partners, becritical suppliers to certify that they are not using child or slave labor or unfit labor practices. In 2010, we carried out 25 audits, which accounts for 6% of the total amount of Active Suppliers per Region (EC6) critical suppliers. We did not find any noncompliance with 2008 2009 2010 any of these rules. We are also committed to the Programa Region Suppliers % Suppliers % Suppliers % Na Mão Certa (In the Right Hands Program), to fight sexual São Paulo 2,285 71.25 2,019 71.37 2,425 66.42 exploitation of children and teenagers. The guidelines of Bahia 232 7.23 181 6.40 308 8.44 this program are constantly disseminated among suppliEspírito 196 6.11 170 6.01 232 6.35 ers. (HR1, HR2, HR5, HR6 and HR7) Santo Minas The Forestry Partnership Program is yet another mecha– – – – 126 3.45 Gerais nism through which we contribute to the social and ecoMaranhão – – – – 149 4.08 nomic development of the regions where we operate. In Piauí – – – – 103 2.82 2010 it was reformulated and began to focus more on Tocantins – – – – 7 0.20 small farmers. (Learn more in the Operational PerforOthers – 15.41 – 16.12 301 8.24 mance/Forestry Business Unit chapter). Total 2,713 100 2,370 100 3,651 100 Annual Sustainability Report 67 Alambari nursery (São Paulo) Government and Society Our commitment to sustainability can be seen on sevand the Brazilian Corporate Council for Sustainable Develeral fronts. We are a signatory member of the Brazilian opment (Cebeds), which is the Brazilian representative of Global Compact Committee, a UN initiative to mobilize the the World Business Council for Sustainable Development corporate community in adopting ten principles related to (WBCSD). (GRI 4.12) human rights, labor relations, the environment, and the In 2010, we signed the Corporate Charter for the Presfight against corruption. We are also signatories of the ervation and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity, launched in UN’s Eight Millennium Goals to be reached by 2015, which September by the Corporate Movement for Preservation cover eradication of poverty, health, quality of life, and the and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity (MEB). In this docuenvironment, as well as the Corporate Pact for Integrity ment, companies have voluntarily undertaken many comand Against Corruption, sponsored by the Instituto Ethos mitments to benefit Brazilian biodiversity and have submitde Negócios e Responsabilidade Social and the United Nated many proposals to the federal government with that tions Development Program (UNDP), and the National pact purpose. A representative of our Sustainability department for the Eradication of slave labor, also coordinated by Ethos also participated in the United Nations Conference of the Institute and by the International Labor Organization (ILO). Parties (COP 16) for Climate Change, held in December in We are moreover part of the Sustainable Amazon Forum Cancun, Mexico. 68 Capoeira workshop at the Golfinho Education Center, Mucuri (Bahia) Transparency in our relationship with the government is also a part of our financial contributions made to political parties and candidates to office. The donations are either made as products (paper) or cash, in a reputable manner observing legislation in force and according with the norms of our Code of Conduct. In the 2010 elections, funds were donated to political parties or candidates without any ideological discrimination. The list of parties and candidates that Parque das Neblinas park, São Paulo received the donations in 2010 can be seen at the Electoral Superior Court (TSE) website: www.tse.gov.br. (SO6) Moreover, we are members of many Brazilian and inOur ethical conduct also translates into actions to settle ternational entities that advocate for social and environany potential cases of corruption. It is part of the internal mental advances, such as the Forest Stewardship Counaudit procedures, which seeks to identify potential deviation cil (FSC) and Ethos Institute, and which also advocate for risks by mapping our processes. The audit cycle takes place the interests of our industry with the Brazilian Pulp and every three years, whereby the most critical processes are Paper Association (Bracelpa), Brazil Pulp and Paper Techaudited on an annual basis, which is valid for all units. Our nical Association (ABTCP), Brazilian Planted Forests FarmCode of Conduct, which also establishes norms related to ers Association (Abraf) and the Florestar Fund. We have the topic, was subject matter of an online course available also developed partnerships with some globally renowned to all of our employees in our distance learning portal. (SO2 non-governmental organizations, such as The Nature Conand SO3) servancy (TNC) and the World Wildlife Fund (WWF). (GRI During the period, there were no registered cases of cor4.13) ruption in our units. We also were not mentioned in legal 69 We have contributed to the development of public poliproceedings for unfair competition, trust and monopoly cies through these organizations, as well as through our practices, nor were we subject to fines or penalties for non own initiatives. Some examples include work developed compliance with the law and regulations. (SO4, SO7 and SO8) through a partnership with the Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV) to adapt to the national reality of the GHG Protocol—a methodology used to account for greenhouse effect gases—and the creation of National Reading Day, in 2009, which resulted from articulation with the Ecofuturo Cooperana – Seamstress Coop of Juerana, city of Institute, which is maintained by us. Additionally, one of Caravelas (Bahia) our executives chairs the ISO 26000 Global Committee; the ISSO 26000 is a manual of guidelines and guidance launched at the end of 2010 so that companies include social responsibility in their business strategies. We monitor the legislative agenda and other topics of our concern and that concern the pulp and paper industry. Moreover we maintain the Internal Governmental Affairs System (SIAG), a tool available through the internet that contains the biographies of federal political officials and also the biographies for the state and municipal officials of where we operate. (SO5) Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Communities In 2010, we extended our Social Performance Matrix We are also able to improve our dialog with local groups to every state where we work. Developed in 2009 at the through the Social Performance Matrix, by using the SuMucuri Unit, it gathers a set of tools for diagnosing and zano em Campo (Suzano in the Field) book, which guides relating with communities neighboring our forestry areas. employees in regards to their relationship with neighbors Among the initiatives connected with it, we can highlight that surround our units. In all of them, our own employees the Social Inventory, carried out before we begin any acand outsourced employees were trained and they visit the tivities in order to prevent any potential impacts, identify communities periodically, so as to promote the relationthe community’s social assets and maintain an active diaship and register their requirements. In 2010, we received log with them. When carrying out this work, we mark the 1,240 manifestations through this channel, whereby most areas that have a social and environmental conservation of them (86%) were in the state of Bahia, were the system value indentified on our premises–cemiteries and caryocar had been applied since the beginning of the year. Of said trees, for instance. With the help of another tool, the Tradimanifestations, 77% are requests type demand, that is, tional Community Characterization Instrument (ICCT), we specific support requests that include donating sports mamap the adjacent communities to our properties that have terial, sponsorships of popular festivities, visits to the mill traditional traits, such as quilombolas (descendents from and requests for paper and wood. Manifestations about slaves) and quebradeiras de coco babaçu (babassu coconut the impact of our operation, such as noise complaints, breakers), and have adopted practices to relate with them, dust and damage to property, represent 3% of the total. backed by external research and anthropologists’ opinions. In 2010, the Social Performance Matrix was selected to In 2010 there were no registered cases of violation of inbe part of the ranking for good social and environmental 70 digenous rights or any other type of settlement surroundpractices put out by the Brazilian Environmental Benching our units. (HR9) marking Program. (SO1) In the states of Maranhão and Piauí, where we are beginning our activities, we are taking advantage of the opportunity to create the relationships with the communities to show them how we operate. In addition to having met with entity representatives, community leaders and educational centers, we have participated in events such as the 10th Imperatriz Trade and Industry Show (Fecoimp), the 42nd Agricultural and Ranching Expo of Imperatriz (Expoimp), the 15th Regional Agricultural and Ranching Expo of Porto Franco (Expofran) and the Imperatriz Book Showroom. In Teresina (PI), we held the 1st Eucalyptus culture and Environment Seminar, a debate with the community about eucalyptus growing, its social and environmental impacts, and the means to manage them. We participated in Ruraltec, a trade show held by the Piauí Federal University where Agronomy students could visit our forests in the region. In the nine states where we operate, we have maintained and increased our social investments, focusing on guaranteeing food security. Within the scope of one of the Nelson Garcia Júnior, employee, at the Suzano na Escola Project, SP Annual Sustainability Report initiatives, the Community Agriculture Project, at the Piauí mill, five community farming fields were created. Rice, corn, beans and cassava will be farmed on these fields through a consortium, in an area of eight hectares per unit. In parallel to that initiative, workshops on consortium farming and seed selection were held with 190 families who were directly benefitted. At the Maranhão mill, we granted 189.3 hectares to implement the project, Golfinho Educational Association, Mucuri (BA) which will benefit 113 families. Another one of our initiatives at the Maranhão unit, Sustainable Extractivism will school infrastructure and promote reading. It was put into receive support from the Chico Mendes Institute, including practice in seven municipalities in the extreme south of the construction and refurbishment of two production units in state of Bahia, four in the north of Espírito Santo, and three two extractivism reserves in the region. In 2011, we will in the east of Minas Gerais. This initiative has directly trained continue our work to strengthen the local production arover one thousand instructors and involved another 11,600, rangement for the babassu coconut chain by building two in turn benefitting over 92,091 students. Additionally, 108 other production units. In all, 11 communities will benefit schools have underwent refurbishment since 2008. (EC8) (five in Tocantins and six in Maranhão). Sustainable ExtracTo carry out all of these initiatives, we invested R$ 41.9 tivism also takes place in Piauí, focused on the souari nut million over the year; these funds, along with internal soproduction chain.(EC8) cial and environmental projects, resulted in total funding In São Paulo, we continued with the Social Dialogs, by of R$ 80.8 million. promoting 17 meetings during the year, in eight municiIn order to stay in tune with the needs of stakeholders, palities (Alambari, Angatuba, Biritiba Mirim, Itatinga, Piwe have a Suzano Responde (Suzano Answers Hotline) 71 lar Do Sul, Paraibuna, Salesópolis, and São Miguel Arcancommunication channel which was set up to answer quesjo). As a result of the dialogs, we promoted Workshops tions and take suggestions and criticisms via email (suzato Develop Social and Environmental Projects aimed at noresponde@suzano.com.br). In 2010, we received 4,345 civil society and government representatives in two of the calls, of which 1,321 (30%) were made by people in the municipalities: São Miguel Arcanjo and Pilar Do Sul. A tocommunity with which we interact. tal of 48 representatives from institutions took part in the Of the total calls, 78% asked for information about workshops. They were trained in project development our operations and 9% requested information about our and funding. In the end, eight projects were developed products. The percentage of complaints was 2%. by the group to be used for local development. This year we are planning on promoting open bids for Educate and Train Program, partnership with the these communities in 2011. Ayrton Senna Institute The Educate and Train Program, carried out through a partnership with the Ayrton Senna Institute and local city halls continued to provide support to children in elementary school, to improve Investments in social and environmental responsibility (domestic and international) (SO1) DIMENSION OBJECTIVES MILLENNIUM GOALS Initiatives, programs and projects geared to generate Economic Development opportunities for the community through professionalization Goal 1: Eradicate hunger and poverty and income generation activities Initiatives, programs and campaigns focused on preventing diseases, providing health and dental assistance and Goal 4: Reduce child mortality Health maintaining clinics and hospitals. The activities benefit mainly Goal 5: Improve expectant mother health the communities where the companies are located, as well Goal 6: Fight AIDS, malaria and other diseases as their employees and family members Initiatives, programs, projects and campaigns focused on educational activities, incentives for courses and schools and encouraging development and professional training. Goal 2: Quality elementary and Education, Training and Professional Development The activities benefit mainly the communities where the secondary education for all companies are located, as well as their employees and family members Initiatives, programs and projects focused on environmental preservation, as well as awareness, especially among the younger generation, about the importance of the Environment Goal 7: Quality of life and respect for the environment environment and its preservation. Private Natural World Heritage Reserves of public use, under the responsibility of sector industries, are also recorded 72 Initiatives, programs and projects destined to redeem, Culture disseminate and encourage culture in Brazil, expanding Goal 8: Everybody working towards development access thereto Programs, projects, initiatives and campaigns destined to Goal 1: Eradicate hunger and poverty Community Support promote initiatives to foster citizenship, social reintegration, Goal 3: Equality between men and valuing women community service and encourage solidarity Initiatives, programs and projects designed to encourage sports activities, social integration and leisure, specifically for Sports, Integration and Leisure Goal 8: Everybody working towards development employees and family members, as well as the communities where the companies are located Initiatives, programs and projects focused on encouraging Volunteer Work and training company employees on volunteering and Goal 8: Everybody working towards development practice of their citizenship Subtotal Goal 2: Quality elementary and secondary education for all Goal 4: Reduce child mortality Investment in infrastructure carried out in the southern tip of Goal 5: Improve expectant mother health Mucuri Project/BNDES/Corporate Management Bahia State to construct the second pulp line at the Mucuri Goal 6: Fight AIDS, malaria and other diseases mill and investments in corporate management Goal 7: Quality of life and respect for the environment Goal 8: Everybody working towards development Subtotal OVERALL INVESTMENT TOTAL Annual Sustainability Report Suzano Pulp and Paper acknowledges the ISO 26.000 as a reference document that establishes social responsibility guidelines Number of people serviced TARGET MAIN PROJECTS Amount invested (in R$) Number of projects or benefitted 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Rural communities near the Suzano Productive Community, Sustainable Extractivism, (São Paulo State), Mucuri (Bahia State), 1,145,627 1,404,419 4 7 2,000 7,708 and Native Bees Projects. Maranhão and Minas Gerais Units State Mainly Suzano and Embu (São Paulo Paineiras Hospital, Sesi (employee participation), State), Mucuri (Bahia State), Imperatriz Dental Coverage, Health Coverage (does not include (Maranhão State) and Teresina 23,341,086 28,713,808 6 8 116,339 49,269 employee participation), Employee Fitness Program, (Piauí State) Units employees and Quality of Life Week family members Scholarships, and Educar e Formar (Educate and Train) Urban and rural communities near the Program, Seedling Project, Formare, Encouraging Suzano and Embu (São Paulo State), Undergraduate Education, Professional Training, Mucuri (Bahia State), and Urbano Estudar é Crescer (Learning Leads to Development Santos (Maranhão State) Units, in Program), School Material Assistance, School 11,995,696 14,320,329 14 22 204,756 163,958 addition to schools throughout Material Kit, Schools (Maintenance of Casa do Brazil that have been granted the Estudante in Bahia and other schooling units), Junior Ecofuturo Award Guard, Children Maranhão Education Center, 1st Sustainability Education Ecofuturo Award Monitoring the environment, water resources and fauna population, FSC certification adjustments, Urban and rural communities ecology trails, data collection on mammals, additional surrounding the Suzano and Embu sampling of stacks and consumption material, 8,791,118 26,189,422 17 27 1,330,351 2,701 (São Paulo State), and Mucuri Units water and effluents monitoring, nursery studies and (Bahia State), and forests research, climate change, recovery initiatives, forestry dialogs, Pomar Project, dredging of a lake and effluent treatment Symphony, the EmCantando Choir, Max Feffer Choir, Urban and rural communities near the 73 Eucalyptus Band, Bumba Meu Boi Folklore Festivity, Suzano and Embu (São Paulo State), Sociedade Cultura Artística (Arts and Culture Society), Mucuri (Bahia State), and Maranhão Foundation Apoio of the University of São Paulo/ Units State, employees, family 3,487,365 2,744,398 12 13 252,144 2,110 Mindlin Library, Ler é Preciso Community Libraries, Ler members and third parties, schools e Escrever é Preciso Cultural Contest, Cine Tela Brasil, throughout Brazil through the Fliporto Paraty Cultural Contest and Pernambuco Urban and rural communities near the Associação Golfinho, support provided to the NGO Suzano and Embu (São Paulo State), Ecofuturo Institute, Social and Environmental SubMucuri (Bahia State), and Maranhão committee donations, Funds Defending the Rights of 4,442,020 5,470,121 6 9 5,428 91,500 Units State, employees, family Children and Teenagers, Social Indicators and Social members and third parties Dialogs and About Suzano Urban communities near the Mucuri Unit (Bahia State), employees, family members and third parties. Races in Expenses with clubs (CAM and GREJE), Confeder the states of São Paulo, Minas Gerais, Brazilian Judo initiative, IV Supercopa basketball 875,631 852,871 5 4 131,262 1,877 Rio de Janeiro, Federal District and tournament in the Northeast Rio Grande do Sul, as well as in the northeast region Urban and rural communities near the Suzano and Embu (São Paulo Social Programs/Campaigns, Suzano at School/Junior State), and Mucuri Units (Bahia State), 78,333 178,412 4 4 10,155 8,850 Achievement, Reading Day, Reading Sponsors employees, family members and third parties 54,156,876 79,708,909 68 94 2,052,435 327,973 Urban and rural communities near the Social Center, Sustainability Master Plan, Mucuri Unit (Bahia State), employees, 1,200,000 976,234 6 3 4,336 3,730 In the FIELD Suzano publication Piauí and Maranhão States 1,200,000 976,234 6 3 4,336 3,730 55,356,876 80,850,014 62 71 2,056,771 331,703 Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 The Ecofuturo Institute As sponsors of the Ecofuturo Institute, we share the same mission as the Civil Society Organization of Public Interest (Oscip); of creating and disseminating knowledge and practices for the collective construction of a culture of sustainability with individuals and social groups. The Institute believes that knowing how to read, write, and debate effectively is essential to accessing the knowledge necessary for promoting sustainability for all living things. Thus, it works to influence public policy by partnering with institutions, companies, the government, researchers, the community and universities through programs based on models that can be replicated. Created in 1999, the Reading is Necessary program seeks to contribute to reducing functional illiteracy, preparing new generations to critically use language and develop competency in written communication. It Reading and Writing is accordingly seeks to develop a sustainability culture both on Necessary Community Library, COOPAMARE an individual and community level. The following projects are cooperative, São Paulo part of Reading is Necessary program: Reading is Necessary Community Library: currently seeks to promote reading, contemplation and authorship there are a total of 85 units in 11 Brazilian states. These through the written word, promoting interaction between 74 libraries receive approximately 500 individuals on a monthly participants and the topics chosen based on access to spebasis who take advantage of 138,600 books and 112 comcific preselected and produced sources. Private and public puters made available. Through this program, that receives school students and teachers, social educators, and pubtechnical advise from the Brazilian Foundation of Children’s lic and community library professionals throughout Brazil Literature (FNLIJ), a total of 2,247 reading coaches and limay participate. The theme of the 7th edition, launched brary aides have been trained, of which 994 are public last November and scheduled to end November 2011, is school teachers Theses coaches and aides are responsible Let’s Take Care of Life. The goal is to foster reading, reflecfor assisting readers when selecting/understanding books. tion and debate regarding the necessary care required for Indicators: Ricardo Paes de Barros, from the Institute of quality of life for all living things, which is done by using Applied Economic Research (Ipea), conducted a number of literary pieces as a reference for reflection and writing. The surveys to analyze the Reading is Necessary Community Litop 60 texts will be published in a collective book. The brary project in regard to its sustainability and its impact on last contest, which ended in 2008, mobilized 550,000 stuacademic performance. These surveys resulted in indicators dents, 9,200 guidance counselors, 3,200 teacher contest that are able to measure the quality of the services provided participants, and 7,200 schools from 2,980 municipalities by the libraries and their impact on factors such as school spread throughout 17 Brazilian states. dropout and grade promotion rates. According to the study, National Reading Day (October 12): established by there was a 46% decline in the normal dropout rates beLaw 11.899/09 as result of the networking efforts carried tween 2000 and 2005 for schools in areas neighboring the out by The Ecofuturo Institute since 2006, this day seeks libraries in comparison with other schools. The grade proto create awareness and educate society about the impormotion rate increased natural progress by 156%. tance of reading literature as from infancy. In 2010, the Ler e Escrever é Preciso (Reading and Writing is campaign’s website was completely redesigned to share Necessary) Cultural Contest: biennial contest that content regarding the subject. The new website included Annual Sustainability Report first-time publication of the book What is Literature For? (“Pra que serve a literatura?”) with articles from 10 different authors and researchers. The Institute talked to both industry and non-industry players, including 51 institutions and 400 non-governmental organizations, and was thus able to engage 3.5 million people. A group of visitors at the Parque das Neblinas auditorium, São Paulo Ecofuturo Education for Sustainability Award: in its 2nd edition, and taking advantage of the fact that 2010 Reserves Program, which provides technical assistance and was the International Year of Biodiversity, the organizers consulting to landowners, government agencies, non-govchose the theme of Knowing How To Care to invite public ernmental organizations and companies that own forestry and private school teachers to prepare and submit projects reserve areas. The goal of the Program is to diagnose the that promote sustainability lessons in a wider context. The current scenario, develop management programs, and selection criteria included: creativity, originality and uniquemanage public or private Preservation Units in order to proness; suitability of the proposal for the target audience; mote protection and recovery of the natural environment, centralization within a transversal theme; multidisciplinary social development of local communities, and consolidate potential; coherence with the theme and reference works ties between the private sector and society. provided by the Ecofuturo Institute Additionally, Ecofuturo runs Programa Investimento Given the national reach of the contest, 290 projects were Reciclável (Recyclable Investment Program), offering supsubmitted from 26 states. The projects prepared by the ten port to recyclable material collector coops and associafinalists will be included in the Knowing How to Care book, tions seeking to improve production and management volume 2, with the authors will receiving R$ 3,000 each and processes as well as increase productivity, ultimately imthe schools where they teach receiving computers. proving income potential. 75 In terms of the environment, the Ecofuturo Institute manThe Recyclable Investment Program is the result of a ages Parque das Neblinas, an old eucalyptus tree farm that partnership between Suzano Pulp and Paper, the Santandbelonged to Suzano. Because of its characteristics, we decider Group, the Avina Foundation and the Banco do Brasil ed to transform it into a mosaic of Preservation Units in the Foundation, coordinated by the Ecofuturo Institute. The 90s. On the 2,788-hectare area, research and management third year of the program, in 2010, benefited three coops. programs are developed to spread knowledge in partnerIn total, the institute now supports 14 entities in achieving ship with renowned educational and environmental instituautonomy and sustainability as a business unit. tions and the Mogi das Cruzes and Bertioga City Halls – muFor the first time, Ecofuturo published its Social Report. nicipalities where the Park is located. There are three lines of The purpose of the report is to identify, from year to year, research: biodiversity surveys (birds, mammals, amphibians, in detail, the origin of funds, where they are invested, fish, plants, and insects), restoration of the Atlantic Coastal and employee social indicators, among other figures and Rain Forest (analysis of old eucalyptus plantings), and forestinformation. ry product management (palm tree, heliconia, cambuci, and The report was prepared based on the model developed wood). To encourage reflection on the relationship between by the Brazilian Institute for Social and Economic Analysis humans and the environment, the Parque das Neblinas can (Ibase), an organization founded by sociologist Herbert de be visited through the Visitor Program, which includes trainSouza (also known as “Betinho”) and it is available online ing for local guides to accompany visitors and promote enat: www.ecofuturo.org.br. The website was also relaunched vironmental awareness. Since the initiative started in 2003, this year. The result was a simpler, more direct and wellover 16,000 people have visited the area. organized channel that helps internet users find what they Based on the experience acquired in managing the Parque are looking for in a few clicks, converging with other digital das Neblinas, the Ecofuturo Institute created the Ecofuturo media such as Facebook, Twitter, Youtube and blogs. Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 76 Mosaic planting: preservation of native forests, Mucuri (Bahia) Annual Sustainability Report 77 Natural Capital Preserving and taking care of biodiversity allied with innovative initiatives, such as calculating our carbon footprint, are all part of our environmental activities Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 The Environment Our practices clearly show our commitment to sustainIn 2010, we delved deeper into this area by concludability; maintaining 256,000 hectares of FSC-certified (Foring our Sustainability Master Plan in partnership with the est Stewardship Council) areas and being the first pulp and Ecofuturo Institute, through which we intend to become paper company to calculate its carbon footprint. a reference in this area. This platform seeks to consolidate the lessons we have learned, expand our knowledge, take advantage of successful internal and external experiences, strengthen our relationship with stakeholders, and make sure we take sustainability issues into consideration in our strategic decisions. We believe that sustainability is the ability to allow growth cycles to renew themselves—this means creating bases for growth that integrate competitive operations, social and environmental responsibility, and quality relationships. We therefore worked beyond the triple bottom line concept to develop the Plan. Not only does it cover environmental, social and economic issues, but it also included components related to innovation, governance and communication. Based on these six dimensions, we established 38 guiding, which we will use to move for78 ward in 2011 in the following phases: initiative and project results, definition of goals and indicators, revision of procedures and policies, internal and external dissemination, and oversight. At the same time, we continued initiatives to reduce the impacts of our industrial activity on the environment. To do this, we invested R$ 22.5 million, achieving positive results on several fronts, especially those related to water consumption and waste disposal. In the Forestry Business Unit, investment in environmental projects and activities totaled R$ 3.5 million (which does not include the Maranhão and Piauí units); this includes quantitative and qualitative surveys of microbasins spread throughout our areas, as well as of the flora and fauna. (EN30) As a consequence of our responsible conduct, during the year, we received no fines or non-monetary sanctions for incompliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations in our industry. (EN28) The Trilha da Cachoeira (Waterfall Trail), Parque das Neblinas (São Paulo) Annual Sustainability Report Atmospheric Emissions In 2010, as result of the market’s recognition of our iniThe actions that drove most of our projects were partictiatives related to climate change, we were granted three ularly concentrated on two fronts. One of them is the Corimportant awards: the Época Award on Climate Changes, porate Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Inventory, carried sponsored by Época magazine; the title of Model Compaout since 2003, which uses the GHG Protocol methodolny by Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade (Exame Magazine’s ogy and seeks to quantify emissions of these gasses in a Sustainability Guide); and the Best in the Sector Award in particular phase of the production chain. In 2010, the findthe Sustainability category, granted by the Brazilian Pulp ings compared to the prior period totaled 981,646 tons and Paper Technical Association (ABTCP). of equivalent CO2, which under scopes 1, 2, and 3 of the inventory. (‘6, EN17 and EN18) Emission Inventory* (EN16 and EN17) 2008 2009 2010**** Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight**(in tons of CO2) 996,295 743,140 798,656 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight***(in tons of CO2) 227,846 160,085 257,656 * This inventory does not include the new areas in the states of Maranhão and Piauí, given that in 2008 they had not yet been acquired. ** Scopes 1, 2, and 3 of the Greenhouse Gasses Inventory carried out every year by the Company are included in the indicator. The concept of scope is in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG protocol. *** Scopes 1, 2, and 3 of the Greenhouse Gasses Inventory carried out every year by the Company are included in the indicator. The concept of scope is in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG protocol. **** This year we included SPP-Nemo emissions, our division that specializes in the distribution of printing products in Brazil, as well as our Home Office. 79 Scope 1: Direct GHG Emissions – Suzano GHG emissions (physical emissions) which encompasses emissions from the burning of fuel, manufacturing processes, waste treatment and the transportation of company assets. Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions – liquid emissions from the import and export of power, as is the case with imported and exported electricity and steam. Scope 3: Other indirect GHG emissions – all of the other sources of emissions that can possibly be attributed to the company’s activities. Outsourced transport services were included in this scope. Carbon Footprint We carried out the Corporate The other front, whose scope of calculation is greater than the Corporate Emissions Inventory and which we Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions were pioneers in 2009, is the carbon footprint survey of Inventory in 2003 our products. In 2010 we obtained the first results for pulp footprints produced at the Mucuri Unit Suzano Pulp®. This required approximately R$ 160,000 in investuntil their final disposal, using the product life cycle anaments. (EC2) lytical approach. The carbon footprint calculates Greenhouse Gas EmisThe results of the Suzano Pulp carbon footprint were sions associated with all of the phases of a product’s lifecalculated using the PAS 2050 methodology, subsequently cycle; in other words, from the production of industrial validated and certified by the Carbon Trust, which grants and forestry products used in the manufacturing process the “Carbon Reduction Label” seal. Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 The PAS 2050 methodology is the most recognized and We are the first pulp and paper the only one publicly available for measuring the carbon footprint of products using a lifecycle analysis approach. company in the world, and the The Carbon Trust is a British institution recognized worldfirst in Latin America in any field, wide for promoting a low carbon economy. The results of to measure the carbon footprints the Suzano pulp carbon footof all its products following the print, shown in the table below, are presented by region PAS 2050 methodology and where Suzano pulp is sold. obtaining the “Carbon Reduction Label” certificate. Suzano Pulp® (Mucuri Unit) Carbon Region GHG Inventory Footprint 900 kg of CO2e/ 383 kg of CO2e/tons col, both of which are spearheaded by the Getúlio Vargas China tons of pulp of pulp Foundation (FGV), the Climate Forum (sponsored by the 750 kg of CO2e/ 383 kg of CO2e/tons Europe Ethos Institute), and the Technical Committee on Climate tons of pulp of pulp 800 kg of CO2e/ 383 kg of CO2e/tons Change of the Brazilian Pulp and Paper Technical AssociaUnited States tons of pulp of pulp tion (ABTCP) as well as the Thematic Committee on Energy and Climate Change directed by the Brazilian Business 80 Council for Sustainable Development (CEBDS). We also This project made Suzano the first pulp and paper commonitored international negotiations related to the matter pany in the world, and the first in Latin America in any through a partnership with the Institute for International field, to measure the carbon footprints of all its products Trade Negotiations (Icone). following the PAS 2050 methodology and obtaining the “Carbon Reduction Label” certificate. It will continue in 2011 and will be extended to other Suzano products. Based on the results of the Corporate Emissions Inventory and the carbon footprint, we mapped opportunities to reduce emissions and began feasibility studies for these projects in order to fulfill our commitment to reduce GHGs as established with the certifying institution. For the fourth consecutive year, in 2010, we also completed the questionnaire developed by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an independent organization that has the largest global database regarding corporate impact on climate change. Furthermore, we participated in the Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX), the largest carbon credit exchange for carbon originating from planted forests, and participated in a number of initiatives related to climate change, including: Empresas pelo Clima (Pro-Climate Companies) and the Brazilian Chapter of the GHG ProtoAnnual Sustainability Report Emissions Management (EN 19 and EN 20) tons Mucuri Industrial Unit Emissions 2008 2009 2010 SOx (total) 627 1,073.25 420.1 NOx (total) 787 888,56 1,193.9* Particulate Material (total) 3,066 3,167 3,248 TRS (total) 11 67 28.9 Suzano Industrial Unit Emissions 2008 2009 2010 SOx (total) 131 159.62 161.46 NOx (total) 729 1,980.55 2,070.88** Particulate Material (total) 322 236.87 256.89*** TRS (total) 2.18 2.59 1.75 Embu Industrial Unit* Emissions 2008 2009 2010 NOx 8.68 7.54 4.62 Rio Verde Industrial Unit* Emissions 2008 2009 2010 NOx (total) – 83 NA 81 *Considering L1 and L2 pulp production only. Increase resulting from the instability of the production process ** This year new boilers were included in the sample system (CBC1 and CBC2 and natural gas) *** Estimate calculated based on the 2009 sample (CBC3) because of the questions raised in relation to the figures calculated in 2010 Eucalyptus plantation, Mucuri Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Sertão Waterfall (Itatinga River), Parque das Neblinas 82 Water Our challenge is to be a benchmark in regard to water In 2010, these actions were reinforced by consumpconsumption by 2017. Thus we continually teach employtion optimization projects as well as by the use of Six ees about the need to avoid waste, by requesting them Sigma methodology tools able to identify specific issues to submit ideas for the Click Award (15 of which were and their respective solutions. The highlight was an iniapproved and adopted over the year) as well as the need tiative developed at the Rio Verde Unit which involved to for operational initiatives along the same line. Some partially closing the water and effluent circuit, resultnoteworthy ideas included the establishment, within the ing in reuse of one-third of the effluent in the producStrategic Planning Cycle, of daily consumption targets (of tion process. This proportionally reduced the volume of all which were in 2010 by all industrial units), daily moniwaste disposed into the water source. The waste gentoring of the progress of these targets on a public electronerated is treated, making it suitable to return into the ic panel, and the continuation of Workgroups specifically environment, thus complying with and even exceeding aimed at dealing with this topic. legal requirements. Annual Sustainability Report Water Management (EN 8 and EN 9) 2008 2009 2010 Mucuri Unit Total water Mucuri River water consumption (specific) 33.0 m3/t 32.6 m3/t 29.8 m3/t consumption per source Mucuri River water consumption (total)* 52,406,046 m3 53,584,020 m3 52,754,560 m³ 2008 2009 2010 Suzano Industrial Unit Total water Tietê River water consumption (specific) 41.05 m3/t 37.04 m3/t 34.36 m3/t** consumption per source Tietê River water consumption (total) 27,950,700 m3 24,108,936 m3 24,342,846 m3** Water sources Tietê River flow (total) 41,400 m3/h 91,067 m3/h 114,000 m3/h significantly Water consumption (total) 3,190 m3/h 2,752 m3/h 2,770 m3/h affected by water withdrawal % of withdrawal 7,71 3.03 2.44 2008 2009 2010 Rio Verde Industrial Unit Total water Tietê River water consumption (specific) 18.37 m3/t 18.74 m3/t 16.34 m3/t consumption per source Tietê River water consumption (total) 1,014,751 m3 926,091 m3 882,454 m3 83 2008 2009 2010 Embu Industrial Unit Embu-Mirim River water consumption (specific) 9.6 m3/t 7.9 m3/t 6,7 m3/t*** Total water Embu-Mirim River water consumption (total) 477,525 m3 301,287 m3 285,395 m3 consumption per source Groundwater consumption (total) 22,375 m3 22,562 m3 23.403 m3 Water consumption (total) 499,900 m3 323,849 m3 308.798 m3 2008 2009 2010 Forestry Unit Nurseries and outlet consumption – Bahia 105,152.04 m3 123,836.72 m3 134.550,96 m3**** Nurseries and outlet consumption – São Paulo 47,323 m3 55,473 m3 58.139,04 m3 Total water consumption 3.76 m3/thousand 4.13 m3/thousand 4.29 m3/thousand Nurseries and outlet consumption – Bahia (specific) per source seedlings seedlings seedlings 2.66 m3/thousand 4.74 m3/thousand 3.31 m3/thousand Nurseries and outlet consumption – São Paulo (specific) seedlings seedlings seedlings *The amount of water captured from the Mucuri River represents 0.1% of the average annual flow ** Includes Taiaçupeba *** It also considers the consumption of underground water. ****This number considers the consumption of water in the nurseries. In the MA and PI units no data is available since they do not yet have their own nurseries. In the region of the Mucuri unit, water consumed for planting is considered insignificant and, therefore, authorization is unnecessary. Until 2009, a combined number was reported for the Bahia and São Paulo units. Starting in 2010, their numbers were expressed separately. Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 84 Mucuri Unit (Bahia) Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) Annual Sustainability Report Effluents and Solid Waste In 2010 we successfully took on the challenge of reducing and promoting correct disposal, in line with an internal guideline to completely eliminate waste by 2012. We made a great effort to commercialize and use materials more efficiently, which involved entering into regional partnerships with small farmers, especially at Mucuri. At a symbolic cost, we supplied them with some of the eucalyptus hulls which have high heat content when burned. We reused the rest of the material to correct soil in planted areas. The same occurred with lime mud, 100% of which was sold. Furthermore, the Company developed a revolutionary project in 2010 that is still in the environmental licensing and technical analysis phase by the São Paulo State Waste Center. The project will send all the waste from the Suzano and Rio Verde units to companies that will transform it into agricultural supplies. The goal is to add value to the material by forming blends – an experience that has already been tested by both the industrial and forestry areas and which proved successful. After pro85 cessing, the agricultural supply produced using the waste will returned to the Company and be used on our eucalyptus plantations in the state of São Paulo, closing a cycle, which is not only aimed at stopping this waste from going to landfills, but also at guaranteeing effective reuse. We hope that project approval by the appropriate government agencies is concluded by mid-2011 so that The Mucuri Unit was able it will be implemented in the state of São Paulo by the 9% to reduce its effluents by end of the year. We will therefore be better prepared to replicate it in other regions. Also in relation to effluents, we made noteworthy investments in 2010, specifically at the Mucuri Unit, where we were able to significantly reduce the organic load at the outflow of the Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP). They were able to obtain these results thanks to operational management of the area, which included optimization of the processes and more efficient control of chemical product losses. The ETP also underwent operational improvements, such as the addition of pure oxygen. All of these initiatives had a great impact both on the state as well as plant performance. Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Effluent and Waste Management (EN 21, EN 22, EN 24 and EN 25) 2008 2009 2010 Mucuri Industrial Unit Generation of liquid effluents 45,681,703 m3 46,224,461 m3 42,851,521 m3 Total water discharge Organic load (DBO5) in the final effluent (total) 1,686 t 1,684 t 1295 t by quality and destination Chemical oxygen demand (DQO) in the final effluent (total) 18,542 t 19,795 t 19,668 t Absorbable halogens (AOx) in the final effluent (total) 118 t 85 t 125 t * Total weight of waste Hazardous waste 93 t ND 15,4 t by type and disposal method Non-hazardous waste 228,434 t 262,397 t 398,753 t Composting 52,739 t ND 0 Weight of waste Recycling 7,758 t 7,671 t 91,554 t transported, imported, exported, or treated Recovery ND 37,838 t – that is considered to be hazardous under Incineration 2,161 t 12,361 t – the terms of the Basel Convention Landfill 69,524 t 70,748 t 221,936 t Stored at the site 96,249 t 133,779 t 50,745 t 86 2008 2009 2010 Suzano Industrial Unit Generation of liquid effluents 28,385,096 m3 24,952,374 m3 22,927,848 m3 Total water discharge Organic load (DBO5) in the final effluent (total) 694 t 649 t 640 t by quality and destination Chemical oxygen demand (DQO) in the final effluent (total) 5,189 t 4,377 t 4,021 t Absorbable halogens (AOx) in the final effluent (total) 32.7 t 24.31 t 18 t Total weight of waste Hazardous waste 8.8 t 27 t 63 t ** by type and disposal method Non-hazardous waste 121,473 t 86,672 t 113,168 t *** Reuse 104,615 t 59,586 t 36,236 t Weight of waste Recycling – – 33,266 t transported, imported, exported, or treated Recovery – – 10,757 t that is considered to be hazardous under Incineration <1t 7.64 t 0.02 t **** the terms of the Basel Convention Landfill 25,667 t 27,119 t 33,299 t Stored at the site 30,000 t 30,000 t 33,299 t Identification, size, Tietê River flow 41,400 m /h 3 91,067 m /h3 114,000 m3/h protection status and rate of biodiversity of bodies of water and habitats significantly Effluent flow 3,206 m3/h 2,850 m3/h 2,617 m3/h affected by water discharge and drainage Annual Sustainability Report 2008 2009 2010 Rio Verde Industrial Unit Generation of liquid effluents 934,771 m3 842,815 m3 796,360 m3 Total water discharge by quality and Organic load (DBO5) in the final effluent (total) 127 t 118 t 64 t destination Chemical oxygen demand (DQO) in the final effluent (total) 435 t 301 t 144 t 32,751 t Total weight of waste Hazardous waste <1t <1 t ***** by type and disposal method Non-hazardous waste 4,894 t 2,086 t 9571 t ***** Reuse 4,894 t 1,334 t 0 Weight of waste Recycling – – 8,288 t transported, imported, exported, Recovery – – 744 t or treated that is considered to be Incineration <1t <1t 0.01 ****** hazardous under the terms of the Basel 427.48 t Landfill 427.5 t 390.8 t Convention ******* On-site storage 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 87 Embu Industrial Unit Generation of liquid effluents 482,902 m3 288,376 m3 265,729 m3 Total water discharge by quality and Organic load (DBO5) in the final effluent (total) 4.34 t 2.5 t 1.9 t destination Chemical oxygen demand (DQO) in the final effluent (total) 56.17 t 37.63 t 33.3 t Total weight of waste Hazardous waste – 3.0 t 85.5 t by type and disposal method Non-hazardous waste 2,917 t 2,057 t 3,035,4 t Reuse 16 t 519 t 233 t Weight of waste Recycling 123 t 809.53 t 954. 2 t transported, imported, Recovery – – – exported, or treated that is considered to 1.84 t be hazardous under Incineration 0.006 t 0.0035 t ******** the terms of the Basel Convention Landfill 2,917 t 2,057 t 1,979.5 t On-site storage 0 2.96 t 0 *Resulting from the increased use of active chlorine because of pulp quality problems. **Stored waste was sent for recovery. ***Increase arising from direct dredging of lakes (not carried out in 2009): primary sludge that was classified for recycling and mainly the wood “knots.” This waste, however, is recycled internally, and returns to the pulp extraction process. ****Incineration of health center waste; organic solvents were not incinerated. ***** Waste added that was not computed or sent to the units, especially secondary sludge that is recycled internally. ******Only lab waste was incinerated. *******Different figures published in 2008 and 2009, since other types of waste were included that were not previously considered. ********Increase as a result of accumulation from previous years, when only health center waste was sent to be incinerated. Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Energy and Chemical Recovery Our industrial operations are managed with a view with virgin lime, which together with sodium sulfate toward reducing energy consumption and creating selfand soda, will produce green and white liquor, which sufficient generation. At the Mucuri Unit, for example, may return to the beginning of the process for a new we produce 97.8% of the energy consumed internally, wood cooking cycle, with minimal replacement. mostly using renewable sources, such as wood waste. These actions have resulted in gains such as those reportThis is possible thanks to the chemical recovery process ed by the Suzano Unit, which in 2010 consumed 358,195 we use at our mills. It enables us to recover the chemiGJ/t of BPF fuel; accounting for 68% less than in 2009. cals used in pulping and at the same time allows us to The power required to operate the Suzano, Embu and use the waste from the wood cooking process to generRio Verde Units comes from the Amador Aguiar Hydroelecate energy. The chemical recovery process is concluded tric Plant. Suzano owns 17.9% of the Hydroelectric Plant. 88 Employee Edney Sávio da Silva, Suzano Unit (São Paulo) Annual Sustainability Report Energy Management (EN3 and EN5) 2008 2009 2010 Mucuri Unit Direct power Purchased electricity consumption 156,403.5 90,964 119,700 consumption Consumption of electricity produced at mill 3,973,549.90 4,043,260 3,977,712 specified according to primary source BPF Fuel oil consumption 2,794,350 2,049,453 2,344,248 of energy (GJ) 2008 2009 2010 Suzano Industrial Unit Direct power Purchased electricity consumption 1,433,265 1,459,983 1,510,800 consumption Consumption of electricity produced at mill 890,489 737,278 801,553.26 specified according to primary source BPF fuel consumption 664,493.18 1,135,422.08 358,195 of energy (GJ) Natural gas consumption 5,027,565.98 4,105,793.26 4,704,325.38 2008 2009 2010 Rio Verde Industrial Unit Direct power Purchased electricity consumption 167,709 151,390 154,652.22 consumption specified by type of primary energy Natural gas consumption 472,585 469,123.05 476,762.55 source (GJ) 2008 2009 2010 89 Embu Industrial Unit Direct power Purchased electricity consumption 121,993 111,476 124,027.8 consumption specified by type of primary energy Natural gas consumption 204,186 172,861 289,406.4 source (GJ) 2008 2009 2010 Forestry Unit* Diesel consumption – own fleet 213,694.4 1,302,779 157,456 Diesel consumption – outsourced fleet – – 682,799 Gasoline consumption – own fleet 13,526 10,240 11,045 Direct power Gasoline consumption – outsourced fleet – – 4,734 consumption specified by type Gasoline consumption – own fleet – passenger transportation – – 52 of primary energy source (GJ) Diesel consumption – own fleet – – 49,586 Biodiesel consumption – outsourced fleet – – 68,769 Ethanol consumption – own fleet (in liters) – 169,277.04 69,307 Ethanol consumption – outsourced fleet (in liters) – – 300,062 Indirect power consumption specified by type Purchased electricity (administrative buildings) 3,710 2,417 NA of primary energy source (GJ) * We were unable to obtain information regarding third party consumption in Maranhão and Piauí. Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Biodiversity We reserve close to 40% of our areas for conservation of the Parque das Neblinas, which today is deemed to be a native vegetation, which represents 256,000 hectares disreference in relation to the management of private presertributed throughout the states of São Paulo, Minas Gerais, vation units. Many projects to preserve endangered speEspírito Santo, Bahia, Maranhão, Tocantins and Piauí that cies are carried out in the area which is located in Bertioga, are considered legal reserves, permanently preserved by at the Sertão dos Freires Farm, and belongs to Suzano; the Private Natural Heritage Reserve (RPPN) and others. projects include preservation of the Wooly Spider Monkey In 2010, an area of 302.7 hectares of native vegetation (the largest primate native to the Americas) and fruit trees in the Cerrado biome, located between the municipalities commonly found in the Atlantic Coastal Rain Forest, such of Angatuba and Bofete (São Paulo) was recognized as a as the juçara palm and the cambuci, a priority for preservaRPPN. There, as well as in the area we maintain on the tion of the biome. (EN11 and EN15) banks of the Mucuri River (which is in the process of gainOur forests are managed in a way that seeks compatibility ing RPPN status) we monitored the birds, identifying 500 with preservation. One example is the Fazenda Itabaiana, species, with more than 100 being endemic to the Atlantic in the Imperatriz (Maranhão) region, which was acquired Coastal Rain Forest and around 30 endangered species. from Vale in 2009 and is managed in partnership with the Moreover, we restored more than 400 hectares of Atlantic company through a technological cooperation contract Coastal Rain Forest by planting native species through our signed at the time of purchase. With around 850 hectares, restoration program. We also took measures to monitor the property is a true outdoor laboratory, where genetic imexotic species in over 920 hectares of natural areas. provement experiments are done to develop the most apIn 2009 the São Paulo State Secretariat of the Environpropriate varieties of eucalyptus for the climate conditions 90 ment had already granted RPPN status to 518 hectares of of the region as well as research on the potential of other species of Brazilian flora. (EN11, EN12, EN13 and EN14) In 2010, we entered into a partnership with the non-governmental organization TNC to prepare Biodiversity PreserAerial view of Parque das Neblinas, São Paulo vation Plans which will cover the native forests under our Annual Sustainability Report SPP-Nemo Distribution, São Paulo control in the following biomes: Atlantic Coastal Rain Forest, Use of land own properties (EN11) Cerrado and Caatinga. Part of the scope of the work will be Type of use Area (in ha) to assess the inter-connectivity of the remaining native vegPlantation 310,000 etation and recommendation of actions in order to establish Available for plantation 87,000 ecological corridors and restore and preserve the areas. (EN14) Preservation 256,000 In line with the objective of contributing to preservation of Infrastructure 29,000 regional biodiversity on our properties, we have also adopted Total 682,700 the Programa de Monitoramento Integrado de Fauna (Inte91 grated Monitoring of Fauna Program) in São Paulo. Through this program, we hope to obtain a protocol of procedures that are suitable for the preservation of endangered species. This initiative led us to identify several species that are listed Red List and on Brazilian conservation lists, including the giant on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) anteater, manned wolf, puma, ocelot and oncilla. (EN15) The year 2010 was declared by the UN to be the International Year of Biodiversity and it was marked by a series of Preservation Units in developments such as the unprecedented convention for the Areas Neighboring Suzano (EN11) protection of our planet’s genetic resources and diversity of species, signed at the 10th Conference of the Parties to the APA Costa Dourada (Environmental Protection Area) Convention on Biologic Diversity (CDB-COP10), held at NaAPA Conceição da Barra (Environmental Protection goya, Japan. It is within this context that we participated on Forestry Area) Business the Technical Committee on Biodiversity of the Brazilian BusiUnit (UNF) Floresta Nacional do Rio Preto (National Forest) – Bahia ness Council for Sustainable Development (CEBDS), which Parque Estadual de Itaúnas (State Park) prepared a report that included the key practices of Brazilian Reserva Biológica Córrego Grande (Biological Reserve) companies which was taken to Nagoya. APA de Botucatu* (Environmental Protection Area) Additionally, we signed the Corporate Biodiversity MoveUNF – Parque Estadual de Carlos Botelho (State Park) ment manifesto, which seeks to promote mobilization of São Paulo Parque Nacional da Serra do Mar (National Park) the domestic business community, with the support of civil Estação Ecológica Angatuba (Ecological Reserve) society in defining a single common agenda related to the * We have forestry areas in the Botucatu Environmental Protection Area. preservation and sustainable use of biodiversity. Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 SPP-Nemo Distribution, São Paulo Materials, Products and Services, and Transportation With the exception of Reciclato® papers, which are comto TerraCycle do Brasil to be transformed into eco-friendly posed of 75% pre-consumer scrap and 25% post-conproducts such as handbags, ball and cases. (EN26, EN27) sumer scrap, and of cardboard, our other products use virFurthermore, we assess the impact on consumer health gin fibers in their production process. However, to mitigate and safety at all phases of our products’ and services’ lifeenvironmental impacts, we maintain collection recycling cycles, which encompasses research and development, bays in the industrial units where packages that are not certification, manufacturing and production, advertising 92 returned to suppliers (a measure we prioritize) are placed and marketing, storage, distribution and supply, use and in order to be later donated or sold as scrap. Thus, 100% service, disposal, reuse and recycling. (PR1) of this kind of material is appropriately disposed of. Since The impact of transportation is reduced through Emislate 2010, we have also maintained the Brigada Report® sions Inventory initiatives that measure the volume of program to recover and reuse cut-size paper packages. greenhouse gasses emitted during products lifecycles, inThrough this program, our 127 brigade employees collect cluding transport operations to shipping ports (in the case the material and deposit it at specific sites. It is then sent of exports) or regional warehouses. (EN29) Reuse of materials (EN2) 2008 2009 2010 Rio Verde Industrial Unit Recycled Scrap paper 21,022 t 9,623 t 30,342 t materials used Percentage of recycled processing material 1.37 0.66 43 2008 2009 2010 Embu Industrial Unit Recycled Scrap paper 13,845 t 17,710 t 6,409 t materials used Percentage of recycled processing material 30.28 37.92 14 Annual Sustainability Report Material consumption (EN1 and EN2) Materials used per weight or volume (EN1) 2008 2009 2010 Mucuri Industrial Unit Wood consumption (total) 2,451,129 t 2,544,449 t 2,841,126 t Consumption of caustic soda, sodium sulphate, 101,424 t 107,709 t 155,223 t virgin lime, calcium carbonate and optical bleach. Materials used by weight or volume Starch consumption – – 11,142 t Material consumption (total) 2,552,553 t 2,562,158 t 3,007,491 t Percentage of renewable materials 96 96 95 2008 2009 2010 Suzano Industrial Unit Wood consumption (total) 1,377,395 t 1,305,704 t 1,345,171 t Consumption of caustic soda, calcium carbonate, 255,647 t 249,268 t 160,125 t sodium sulphate, optical bleach and virgin lime. Materials used by weight or volume Starch consumption – – 23,647 t Material consumption (total) 1,633,042 t 1,554,972 t 1,577,718 t Percentage of renewable materials 84 84 89 2008 2009 2010 Rio Verde Industrial Unit Pulp raw material consumption (total) 47,293 t 41,964 t 58,167 t 93 Consumption if caustic soda, optical bleach and calcium carbonate (total) 5,747 t 4,790 t 5,525 t Materials used by Primary sludge and starch consumption – – 7,041 t weight or volume Material consumption (total) 53,040 t 46,754 t 70,734 t Percentage of renewable materials 89 90 92 2008 2009 2010 Embu Industrial Unit Pulp raw material consumption (total) 45,726 t 38,155 t 35,390 t Kaolin and calcium carbonate consumption (total) 5,697 t 8,554 t 7,848 t Materials used by Starch consumption – – 1,650 t weight or volume Material consumption (total) 51,423 t 46,709 t 44,888 t Percentage of renewable materials 89 81.7 82.5 2008 2009 2010 Forestry Unit Materials used by NPK limestone consumption (total) 1.14 t/ha 2.44 t/ha 5.1 t/ha* weight or volume * Increase arising from the inclusion of all forestry areas in the Maranhão and Piauí units. Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Annual Social Balance – IBASE – 2010 1 – Base of Calculation 2010 Amount (Thousands of reals) 2009 Amount (Thousands of reals) Net revenue (NR) 4,290,871 3,642,299 Operational bottom line (OBL) 966,762 1,141,698 Gross payroll (GP) 414,043 354,749 Amount Amount 2 – Internal Social Indicators % of GP % over NR % of GP % over NR (Thousand) (Thousand) Food 22,335 5.39% 0.52% 20,162 5.68% 0.55% Compulsory payroll charges 97,186 23.47% 2.26% 84,132 23.72% 2.31% Social security 4,714 1.14% 0.11% 4,893 1.38% 0.13% Health 30,729 7.42% 0.72% 25,998 7.33% 0.71% Occupational safety and health 8,292 2.00% 0.19% 6,768 1.91% 0.19% Education 7,118 1.72% 0.17% 5,603 1.58% 0.15% Culture 62 0.01% 0.00% 57 0.02% 0.00% Training and professional 4,624 1.12% 0.11% 2,396 0.68% 0.07% development Daycare or daycare assistance 302 0.07% 0.01% 209 0.06% 0.01% Profit sharing 46,782 11.30% 1.09% 41,818 11.79% 1.15% Others 14,378 3.47% 0.34% 12,892 3.63% 0.35% 94 Total – Internal social indicators 236,522 57.12% 5.51% 204,928 57.77% 5.63% Amount Amount 3 – External Social Indicators % over OBL % over NR % over OBL % over NR (Thousand) (Thousand) Education 5,214 0.54% 0.12% 4,281 0.37% 0.12% Culture 2,682 0.3% 0.1% 3,431 0.3% 0.1% Health and sanitation 2 0.00% 0.00% 0 0% 0% Sports 688 0.07% 0.02% 876 0.08% 0.02% Fighting hunger and food safety 491 0.05% 0.01% 0 0% 0% Others 6,936 0.72% 0.16% 7,099 0.62% 0.19% Total contributions to society 16,013 1.66% 0.37% 15,687 1.37% 0.43% Taxes (excluding payroll charges) 347,376 35.93% 8.10% 354,447 31.05% 9.73% Total – External social indicators 363,389 37.59% 8.47% 370,134 32.42% 10.16% Amount Amount 4 – Environmental Indicators % over RO % over NR % over RO % over NR (Thousand) (Thousand) Investments related to the company’s 24,704 2.56% 0.58% 7.014 0.61% 0.19% production/operation Investments in programs and/or 1,542 0.16% 0.04% 1.256 0.11% 0.03% external projects Total investments in the environment 26,246 2.71% 0.61% 8.270 0.72% 0.23% Regarding the establishment of ( ) has no targets ( ) has no targets “annual targets” to minimize waste, ( ) fulfills from 0 to 50% ( ) fulfills from 0 to 50% overall consumption in production/ (X) fulfills from 51 to 75%¹ (X) fulfills from 51 to 75% operations and increase efficient ( ) fulfills from 76 to 100% ( ) fulfills from 76 to 75% natural resources use, the company: ¹ Annual Sustainability Report 5 – Personnel Indicators 2010 2009 Number of employees at the end of the period 4.352 3.862 Number of employees hired during the period 852 752 Number of third party personnel 8.084 6.855 Number of interns 157 72 Number of employees over 45 years of age 882 801 Number of women who work in the company 545 402 % of management positions occupied by women 10,68% 7,57%* Number of black people that work at the company n/d n/d % of management positions occupied by black people n/d n/d Number of professionals with disabilities or special needs 141 88 6 – Relevant information regarding the exercise of 2010 2011 Targets corporate citizenship Ratio between the highest and lowest 28,9 No target established wage at the company Total number of occupational accidents ² 14 5% reduction Social and environmental projects (X) board and ( ) all the (X) board and ( ) all the developed by the company ( ) board ( ) board management employees management employees were defined by: (X) everyone (X) everyone + Internal + Internal The standards of occupational health and ( ) board and ( ) all the ( ) board and ( ) all the Committee Committee safety in the workplace were defined by: management employees management employees on Accident on Accident Prevention Prevention Regarding freedom to belong ( ) encourages ( ) encourages to a union, the right to collective ( ) does not (X) follows the ( ) does not get (X) follows the and follows and follows bargaining and internal representation get involved ILO standards involved ILO standards the ILO the ILO of the workers, the company: ( ) board and (X) all the ( ) board and (X) all the Social security includes: ( ) board ( ) board management employees management employees ( ) board and (X) all the ( ) board and (X) all the 95 Profit sharing includes: ( ) board ( ) board management employees management employees When selecting suppliers, the same standards of ethics and social and ( ) are not (X) are ( ) are not (X) are ( ) are required ( ) are required environmental responsibility considered recommended considered recommended adopted by the company: Regarding employee participation in ( ) does not get ( ) supports the (X) organizes ( ) does not get ( ) supports the (X) organizes voluntary work programs, the company: involved initiative and encourages involved initiative and encourages filed with filed with the Procon the Procon filed with the filed with the Total number of customer – Consumer filed in Court – Consumer filed in Court company company complaints and criticisms:³ Protection 0 Protection 0 1,200 1,269 Agency Agency 0 0 filed with filed with the Procon the Procon filed with the filed with the % of complaints and – Consumer filed in Court – Consumer filed in Court company company criticisms answered or solved: Protection 0% Protection 0% 100% 100% Agency Agency 0% 0% Total added value to be In 2010: 1,993,057 In 2009: 962,910 distributed (in thousand R$): 9% government (24.80)% government 25 % employees 41.46% employees Distribution of Added Value (DVA): 10% shareholders 23.67% shareholders 26% third parties (54.88%) third parties 30% withheld 64.95% withheld 7 – Other Information ¹ Waste, water and energy indicators were included. ² Accidents with leave of absence (direct + third party employees). ³ Suzano always responds to any technical complaint (insatisfaction) related to our products and services. (*) We corrected the % figure of management positions held by women (2009). Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 GRI Summary GRI (3.12) Profile Level Page Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker in the organization regarding the relevance of sustainability 19 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 70 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 13 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 13 and 35 2.3 Operational Structure 13 and 48 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 13 and 21 2.5 Number and name of countries where the organization operates that are relevant to sustainability 13 and 21 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 13 2.7 Markets served 13 and 21 2.8 Scale of reporting organization 13 and 16 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 7 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 15 Reporting Parameters Reporting Parameters 3.1 Reporting period 7 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 7 3.3 Reporting cycle 7 3.4 Contact point information 8 Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content 7 3.6 Boundary of the report 7 96 3.7 Limitation on the scope or boundary of the report 7 3.8 Basis for reporting 7 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations 7 3.10 Effects of any restatements of information 7 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 7 GRI Content Summary 3.12 Table identifying the location of standard disclosures 96 Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regards to seeking external assurance for the report 7 and 100 Governance, Commitments and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 48 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 49 4.3 Statement of the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent or non-executive members 49 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 49 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives and the organization’s performance – 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided – 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on – economic, environmental, and social topics 4.8 Statements of internal mission and values, codes of conduct, and principles 14 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social 49 performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance – Answered Partially answered Not answered Annual Sustainability Report 2002 “according with” C C+ B B+ A A+ Required Self-declared ✓ With With Examined by third parties ✓ External External Optional Audit Audit Examined by the GRI Profile Level Page Commitment with external initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 41 4.12 Charters, principles and other initiatives to which the organization subscribes 68 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations 69 Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 Stakeholder engagement 7 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 7 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 7 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders 7 and 8 Performance Indicators Level Page Economic Indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 16 EC2 Financial implications, risks and opportunities due to climate change 79 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined pension benefit plan obligations 56 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 23 and 24 * EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation 54 EC6 Policy, practices, and spending on locally-based suppliers 66 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community 52 EC8 Investments in infrastructure and services 71 EC9 Description of significant indirect economic impacts – Environmental Indicators 97 EN1 Materials used 93 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 93 EN3 Direct energy consumption 89 EN4 Indirect energy consumption – EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 88 and 89 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and services, 88 and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved – EN8 Total water removal per source 83 EN9 Water sources affected by withdrawal of water 83 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused – EN11 Location and size of land inside, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 90 and 91 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas 90 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored 74 90 EN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 90 EN15 Endangered species – EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 79 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions 79 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and results obtained 79 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances – EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions 81 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 86 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 86 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills – EN24 Weight of transported waste deemed hazardous 86 EN25 Water bodies and related habitats affected by discharges of water 86 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services 92 * A financial statements report is available on the website. Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Performance Indicators Level Page EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed 92 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 78 EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials 92 EN30 Environmental protection expenditures and investments 78 Social Indicators – Labor Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region 53 and 54 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover 55 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time vs. temporary employees – LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 54 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes 54 LA6 Workforce represented in health and safety committees 59 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and work-related fatalities 59, 60 and 61 LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families or community members 60 regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 59 LA10 Average hours of training 58 LA11 Programs for employability 54 LA12 Performance and career development reviews 54 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 49 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of women to men 56 Social Performance – Human Rights HR1 Significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses 66 HR2 Significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights 66 HR3 Human rights training 58 98 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination 57 HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining may be at risk 66 HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor 66 HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 66 HR8 Security personnel trained in aspects of human rights 59 HR9 Number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people 70 Social Performance – Society SO1 Programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities 70 and 72 SO2 Percentage and total number of Business Units analyzed for risks related to corruption 69 SO3 Employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 69 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 69 SO5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying 69 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties 69 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 69 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations 69 Social Performance – Product Responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement 92 PR2 Number of incidents of non-compliance with health and safety regulations 65 PR3 Labeling procedures 65 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning information and labeling 65 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction 65 PR6 Adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship 65 PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations 65 PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy 65 PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and service 65 Annual Sustainability Report Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact relies on the engagement of the private sector to advance in the context of social responsibility, seeking to establish a global economy that is more sustainable and inclusive. The principles set forth by the Pact are aligned with Suzano’s Ethics and Code of Conduct. They include commitments related to the protection of human rights, labor rights, the environment and anti-corruption. Please find below, our performance index in relation to the ten Global Compact principles that are related to the key GRI Indicators, principles that assure the Report quality, according with GRI. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES GRI RELATION PAGES 1 Respect and protect human rights HR1, HR2, HR3 58 e 66 2 Make sure no human rights are abused HR2, HR3 58 e 66 3 Support freedom of association in the workplace LA4 54 4 Abolish forced labor HR7 66 5 Abolish child labor HR6 66 6 Eliminate discrimination in the workplace LA10, LA11, LA13 e LA14 49, 54, 56 e 58 7 Support a precautionary approach vis-à-vis environmental challenges EN (todos) 78 a 93 8 Promote environmental responsibility EN1 a EN30 78 a 93 9 Encourage the employment of technologies that do not harm the environment EN16 a EN25 79, 81, 86 e 92 10 Combat corruption in all its forms, including the use of extortion and payoffs. SO2, SO3 e SO4 69 99 SA 8000 SA 8000 is a social responsibility standard in the workplace designed to improve working conditions, ensure that worker rights are respected and that there is dignity in work relations, both within the company and in the production chain (suppliers and sub-suppliers). In 2010, we worked hard to maintain our certifications and began the process of implementing actions in the Maranhão and Piauí areas to build the base for obtaining certification in these areas. We also began a plan in preparation for expanding certification to include the offices of the SPP-Nemo branches, our paper distributor. Requirements GRI RELATION PAGES IV.1 – Child labor HR6 66 IV.2 – Forced and compulsory labor HR7 66 IV.3 – Health and safety LA6, LA7, LA8, LA9, 59 a 61 IV.4 – Freedom of association and right to collective bargaining LA4, LA5, LA9 54 and 59 IV.5 – Discrimination LA13, LA14, HR4, HR8 49,56, 57 and 59 IV.6 – Disciplinary practices HR4 57 IV.7 – Working hours LA1 53 and 54 IV. 8 – Compensation EC3, EC5, 54 and 56 IV.9 – Management System – Suppliers and subcontractor control EC6 66 Suzano Pulp and Paper 2 0 1 0 Independent assurance statement by Bureau Veritas Certification INTRODUCTION 3. Audit of performance information and data in relation Bureau Veritas Certification Brasil (Bureau Veritas) has to principles that assure quality of the report, accordbeen contracted, for the fifth consecutive year, by Suzano ing with GRI G3 standard3; Papel e Celulose S.A. (Suzano), to conduct an indepen4. Visit to the Mucuri (Bahia), Teresina (Piauí), Imperatriz dent verification of its 2010 Annual Sustainability Report (Maranhão), Suzano (São Paulo) units as well as the (hereinafter referred to as Report), including analysis of São Paulo head office; the content, quality and scope thereof. The information 5. Review of stakeholders engagement activities develpublished in the report is of full responsibility of Suzano’s oped by Suzano; management. Our responsibility is limited to the indepen6. Systematic assessment used to determine key issues dent assessment of its content according with the scope included in the Report, taking into consideration the established below. context of sustainability and balance of the information published. SCOPE OF WORK The verification process was planned and carried out Suzano requested Bureau Veritas Certification to include in such a manner as to provide a reasonable level of in the scope of work, independent verification of informaverification in relation to the Report’s compliance with tion relating to: the principles of Inclusion, Materiality and Respon• Data and information provided in the 2010 Report; siveness, as well as the accuracy of the performance • Suitability and reliability of complementary systems information published by Suzano, thus providing an and processes used to collect, review and compile reacceptable basis for our conclusions. ported information; 100 • Assessment of the Report in accordance with the prinOUR FINDINGS ciple of Materiality, Stakeholder Engagement, Context • Within the scope of our work, the information and of Sustainability, Range, Balance, Comparability, Acdata presented in the Report were deemed to be accuracy, Regularity, Clarity and Reliability, as defined curate and free of any significant error or false statein the GRI G3 (2006) Sustainability Reporting Framements and accessible to and easy for stakeholders to work. understand; Excluded from the scope of our work is any verification • Most of the information included in the Report was obof information relating to: tained from and managed by Suzano Integrated Man• Activities outside the defined verification period; agement System, which is certified by the following • Positional statements (expressions of opinion, belief, internationally recognized standards: ISO 9001/2008, aim or future intention) by Suzano. ISO 14001/2004 and OHSAS 18001/2007; • Economic and financial information contained in this • Internal published information collection, analysis and Report obtained from financial statements that have compilation mechanisms, as well as the control of relbeen analyzed by independent auditors. evant documents and its traceability, may be considered to be reliable; METHODOLOGY • In 2010 Suzano created the sustainability intelligence Our work was conducted in accordance with Bureau department whose focus was to consolidate all of the Veritas’ standard protocol for Independent Verification of information related to GRI indicators; Sustainability Reports, based on current best practices1 en• In the State of the Piauí activities are still primarily concompassing the following activities: centrated in silviculture; In the state of Maranhão we 1. Interviews with personnel (process owners) involved confirmed that the definition of the basic engineering in preparing the Report; phase of the new unit was being carried out, as de2. Analysis of documentary evidence provided by Sutailed in the Report. Thus it was clear that there was zano for the reporting period (2010); no expansion of industrial units since the last published Report; Annual Sustainability Report • Regarding the Principles of Materiality and Stakeholder • Consider the presentation of more information reEngagement, the same methodology applied in previgarding the use and availability of water resources ous years continued to be used. In 2010 in particular, at the Forestry Business Units. In the MAPITO region, a questionnaire was sent to the stakeholders who had this matter is extremely important and should be adalready been consulted in 2009, and the Company equately covered in future reports. systematized existing tools, such as the Social Per• Specify in the Risk Management chapter how Suzano formance and Operational Dialogs Matrix, seeking to assesses environmental and social matters in the proincrease stakeholder interaction in the regions where cess of expansion in the Brazilian northeast; forestry management units are located; • Submit the Report to Stakeholders deemed to be opin• Suzano’s goals and objectives are detailed in a disperse ion makers for their evaluation, publishing their opinmanner throughout the Report, making it difficult for ions in an attempt to increase transparency in relathe reader to understand the performance of the protion to the Principles of Stakeholder Engagement and cesses in terms of sustainability, with the exception of Materiality; those covered by the published GRI indicators; • Suzano recently acquired a biotechnology company • Based on our verification, we have concluded that the and disclosed that it intends to set up a renewable Report was prepared in compliance with content and energy company in 2011. Seeking compliance with quality criteria specified in the GRI G3 Framework, the GRI Protocol, the importance of these new activimeeting the Principles therein established and coverties should be analyzed in relation to the impacts on ing the required indicators in an adequate manner, and sustainability and the level of Suzano’s control or influtherefore classify Suzano at a C+ level of application. ence; 101 OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE AND IMPARTIALITY • We reiterate the need to further train personnel reBureau Veritas Certification is an independent professponsible for preparing the information related to GRI sional services company that specializes in Quality, Health, performance indicators. Production of data compliant Safety, Social and Environmental management with almost with the “Group of Indicator Protocols” specified in 180 years history in providing independent assurance serthe Sustainability Reporting Framework (GRI G3) is exvices. tremely important; No member of the assurance team has a business rela• Establish a formal procedure that engages all relevant tionship with Suzano. We conducted the assurance review stakeholder groups in order to establish a mediumin an independent manner, and believe that there was no to long-term strategy in determining materiality. Seek conflict of interest. greater interaction with the following groups: Market Bureau Veritas has implemented a Code of Ethics across Analysts, Forestry Wood Partners and NGOs; the business to maintain high ethical standards among • Goals and objectives could be detailed in a more sysstaff in their day to day business activities. tematic and objective manner, clearly showing the reader what Suzano’s priorities are in terms of sustainCONTACT able development; Bureau Veritas Certification is available to clarify any ques• Specify management controls for many of the GRI-G3 tions at its website www.bureauveritascertification.com.br/ indicator categories, thus increasing compliance with faleconosco. asp or by telephone: (+5511) 5070-9800. the GRI Framework protocol Levels of Application; • Taking into consideration recent development of the so-called MAPITO region (southern Maranhão and Piauí and northern Tocantins), Suzano could improve 1 Bureau Veritas’ independent assurance protocol is based on the Internathe method it uses to identify and evaluate material tional Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) and GRI Sustaisubjects for future publications; nability Reporting Framework. Suzano Papel e Celulose 2 0 1 0 Corporate Information (GRI 3.4) Suzano Pulp and Paper Executive Board Av. Brigadeiro Faria Lima, 1.355 – 8° andar Antonio dos Santos Maciel Neto 01452-919 – São Paulo (SP) – Brazil (BR) Alexandre Yambanis Phone number: (5511) 3503-9000 www.suzano.com.br André Dorf Bernardo Szpigel Investor Relations Carlos Alberto Griner Phone number: (5511) 3503-9061 Carlos Aníbal Fernandes de Almeida Júnior E-mail: ri@suzano.com.br www.suzano.com.br/ri Ernesto Peres Pousada Júnior João Comério Board of Directors David Feffer Audit Committee Daniel Feffer Luiz Augusto Paes Boris Tabacof Rubens Barletta Jorge Feffer Jaime Luiz Kalsing Cláudio Thomaz Lobo Sonder Antonio de Souza Corrêa Meyer Independent Auditor Oscar de Paula Bernardes Neto Ernst & Young Terco Auditores Independentes S.S. Marco Antonio Bologna Av. Presidente Juscelino Kubitschek, 1.830, 5º ao 8º andares NildemarSecches Condomínio São Luiz – Itaim Bibi Augusto Esteves de Lima Júnior CEP 04543-900 – São Paulo (São Paulo) 102 Shares – Brazil Custodian Bank BM&FBovespa – São Paulo Stock Exchange (São Paulo) Banco Itaú Common share ticker symbol: SUZB3 (traded in lots of 100 Av. Engenheiro Armando de Arruda Pereira, 707 – 9o andar shares) Torre Eudoro Villela Preferred share ticker symbol: SUSZB5 and SUZB6 04344-902 – São Paulo (SP) Shares – Europe Deposit Bank Latibex – Latin American Stock Exchange (Madri Spain) The Bank of New York Preferred Class “A” share ticker symbol: brsuzbacnpa3 101 Barclay Street – New York, NY – 10286 – USA Shares – United States Liquidity Provider ADR1 Program, shares traded in the OTC market; each ADR Credit Suisse S.A. Corretora de Títulos e Valores Mobiliários represents three shares. Av. Brigadeiro Faria Lima, 3.064 – 14° andar 01451-000 – São Paulo (SP) Composition of the equity capital Class of shares Number of shares Debentures Common stock 140,039,904 Trustee: Pentágono S.A DTVM Class A preferred stock 266,926,398 Avenida das Américas, 4.200 – Bloco 4 Class B preferred stock 1,926,099 Edifício Buenos Aires, sala 514 Total 408,892,401 22640-102 – Rio de Janeiro (RJ) Annual Sustainability Report Suzano Pulp and Paper Annual Sustainability Report General Coordination Cristiane Malfatti Editing Adriana Claudino GRI Indicators Workgroup Coordination: Rebeca Barbosa Knijnik Working group: Adna Alves Avancini, Adriana Aparecida Fernandes, Alberto Carvalho de Oliveira Filho, Ana Maria Couto Jimenez, Ana Paula Soares Silva, Berta Marchiori, Camila Castanho Sant´Ana, Dalton Henrique Angelo, Daniel Carlos Moreno, Elisabete Flores Pagliusi, Fabricio Neves de Sa, Fernanda Pontual Vilmar Nardy, Giulianna Daibem Bazalia Gori, Guilherme Cassab Narchi, Henrique Araujo Torreira De Mattos, Luciana Batista Pereira, Luciane Soares Ribeiro Beserra, Lucimara Roncolato Castilho, Ludmila Pereira Conrado, Marcio Andre Ramos Dos Santos, Marcio Caliari, Marcos A. Cordeiro, Maria Cristina de Oliveira Wendling, Mariana Helena Andreatta, Mariana da Silva Telles Scaldini, Marina Stefani Carlini, Marisa Aparecida Camazano, Naiara Cristina de Carvalho, Rodrigo Alberto Traverso Sienra, Rosely D’Alessandro Onizuca, Sara Juarez Sales. Copy and editing Editora Contadino Grammar Review Eliete Soares Graphic Project D’Lippi Comunicação Integrada 104 Photographs Azael Bild, David Garb, Kriz Knack, Mari Vaccaro, Pisco Del Gaiso, Rafael Sato, Ricardo Correa, Ricardo Teles e Sérgio Zacchi Printing D’Lippi Print – a FSC-certified printing company Acknowledgements We would like to thank all employees and business partners that participated in preparing this edition and, especially, individuals who gave us images to use in this publication. We thank our stakeholders who responded to the questionnaire assessing the 2010 Sustainability Report: Employees: Andre Sprenger da Mota, Barbara Cristina Garcia, Camila Pavão Chabar, Renato Miguel Lipener, Mariana Zayat Chammas, Nara Michelin Ribeiro Customers: Cesar Leal Silva (Vlid Gráfica), André Correa (Kimberly-Clark Brasil) Suppliers: José Carlos de Almeida (JFI), Monica Yamamoto (Trip), Carlos Freire e André Leal (Braskem), Edson Hernandes (Renner Protective Coatings), Mauricio Isidoro Oliveira (Belgo Bekaert Arames) This report was printed: Cover – with Duodesign 250 gsm paperboard Pages – with Couché Matte 150 gsm paper Suzano Pulp and Paper papers are produced from renewable eucalyptus forests. Each tree used was planted specifically for this purpose. Mayo 2011 Please feel free to contact us to answer any questions and/or make suggestions regarding the content of this report, through the following communication channels: Suzano Responde: 0800 774 7440 ou suzanoresponde@suzano.com.br Investor Relations: ri@suzano.com.br Annual Sustainability Report Native Atlantic Coastal Rainforest trees were planted Soybean product acknowledged by the to offset the carbon emissions produced from American Soybean Association The FSC® seal guarantees that this report was printed on paper made from wood from certified reforestation publishing this report projects, in accordance with the strict social, environmental and economic criteria established by the international organization FSC Forest Stewardship Council® in addition to the use of other controlled sources. 108
