United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) challenges business to uphold universally accepted principles on human rights, anti-corruption, labour and the environment. As a signatory to the UNGC, we are committed to continue to take action to support and uphold the principles, and to communicate progress on these actions annually. Our progress over the past year in these areas is communicated through our 2010 CR Report. Sam Laidlaw Chief Executive Visit the United Nations Global Compact website Centrica ‘Communication on progress’ – 2010 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Our Business Principles establish our full support for all aspects of human rights consistent with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In 2010, we introduced a new annual process for all Centrica managers (more than 3,000 employees) to complete an online declaration in support of the business principles. We achieved a very high response rate with 99.1% of managers completing the declaration, surpassing our target of 95%.  Our values and principles  Business principles  Human rights  Stakeholder engagement  Stakeholder matrix  Workplace  Supply chain  Community engagement 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our Group Human Rights policy outlines our commitment to upholding human rights and the mechanisms we have to facilitate feedback. The Human rights section of the CR Report discusses progress on relevant human rights issues in 2010 and outlines some initiatives planned for 2011. Work continues in the responsible procurement programme to ensure our suppliers respect human rights.  Group human rights policy  Group security policy  Supply chain UNGC Communication on progress Centrica plc www.centrica.com/responsibility  Safety  Employee health  Customer trust  Community engagement  Community investment  Energy security 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining We recognise collective relationships with trade unions that help us support our business goals. We work closely with trade unions to manage change, and had some successful engagements in 2010 that led to better working arrangements for our British Gas engineers. Our responsible procurement clauses, which we are rolling out to our strategic suppliers, includes requirements to respect the rights of employees’ freedom of association.  People  Stakeholder dialogue People  Stakeholder matrix 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Our business principles outline our commitment to meeting the core conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), which includes Convention 105 – Abolition of Forced Labour Convention, 1957. Our responsible procurement clauses in supplier contracts require our suppliers to respect and uphold human rights as we do. Our responsible procurement clauses, which we are rolling out to our strategic suppliers, include specific requirements to not use forced labour.  Our values and principles  Business principles  Human rights  Group human rights policy  Supply chain  Group responsible procurement and supplier management policy 5. Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Our business principles establish our commitment to respecting human rights. We support the abolition of human rights abuses, including child labour, through the actions we take to extend our business principles across our business and through our supply chain. Our responsible procurement clauses, which we are rolling out to our strategic suppliers, include specific requirements to not use child labour.  Our values and principles  Business principles UNGC Communication on progress Centrica plc www.centrica.com/responsibility  Human rights  Group human rights policy  Supply chain  Group responsible procurement and supplier management policy 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation The initiatives we carried out in 2010 relating to diversity and inclusion are outlined in the Workplace section of the CR report. We work hard to create a welcoming and engaging work environment for our people. Our efforts in this area led to the receipt of three awards in the Top Employers for Working Families awards: Best for Fathers, Best for flexible working, and Best for carers. We also won the Employers Forum on Age (EFA) 'Best Overall in the Private Sector' Award, and the AARP International Innovative Employer Award, recognising employers around the world that have demonstrated innovative ways of tackling issues relevant to older workers.  Workplace  People  Stakeholder dialogue People  Employee case studies (People and Workplace)  Our awards 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Climate change is one of the single biggest global challenges, and we play a pivotal role in helping to tackle it by changing the way energy is generated and how consumers use it. Our CR vision is to be the most trusted energy company leading the move to a low carbon future. We are enabling customers to reduce their carbon footprint, investing in lower carbon power and cutting emissions in our property, fleet and travel.  Energy for a low carbon world  Energy for a low carbon world case studies  Energy security  Energy security case studies  Environmental practices 8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility We aim to demonstrate leadership on climate change, as well as tackling other environmental issues such as biodiversity, waste and water. Our CR report outlines our initiatives to promote environmental responsibility among employees, customers and other stakeholders, together with actions we are taking to support the transition to a low carbon world. UNGC Communication on progress Centrica plc www.centrica.com/responsibility  Chief Executive’s introduction  CR strategy  Energy for a low carbon world  Energy for a low carbon world case studies  Environmental practices  Environment case studies  Energy security  Energy security case studies 9. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our strategy is to lead the consumer market for low carbon energy products and services. We are bringing to market a number of products and services to help customers reduce their environmental footprints.  Customer carbon (Energy for a low carbon world)  Customer trust  Customer case studies  Energy for a low carbon world case studies 10. Businesses should work against all forms of corruption including extortion and bribery Our business principles and group policy on anti-bribery and anti-corruption are communicated and enforced across the company. In anticipation of the UK’s Bribery Act 2010, we established an Anti-Bribery Working Group to review our anti-bribery processes and procedures. The group is overseeing the implementation of an expanded anti-bribery programme through 2011.  Our values and principles  Group anti-bribery and corruption policy  Group security policy  Group human rights policy  Human rights UNGC Communication on progress Centrica plc www.centrica.com/responsibility
