together O P E N & C O M M I T T E D Corporate social responsibility report 2010-11 KEY FIGURES 102,012 FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT WORKFORCE 593 AIRCRAFT IN OPERATION Europe 123 DESTINATIONS 244 DESTINATIONS IN 105 COUNTRIES North America 23 DESTINATIONS 71.3 MILLION PASSENGERS CARRIED Caribbean 11 DESTINATIONS Africa & 81.6% SEAT LOAD FACTOR Middle East 50 DESTINATIONS Indian 1.5 MILLION TONS South America Ocean 4 DESTINATIONS OF CARGO CARRIED 11 DESTINATIONS BREAKDOWN OF THE GROUP’S WORKFORCE BREAKDOWN OF PASSENGER REVENUE (IN FULL TIME EQUIVALENT, 31 DECEMBER 2010) BY DESTINATION, 2010-11 29% The Netherlands 35% 18% Europe Asia / Pacific 2% Africa Middle East 17% 2% Asia Pacific North America 10% Rest of the world 4% Europe 1% North America 9% South America 1% South America 7% 61% France Caribean & Indian Ocean 15% Africa & the Middle East Air France-KLM publishes an annual Corporate Social Responsibility report. The information in this report relates to the 2010-11 financial year, started on 1st April, 2010 and ended on 31 March, 2011. Where information relates to a different time frame, this is explicitly stated. 2 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 INDEX Foreword 4 Challenging dynamics in the air transport industry 6 Our approach to corporate social responsability 12 Our five key issues Combating climate change 22 Minimizing our environmental impacts 30 Asia Building a sustainable relationship with our customers 38 Pacific Promoting a responsible human resources policy 46 22 DESTINATIONS Contributing to local development 54 Annexes 62 Indicators and methods 66 How to read this report final part of the report you will find our indicators is further given in the tables key performance indicators, details of on pages 67 and 69, in reference to the Four sections our reporting methodology and more NRE (‘New Business Regulations’) Act The first section is designed to help you detailed information about our fleet and in force in France. understand the sector with its issues, stakeholder dialogue. Stakeholder interviews challenges, current and future global Vision and joint commitments In this report the Group wants to highdevelopments. It then describes the Each key issue written in this report light the importance of stakeholder profile of the Air France-KLM group with starts with the vision of the Group, folengagement through interviews with the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) lowed by our joint commitments and an internal and external stakeholder strategy and organization. You also read the management indicators deployed by for each key issue. Each stakeholder is about the Groups governance, public both Air France and KLM. After this given the opportunity to express his/her positions and the way how we engage part, further details are described on appreciation on how the Group deals with our different stakeholders. The third the approach and achievements made with the relevant CSR topics and to be section explains our 5 CSR key issues throughout the year. More extensive inforin dialogue about further challenges and and the way we deal with them. In the mation on the social and environmental improvements in different areas. Contents 3 We are determined to succeed in a responsible and sustainable way After two difficult years, Air France-KLM has achieved a remarkable turnaround, well beyond the objective we set ourselves to break-even in this financial year. Like other airlines, the Group is benefitting from the global recovery, a recovery which has nevertheless been marked over the course of the year by a series of crises: the volcanic eruption in Iceland, the geopolitical situation in the Middle East and Africa and the earthquake and tsunami in Japan. Thanks to an ambitious recovery plan, a high level of responsiveness and by adapting its products, Air France-KLM is on the road to growth again for its Passenger, Cargo and Maintenance businesses. Furthermore, we have mobilised all of our resources and we continued to stand by our CSR commitments. Achieving such a turnaround would not have been possible without mobilising the entire Group. 2010-11 saw the adoption of Air France-KLM’s ‘Embark’ company vision, which lays out the Group’s ambition ‘to be the leader in globalised sustainable air transport’ and details its objectives and commitments. The pillars of the ‘Embark’ vision include expanding the Group’s three businesses, strengthening the position of its network and brands, providing customers with a quality human aspect, service and operational performance, promoting the Group’s values among employees, setting the example for CSR and strengthening its economic performance. Bases for success are our Group values: open to others and to the world in the face of the challenge posed by globalisation; committed alongside our partners to serving our customers; together in solidarity bundling our complimentary strengths and energy. In terms of sustainable development we continue to further integrate CSR in our business and operation. What really counts in this is proven action, which can be found in this report. Faced with the challenge of climate change, we are making progress in reducing our CO2 emissions thanks to the ongoing modernisation of our fleet. We continue our active commitment to developing and using sustainable biofuels. At the same time, the 4 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 efforts we have encouraged within our industry to bring about international regulation, have achieved an unprecedented step forward with the unanimously adopted resolution by the Member States of the ICAO. Progress in controlling our other environmental impacts takes place continuously such as reducing our noise hindrance and emissions which impact air quality or in terms of preserving resources. Therefore we continue to invest and innovate in more efficient planes and procedures, electric vehicles, new buildings which meet demanding environmental standards or eco-design. To win and retain customers whose expectations are constantly changing, our two airlines are using new technologies. To develop our customer service culture we have put in place multiple and personalised products, in order to better respond to the diversity of our customers and to make a difference. Despite the difficulties faced, Air France-KLM has maintained a policy of internal social cohesion, solidarity and social dialogue which is vital to recovery. The Group has been able to protect the jobs of its employees and its own know-how, while at the same time addressing the challenges of change and adaptations to global developments. Our Group is continuing to contribute to the development of the areas around our hubs and destinations by creating economic and social value. For example by looking for new business opportunities, training new generations, working with vulnerable communities, supporting humanitarian and development projects and encouraging employee initiatives. In a complex world we are determined to succeed in a responsible and sustainable way, according to the commitment we made when we signed the United Nations Global Compact. Pierre-Henri Gourgeon Peter Hartman Chief Executive Officer of Air France-KLM President and Chief Executive Officer of KLM Chief Executive Officer of Air France Foreword 5 Challenging dynamics in the air transport industry As a leader in air transport, Air France-KLM adresses the challenges faced by a sector that is essential to the global economy, but which is strongly affected by global financial, geopolitical, meteorological events and epidemics. The Group plays a part in contributing to the global economy, whilst having to withstand its fluctuations, deal with rising oil prices, adapt to rapidly changing patterns in demand, and above all maintain the safety of flights. Since 2009 the Group has suffered major losses. It would not have been possible for the Group to maintain its position and standards without resolute and sustainable cost reduction and changes to its organisation, practices and products. Today, the restructuring of the products offered to its passengers, the strengthening of the long-haul network, the deeprooted changes made in the cargo business and the development of maintenance services are bearing fruit. 6 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 Air France-KLM: one Group, two companies, three businesses The Group is made up of a single holding company and two airlines, transport and aviation maintenance services, for its own fleet and Air France and KLM, each of which retains its own brand and those of other airlines. An overview of the Group’s main subsidiaries identity. Its three main businesses are passenger transport, cargo can be found on page 64. OUR BASIC STRENGTHS A strong and balanced network A strong and global alliance The Group serves the largest network between Europe and the rest Air France and KLM are active members of the SkyTeam alliance, of the world, built around its two coordinated hubs, Roissy-CDG and the second largest alliance in the world by market share. This rapidly Amsterdam-Schiphol, also called a ‘dual hub system’ where smaller expanding alliance serves 898 destinations in 169 countries. By optiflows of European and regional traffic connect with intercontinental mising synergies between each of its members, SkyTeam strengthens flights. Thanks to its geographical locations, the Group plays a key role the Group’s product range in terms of its network and the services it in the growth of commerce and in European competitiveness. offers to its customers, such as linked loyalty programmes. The strength of the Air France-KLM dual hub system lies in its large portfolio of long-haul destinations with only limited overlap between both hubs in their total offer: 70% of long-haul destinations and 60% An efficient fleet of medium-haul destinations are served by only one of the two carriers. Where there is overlap, there is either a very large market or a The Group operates one of the youngest and most modern fleets in double time channel, starting the journey from one hub and returning Europe, with 593 aircraft with an average age of 9.9 years. The fleet via the other gives the passenger many more travel options. The Group is known for its fuel efficiency and optimal network fit, representing a and its partners are active across all continents and have a balanced key resource for the Group’s sustainable development. For more fleet network, as no single market represents more than a third of turnover. information, see page 64. Challenging dynamics in the air transport industry 7 AIR TRANSPORT ISSUES AND OUR CHALLENGES Contributing to the global economy, withstanding its fluctuations Air transport is one of the drivers of the global economy, which it Air transport was hit hard by the worst downturn in its history in supports by promoting growth in trade and meeting the demand for 2009, with a 12% decline in passenger numbers and a 25% decline mobility. The industry also suffers directly, and sometimes badly, from in cargo at the height of the crisis. 2010 saw a brief improvement the consequences of international economic fluctuations. With a prebefore another slow-down in early 2011. As a reflection of the global sence in all continents, air transport is always one of the first sectors economy, the sector’s recovery is proving to be slow and uneven to be affected by events: from wars and epidemics to hurricanes and across the world’s major regions, furthermore, competition is intense volcanoes. and margins are small. Dealing with very specific constraints Volatility and the long-term upward trend of oil prices weigh heavily Over the past ten years the cost of fuel as a percentage of total on the results of airlines. According to the International Air Transport air transport costs has risen from 13% to 29%, with every dollar Association (IATA), the recovery in world traffic recorded in 2010 is increase in the price of oil resulting in an additional cost of $1.6 billion under threat from soaring oil prices seen since the start of 2011. for the industry. Regulations that aim to reduce air transport’s impact on climate change have also resulted in additional burdens. The sector FOCUS generates around 2% of total man-made CO2 emissions, a proportion often overestimated by the public at large, nevertheless airlines still THE GROUP’S MOBILISATION IN JAPAN need to play their part in the fight against climate change, which Air France and KLM have close, longstanding ties with Japan, the is why they will be integrated into the European Emissions Trading two airlines serve Tokyo and Osaka with 38 weekly flights. Since the Scheme (EU-ETS) from 2012. However, further steps are necessary beginning of the catastrophe that hit Japan on the 11th of March to address aviation emissions globally and accomplish a level playing 2011, teams in each airline were mobilised to ascertain how to safely field internationally in order that the same rules apply to all operators. continue flight operations to and from Tokyo, as well as to adapt capacity to meet strong demand for travel on the route and put in place special commercial conditions to suit the circumstances. Airlines face ever-stricter regulations, particularly those concerning Air France and KLM monitored the situation throughout the consumer protection and security, which in turn mean more catastrophe thanks to their respective crisis management systems. restrictions for customers and higher costs for carriers. Unlike rail Measures put in place jointly by Flight operations, the combined transport, aviation funds all of its own infrastructure costs, from stations organisation in Japan and the Operations Control Centres ground to flight. It also pays for security, safety and soundproofing have ensured the safety of services to Tokyo and Osaka. Although direct flights were maintained from Osaka, Air France flights from (40 million Euros for Air France and KLM) measures for communities Tokyo went via Seoul, in order to ensure maximum possible flexibility, living close to airports. should the situation in Tokyo deteriorate. KLM operated directly to Tokyo with an intermediate stop in Osaka on the return leg for the Operating routes in regions of the world which face political same reason. Schedules to and from Osaka remained unchanged uncertainty or dealing with unpredictable natural events requires for both Air France and KLM. flexibility and an ability to deal with fast changing environments, to offer appropriate solutions and continue providing quality service. Adapting to new global developments The world’s air transport is increasingly globalised and is now globally, mainly driven by emerging countries, and an average of organised around three broad alliances which bring together the main 4.4%1 in Europe, creating new travel opportunities. Also demographic European, American and Asian airlines. Various forms of international change, and in particular ageing populations, will lead to new partnerships, such as joint ventures, mergers and equity acquisitions consumer trends in the airline sector. are intensifying this trend. The economic crisis has profoundly changed consumer behaviour, The challenge for air transport is to consolidate its position and with price considerations becoming a more important choice factor seek out new growth opportunities in expanding markets. Annual than ever before. Although the post-crisis situation is increasing the passenger growth until 2029 is forecast at an average of 5.3%1 importance of other elements such as frequency, service, loyalty 1 Source: Boeing Market update February 2011 8 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 tools and transparency as decision factors, airlines must meet When it comes to global climate change, reducing CO2 emissions expectations by adapting their business models and product ranges. continues to be an important challenge; a shift towards low carbon Restructuring will impact on all three aviation business lines; new fuels is crucial. Although good progress is being made on technical products for passengers, reducing the share of all-cargo aircraft to certification, the availability of sustainable biofuels remains a challenge. transport goods and making changes to maintenance to enable it to An integral industry approach is necessary including the right legislacompete with new operators. tion and incentives. FLIGHT SAFETY AND SECURITY: OUR ABSOLUTE PRIORITIES Ensuring the safety of air transport on the ground and in the air Safety is the main requirement for all customers and staff and Through their Safety Management System (SMS), both airlines ensure an absolute priority for Air France-KLM. Flight safety depends continuous monitoring, analysis and management of security risks. This not only on equipment and procedures, but above all on the initiative involves all employees (flight, ground, technical & commercial). professionalism, commitment and attention of all of employees. To ensure continuous improvement is made, members of staff are This is why both airlines go beyond the relevant national, European encouraged to report any incident which could have an impact on and international regulations and are continuing their IOSA (IATA safety, with no risk of sanction for the person who signals the incident. Operational Safety Audit) registration by the IATA, which covers all Furthermore, the Group constantly adapts and updates its training operational management and control systems that contribute to programmes in order to ensure the highest levels of competence among safety procedures. its staff. Crisis management prevention plans are in effect at all of the KLM is actively involved in several initiatives led by the Dutch Group’s destinations and simulation exercises are carried out several government to strengthen safety regulations around Schiphol airport, times per year. and to adopt stricter regulations. Furthermore, KLM is participating in setting up additional government policy regarding high obstacles in the Schiphol area to ensure that obstacle density is not increased and thus flight safety risks are minimized. FOCUS EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT OF AIR FRANCE FLIGHT SAFETY In December 2009, Air France launched an external evaluation of its RIO-PARIS ACIDENT: A DECISIVE BREAKTHROUGH flight safety. The assessment was carried out by eight independent, recognised, international experts and examined all internal Since the accident which occurred on the 1st of June 2009 on operations, decision-making processes and procedures that could its Rio to Paris flight, Air France has done all it can to help the have an impact on flight safety. Following the study, which lasted for families of missing passengers and crew by supporting efforts the whole of 2010, the experts presented 35 recommendations to to find the aircraft in the Atlantic Ocean. At the beginning of Air France, as part of a continuous improvement process involving flight safety carried out by the company. May 2011 the two flight recorders of the A330 flight were finally recovered following a particularly difficult operation, Air France promptly implemented the first experts’ recommendations; accomplished thanks to the determination shown by authorithese included for example the creation of a flight safety committee ties, Airbus and Air France. within Air France’s Board of Directors, and by launching an in flight Analysis of the data from these recorders should allow invesobservation initiative, LOSA (Line Operations Safety Audit), a first tigators to reconstruct precisely what happened on the flight among major European airlines and determine the causes of the accident. Not only is this is a legitimate demand from the families, it is also vital to the aviation community in order to prevent another such a tragedy. Integrating security into all Air France-KLM’s specific skills in managing passenger flows, flight routes, and its worldwide organisation enables it to play an important of our operations role in the work of international authorities responsible for risk prevention. The Group has participated in a working group of IATA, Faced with the threat of terrorism and criminal activity, the Group International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) and the World Customs is continuing with heightened security procedures, which aim Organisation (WCO) to standardise passengers’ personal data required to ensure the protection of its customers, staff and assets. This by Governments. Air France and KLM also play a leading role through operation includes various measures such as inspections of aircraft, their leadership in IATA Security Expert Group in fostering the concept inspecting baggage, random checks on personnel, and checks on of Checkpoint of the Future, which emphasizes the need of better use passenger boarding and disembarking. These procedures, which are of intelligence and information in the screening process in order to subject to strict regulation, are carried out with a constant concern detect bad intent rather than bad objects by deployment of behavioural for the privacy of passengers. analysis, passenger differentiation and introducing unpredictability. Challenging dynamics in the air transport industry 9 Air France-KLM is working directly with intelligence agencies, and 100 countries and 200 cities across the world. In addition, 50 experts several other governmental agencies on the implementation of are charged with ensuring the security of flights on a daily basis security measures in the overall network. Air France for example, is and when necessary putting in place additional security measures working directly with the gendarmerie du transport aérien, la police at certain destinations. In 2010, KLM placed particular emphasis on aux frontières (French Air Transport Police). Air France is educating security issues through a monthly awareness campaign amongst and training all of its employees on these issues in order to guarantee its staff. the best possible protection for its customers and staff in almost POSITIONING THE GROUP IN THE WORLD OF TOMORROW Financial results 2010-11 The 2010-11 financial year was marked by a positive result from revenues up by 11.3%, staging a strong recovery despite numerous current operations of €122 million versus a loss of €1.28 billion exceptional events. The Group carried 71.3 million passengers and at March 31, 2010. This improvement was due to the strategic the passenger business saw a 1.1% increase in traffic for stable measures implemented in 2009-10 principally in the passenger and capacity (-0.1%). cargo businesses, and to the economic recovery. Net income-Group The second of the Group’s businesses, Cargo, returned to growth part stood at a positive €613 million at March 31, 2011, after the and profitability earlier than expected, with traffic up by 2.5% for 1.03 billion capital gain on the sale of the shareholding in Amadeus. virtually unchanged capacity (-0.3%). Aircraft maintenance’s revenue In the 2010-11 financial year, Air France-KLM’s turnover stood at was up by 7.6% due to high value-added dynamic activities such as €23.6 billion (+12.5%). The passenger business was dynamic, with engine and component support. Ongoing development at Air France-KLM The comprehensive restructuring which has been ongoing since 2009 Aside from resuming or increasing the number of flights, other factors is beginning to bear fruit, both in passenger and cargo transport. are also contributing to strengthen the Group’s competitiveness, such Employees’ efforts to adapt and structural changes have resulted in as the rolling out of new destinations, the launch of innovative technoan improvement in unit revenues and a reduction in costs, excluding logies aimed at customers and the signature of partnerships and joint fuel. Adjusting capacity to match demand has enabled to maintain ventures such as the agreement between Air France-KLM and Delta high load factors of over 80% on flights. Airlines. Restructuring short and medium haul products Streamlining Cargo To meet the needs of European point-to-point passengers and to As the world’s leading international air cargo operator, the Group was connect Europe to the rest of the world through the efficiency and hit hard during the economic crisis. By reducing its cargo fleet from 25 complimentary nature of its two hubs, the Group has adapted its offer to 14 aircrafts, it has restructured its business to decrease its exposure in terms of timetabling, services and fare structure, and has rolled out to economic cycles. The Group’s cargo offer is now based upon more a series of initiatives to reduce its unit costs. efficient use of the entire network and the number of destinations served, and passenger and combi aircraft cargo transporting capacity. Developing a solid long-haul network This strategic reorganisation requires comprehensive changes to To embark upon the road to recovery, the Group is expanding its longoperational processes and commercial policy. In 2010-11, the share of haul business, which represents the cornerstone of its growth and passenger and combi aircraft used to transport cargo represents 67%, relies upon the use of a more efficient fleet with the arrival of Airbus against 33% for all-cargo aircraft. In 2007-08, these figures stood at A380s, the densification of Boeing 777-200s, the choice of Airbus 54% and 46% respectively. A330-300s and at KLM the conversion of two combis (mixed cargopassenger use aircraft) into full passenger service. Providing efficient maintenance services Safeguarding its leading position in aviation maintenance in a highly competitive environment requires the Group to meet the expectations of its customers with speed and flexibility. This is why Air France Industries and KLM Engineering & Maintenance have developed a worldwide maintenance network based on the know-how developed in Paris and Amsterdam. 10 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 Outlook for 2011 Breakdown of revenue by business line The short and long-term actions implemented by Air France-KLM should enable it to better manage the post-crisis situation, and conti6% other businesses nue to anticipate external uncertainties. In all this, investing in sustai4% aviation maintenance (catering, charters, etc.) nability remains key by further integrating CSR into the business and operations. This enables the Group to grow in a sustainable way and to be prepared for the future. 13% cargo 77% passenger transport DISTRIBUTION OF THE GROUP’S REVENUE The Group’s results are distributed among its main stakeholders, airports. In 2010-11 taxes stood at €2 billion for Air such as employees, suppliers, shareholders public authorities and France-KLM. These are used to fund government duties, including local communities. The table below gives a summary of the flow of running civil aviation, security expenses, and the development Group earnings to various stakeholders in € millions. of airports, fire-fighting and salvage, preventing bird strikes, On top of the price of tickets, customers pay numerous taxes which environmental checks, as well as specific taxes including money airlines collect on behalf of governments, supervisory bodies and collected in France for the ‘Solidarity Fund for Development’. Disposal of aircraft and financial assets Industrial Aeronautical Fleet €1,184 m €334.5 €641.4 m €1,146 m Investments and development Cash flow from operations Loan €1,352 m €900 m Non profit Sponsorship Fuel suppliers Other suppliers Banks (including €5,720 m Fleet operating leases environmental sponsorship), €831 m €10 m Other expenses €6,257 m REV: €23,615 m Repayment Gross Interest of debt €1,195 m expenses €371 m Passengers Cargo Maintenance Taxes on tickets (not included in turnover) €2,000 m Employees Airports Air traffic control State & local authorities Shareholders Wages Airport fees En route charges Taxes & fees Dividends €7,333 m €742 m €1,005 m €198 m €3 m Airports State & local authorities Challenging dynamics in the air transport industry 11 Our approach to corporate social responsibility Aware of its responsibilities and the issues affecting the shared growth of its business, the Air France-KLM Group has chosen to place CSR at the heart of its business strategy and throughout its organisation, thereby giving an important role to dialogue with its stakeholders. Fulfilling the Group’s corporate responsibility and ensuring the legitimacy of its operations means achieving profitable growth, acting decisively to limit the negative impact of its activities, protecting the environment, providing customers with innovative products and ever more personalised services and creating social value. To meet these challenges, Air France-KLM’s approach to CSR is based on five current key issues, and ensures collaboration with its partners in the supply chain. Based on its CSR achievements, Air France-KLM has been recognised by various non-financial rating agencies as a frontrunner in CSR. 12 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 Our vision By mobilising all of the Group’s resources and employees and through a step by step approach, we set the standard in terms of CSR and strive to remain frontrunner in the airline industry. Our commitments Our CSR commitment is based on working in line • The Group is a signatory of the United Nations with fundamental rights, as contained in international Global Compact and is committed to respecting principles: and promoting its ten principles in the areas of • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights; human rights, labour standards, the environment • The International Labour Organization’s (ILO) and the fight against corruption; Declaration on Fundamental Principles and • In France, Air France is a signatory of the Diversity Rights at Work; Charter, the Charter for Corporate Commitment • The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and to equal opportunities in the State educational Development’s (OECD) guiding principles; system, and the Good Parenting Charter; • In 2010 in The Netherlands, KLM signed the The Group’s CSR approach is underlined by the Sustainable Supply and Corporate Responsibility signing of public commitments at both international Manifesto, which aims to support the market for and national levels. sustainable products and services and to encourage other businesses and suppliers to commit to this path. Our approach to corporate social responsibility 13 OUR CSR STRATEGY Setting the standards Our CSR ambition is laid out in the Air France-KLM Corporate Social by the Group’s European Works Council. Several in-house charters Responsibility Statement of 2006, in which the Group outlined its supplement these commitments, including the Air France-KLM commitments to environmental protection, social equity and local Sustainable Development Charter for Group suppliers, the KLM Code development. The CSR statement was strengthened in 2007 with the of Conduct, the Anti-harassment Charter and the Block Release adoption of the Climate Plan (see page 23) and then in 2008 with Training Charter at Air France. the signature of the Social Rights and Ethics Charter (see page 51) Integrated at every level The Group intends to make sustainability an integral part of its At KLM Executive level a CSR council has been established, which operations, by integrating CSR within all divisions and at all levels. The meets every quarter. This Council is made up of several executives ‘Embark’ plan was presented at the end of 2010 and lays out and senior managers to give advice on CSR policy to the Board of the Group’s medium term strategic vision, putting CSR and our Directors and Executive Committee. commitments to stakeholders at the heart of its priorities. Air France and KLM have built CSR indicators into senior management At executive management level at Air France the Executive Vice targets: occupational safety performance for operations managers at President, who is a member of the Executive Committee, is responsible Air France, and CSR targets in the variable remuneration of all senior for CSR management. At KLM this is guaranteed at Board level. The executives at KLM. Air France and KLM CSR departments are responsible for policy and Finally, the risks and challenges related to CSR are integrated into deployment in each organisation, from senior management priorities to the Group’s three-year strategic plan. The internal audit division has implementation via unit action plans. carried out several audits in the field of CSR, such as safety in the workplace, training, Air France and KLM CO2 calculators and the risk At Group level a strategic CSR meeting with executives of both airlines of conflicts of interest in the purchasing department. takes place twice a year. CSR governance and implementation are explained in the organisational diagram below. At Group level Board of Directors Air France-KLM • Determines the strategic orientations of the company’s activities and • The audit committee monitors the effectiveness of the Group’s internal ensures their implementation control and of the Group’s risk management systems • Reviews the management report, which informs among others on CSR performance Group Executive Committee (GEC) Internal Audit • Approves the CSR policy, which is included in the annual Group • Independently assesses the effectiveness of the Strategic Framework risk management system and performs assurance • Approves the annual audit plan audits At airline level Board of Directors Air France, Board of Managing Directors and Supervisory Board KLM Same responsibility as Air France-KLM Board of Directors Executive Committees Air France and KLM • Supervise the CSR policy and associated risks • QSE Management Review Twice a year at Air France and KLM Safety& Quality EVP Board Business and operations Corporate • Ensure the responsibility and monitoring HR department CSR department of the Quality-Security-Environment • Define and implement social policy • Define and implement CSR policy (QSE) systems • Negociates with the unions the collec• Coordinates the Environmental • Integrate CSR policy in operations tive agreements Management System • Manage emergency and crisis situations 14 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 Managing and monitoring CSR performance Integrating the expectations of our stakeholders For over ten years, the introduction of management objectives and Listening along and sharing our CSR policy and initiatives are key plans for continuous improvement in the Group’s strategy has been elements of the Group’s CSR strategy, both in terms of identifying based on the ISO 14001 standard. The two airlines are certified for CSR issues and in their implementation. The Group incorporates all of their relevant activities, both in their facilities in France and The stakeholder expectations when defining objectives, through ongoing Netherlands and onboard their aircraft. dialogue and the materiality test as advocated in the GRI guidelines. In 2010, Air France Industries (AFI) aimed to integrate ISO 26000 guidelines into its processes for CSR and an evaluation was carried The Group monitors employee opinion in-house through surveys, out in November 2010. AFI is the first Aviation Maintenance operator forums and themed events. This year, the ‘Embark’ company plan was to have incorporated the guidelines of this new international standard extended to all levels of the Group, meaning all employees were able to into its operations. express their expectations concerning CSR. In 2009, KLM established various CSR performance indicators in 5 key Externally, the Group has set up various forms of dialogue, such as areas covering compliance, innovative performance and stakeholder customer surveys, comments from stakeholder groups, discussions engagement. These indicators measure progress achieved within each with air transport associations, benchmarking competitors and best division, and facilitate the drawing up and monitoring of action plans. practice sharing with other sectors, analysing regulatory trends, and taking into account recommendations from non-financial ratings Since 2006, the Group has disposed of an annual joint reporting system, agencies. (For more information on dialogue with stakeholders, see which is audited every year by one of its two statutory auditors. This table on page 62). auditor checks whether the social and environmental indicators are in line with the ISAE 3000 standard (International Standard on Assurance The diagram below shows various stakeholder groups, with whom Engagement). The Air France-KLM CSR report follows the GRI (Global the Group maintains regular dialogue. The results of this stakeholder Reporting Initiative) guidelines (see table on page 65). dialogue are helping to further shape our policy, mapping issues and are taken into account in our yearly CSR reporting. Interest groups Local authorities Residents’ associations Scientific community Associations and NGOs Employees Combating climate change Business partners Suppliers and subcontractors, & Unions Airports, Air transport industry, Minimising our environmental impacts Air transport sector bodies Building a sustainable relationship with our customers Promoting a responsible human resources policy International, Shareholders European and financial and National Contributing to local development partners authorities Customers Our approach to corporate social responsibility 15 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Applying corporate governance principles to ensure improved governance Comprising 15 members, four of whom are Dutch, the Board of Directors determines the orientation of the company’s activities and ensures their implementation. The Board relies on the recommendations of its specialised committees to ensure the smooth operation of the Group in conjunction with the management. The Board operates according to accepted French corporate governance principles as set out in the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code updated in 2010. In application of these principles the Board of Directors regularly discusses and updates its mode of governance: Reduction in the duration of Board Directors’ terms of office and staggered renewal Women members of the Board of Directors In order to comply with the governance principles as presented in the There are two women members of the Board of Directors, or a 13.3%. AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code and to adopt the concluIn view of the Board director mandates expiring in 2012 and 2013, sions of the evaluation of the functioning of the Board of Directors, the the Appointments Committee will put forward candidates intended General Shareholders’ Meeting of July 10, 2008, decided to reduce to reinforce the presence of women within the Board in order to the duration of Board Directors’ terms of office from six to four years comply with the AFEP-MEDEF recommendation of April 19, 2010 and and to include the option of a staggered renewal process for mandates the provisions of the law of January 27, 2011 relating to the equal in the bylaws. The General Shareholders’ Meeting of July 8, 2010 thus representation of women and men within Boards of Directors. fixed the duration of new or re-appointed Board directors’ mandates at two, three and four years to ensure the smooth renewal of the Board Independence of Directors of Directors. After having examined the situation of each Board director, the Board of Directors meeting of March 23, 2011 considered that six Directors Evaluation of the functioning of the Board of were independent in view of its ownership structure (notably the French Directors State and employees) and the specific rules governing the appointDuring the 2010-11 financial year, the members of the Board of ment of a number of its Board Directors. The Board considered that Directors conducted a self-evaluation exercise on the way that they all the Board directors had competences and professional experience function. The interviews with the Board directors were handled that are useful to the company, whether or not they are considered to under the seal of anonymity and were the subject of a presentation and be independent in the light of the AFEP-MEDEF criteria. discussion during the Board of Directors meeting of March 23, 2011. The self-evaluation highlighted some positive developments in the Internal regulations of the Board of Directors functioning of the Board since the last evaluation carried out by an On June 17, 2004, the Board of Directors adopted its internal regulaindependent firm in 2010: the debates are more effectively focused, tions notably specifying the terms for the organisation and functioning the meetings are properly conducted and there is free discussion with of the Board and also determining the powers of each of the speciaa frank exchange of information and ideas. lised committees established within the Board. The internal regulations are regularly updated : They were, in particular, modified by the Board of Directors meeting of March 26, 2009 in order to specify the roles and powers of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer following the separation of the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, effective January 1, 2009. 16 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 Board of Directors and specialised committees 2010-11 status Composition of the Board of Directors 12 directors appointed by the General Shareholders’ Meeting (of which 2 representatives of the employee shareholders) 3 representatives of the French State appointed by ministerial order Separation of the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since January 1, 2009 Directors’ term of office Four years (exceptionally two or three years to ensure the smooth renewal of the Board of Directors) Number of meetings and average attendance rate 9 meetings; attendance rate: 88.1% (92.4% excluding extraordinary meetings). Training of Board of Directors members At the time of their appointment or at any time during their term of office, each director may benefit from the training necessary to fulfil their mandate. Such training is organized by the Group Board of Directors Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Appointments Committee Committee Number of members 6 (of whom 3 independent) 3 (of whom 2 independent) 4 (all independent) Number of meetings 4 1 1 Average attendance rate at meetings 79% 100% 100% Annual evaluation of the functioning of the Board of Directors Yes (each member of the Board of Directors conducted a self-evaluation based and Committees on questionnaire, the anonymously reported findings were presented at one of the meetings) Existence of Board’s internal regulation, a code of stock market Yes compliance and a code of financial ethics Compensation of the company officers Publication of compensation modalities and amount paid to executive directors in the Reference Document, the Management Report and on the Group website. Executive directors receive neither stock options nor bonus shares. Should they leave the company they do not receive any special indemnities. Publication of Board directors’ fee modalities and their amount in the Reference Document and in the Management Report For more information about corporate governance, codes of ethics, business and whistle-blowing procedures, see the 2010-11 Reference Document and www.airfranceklm-finance.com. Monitoring adherence to ethical principles Our business conduct rules Compliance with competition law As a framework for its operations, Air France-KLM has several guideSince 2007, Air France-KLM has established its own specific comline documents concerning the way it runs its business and on prevenpliance policy related to competition law with the publication of its ting corruption. Some of these guidelines apply to all members of staff, Competition Law Compliance Manual. The Manual is published in while others are specific. three languages, available to all employees. The Manual was updated at the end of 2010 and remains available to all employees. The Board of Directors has adopted a Compliance Charter and Financial Code of Ethics. The Compliance Charter imposes rules on Further to this publication, several other means of prevention have trading shares upon company officers, senior executives and some been developed and made available to the Group’s employees. employees of the company in sensitive posts, while the Financial Code In 2008, an online training module on compliance with competition of Ethics defines rules concerning financial information, with which rules was rolled out to 8,000 of the Group’s employees holding posts they must comply. that require knowledge of the relevant regulations. Following the online training and a final assessment, these employees signed indiviIn 2008, KLM drew up a code of conduct that sets out the main prindual agreements in which they committed to complying with competiciples concerning confidentiality and honesty, such as the fight against tion rules relevant to their work. corruption, conflicts of interest and financial transparency. At the end of 2010, a second e-learning module was added to this training, the completion of which was made compulsory for Air France’s To enable members of staff to signal serious matters which they may be 12,000 executive employees. Other means of raising staff awareness aware of, Air France and KLM have set up a whistle blowing procedure have also been rolled out, notably a hotline dedicated to competition which is accessible to all, discretionary and anonymous, should the law issues, and an in-house poster campaign addressing the topic. employee so choose, and with no risk of sanction to the whistle blower. Finally, a manual outlining guidelines to follow during an investigation by competition authorities will be made available online to all employees in summer 2011. Our approach to corporate social responsibility 17 Sustaining quality shareholder relations Knowing our shareholders which features all financial information published by the Group. In partnerPursuant to the obligation for air transport companies to monitor and ship with the business press, the Group also regularly takes part in control their shareholders, Air France-KLM has implemented a procebriefings for individual shareholders all over France. dure for their identification. An additional advisory forum for individual shareholders was also As of March 31, 2011, Air France-KLM was 65.2% owned by French created in 2000, the Consultative Committee for Individual Shareinterests (compared to 63.4% at March 31, 2010), and more than 75% holders (CCRAI), which meets four times a year to canvass and pass by European institutions. on the expectations of small shareholders. Breakdown of share capital at 31st March 2011 Involving the Group’s personnel 1.4% Treasury shares Air France-KLM has one of the highest proportions of employee 9.8 % Employees share ownership of the companies in the SBF 120 stock index, with close to 12% of Group equity owned by over half of current or former 15.7 % French State 73.1% Other employees, collectively representing the Group’s second-largest shareholder. Two representatives of the employee shareholders have seats on the Group’s Board of Directors, they are also involved in the discussions of the Audit Committee. Their current term of office expired at the end of the General Shareholders’ Meeting of July 8, 2010. Employee and General shareholders’ meeting of the 8th of July 2010 former employee shareholders were all invited to choose a candidate in one of the two electoral colleges (flight deck crew and other staff). One share equals one vote Yes The election was run entirely online, including all campaign posters, Number of shareholders present, represented, 14,686 shareholders and close to 30% of employee shareholders, representing half of the granting power of attorney to the Chairman, representing 159,620,056 shares and hence of the votes, were able to express their preference. or voting by mail shares The successful candidates, who will be presented to the General Shareholders’ Meeting of July 8, 2010, were both elected with an absolute Attendance rate 54.46% majority of the votes cast in the first round of voting. Pursuing regular dialogue with our shareholders To ensure that its shareholders and investors are well-informed, Air France-KLM uses a range of media and events tailored to different Changes in employee share ownership profiles: briefings and press conferences, meetings with investors and March 2008 March 2009 March 2010 March 2011 rating agencies, a quarterly newsletter for shareholders sent out to all 11.2% 12% 11.8% 9.8% 7,000 members of the Shareholders’ Club, and a dedicated website Exercising our responsibility by taking public positions Air France-KLM is regularly involved in public debate where it explains To achieve this end, the Group belongs to international bodies (IATA – the reality and constraints inherent to its business, in order to: International Air Transport Association), European bodies (AEA – Asso• provide lawmakers and politicians with information necessary to ciation of European Airlines, regional bodies ERA – European Regions form an understanding of the issues currently facing the airline indusAirlines Association) and national bodies (FNAM – Fédération Natiotry so that they can draft laws and regulations on subjects which are nale de l’Aviation Marchande in France and BARIN – Board of Airline increasingly complex, Representatives in The Netherlands), whose role is to represent the air • drive the changes we feel are necessary, sometimes by means of transport sector and advocate its public positions. purposeful initiatives, • advocate the effective implementation and application of national, Air France-KLM’s Chairman of the Board of Directors, Jean-Cyril European and international regulations to avoid all competitive disSpinetta, is a member of the new ‘Aviation platform’, which was tortion. created by the European Commission. The platform is made up of fifteen people from within the sector and aims to suggest ways of promoting a sustainable future for air transport and a competitive European aviation industry. Three Group representatives are based in Brussels to put forward the Group’s arguments and, as lobbyists, have signed the EU’s lobbyists’ charter. 18 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 Air France-KLM’s public positions Climate change Air France-KLM believes that because by its nature, air transport is a worldwide business, its emissions can only be controlled through a sector-wide, global approach. This approach must be based upon the framework laid out by the Chicago Convention, which itself is based on equality of treatment for airlines operating in the same markets. The Group supports the strategy developed by IATA and adopted by its members. Air France-KLM welcomes the Resolution on Climate Change which was approved by the ICAO during its 37th conference in 2010, which affirms the ICAO’s responsibilities, sets sector-wide targets and guides strategies to be implemented by member states. Inclusion of airlines in the European Air France-KLM has always supported ‘cap and trade’, which it considers more effective in both Union Emissions Trading Scheme environmental and economic terms than a tax-based system. Revenues generated by governments (EU ETS) as a result of auctioning emission rights should be earmarked for sustainable innovation in the aviation industry, e.g by modernising air traffic management or developing alternative fuels. Although it only covers part of international aviation, EU ETS is a first step towards a system that must be applied worldwide. The Group is paying close attention that the application of the system does not distort competition, or drive traffic towards non-European hubs (carbon leakage). Given the opposition and sometimes threats of retaliation from non-European states and airlines, the Group believes that this system should apply only to intra-European traffic for the time being. Its extension to inter-continental traffic should be carried out through agreements between states, according to ICAO recommendations. Single European Sky Since the adoption in 2009 of laws paving the way for implementation of the Single European Sky, first steps have been taken regarding the creation of Functional Airspace Blocks (FAB’s). The Group hopes that EU Member States will live up to their commitments regarding the local performance targets leading up to effective FAB’s. An efficient air traffic control system is essential for guaranteeing flight safety and for cutting costs, reducing fuel consumption and hence CO2 emissions. Alternative fuels Air France-KLM believes that biofuels represent the most promising way of significantly reducing the carbon footprint of air transport. The Group is financially supporting research and taking an active part in efforts to produce and commercialise biokerosene which are acceptable in environmental, social as well as in economic terms. The Group is calling upon public authorities to provide strong support for research and development on biofuels for aviation. Since the amount of sustainably grown biomass for liquid biofuels is scarce, Air France-KLM is calling for comprehensive legislation that focuses these scarce resources in those sectors that do not currently have an alternative to liquid fuels. Redefining European transport Air transport will remain an essential driver of economic and human development for industrialised Policy (in the Framework of the and emerging countries alike. The European Commission’s White Book has addressed the decarEU White Book and the roll-out bonisation of the airline sector, and the adaptation of the infrastructure required to meet the mobility of the EU 2020 strategy) needs of EU citizens. Air France-KLM is contributing to the Commission’s work on reducing transportgenerated hindrances. The Group stresses that it is necessary to guarantee a level playing field for different modes of transport and between operators using the same transport modes, and to take the international dimension of air transport into account. Air/Rail co-modality Air and rail are potentially complementary transport modes. Accordingly, the Group supports the use of trains as a means of extending the catchment area around airports and as a potential substitute on select short-haul routes. Access to the rail market should be guaranteed to all new entrants to promote high-quality co-modality. The Group actively pursues standardization and industry solutions to facilitate linking both modes as an integrated, customer friendly product. Consumer Rights Customer care is central to the business of the Group. Air France-KLM contributes to the European Commission’s work on Consumer Rights and carefully monitors the harmonious application of the rules to all airlines operating in the European Union. It is actively conducting a process to provide the necessary clarity of certain provisions in Consumer regulations, leading to a proper balance between the interests of passengers and airlines. Grand Roissy Air France supports government initiatives to promote balanced growth at Roissy-CDG. The environmental measures announced encourage the responsible development of the airport and by modernising its fleet and adjusting its procedures, Air France is participating to the full. Air France is in favour of initiatives to promote access to training and jobs for local people, and to create the best possible conditions for welcoming and enabling businesses to grow. Air France supports and encourages access to the airport via public transport for passengers and employees alike. The airline supports the implementation of coordinated governance for the area and would like to take part in all cooperation and coordination authorities. Our approach to corporate social responsibility 19 ENGAGING THE AIRLINE SECTOR Working with our subsidiaries The Group’s subsidiaries are involved in CSR policy and implement KLM’s subsidiaries KLM Cityhopper, Transavia and Martinair have been their own initiatives, with the majority included in the Group’s social involved in the ‘Weight & Fuel’ programme and have applied this to and environmental reporting. The signature of Air France-KLM’s Social their own operations. The programme aims to reduce onboard weight. Rights and Ethics Charter by all European subsidiaries in 2008 repreKLM Catering Services carried out a study in cooperation with KLM sented an important step in defining common strategy. Inflight Services on KLM’s onboard supply chain, in order to come up with responsible solutions for washing the dishes and cutlery used Servair, Air France’s catering subsidiary, has set its own strategic onboard. By reducing the use of road freight through better logistic CSR priorities in order to guarantee healthy and safe products for organisation, these new measures have reduced costs and environits customers, to promote diversity and equal opportunities within mental impact, a benefit shared by all concerned. the company, to reduce its environmental impact and to promote an ethical and responsible approach to local development. In 2010 Servair published its first CSR report. CSR commitment within the SkyTeam alliance As partners in the SkyTeam global network, Air France and KLM share In 2008, SkyTeam was the first alliance to sign a CSR charter. During a strong commitment to CSR with other members, with each airline the yearly SkyTeam CSR day, partners share best practices and also developing its own CSR initiatives. exchange knowledge. Currently, Air France chairs the SkyTeam CSR working group and organised a CSR event in Paris in February 2011. Involving our supply chain The Group is working closely with its partners in the supply chain; from Taking into account the direct and indirect environmental impact of the stage of product development until the end of life cycle. In the products and services, Air France-KLM selects suppliers based overview on page 11 one can see the key actors in the supply chain on total cost of ownership. For example, the high volatility of textile who play important roles in our core business so that the Group can prices in 2011 lead to a different approach on fibre eco-design for all offer customers the products and services they want. Examples of key textile products (uniforms, blankets, hot towels), comparing global actors are suppliers of fleet & components, fuel, cabin equipment and environmental impact (Life-Cycle-Analysis based) in addition to stanaviation infrastructure providers. Large financial spend and long term dard assessments based on functionality and price. investment are involved which means that working together to optimise processes and come up with innovative sustainable solutions, is Involving and engaging our buyers of key importance. The Group actively promotes social responsibility and environmental performance among buyers and internal business stakeholders in Committing to responsible procurement charge of formulating product specifications. Buyers need to sign The Group’s primary focus is on creating an integrated approach to a Code of Ethics to ensure ethical behaviour in their dealings with procurement as part of a sustainable supply chain. Air France-KLM suppliers. This document is also published on the newly established Procurement seeks to align sustainability, innovation and cost reduction supplier website, which can also be directly accessed through the into a global perspective to optimise processes and enable savings. commercial airline websites. Furthermore, in the past year a large part CSR elements are part of current methods for measuring purchasing of the procurement division has participated in CSR training, either on performance. They are taken into account by all procurement domains, eco-design, or as part of internal procurement training, as well as in for example in the E&M domain, which incorporated ISO 26000 guideexternal events on CSR and procurement. lines (CSR analysis and monitoring of their suppliers). Supplier management A leading example of CSR driven purchasing can be found in efforts on The Group uses a supplier management system to ensure transpabiofuel. The Group is actively involved in the creation of a global biofuel rency and consistency in its approach and to deal with suppliers. market together with its suppliers and several NGOs. Other significant As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, the Air Francecontributions can be found in the areas of inflight services (catering KLM Group assesses the CSR compliance of its suppliers, either by and on-board equipment) and aircraft components. Other examples asking them to sign up to a Sustainability Charter or provide their own include the cradle-to-cradle approach (including the waste / recycling but equivalent CSR statement whenever they respond to a call for process) adopted in the upcycling of old uniforms. tender. Suppliers are required to complete a registration questionnaire 20 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 during tender procedures (which is also generally used for supplier risk Our regional and social impact assessment), and are asked to provide information about sustainaSuppliers beeing vital to its success, the Group aims to build strong bility, including environmental licences, location of production sites, supplier relations which involves signing contracts that serve the intecompliance with the Air France-KLM supplier charter and in particular rests of all parties while complying with agreed payment lead times. with EU REACH regulations on chemicals. The Suppliers Charter is As a result of its large supply base, Air France-KLM also creates also published on the supplier website, as part of the “CSR Commitmany indirect jobs around the hubs and at its destinations, with over ment” section. The Group has the ambition to further improve the rate two-thirds of these in Europe. Outsourcing more work to companies of CSR compliant suppliers. Air France-KLM intends to further integrate that employ disabled workers is a major concern for all departments. and standardise CSR principles in existing audit procedures. Today over €12 million is generated by companies in the sheltered sector through activities as diverse as the distribution of uniforms, the Several products and suppliers have already been selected for their cleaning of onboard blankets and table linen, logistics for engine spare socially or ecologically responsible qualities, including electric vehicles parts or aircraft seats. for Hubs, “green” office supplies or wine bottles for voyageurs class in PET to reduce weight onboard. CSR ACHIEVEMENTS RECOGNISED The Group is assessed annually by the major international non-financial Air France-KLM is included in the CDLI 2010 (Carbon Disclosure ratings agencies, including SAM, Vigeo, Eiris and Oekom. For the 6th Leadership Index), which ranks the best twenty French companies on year running, the Group has been ranked leader in the aviation sector the SBF 250 (see Focus page 25). on the DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index). In 2010, Air FranceKLM was named supersector leader in the broader ‘Travel and Leisure’ In The Netherlands, KLM participates in the Transparency Benchmark, sector, a distinction it also received in 2008. which is led by the Ministry for Economic Affairs and encourages Dutch companies to be transparent on their CSR policy and activities. The Group is also listed on non-financial indexes: Aspi Eurozone, Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Global and FTSE4Good Index Series. Our approach to corporate social responsibility 21 Combating climate change Climate change is one of the largest environmental challenges our planet is facing. Aviation accounts for around 2% of man-made CO2 emissions, but continuing growth in global air transport means this figure is rising. The effective response to this worldwide challenge must be international. An unprecedented step forward was taken in Montreal on the 8th of October 2010, when 174 member countries of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) adopted a resolution which includes an objective to cut the aviation industry’s CO2 emissions. This represents a first step towards an industry-wide agreement on reducing greenhouse gas emissions on a global scale. As a major actor in this combat, Air France-KLM will continue to move forward in order to mobilise the whole sector. For several years, the Group is playing its part in the collective effort to further reduce CO2 emissions, particularly through our contribution to the development of sustainable biofuels, which will enable us to reduce our carbon footprint and in the future to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. 22 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 Our vision We aim to reach a sustainable balance between aviation growth and the control of CO2 emissions by playing our part in the worldwide effort, mobilizing our industry and reducing our own impact. Our commitments Air France-KLM has set up a ‘Climate Action Plan’ • We actively encourage research programmes for to combat climate change. As part of this: renewable energy sources such as sustainable • We support efforts to reach a new worldwide aviation biofuels; agreement post 2012. The Group has joined • We participate in environmental protection proschemes to mobilise the aviation sector for a fair grammes led by NGOs; contribution to collective efforts; • We provide our customers with transparent and • We continue to modernise our fleet, contribute to reliable information on their travel-related CO2 aviation research, and encourage the entire supemissions via a calculator based on real operating ply chain to cut CO2 emissions; data and opportunities to offset them. • We ask all our staff to work towards ambitious environmental action plans, from fuel saving in our flight operations to cutting emissions on the ground; Combating climate change 23 Our management indicators AIR FRANCE / objectives / schedule / main achievements 2010-11 / status 20% CO2 emissions for flights to overseas territories based on 2012 Targets exceeded thanks to the replacement of B747s with B777-300s in 2005 levels 2008 and by changes to capacity in response to the economic context. 5% CO2 emissions for domestic flights based on 2005 level 3.7 litres/passenger/100km 2012 3.8 litres/passenger/100km in 2010 (95 g CO2/passenger/km) 300,000 metric tons of CO2 per year by 2012 2009-20 236,250 metric tons of CO2 saved (Fuel plan) 500,000 metric tons of CO2 per year by 2020 60% of ramp equipment fleet to be electronically powered by 2020 2020 45% of ramp fleet electrified KLM / objectives / schedule / main achievements 2010-11 / status CO2 neutral growth (2007-2011) 2011 Follow-up of this commitment through the partnership between WWF-NL and KLM. WWF participation in the SkyNRG Sustainability Board 20% CO2 reduction per ton/kilometre by 2020 (based on 2009 2020 +1% fuel efficiency as part of the Fuel Awareness programme set up by levels) flight operations Cutting on board weight, with a 2% reduction in the weight of ca2011 Many initiatives carried our in the previous year, but the introduction of the tering equipment. light weight trolley has been postponed Biofuels 2011-12 Demonstration of practical use of biofuels in KLM aircraft, provided that sustainable biofuels receive technical authorisation for use during flights Target achieved or exceeded On target Target partly achieved Background: air transport’s carbon footprint The air transport sector contributes around 2%1 of global CO2 emissions and 1.6%2 of total greenhouse gas emissions. Air transport Share of air transport industry in global man-made CO2 emissions. around 2% 7 8 9 1 1. Electricity & Heat 36% 2. Manufacturing 5. Fugitive Emissions 1% 6. Industrial of global man-made CO2 emissions 6 & Construction 15% Processes 3% 5 3. Transport 14% 7. Land Use Change 4 4. Other Fuel & Forestry 16% Combustion 10% 8. Aviation 2% 3 9. Marine 3% 2 Source : The World Resources Institute, International Energy Agency and the International Maritime Organisation (2005) Political and regulatory context Global resolution for the aviation sector : Air France-KLM supports effective environmental a historic step forward regulation A first on a worldwide scale: on the 8th of October 2010 in Montreal, As from 2012, the aviation industry will come under the EU Emissions 174 member countries of the International Civil Aviation OrganizaTrading Scheme (EU ETS). Air France-KLM has welcomed this Cap tion (ICAO) adopted a resolution to reduce the industry’s emissions. and Trade mechanism, which it believes to be more effective than a The agreement includes a target to improve the energy efficiency of straightforward tax, if no competitive distortion occurs. The Group international aviation by 2%3 per year until 2020, it also commits to considers that the revenues generated by government as result of stabilising net emissions and setting up a market-based regulatory auctioning emissions rights should be allocated to the improvement of framework for offsetting. Air France-KLM welcomes this resolution, environmental performance in aviation transport. which finally recognises the need for a global sectoral commitment. This Cap and Trade mechanism will have a significant environmental impact because aviation emissions will be capped at a level below their 2005 average. Nevertheless, its efficiency relies on its full scope implementation. 1 IPCC Fourth Assessment Report / Technical Summary (http://www.ipcc.ch/pdf/assessment-report/ar4/wg3/ar4-wg3-ts.pdf p.49), 2007 and GIEC-AIE 2005 2 Stern Review Chapter 15 (http://www.hm-treasury.gov.uk/media/4/5/Chapter_15_Carbon_Pricing_and_Emissions_Markets_in_Practice.pdf, box 15.6), 2006 24 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 3 http://www.icao.int/env/Statements/sbsta-33_Item-6a.pdf Playing our part in collective efforts Air France-KLM plays a key role in the International Air Transport FOCUS Association (IATA) in order to work on solutions to ensure that environAIR FRANCE-KLM’S STANCE ON THE EUROPEAN mental targets set by the Annual General Meeting in 2009 are reached : EMISSION TRADING SCHEME • from now until 2020, to improve energy efficiency by 1.5% per year; The European Union system for trading greenhouse gas quotas • from 2020, to ensure the stabilisation and neutral growth of CO2 (EU-ETS) will apply to the aviation sector from 2012. Air France-KLM emissions; believes that a responsible international aviation industry should • by 2050, 50% reduction of CO2 emissions compared with 2005 contribute to CO2 emissions reduction. Because it is not techlevels. nically feasible for aviation to reduce its emissions alone, it will finance reductions achieved in other sectors through Emissions Trading Schemes (ETS). However, Air France-KLM believes Meeting national commitments that the scheme will only be effective if all airlines worldwide are Air France signed the Commitments Agreement for the aviation sector included. This would also ensure that traffic is not diverted to at the Grenelle Environment Summit in January 2008, notably plednon-European hubs, which would create carbon leakage and ging to reduce the fuel consumption of its fleet to 3.7 litres/passenger/ lead to unfair competition. To date, the inclusion of non-European 100km by 2012, the equivalent of 93g of CO2/passenger/km. airlines in the scheme is contested and is subject to legal challenge by airlines from non-EU countries. Air France-KLM remains vigilant that In December 2010, Air France’s fleet fuel consumption was 3.8 litres/ the scheme is applied fairly. passenger/100 km in 2010, thus still on target. Our carbon footprint FOCUS CO2 emissions and Air France-KLM traffic OUR TRANSPARENCY AND CARBON PERFORMANCE In 2010, Air France-KLM was ranked 5th in the Carbon Disclo140 % sure Leadership Index (CDLI) which lists the 20 top performing French companies. The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an 130 % assessment carried out on behalf of 534 institutional investors holding over 64,000 billion dollars. The assessment evaluates how 120 % well major companies integrate climate change into their strate118 % gies, their approach to carbon reduction and their greenhouse 110 % gas performance. In 2010, for the first time companies were 100 % scored on their performance in managing carbon, which enabled 104 % the creation of the CPLI index. Carbon performance is given as 90 % a banded score on a scale from A (leading) to D (just starting). Air France-KLM was placed in band B, but strives ultimately to 80 % move upwards to band A. 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Traffic CO2 Almost 80% of the Group’s emissions are produced by our long-haul flights, for which there is no alternative mode of transport. Group-specific fuel consumption Our emissions calculation and offsetting options Group-specific fuel consumption 3.7 litres/passenAir France and KLM provide their customers with CO2 emissions ger/100 km – 93 g CO2/passenger/km calculators, available on both of their websites and the option to offset these emissions. Air France’s partnership with Good Planet supports L/pax/ gCO2 / the construction of biogas storage reservoirs in China and the conver100km pax/km sion of organic waste into compost for agriculture in Madagascar. KLM supports a Gold Standard certified wind farm on Bonaire Island 4,4 107 in the West Indies, which aims to produce enough renewable energy 4,3 to power the entire island. 4,2 102 4,1 4,0 3,9 97 3,8 3,7 -14% in 10 years 92 3,6 3,7L 3,5 93g 87 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Combating climate change 25 Reducing our carbon footprint Continuous improvement of fleet efficiency The Quality Innovation Program’s ‘Fuel Challenge’ initiative has been In 2010, despite the need for careful management of investments to receiving staff contributions since 2008, which have saved aircraft exit the economic crisis in the best possible shape, Air France and maintenance 2,000 metric tons of fuel. KLM moved to the next stage in their fleet renewal programmes. • Three A380s, one B777-300ER and seven new medium range Optimizing air space aircraft were added to Air France’s fleet in 2010; The optimization of air routes and traffic will enable the group to reduce • Thirteen new aircraft were added to the fleet, including one Boeing its emissions. This is why Air France and KLM are involved in three 777-300ER, one Airbus A330-200, for growth and 11 short hauls for long-term projects to improve airspace use: SESAR, AIRE and CDM4. fleet renewal. As of now, all turboprop aircraft have been phased out. In November 2010, Paris Charles de Gaulle airport was awarded the Airport Collaborative Decision Making (A-CDM) seal of approval, which means that the air traffic control organisation Eurocontrol (CFMU) has delegated control of departures to the airport. Flight plans to Bangkok have been improved: KLM in partnership with the IATA Regional Coordination Group and Indian and Pakistani authorities have been authorised to use the airspace close to Delhi, which has resulted in a 6 minute reduction in flight time and a reduction of 3 metric tons in CO2 emissions per flight. The introduction of each A380 or B777 in Air France-KLM’s fleet allows a 15% reduction of CO2 emissions Optimising flying Air France and KLM pilots apply the most fuel efficient procedures, without compromising flight safety. These are based on ongoing research into flight level and optimum speeds, continuous descent approach procedures, taxiing with one or two engines switched off and Reducing our fuel consumption negotiating direct paths with air traffic control. Air France’s Fuel Plan and KLM’s Weight and Fuel Program, which were both launched in 2008 seek to assess, formulate and promote KLM is the launch customer and development partner of Boeing’s fuel consumption optimisation initiatives. Innovative Wind Updates Services, which provides real-time meteorological information through a dedicated instrument. The continuous The Fuel Plan brings together over 100 fuel-saving measures, which optimisation of the flight, thanks to the information provided, produces resulted in a saving of 75,000 metric tons of fuel in 2010 (1.5% of an estimated saving of 7,000 metric tons of CO2 per year. The project Air France’s total fuel consumption). was awarded the 2011 Jane’s ATC Industry Award for air traffic control innovation. The Weight and Fuel Program led to a 1% fuel saving compared to 2008. To ensure they are aware of their role in this initiative, KLM pilots Cutting weight, improving performance have received the publication “Fuel Efficiency in Execution 2.0”. Also The lighter the aircraft, the less fuel it burns and the less CO2 it emits. transavia.com has applied an integrated approach to cut fuels costs This is why Air France and KLM have both rolled out weight reduction and CO2 emissions. initiatives. The weight of catering and cleaning equipment of Air France has already been reduced by 15% since 2006. Design work has focused on standard units, drawers and glass holders: FOCUS Standard units Drawers Glass holders DAILY ‘GREEN’ FLIGHTS 130 g 300 g 500 g Since the first transatlantic ‘green flight’, optimised from gate to gate to reduce greenhouse gas and noise emissions took off on the 6th of April 2010, Air France has been operating daily optimised transatlantic flights, such as the Airbus A380 flight between New York-JFK and Paris-Roissy and the Boeing B777-300 flight between Paris-Orly and the Caribbean. Air France, alongside air traffic control optimises each phase of these flights resulting in 3 to 5 ton reductions in CO2 emissions per flight. 6,200 t of CO2 2,500 t of CO2 850 t of CO2 Once these procedures are ready for all Air France long-haul per year per year per year flights to North and South America, CO2 emissions will be cut by 135,000 metric tons per year. These flights are part of the Atlantic Interoperability Initiative to Reduce Emissions (AIRE); a programme run by the European Commission and the FAA, in which KLM will also take part as of this year. 4 The Single European Sky Air Traffic Management (SESAR), which aims to provide Europe with more effective air traffic control systems The Atlantic Interoperability Initiative to Reduce Emissions (AIRE) will put in place ‘green’ routes to and from the USA (see Focus) and Collaborative Decision Making (CDM) to coordinate various airport divisions. 26 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 Sustainable alternative fuels Biofuel is a liquid fuel produced from organic material called biomass; 1metric ton of kerosene burned therefore biofuel is a renewable energy. Nevertheless, some biofuels have been criticised in recent years. Air France-KLM is very aware of this debate and is committed to following the developments in this field carefully through various platforms in order to promote sustainable bio= 3.15 metric ton fuel production and avoid negative environmental or social impacts. of CO2 emissions A strategic priority for Air France-KLM Sustainable biofuels are the most promising route to achieving significant reductions in aviation’s CO2 emissions whilst at the same time providing security of supply and exemption from EU-ETS. They will be essential in achieving Air France and KLM’s ambitions as well as for the aviation industry as a whole, which has no alternative to liquid fuels. Key factors for CO2 emissions reduction FOCUS s HOW CAN BIOFUELS CUT OUR CARBON IMPACT? sure Mea tion Burning biofuels emits the same amount of CO2 as fossil kerosene : Re duc out 3.15 metric tons of CO2 per ton kerosene burnt. However, it only CO2 Emissions ith t ow th w pmen re-emits in the atmosphere the CO2 that was absorbed by the s Gr elo sion s Dev mis ologie biomass during its growth. A study on biomass (camelina) life ed E echn cast w al / T Improvem ents Fore Rene stments / cycle (growth, harvest, treatment and final use) carried out by ing Fleet ATM Inve Michigan Technological University has shown a CO2 reduction of Ongo Economic Low Carbon Fuels up to 80% compared with fossil fuel. Measures Baseline Carbon Neutral TImeline 2050 Source : IATA As a founder member of the Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group and a member of the Sustainable Way for Alternative Fuels and Energy for Aviation (SWAFEA) as well as the IATA and AEA, Air France and KLM have played an active role within the air transport industry to promote the development of sustainable aviation fuels for four years. Since the amount of sustainably grown biomass for liquid biofuels is limited, Air France-KLM is calling for comprehensive legislation and policies that focus on using these scarce resources in those sectors which do not currently have an alternative to liquid fuels. This vision is shared by WWF in their recently issued Energy Report5. The keys to more sustainable biofuels The Road to Sustainable Aviation Fuels Through the SAFUG, Air France-KLM signed up to a charter on susIn the biofuel Joint Venture SkyNRG; KLM is working together with tainable biofuels on the 25th of September 2008. The charter was partners North Sea Group and Spring Associates on a biofuels project drawn up in partnership with NGOs such as WWF and the NRDC called Well-to-Wing. The Well-to-Wing project aims to stimulate the (Natural Resources Defense Council). The Group is also a stakeholder technical and economical development of sustainable biofuels for in the work of the Roundtable on Sustainable Biofuels (RSB) and is aviation from the start of growing the biomass up to the realization of closely following the Corbey Commission’s work in the Netherlands. the supply chain at Schiphol Airport for biofuel usage in commercial Air France-KLM recognizes that biomass from waste, crops and forest flights. An independent Sustainability Board, consisting of WWF-NL, resources has the potential to provide a renewable source of energy, Solidaridad and the Copernicus Institute of Utrecht University, will but careful land-use planning, better international cooperation and advise SkyNRG on sustainability issues related to the proposed governance are essential. feedstock and estate selections. The project was granted a subsidy of 1.25 million Euro by the Ministry of Infrastructure & Environment. When Taking action through practical initiatives finalised, the project will demonstrate the use of biofuel on board the Air France and KLM are committed to using sustainable biofuels KLM fleet. as soon as these receive certification (Hydrotreated Renewable Jet Fuel is expected to be certified by ASTM6 in June 2011) and become available. 5 WWF : The Energy Report. 100% Renewable Energy by 2050 6 ASTM American Society for Testing and Materials Combating climate change 27 Producing Btl from forestry waste Air France is participating in a biofuel from forestry waste demonsmid-2009 when mixed with 50% of traditional JetA1, without requiring tration project; a practical and innovative programme headed by modifications to current fuel operations. Air France is set to receive France’s CEA (Atomic and Renewable Energy Commission). ASTM 2,000 metric tons of BtL per year from 2014, and will be part of a approved the use of BtL (Biomass to liquid) synthetic kerosene in company, SYNDIESE in charge of BtL industrialisation. Participation in climate and technological research Expanding our knowledge on aviation emissions Aviation not only generates CO2, but also water vapour and soot particles given off by engines which affect the formation of contrails, the impact of which on the climate we know little about. Air France has been collecting data and carrying instruments on board its planes since 1994 to assist the scientific community with research in this area. An implementation study on instruments used for the IAGOS project on an Air France plane was launched in March 2011. The next generation of aircraft FOCUS Air France contributes to CORAC (Civil Aviation Research Body) along with Airbus, EADS, Thalès, Safran etc. in order to draw up a road map CLEAN ERA for French aeronautical research between now and 2050, including Delft University’s Aerospace Technology faculty is working on research on electric and composite planes. its CleanEra research project to develop new technologies for an ultra-ecological plane. The research, which is due to last for four years, is mainly focused on emissions reduction and will take As part of its commitment to working together within the industry advantage of KLM’s operational experience. One of the original from aircraft manufacturers to airlines, the Group supports the work of results is the development of pressure cabins for “Flying Wings”, the ICAO Council’s Committee on Aviation Environmental Protection, with the constraint of maximizing internal space whilst minimizing which is seeking to set CO2 standards for new aircraft. structural weight. This is achieved by “multi-bubble” techniques. The findings of the project will provide insights into possibilities for reducing fuel consumption and limiting CO2 emissions, giving a clearer picture of how the aircraft of tomorrow could look. 28 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 Support for initiatives to combat deforestation and protect global biodiversity Combating deforestation in madagascar Preserving biodiversity Deforestation is responsible for around 16% of global greenhouse gas Climate change is one of the reasons for the loss of biodiversity. emissions, almost equal to all forms of transport combined. Over the Although the direct impact of an airline company is limited, its indirect last 50 years, the planet has lost around 50% of its forests, equivalent impact is quantifiable. This is why Air France-KLM is keen to reduce to an area three times the size of Switzerland destroyed every year. In its impact on biodiversity by strengthening its support initiatives with addition to its impact on the climate, deforestation also damages biopartner organisations and research work. diversity as 75% of animal and plant species live in forests. Air France is contributing to the SANGHA 2012 project ‘Biodiversity in For these reasons, Air France, in partnership with Good Planet is Pygmy Country’ by transporting equipment and people involved in this supporting the WWF-led Programme Holistique de Conservation des expedition which aims to document biodiversity, a necessary prelimiForêts (PHCF), a major project covering 515,000 hectares of forest in nary step in order to study the changes in this untouched part of The Madagascar. Air France has invested €5 million over four years in pracCentral African Republic. tical initiatives such as creating protected areas, restoring damaged forests and providing support to local communities in the sustainable Last year, KLM launched a partnership with Landscape North Holland, management of their forests. The project also includes a research a NGO which carries out conservation work in the Schiphol region. component, which uses a specially equipped plane to estimate the KLM also continued its involvement and participation in the amount of carbon captured by the forest. This project is particularly in Taskforce Biodiversity, IUCN Netherlands and its “Destination Nature” the public eye as the United Nations has declared 2011 International Programme, which contributes to the protection of biodiversity at its Year of Forests. destinations. In 2011 KLM is helping WWF to protect the following projects: Oceans and coral reef at Bonaire, forests in Choco Darien in Colombia and Panama, forests in Tesso Nilo on Sumatra and the coral triangle in Indonesia. POINTS OF VIEW The key role of ICAO in reaching a global agreement Raymond Benjamin Bertrand Lebel Secretary General of the ICAO Executive Vice President for Organization and Sustainable development, Air France The ICAO held its three-yearly What do you think of the ICAO’s role General Assembly between the 28th in the fight against climate change? of September and the 8th of October Since it was created in 1946, the ICAO has 2010, during which a resolution on proven its ability to develop and ensure adoption climate change was adopted. What will this change ? among its Member States of the regulatory framework that has enabled Resolution A37-19 on climate change was recognised by the internathe remarkable expansion of international air transport. Concerning tional community as an unprecedented global commitment to limit and climate change, which is now a major challenge for our industry, we reduce international civil aviation’s carbon emissions. The ICAO and its are convinced that the ICAO has an important role to play in achieving Member States reached an agreement that establishes a solid basis ambitious worldwide agreement on limiting air transport’s emissions, upon which to achieve the sustainable development of international civil involving States and other stakeholders. aviation over the coming decades. The resolution provides an ambitious The resolution that was adopted by Member States, after many long action plan, which we are already implementing. The main objectives days of negotiation during the recent General Assembly is an excellent include: the development of national action plans by Member States to example of the role the ICAO can and must play. reduce CO2 emissions related to international aviation, the development and use of alternative sustainable fuels, the definition of principles to Is the Group prepared to use its influence in order to design and implement market-based measures, and the setting of objecmobilise all stakeholders? tives to reduce emissions in the long term. The International Air Transport Yes, of course. We have always done so in the past, and will continue Association (IATA) has congratulated the Member States of the ICAO on to do so in the future. Furthermore, the recent appointment of Peter having reached this first comprehensive governmental agreement. Hartman as head of the IATA will enable our Group to be even more active and effective in mobilising airlines along with all other stakeholders What do you expect from airlines and their represenconcerned; authorities, aircraft manufacturers, airports, air navigation, tative organisations in the future? and meteorology services. These complex issues are not solely the concern of States. I’m proud of the fact that the ICAO and the IATA have been working together for many years on reducing the impact of air transport on our envronment, and more recently on the question of climate change. This dynamic cooperation between the ICAO, Member States and the industry is a key factor of this success and I am convinced that it will become increasingly important over the years and challenges. Combating climate change 29 Minimising our environmental impacts Beyond their CO2 emissions, the main environmental impacts of airlines are noise, energy and water consumption, local emissions and waste production. Thanks to pioneering solutions, Air France and KLM are making progress in reducing their impact beyond regulatory compliance. Despite the economic crisis, the Group continued to modernise its fleet in 2010, therefore cutting aircraft noise, its major impact for local communities close to airports. In order to limit its energy consumption on the ground, the Group is using various means, from electric vehicles to the construction of new buildings with the highest environmental standards. By getting involved from the birth of projects to the optimisation of planes’ end of life cycle, it implements ecodesign principles. To this end, the Group mobilises the involvement and initiative of its staff and encourages its suppliers to roll out their own pioneering environmental projects. 30 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 Our vision We aim to work on our operations, processes and products to minimize our noise hindrance and other environmental impacts, in order to preserve resources, together with our partners in the supply chain. Our commitments In its Corporate Social Responsibility Statement, • invest in eco-design by improving the environmental Air France-KLM is committed to ensuring conformity performance of products linked to its services, with environmental regulation investing in levels initiated by in-depth analysis of sites and processes; of environmental protection that go beyond strict • involve employees in environmentally-friendly regulatory compliance: actions, promoting initiatives while supporting • renew its fleet with the best available technologies, innovations to improve processes; while implementing the most efficient procedures • engage suppliers and service providers to to mitigate noise and emissions from its flight launch projects to improve their environmental operations; performance. Minimizing our environmental impacts 31 Our management indicators AIR FRANCE / objectives / schedule / main achievements 2010-11 / status Set up an application to monitor regulatory compliance 2011 Currently being rolled out, due to be operational in June 2011 Set up an aircraft greenhouse gas emissions calculation application, 2011 Application now operational, used for calculating 2010’s emissions based on real operations data Contribute to the reduction of polluting emissions caused by 2012 – Car use: -7% compared with 2007 (to be re-evaluated in September 2011) commuting in the Paris region with a 10% shift in transport modes – Participating in the setting up of an ‘Inter-Business Travel Plan’ (PDIE) at CDG airport Expand activity while keeping noise emissions below 2005 2012 – 31% reduction in noise energy compared to 2005 levels (10 major French airports), in the context of the Grenelle Environment Forum KLM / objectives / schedule / main achievements 2010-11 / status Strive towards sustainable Ground Service equipment, electrified 2020 – 6 Solar powered passenger stairs for small capacity aircraft where possible with the remainder powered by sustainable fuels – Replacement of diesel powered equipment (8 preconditioned Air Units and 6 Fixed Power Units) with electric equipment – Pilot project with electric scooters for E & M On average 2% improvement in energy efficiency per year 2020 Energy saving initiatives have improved energy efficiency by 4.8% in total over 2 years (2009 and 2010) Minimise resources used, reduce non-recyclable waste, investigate 2020 – 6.3% reduction in waste produced by airline operations techniques for internal waste processing – ‘Waste-to-Energy’ project launched at Schiphol – ‘Waste-week’ at divisions of KLM to boost awareness of waste reduction and recycling Reduce noise at Schiphol in partnership with the aviation sector Ongoing – Implementation of the Fixed Radius Turn on a specific route for B777s, A330s and Embraers – KLM is contributing €25m to soundproof 1,100 homes (to be completed in 2011). In phases 1 and 2 of the project, 12,200 homes were soundproofed. Target achieved or exceeded On target Target partly achieved Controlling noise hindrance Noise control is one of our stakeholders’ key demands. Air France-KLM included the consideration of this demand in its Corporate Social Responsibility Statement of 2006. The Group is following the ICAO’s ‘Balanced Approach’. This approach places each stakeholder in a position to contribute to global solutions to improve the environment. The Balanced Approach forms the basis of measures announced at the Grand Roissy Assembly and at the Alders Table at Schiphol. Major events in 2010: the ‘Grand Roissy Assembly’ and the ‘Alders Table’ at Schiphol Controlling noise hindrance was the key theme at the Grand Roissy Assembly, whose overall objective was to ensure ‘the sustainable development of Roissy-Charles de Gaulle airport’. To meet this challenge, the Ministry of Transport has committed to put in place measures taken directly from the Balanced Approach: removing noisy aircraft, increasing flying altitudes, rolling out Continuous Descent Approaches, rationalising the use of parallel runways and changing flight paths to reduce the number of residents overflown. Taken together, these measures will improve environmental noise levels in the area surrounding the airport without reducing its capacity and jeopardising economic growth. 32 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 In August 2010 residents, Dutch Ministries and professionals from the airline sector (as represented at the ‘Alders Table’) successfully reached an agreement on development of the environmental capacity by finding a sustainable balance between growth in number of movements and the ongoing implementation of measures to reduce noise (e.g., Continuous Decent Approaches, further optimisation of flight paths, etc.). Reducing noise at source Despite the persistently difficult economic context, Air France and KLM have continued to invest in fleet renewal, adding 13 new aircraft to its fleet; 5 long haul and 8 medium haul aircraft. Air France has launched its fourth A380 and maintained its goal to operate 12 by 2014. The A380 is currently the most advanced plane in terms of noise quality and already meets the noise emissions standards that count for 2025. Noise abatement procedures Air France and KLM are heavily involved in the development of noise abatement procedures, particularly in Continuous Decent Approach (CDA). In 2010, KLM played a part in developing CDA, which is due to be rolled out from 2012. In France, CDA is already in use at Marseille and Orly, thanks to the Continuous dialogue with residents support of Air France, which will participate in its implementation at and soundproofing contribution Roissy from 2011. Both airlines are involved in ongoing dialogue with all stakeholders. For many years, KLM has been investing in dialogue and cooperation with As the first airline in the world, KLM successfully introduced the innoresidents of the Schiphol area, mainly through the “Alders Table” and vative Fixed Radius Turn for its B737s for a specific departure route. In at the Schiphol Regional Review Committee (CROS), in which 2 KLM 2010 KLM also introduced the Fixed Radius Turn on B777, A330 and employees work full time. Embraer aircraft on this route, resulting in even greater noise reduction. On the 7th of April in 2011 the Fixed Radius Turn will be published Most French airports have set up Commissions Consultatives de in an Aeronautical Information Publication, allowing other airlines to l’Environnement (CCE) whose role is to drive environmental policy. use this departure technique. The useful application of the fixed radius Air France takes part in CCEs as a member. technique on other routes is currently being investigated and could potentially result in the usage of the fixed radius turn on three other In 2010, Air France and KLM paid 40 million Euros, which goes towards departure routes. soundproofing homes in the residential area around airports. Air France KLM total noise energy indicator FOCUS 122% 124% 120% 116% AIR FRANCE-KLM’S GLOBAL NOISE INDICATOR 111% 100% 100% The indicator takes into account all flights operated by Air France 100% and KLM. It uses noise levels as certified by aircraft manufacturers 75% 76% as its baseline. The annual noise output is compared with noise 75% 71% 50% 66% levels in 2000. The uncoupling of the noise indicator and the number of aircraft movements reflects the contribution fleet renewal has made to reducing environmental noise. 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Movements Noise energy Minimizing our environmental impacts 33 Concrete actions Proactive approach Energy consumption In France, the ‘Grenelle II’ law of July 2010 represents a commitment to Commitment to energy efficiency the environment at a national level. The regulatory obligations it entails, KLM has voluntarily committed to improve its energy efficiency by – on such as producing a carbon audit, publishing an annual CSR report and average – 2% per year between now and 2020. Since 2009, the reduclabelling CO2 emissions have been anticipated by the Group for many tion achieved has reached 4.8%: installing curtains that keep cold air years. In November 2010, the law enlarged the ACNUSA’s responsibility inside saved 365,000 kWh/year, changing washing methods for trolfrom noise to atmospheric pollution in and around airports. leys saved 156,000 m3 of gas per year and 136,000 kWh per year was saved on cooling computer rooms. To optimise monitoring and tracking of regulatory compliance, Air France and KLM have software that takes into account all current In September 2010, Air France also committed to improving energy and future environmental legislation. efficiency by signing the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Manifesto for energy efficiency in offices. Local emissions Light vehicles and trucks • Air France’s Business Travel Plan, BOUSSOLE, has actively worked to reduce emissions caused by commuting in the Paris region since 2007 and was further strengthened with the setting up of open, shared offices at CDG and Paray (close to Orly), courses on sustainable motoring (eco-driving and safety) and support for car-pooling and telecommuting. This year, the initiative has taken a new dimension with agreement on an ‘Inter-Business Travel Plan’ (PDIE) at Roissy-CDG. • The contracts Air France-KLM Cargo signs with road haulage companies now include clauses on monitoring carbon emissions. Air FranceKLM Cargo is also looking into reducing its carbon footprint through the use of natural gas-powered trucks, which are currently being tested at Schiphol. • This year, a group of large French companies, including Air France, reached agreement on the specifications of a licensed electric vehicle. Air France would like to replace its light vehicles in the Paris region with 600 electric vehicles between 2012 and 2014. KLM has made a commitment to the Dutch Government to pilot a project of sustainable vehicles; an example of which was the test with the Airpod. Ground vehicles and equipment at the airport Water consumption • At the end of 2010, 45% of Air France’s ground equipment fleet was • The ‘EcoShine’ procedure, polishing using a biodegradable, recycled electrically powered, in line with targets for 2020. For the purchase of product has been extended to all long-haul aircraft this year. Applying new material, electrically powered equipment has priority. the product requires a minimal amount of water compared with standard aircraft cleaning methods. From now on, all aircrafts in the fleet • In the Air France Ground Handling Operations Division (DGES), the entire will be washed at CDG or Orly using this procedure, which will save current fleet of Ground Power Units has been modified so that equipment 8 m3 of water per wash. shuts down automatically after 15 minutes when not connected to an aircraft. The fleet of loaders has also been modified so that equipment • Hose nozzles with a flow rate of 10 litres per minute have been shuts down automatically after 30 minutes of non-usage. replaced with 3 litres per minute models, which has resulted in an 18% reduction in water consumption at Air France Maintenance’s • At Schiphol in 2011, KLM began to restrict the use of Auxiliary Power Toulouse site, compared with usage in 2009. Unit (APU) equipment which runs on kerosene during ground handling at 16 positions. During ground handling, electric current and preconditioned air are supplied by ground support equipment, this has led to the reduction of local emissions (CO2, NOx). Additionally, the towing of aircraft using an external power supply has reduced CO2 emissions by 3,500 metric tons in 2010/2011. 34 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 Light Emitting Diodes (LED) Delivery and opening of the Constellation building At KLM’s Engineering & Maintenance division, a pilot has been As part of a High Quality Environmental (HQE®) initiative, the new launched together with Philips, the Dutch lighting company, with LED 11,000m2 Constellation building at Orly, home to engine overhaul opelights in the hangars. This reduces energy usage and energy costs, it rations is equipped with a heat pump, a rainwater collection system, a improves the workplace comfort of employees and increases the total solar powered water heater and a bed of plants inside the workshop amount of light covering the planes that are undergoing maintenance. which absorb oil odours. The building consumes 30% less energy than Another example of this pilot is the replacement of a mobile 2000 kW a conventional building. per-hour light-set with LED lights that use 12 kW per hour. Air France-KLM Cargo has also put energy efficiency measures in At the end of 2010, KLM started to replace all cabin lights – tubular place: by lowering the temperature from 22°C to 16°C in the cargo lighting – in its F70s by LED lights that use around 20% less energy, store at Orly, and by installing movement detectors to switch refrigerahave a longer life span, create less heat and are also 8 kilos lighter, thus tors on and off in the area used to store perishable cargo. saving fuel and CO2 emissions. By 2011 all 26 F70s should have their lighting replaced with LED cabin lights. Water and soil pollution • The product used to wash Air France aircraft, as part of the • Before any repairs are carried out on DGES equipment, the equipEcoshine procedure is non-toxic, non-flammable and biodegradable, ment is routinely cleaned. Since 2010, the Orly base has been using it conforms to European environmental directives and means that a new cleaning product whose composition is less harmful to people cleaning teams can work without the need for Individual Protection and to the environment (caustic potash-free), which reduces polluEquipment. Because the system does not use water, Aéroports de tion of water used for cleaning. Paris has authorised its use on aircraft at ramps and even on aircraft connected to a jetbridge. • Air France Cargo has put in place measures such as the physiochemical processing of water used to wash batteries and has built • Since winter 2010, the Ground Handling Operations Division of a dedicated facility for hazardous merchandise in order to contain Air France has been using a de-icing product that is less polluting flammability and water and soil pollution risks. and biodegrades more quickly. This is also the case for the 100% biodegradable de-icing product that has been used on ground equipment at Orly for the past three years, which is undergoing testing this winter at the CDG hub. Minimizing our environmental impacts 35 Optimising aircraft life cycles Aircraft dismantling and metal recycling Recovery of scrap metal from aircraft In September 2010, Air France Industries successfully completed a For the past two years, Air France-KLM’s SCRAP programme has major operation to dismantle eleven A320 aircraft at the end of their been recovering metal from used aircraft parts in order to make new life cycles. A project of this scale required the setting up of a dedicated parts or to re-use parts that are still in good condition. dismantling facility. Air France Industries has been able to process 27 metric tons of The project involved dismantling almost 10,000 pieces of equipment aircraft steel and alloys in 2010/2011, which means that 40% of every to be re-used by Maintenance after having undergone stringent tesmetric ton of nickel produced is recycled. KLM processed 150 tons ting. It involved the use of around 1,700 litres of hydraulic fluid and the of scrap last year in this programme. This initiative has also meant an sorting and recovery of more than 200 metric tons of material. improvement in the carbon footprint over the production cycle of nickel with a 12% reduction in CO2. As part of SCRAP program, one of the results of the project was to provide aviation training centres with aircraft parts. KLM Cityhopper in partnership with KLM E & M, Martinair, Fokker, Rolls Royce and Civil Aviation Authority of Netherlands (IVW), has been working on the re-use of 15 Fokker 100s which were withdrawn from the fleet. Cooperation resulted in re-use of expensive and sensitive components and scarce materials by following the ‘cradle to cradle’ principle. The use of engines and key components from the F100s in the maintenance of F70s has meant that more than 4 years of maintenance have been saved and dependency on suppliers for these aircraft, which are no longer in production, has decreased. Two of the F100s were donated to the Aviodome and Schiphol, while 13 aircraft will be recycled, providing per aircraft almost 15 metric tons of materials of which 8 tons are pure metals. Improving our waste recycling rate Recycling onboard products Recycling uniforms Our flights constitute a highly complex product due to the numerous Last year KLM supplied 11,000 female staff with new uniforms designed elements that make up the service we provide and the constraints by Dutch designer Mart Visser. At the same time, around 90,000-kilos linked to the air transport industry. The items we use during flights need worth of used uniforms were discarded. The used uniforms were to be collected, stored and transported before they can be recycled. processed in a responsible way in Twente (The Netherlands), home of On average, 80% of onboard catering products are recycled. The the Dutch textile industry, making use of innovative and groundbreaking rate of recycling of NEO packs is steadily increasing and had already technology. Together with a group of partners, KLM – being the first reached 40% in November 2010, equivalent to around 10 metric tons airline – ‘upcycled’ all the used uniform textiles into new raw materials of polystyrene over 2 months. that can be used to manufacture new, high-quality products. By upcycling 90,000 kilos of textiles, at least 500 million litres of water, From waste to energy 4,600 tons of CO2 and 1 million m3 of natural gas were saved, all of KLM’s catering division is currently working on the ‘Waste to Energy’ which would have been used or emitted in producing the new textiles. project, to create energy from catering waste, which would otherwise KLM is currently investigating where the material could be used for: be incinerated. In 2010, dedicated facilities were adapted to the Inflight trays are an option. specific needs of the catering division. Testing is currently underway with roll out planned for 2011. Recycling carpets Carpet weight reduction and recycling have been put in place at both companies. KLM has rolled out this initiative as part of a project called ‘Carpet Care’ alongside the manufacturer and a waste treatment company in order to reuse carpets as a raw material for the cement industry, with a target of recycling 80% of its 35,000 m2 of carpet every year. 36 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 Waste treatment cycle POINTS OF VIEW Continuous dialogue with our stakeholders Hans Alders Pieter Elbers Chairman Alders Table Chief Operating Officer, KLM What is the previous history and Why did KLM decide to participate role of the ‘Alders table’? at the ‘Alders table’? In the year 2007 no agreement could be found KLM recognized that agreement with all parties on the growth of the Mainport Schiphol and the involved would be conditional to maintain ‘a environmental capacity in terms of acceptable license to operate’ and to further develop the hindrance. In addition the set of rules for enforcement at that time had Mainport Schiphol. There are different views from and different interests been considered outdated, by Dutch politics even bankrupt. Therefore of the local residents, (Provincial) authorities and airline sector at stake. the Dutch Minister of Transport and Environment requested me to form By applying the ‘Dutch Polder model’ – a setting of discussing matters a platform with representatives of Dutch Ministries, Provincial authorities, directly and constructively with all parties around the table – to the local councils, local residents and the airline sector. This later called ‘Alders environmental capacity at Schiphol didn’t make things easier at first. But Table’ allowed a direct dialogue between stakeholders. In 2008 and in all interests have been and still are taken seriously, and the right way 2010 the parties at the ‘Alders Table’ jointly advised the Minister on the forward has been found. environmental capacity (growth in number of movements) that included Therefore the Alders Table was and still is – considered the best way a new set of rules and measures for reduction of noise hindrance. Both to move on together. advices have been followed by the Dutch Government and the House of Parliament. Having such a joint agreement between parties can be What would be the key challenge for the future? considered quite unique in aviation. Air France-KLM is a privately owned commercial company. Profitability for airlines is not a given at all. In order to be able to continue to connect What would be main topic for the “Alders Table” in The Netherlands with the rest of the world as hub carrier at Mainport the near future? Schiphol, the right balance needs to be found. Although finding this The main topic will be the formation of a joint final advice on the new balance will not always be easy and will be quite challenging, the Group set of rules that is now being experimented till November 2012. The key is fully committed to find it in dialogue with stakeholders. question will be whether or not it brings what parties expected and to determine if this new set of rules is also sustainable for the future. As a precondition to success the aviation sector will need to deliver on measures for noise hindrance such as Continuous Decent Approaches. This in itself is a challenge given the complexity of runways and air corridors that the Dutch airspace is known for. Minimizing our environmental impacts 37 Building a sustainable relationship with our customers A succession of major global political and economic events has accelerated the pace of change in the world. The way Air France-KLM’s customers behave is changing too and it’s in this context that the Group is facing new situations and challenges. New technology, the growing importance of social networks, access to information in real time, instant sharing of information and the multitude of choices have made customers even more informed and independent. The notions of ‘value for money’, convenience, speed and service are now more important than ever. Thanks to investments made in getting to know our customers better and making their journeys easier over recent years, Air France and KLM are today well equipped to face up to these changes and to continue pursuing their goal of providing them with better service. To gain and keep the preference of our customers, the Group will continue to pursue its commitments to customer relationships and service quality. To meet the ever-growing expectations of our customers, the Group offers a vast range of solutions, from the simplest to the most exclusive, to suit all budgets. 38 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 Our vision In a highly competitive environment, making the difference for our customers by building on personalized, convenient, and pro-active strategies whilst integrating CSR in our customer products and services. Our commitments Air France-KLM has set itself the goal of maintaining • guaranteeing their safety and health throughout high standards in CSR through commitments made their journey; in the Group’s strategic plan which concerns its • providing reliable, transparent and relevant three core businesses: Passenger transport, Cargo information; and Maintenance. • respecting our customers’ privacy whilst providing personalised service; We have made the following commitments to our • providing assistance in case of unforeseen events; customers: • offering more sustainable, innovative services; • listening to our customers, making them feel • involving the customer in our CSR initiatives. welcome, being available to them and attentive to their needs; Building a sustainable relationship with our customers 39 Our management indicators AIR FRANCE-KLM / objectives / main achievements 2010-11 Constantly improving service quality – roll-out of Air France-KLM Connect, a real-time customer information service – the multi-departmental feedback analysis system, based on the return of experience has been extend to Cargo customers – deployment of “customer first” training: 90% of Air France’s cabin crew management and 63% of cabin crew staff trained in 2010 – enhance the quality measurement system along to entire service chain – punctuality: Air France and KLM maintained their leading position among comparable airlines and are transparent on results Innovate while integrating CSR into our product range – integrating eco-design principles and CSR criteria within our product and service development – extended the range of sustainable catering products (e.g. organic, fair trade, animal wellbeing) to 26 new products (KLM) – integrated CO2 compensation service on KLM.com – ISO 26000 evaluation of Air France Industries Ensuring the health and safety of our customers – a dedicated medical space onboard the A380 – health advice and service offered before, during and after travel – food safety verified thanks to ISO 22000 certification at Air France Interacting with our customers about CSR and involving them – annual survey inviting Flying Blue customers to give their expectations and evaluation in Air France-KLM CSR initiatives about Air France-KLM CSR initiatives – involving customers in the updating of sustainability issues for Air France-KLM – promoting the donation of frequent flyer miles to NGOs – increasing awareness on climate change – intensifying use of social media to inform and engage customers Integrating ecodesign into our product range Saving weight Apply life-cycle thinking The lighter a plane is, the less fuel it uses and the less CO2 it emits. One By applying ecodesign principles, Air France-KLM is able to take envikilo of weight saved onboard an Air France plane results in a saving ronmental considerations into account at the early stages of a project, of more than 80 metric tons of CO2 per year. This is why Air France is and to scrutinize in order to reduce the environmental impact of its replacing the seats on its aircraft with new, lighter models, which will product range whilst maintaining the same high quality standards. In result in annual CO2 savings of 60,000 metric tons. cooperation with suppliers, the sourcing of innovative, lightweight and recyclable materials is integrated into new project initiatives. In addition to seating, all cabin equipment is included in this initiative, e.g. service equipment (trolleys, atlas containers, stowage, etc.) which For example, through working to improve the functionality of products, will be made 15% lighter on average between 2006 and 2012, with long-haul meal trays have been re-designed so that they are ‘non-slip’. weight reductions (excluding seats) of 125 kg for medium-haul, and This has meant that the non-slip mat, which was previously required, 650 kg for long-haul aircraft. is no longer necessary and results in a saving of 6 tons of polystyrene per year. KLM’s Weight & Fuel programme is being continuously extended: in 2010, KLM commissioned new, lighter crockery for World Business Recycling Class. Designed by Marcel Wanders, it saves 700 tons of CO2 per year. Re-use can give waste a second life and reduce the amount of raw materials used. This is why meal packs on medium-haul Air France flights are made of recyclable polystyrene. Cabin crew collect and sort the used packs, which when recycled by the supplier are used to make Air France cutlery. 40 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 Another example is the textiles used onboard Air France planes, 100% resulting 90,000 kilos of recovered textiles are used to produce new of which are recycled and used to produce insulation. In 2010, KLM everyday items (see chapter Minimising our environmental impacts). upcycled 11,000 staff uniforms using groundbreaking technology; the Onboard weight reduction on a long haul plane Some examples for a long haul aircraft (Boeing 777) Measuring service quality and operational performance Transparency on operational performance Obtaining feedback during operational incidents is essential, particuOperational performance and service standards are measured on a larly during such periods. To do this, Air France uses its REX1 platconstant basis and are subject to annual performance target contracts form, which brings together all management departments. The tool and corrective measures. facilitates malfunction analysis and decision-making, and helps with Air France and KLM publish their punctuality results and flight regulaimplementing action plans to improve service quality. rity1 on the Air France corporate and AEA websites2. Monitoring customer satisfaction This year, air transport was faced by a series of disruptions, which had Through its 7 Service Standards, Air France-KLM has an open, public significant repercussions for customers. Air France-KLM took action commitment to providing quality service. Customer satisfaction surveys to provide information and help to travellers, with thousands put up in cover the entire client experience, from reservation to after-sales care hotels throughout the Paris and Amsterdam regions. Significant human and allow both companies to monitor their customers’ perceptions on and logistical resources were also deployed during heavy snowfall at a daily basis. the end of 2010, when many employees of other departments were asked to assist ground crew. Hundreds of ‘mystery customers’ assess compliance with Air FranceKLM’s 7 Service Standards and all customer-facing staff undergoes During the period of severe travel disruption caused by the eruption specific training. For example, 90% of cabin crew management and of the Eyjafjoll volcano, KLM set up a dedicated ‘bring me home’ 63% of crew staff have been trained ‘customer first’ in 2010. helpline, to help stranded passengers get home as quickly and safely as possible. 1 Regularity: percentage of flights performed compared with the number of flights scheduled at D-3. 2 http://corporate.airfrance.com and http://www.aea.be Building a sustainable relationship with our customers 41 Developing a responsible and innovative product range Air France-KLM places communication and dialogue with its customers at the heart The commitments made by the Group guide the services provided to our customers of its strategy. Thanks to new technology, the Group is able to support its customers and are detailed below: before, during and after they travel by providing them with personalised information and assistance also when their journeys are disrupted, whilst fully respecting the confidentiality of the information sent. 3 INFORMATION 2 Air France-KLM provides comprehensive, transparent information on pricing at the point of reservation online DIALOGUE including automatic display Air France and KLM hold 1 of the lowest priced ticket customer panels and surveys and providing answers to constantly improve the to frequently asked questions. performance of their products and services: ‘Score’ involves RESPECT In addition to this, Air France 500,000 onboard questionnaires Air France-KLM ensures that and KLM have developed mobile per year, The ‘In Touch’ blog data supplied by its customers applications designed is contributed to by remains confidential and is used to simplify travel preparation 500 customers, fb@home has only by and for Air France-KLM and arrangements. 12,000 active clients, the CSR and its partners. Since the start of 2011, survey is carried out annually; Air France also checks Air France and KLM have 1,180 Flying Blue customers the advertising burden, provided an innovative responded in 2011. as perceived by its customers. and personalised service which Air France and KLM also The vast majority, 85% sends customers information proactively reach out of customers, said the level about any unexpected changes to their customers through social of advertising from the company to their flight between 14 days media. The popular networks was acceptable. Finally, before the flight up to take Facebook and Twitter have Air France-KLM has off. The information includes experienced rapid growth with set up in-house applications updates on cancellations, delays almost 220,000 followers to better coordinate messages and gate changes... on Twitter and nearly sent to customers, so that Besides this, the service also 400,000 fans on Facebook. they receive information enables to inform customers In April, KLM started with that is relevant to them. about missing baggage upon the large platform Hyves with arrival. The information is sent over 100,000 fans. Moreover, in real time by SMS or email, Air France and KLM maintain currently in 8 languages, to all relationships with their customers clients who have signed up. through Business and Leisure FOCUS communities. CUSTOMER RELATIONS AWARDS Air France-KLM’s customer relations initiatives have been awarded various prizes, e.g: Air France was awarded first prize for customer relations in the transport category (June 2010) KLM was selected best social brand in the travel industry and social brand number 22 worldwide in the 2010 Social Brands 100-report of Headstream 42 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 4 5 6 PERSONALISATION 7 HEALTH Air France-KLM is responding RESPONSABILITY All Air France and KLM cabin to the wide cultural and linguistic In order to provide onboard ASSISTANCE catering which is in line with Air France and KLM focus crew are qualified in first aid, diversity of its customers the CSR commitments, on processing claims and all aircraft are equipped with by offering solutions tailored Air France-KLM cooperates with in the timeliest manner possible a first aid kit and an automatic to specific needs, e.g.: in terms its suppliers to reduce by offering an ‘e-claim’ service. defibrillator. To prevent the risk of onboard catering and its environmental impact. 90% of claims submitted via of thrombosis, an onboard video by making films available in up For example, KLM serves MSC Air France’s website and 70% shows passengers prevention to 13 languages. In order to labelled fish and is increasingly on KLM’s site are dealt with exercises. provide customised service adding organic and sustainable in under 9 days. The new Air France’s Airbus to its Scandinavian customers, products to its menus. Air France’s Recovery A380s are equipped with KLM’s sales website is now In addition, a fully organic menu programme provides proactive a medical space. The Group also available in the native language is available upon request for assistance to customers when offers several health services of each of these countries. an extra charge. major flight delays to passengers: KLM Health Some customers prefer to be Furthermore, Air France or problems occur. In 2010, Services offers a 3-stage service independent and are looking and KLM are rolling out 254,055 passengers benefited to its customers: healthy travel, for innovative solutions, while environmental clauses with from this service, 504 million healthy at the destination and others might need assistance. their suppliers (see page 20). Frequent Flyer miles were given healthy home again. Air France’s ‘Saphir’ for Air France and ‘KLM Air France’s catering subsidiary in compensation without sales site includes a health Cares’ provide a dedicated Servair takes environmental the need for customers and well-being section, service for passengers with concerns into account in its to contact Customer Services, and the option of being reduced mobility and offer purchasing policy, for example and 100% of customers vaccinated in Air France personalised solutions at every by emphasising the use were contacted in the four days vaccination centre, the only step of the journey. Air France of seasonal products following the incident. ISO 9001 certified centre and KLM also offer a service and reducing the weight in France. which is tailored to the needs and amount of packaging used. In order to meet European of families (dedicated areas, regulation requirements, special meals etc). For many Air France relies upon years, it has provided the ISO 22000 standard an accompanying service for on food safety. the 425,000 children under In 2006 it became the first the age of 12 who travel alone. airline in the world to achieve Furthermore KLM was placed certification. in the top 10 of innovative airlines according to a ranking In partnership with the Valk published by airlinetrends.com. Foundation and the University of Leiden, KLM offers a programme to overcome the fear of flying, which is based upon detailed research regarding its causes. Air France also offers similar courses to help its passengers. Building a sustainable relationship with our customers 43 Our customers, partners in our CSR policy Informing Consulting Since April 2010, a dedicated sustainable development section has Since 2008, Air France-KLM has conducted an annual survey amongst been included in onboard entertainment programmes on Air France’s its Flying Blue customers to determine their expectations related to long-haul flights. Air France and KLM inflight magazines dedicate CSR and the air transport sector, and to evaluate the initiatives in place. several pages to CSR issues (environmental and social highlights, This study gives even better insight in the most relevant CSR topics and key figures, initiatives led by Air France, KLM and its partners). the global issues for customers on an international perimeter and which Air France also broadcasts campaigns against sex tourism on its measures they expect the Group to take in response. It also shows that long-haul flights, in partnership with ECPAT, a NGO. customers still overestimate air transport’s share of CO2 emissions, which iFly Magazine, the KLM online publication that was awarded the title they estimate in ten times more than its actual share which is around 2%. of best digital travel magazine in the world at the Digital Magazine Awards 2010, regularly features CSR articles. Involving Children on board are informed on environmental facts, for example Numerous initiatives are available to encourage our customers to through the WWF-NL food boxes and by featuring Mr. Finney on the contribute with their own actions, such as offsetting CO2 (see chapter kids channel, a cartoon character who teaches children how to treat on Combating climate change), donating miles to NGOs, as well as the earth in a responsible way. onboard initiatives regarding their own contribution as communicated in Air France has contributed to several publications on the theme the monthly ECPAT International page. By purchasing products on this of responsible air transport, for example in cooperation with the page customers can contribute to the fight against child exploitation. FNAM and by contributing to the ‘Business travel and sustainable The KLM Open 2010, an international Golf tournament, was a development, incompatible or compatible?’ guide, published by the sustainable and CO2 neutral event. Concrete actions taken were green Marco Polo Group, a travel sector think tank. energy, waste sorting and sustainable catering. The remainder of CO2 emissions were compensated with Gold Standard Emission Rights. KLM started a table with IDH, the Dutch Sustainable Trade initiative, on sustainable tourism to explore the possibilities for a joint pilot in this area. Providing responsible Cargo and Maintenance services A more sustainable Cargo offer During the World Air Cargo forum in Amsterdam, which was attended FOCUS by more than 3,000 people, Air France-KLM presented its new offer, AT AIR FRANCE INDUSTRIES THE APPLICATION OF along with all of the initiatives the Group has put in place to reduce ISO26000 GUIDELINES HAS BEEN EVALUATED BY the environmental impact of its business, such as the development EXTERNAL AUDITORS. of e-freight and alternative fuel. Since November 2010, Air France Industries has been named New initiatives have strengthened this position, such as the new the leading aviation maintenance company by the independent facility to handle dangerous goods which is under construction at ‘Bureau Veritas’, in recognition of its commitment to and initiatives Roissy-CDG airport or the local client service centre which has been in sustainable development, in line with the ISO 26000 standard. Concerning ‘consumer issues’ the following topics were analysed: set up for SMEs and SMIs to address their specific needs. – fair practice in terms of marketing, information and contracts; – health and safety protection for consumers; Certified Maintenance which listens – sustainable consumption; to its customers – after-sales care, assistance and dispute resolution A system providing two-way customer feedback is in place, along for consumers; with a process for dealing with claims, this also covers expectations – data protection and privacy of consumers; in terms of CSR. KLM E & M has organised an ‘inspiration day’ with The setting up of an ethics code for their sales personnel has been its customers to discuss their changing expectations, particularly identified as a good practice by the auditors. concerning CSR. In May 2010 Air France Industries obtained the renewal of its ‘unique’ certification whose scope applies to all of its French business, and ‘global’ certification, which applies to eight international reference standards. This recognition includes the Group’s commitment to ‘green maintenance’, which is a real and distinctive asset to many stakeholders. 44 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 Customer perception on Air France-KLM CSR actions 90% 80% Reduce the CO2emissions 70% Research on renewable Renew the fleet & alternative energies Use lighter materials 60% on board Relevance for customers Reduce & recycle waste on board Reduce the consumptions 50% Support aviation Develop Integrate airtransport Reduce noise emissions research ecodesigned in global CO2 products emissions system 40% Climate action plan Contribute to local economic KLM bio fuel 30% development demonstration Give possibility to calculate flight and compensate CO2 Use electric vehicles 20% Promote diversity Integrate CSR Support Madagascar Promote the KLM into the supply forest conservation partnership with WWF-NL 10% chain program Recycle Offer health services 0% to the customers 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% Awarness of the customers Source : InSites Consulting POINTS OF VIEW Sustainable travel offer Jean-François Rial Christian Boireau CEO of Voyageurs du Monde Executive Vice President for French Sales, Air France What role does air transport play in What constitutes a responsible responsible tourism? airline? Air transport plays an enormous social role. An airline must act in accordance with its enviBeyond its obvious economic role, it increases ronmental and social responsibilities, as well as the exchanges between different peoples and promotes better underslive up to its responsibilities towards society by contributing to business tanding between cultures; it is therefore a force for peace. creation in the territories in which the company operates. We also An airline can and should be a key player in sustainable tourism, by involve and engage our corporate customers in the context of their own adopting a socially responsible policy towards its employees throuCSR policies. Beyond this, we inform our customers about sustainable ghout the world and by contributing to wealth creation in the countries development issues and enable them to offset their CO2 emissions and it serves. The big challenge for air transport remains the reduction of its support humanitarian and development projects. environmental impact, in which Air France-KLM is strongly committed. How can we include CSR in the range of our travel What constitutes a responsible travel offer? offer? The human element is essential, this means showing respect to By making our commitments a part of the relationship we have with our employees; in terms of salary, social protection, and their dignity, customers and through the products and services we offer. We act whilst also being respectful towards customers, in particular by offering with integrity and respect by ensuring the confidentiality of data and tailored services to disabled passengers. Air France-KLM also fights by providing transparent information about our products. By using new against child exploitation and contributes by providing information technologies we can maintain permanent contact with our customers to passengers against sex tourism. Informing passengers is a key and provide them with innovative services. We listen to our customers element in this area. in all fields, on an ongoing basis in order to provide them with a quality In terms of climate change, Air France-KLM could better inform its service, which meets their expectations. customers on the issues faced by the air transport industry, and by explaining the positions it advocates in favour of air transport making a fair contribution to greenhouse gas reduction. Building a sustainable relationship with our customers 45 Promoting a responsible human resources policy For Air France-KLM, social cohesion is key to what we do. Our role as a major international player in air transport is built upon shared values of responsibility, respect, solidarity and pride in what we do. Today, the Group is more aware than ever of its exposure to unforeseen events, ever more intense competition and the demanding economic context. The Group has to rise to the challenge of uncertain growth, the geopolitical situation and fluctuations in the price of oil, while at the same time safeguarding jobs of its employees and know-how. In the context of a very competitive globalised air transport sector, strengthening our values and preparing for the future will mean we have to adapt to a faster pace, whilst ensuring cohesion by remaining true to our values and playing our part in maintaining effective relations with employees and their representatives. 46 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 Our vision We see our employees as the prime resource for our Group. Therefore we safeguard a social policy and ensure personal development to guarantee motivated and professional employees, which is key to improve our competitiveness. Our commitments • Boost employability through training, increased • Promoting respect, well-being and career-long mobility, flexibility and by promoting health in the work-life balance. workplace. • Foster diversity in order to preserve our attrac• Bring about change whilst maintaining effective tiveness as an employer and to encourage new dialogue with employees and employee repretalent to surface. sentatives. Promoting a responsible human resources policy 47 Our management indicators AIR FRANCE / objectives / schedule / main achievements 2010-11 / status Develop mobility in the framework of the current 3-year Ongoing In 2010, 327 employees moved job locations in France; 1,500 activity employment agreement (2009-2012) changes (of which 75 to careers as cabin crew) Completion of Voluntary Departure Plan, with 1,834 people leaving the Company Step up the use of the in-house Job-exchange Ongoing Number of offers in 2010: 778 (451 in 2009) Negotiate and obtain agreement on gender equality 2010 Trade Unions unanimously sign gender equality agreement in the workplace in October 2010 Renew wage equalisation measures 2010 543 women benefited from wage equalisation measures in 2010 Negotiate and come to an agreement on the prevention 2010 Trade Unions unanimously sign agreement on prevention of psychosocial of psychosocial risks risks in March 2010 Implement prevention measures and structures to prevent Ongoing Training courses implemented psychosocial risks Multi-disciplinary groups implemented Increase disabled worker employment rate by 0.5 of a percentage 2010 Employment rate of 3.92% in 2010 (+0.35%) point each year 1,572 workers with disabilities on Air France payroll in France Cut the occupational accident frequency rate by 30% over 2009-2012 Following a first positive three year period, the trend slowed in 2010 with three years an increase of 6.8% compared with 2009 Deploy the measures needed in company departments to achieve 2011 Intensification of feedback, management and implementation this objective of best practices KLM / objectives / schedule / main achievements 2010-11 / status Stimulate mobility inside and outside the company Ongoing Focus on ‘Future-program’ offering coaching, training and job advice to over 400 employees in 2011 Vacancies were filled by means of an instrument facilitating a systematic search for internal candidates leading to 254 successful matches in 2010 Venues created like Marketplace by KLM Commercial to make employees aware of job opportunities within KLM, attracting hundreds of employees in 2010 Increase awareness of employees on their own wellness and Ongoing Renewed policy supporting employees returning to work after long-term health, prevent health risks. absenteeism Increase mobility and development. Ongoing The programme for employees acquiring a formal high school diploma counted 75 participants in 2010 Create an equal opportunity mindset for a diverse population Ongoing Start of the Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender network Organisation of Diversity dialogues with senior men and women including a closing dinner with KLM’s president and CEO Build more flexibility into workforce and contracts Ongoing Solidair programme continued offering ground staff an opportunity to gain experience of the ground operation while helping out KLM at the same time when the ground operation is disrupted Target achieved or exceeded On target Target partly achieved Adapting to the economic environment by improving our staff employability Development of our workforce Since the start of the economic crisis, which has greatly impacted the In addition to redundancy packages, the 1,834 members of staff who air transport industry, Air France-KLM has been working to mitigate the have opted for voluntary departure have benefited from individual effects of the crisis in a social and responsible way, whilst maintaining support in planning their future career, provided by two specialist the competitiveness of its staff. agencies, as well as up to 9 months of retraining leave. Air France has pursued a policy based on rigour and prudence, which On the 31st of March, almost 600 employees concerned had already has led to a gradual reduction of its workforce. 2010 saw the implemoved on to new projects (of which more than 100 people are setting mentation of a Voluntary Departure Plan; a transparent and non-comup or taking on an existing business). pulsory approach was respected when organising this scheme. 48 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 At the height of the economic crisis, in order to cope with busy periods Improving mobility in certain areas, KLM asked its staff to help out with ground handling Adapting the roles of our staff has led Air France-KLM to re-think operations. This enabled employees concerned to gain a better the way its organisation works, which in turn has led to new internal understanding of the role of ground operations staff and save cost job opportunities. of hiring external staff. Given these positive results and the unique learning experience for employees, KLM has decided to continue with Professional mobility has become a necessity due to economic, this ‘Solidair’ initiative after the crisis. Employees on the scheme will technical and commercial change. To ensure that mobility happens in be able to provide support to ground operations staff at any time of the smoothest way possible, Air France has set up a ‘jobs and skills the year, and especially during disturbances to operations, such as the forecast management’. This initiative includes career orientation and volcano crisis in April 2010 or during the heavy snowfall in December. mobility tools such as a ‘Mobility Unit’ and the ‘Job Market’, which recorded a two-fold increase in the number of job announcements KLM pilots temporarily helped out Ground Services by taking up posted over 2010. In 2010, more than 1,500 ground staff changed jobs ground positions. KLM Cityhopper, a subsidiary of KLM, recruited within Air France, of whom 75 are becoming cabin crew after training. ground staff from KLM on a temporary basis as cabin crew. Twelve There were 327 examples of geographical mobility, 600 employees employees took up this opportunity for a new experience, whilst transferred between divisions while 86 ground staff gained executive maintaining their previous salary levels. Some of those concerned will status. return to their previous jobs after a year, while others have opted to stay on as cabin crew on a permanent basis. From spring 2011, employees will have access to the ‘Observatoire des Métiers’, which will provide information on growing or declining After more than 50 years Martinair will end its passenger business demand for different types of jobs, which steps to take in order to operations in November 2011. The KLM subsidiary will fully focus on change role and the skills required to succeed. This tool will mean their strong full freighter cargo operation. KLM has taken on Martinair’s that employees can plan their career path with their manager and HR 379 cabin attendants. manager. Preparing for the future Leading responsible change management as part of ongoing social dialogue FOCUS Air France-KLM recognises the constraints and risks it is faced with, A SYMBOL FOR TRADE UNION DIALOGUE which means it will need to adapt to a more sustained pace of change. To mark KLM’s 90th birthday, Mr Evert van Zwol, head of the At the same time the Group needs to maintain cohesion and ensure Dutch Airline Pilots’ union presented Mr Peter Hartman with a tulip productive relations with employees and their representatives, as part tree on behalf of all of trade unions at KLM. Mr Hartman, President of a policy based on treating people with respect. and CEO of KLM, underlined how cooperation with Unions is a deeply rooted part of the company’s culture. Air France’s Voluntary Departure Plan was the subject of consultation with the Central Works Council and trade unions, and was then widely communicated to employees. At Air France, discussion has taken place throughout the year, in particular on preventing psychosocial risk factors, promoting gender equality, teleworking and on the role of seniors within the workforce. Finally, 2010’s collective wage agreement was the subject of negotiation and was signed by the majority of the trade unions. Preparing the future by investing in training Air France managed to maintain a high level of investment in training Continuously improving our skills is a challenge. Training means we representing some 8.35% of the payroll, with an access of more than can close the gap between available and required skills, promote life90% for all its employees. long learning and support those changing careers. To support changes to jobs, particularly in the field of maintenance, Air France has set up training programmes leading up to an internal In response to the economic crisis, which has hit air transport hard diploma (‘certificate logistique interne professional’) in partnership with since 2008, Air France-KLM has chosen to do more to develop the the division and the Education nationale. These 6 month internship employability of its staff throughout the world. This is why training training programmes represent more than 400 hours, and will allow the for Air France-KLM employees has been expanded and based on Company to professionalise growing areas of employment. e-learning, which allows employees in around a hundred countries In 2010, investment in training at KLM stood at 2,645 euros per where the group is present to extend their skills. employee. Over the course of 2010, Air France-KLM continued to adapt the traiAt the height of the economic crisis, KLM gave fresh impetus to its ning it offers in order to support changes to products, organisation and ‘Focus on the future-program’, which aims to expand employee skills jobs, placing more focus on individualised training. and mobility. Promoting a responsible human resources policy 49 More than 400 members of staff have benefited from support, training Fulfilling our responsibilities to young people and career advice, this initiative is set to continue throughout 2011. As entering the labour market a response to a potential shortage of qualified managers, 15 managers Despite the economic crisis, Air France has chosen to continue from various departments of KLM took part in a pilot Operations strengthening its links with the Education Nationale, in particular by Manager training project. This 22-month programme carried out welcoming students on work-study courses. The implementation of the in conjunction with TiasNimbas Business School, is made up of a 5th Internship Charter for the 2008-11 period resulted in the recruitment period of training, a master class and mentoring from an experienced of 272 people on apprenticeship and internship contracts in 2010 operations manager. despite the challenging context. Recruitment of ‘young executives’ is also continuing (33) and links between universities and the company have been maintained through partnerships. Air France’s ‘New Careers’ Chair at Rouen Business School enables us to participate in discussions on extending working life, the diversity of jobs and people within the company and developing internal mobility. ‘Campus Training’ and Air France’s Recruitment and Selection Department achieved renewal of their ISO 9001 certification at the end of 2010, proof of Air France’s commitment to quality in these areas. Safeguarding the health and safety of employees Health and safety in the workplace is a key policy priority for Air FranceIndustrial injury frequency (IF*) coefficient KLM. Its importance is supported from the highest management levels at Air France to all departments in the business. 5.85 6.0 5.55 Despite weaker results this year, which have not met objectives, 5.07 Air France reaffirms its ambition to reduce the number of accidents in 5.0 4.56 4.50 4.27 the workplace over 2011 (see graph). 4.0 Despite all efforts, the number of accidents in the workplace at KLM -30% objective did not result in the considerable decline as aimed for. 3.0 -30% new objective 2.74 2.0 FOCUS 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 BALANCING HEALTH AND SAFETY IN THE *IF: number of industrial accidents, reuslting in absenteeism, per 100 employees/year WORKPLACE WITH OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE AT AIR FRANCE As well as adapting work stations and production processes, Managing reduction of workplace accidents experts in ergonomics have played a role in developing new The company’s Board of Directors has renewed its commitment to buildings, IT applications, tools, ground support equipment etc. reducing accidents in the workplace through contracts providing specific targets to each entity within the group. Performance on safety Their expertise has also been called upon in the ‘Constellation’ is one of the criteria on which operations managers’ variable pay is and ‘Equinoxe’ building construction projects and in the transfer based. Projects are monitored by each of the Steering Committees, of A320 activities to a new site. Real working conditions are and periodic evaluations are carried out within Air France’s Executive taken into account when designing projects, dialogue between stakeholders is encouraged and the acquisition of future sites, Committee and for KLM with the Executive Committee and Safety & tools and processes is facilitated. Quality Board (SQB). 50 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 Dialogue and training to better manage risk It is key for Air France to implement best practices for health and safety FOCUS in the workplace: Prevention, analysis, management, and supporting INVENTING NEW WAYS OF WORKING measures on the field. KLM’s IT department is working on defining a ‘New World of Work’ which will offer flexibility in terms of working location and time as Management was involved in the annual ‘Health and Safety in the well as a ‘mobile office’. This should improve work-life balance Workplace Convention’, where 12 prizes for performance in the field while at the same time reducing the carbon footprint of travelling of safety were awarded to managers of operations divisions in recobetween home and work. Martinair and Transavia have already implemented similar practices. gnition of successful initiatives. These included an initiative focusing on higher-risk areas, team workshops led by safety experts and periodical safety briefings. In addition, training to prevent musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) in operational departments was provided to various divisions such as logistics and freight, engine maintenance and baggage loading. These 2010 also saw a broad-based awareness campaign on preventing initiatives were outlined during the ‘Air France Prevention of MSDs’ psychosocial risks. The campaign took various forms, such as forums, forum, which took place in 2010. benchmarking and training events. Between May 2010 and February 2011, 570 people received training. Last year KLM’s Safety Champions (managers in charge of promoting safety) continued their efforts to promote safety at work. The Safety KLM’s Commercial Division has set up stress management Award was introduced for the most innovative safety ideas. It was workshops, in which staff based both in the Netherlands and in awarded five times last year amongst others to two Ground Services international markets have participated. Other divisions have also employees for developing a net for loads that need special care. The adopted similar initiatives. net improves safety and reduces handling time. The Flight Operations division of KLM is participating in a study carried Safety communication is carried out frequently using several specific out by The VU University Amsterdam (Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam) on safety magazines. ‘Never compromise on safety’ is the leading pilots’ fatigue. The data collected by KLM’s medical staff are analysed message accompanied with the Safety-logo, especially designed to to identify factors that contribute to tiredness, absenteeism and health support KLM’s safety policy. complaints caused by irregular working hours. The Stay@Work study carried out by the VU University Amsterdam within KLM Cargo received an award from a Dutch government body. The study, aimed to reduce the risks of work-related neck and back Quality of life and health in the workplace pain, resulted in employees acting as ergonomic coaches to colleaAt Air France, a three-year agreement on ‘method and prevention gues, teaching them healthy ways for example to lift weights. of psychosocial risks and quality of life in the workplace’, which was signed unanimously by unions in 2010 promotes a multidisciplinary, Ensuring social protection for workers in participatory outreach approach which mobilises all stakeholders: countries served employees, managers, the human resources network, occupational Air France-KLM employs more than 8,354 people locally throughout physicians and nurses, social workers, trade unions and the CHSCT the world, who benefit from the values and commitments laid out (Committee for Hygiene, Safety and Working Conditions). in Air France-KLM’s Social Rights and Ethics Charter. Almost all of the Group’s local staff benefit from social protection ensuring they receive sickness and maternity benefits, along with arrangements to ensure they can benefit from a decent standard of living during their retirement, and are covered against accident and death. In addition, the Group offers complementary insurance coverage where public provision does not meet the required standards. The Group is also developing a responsible health policy for its employees, in particular through campaigns on preventing specific local health risks. Involving subsidiaries The Group’s subsidiaries are also involved in prevention and protection measures for workplace safety. Servair is for example investing in preventing falls from height by redesigning and monitoring its procedures, as well as by producing educational resources and organising forums. These initiatives apply to mainland French and overseas destinations (Canton, Pointe-à-Pitre, etc). Promoting a responsible human resources policy 51 Promoting equal opportunities, ensuring fair treatment of employees and respecting diversity Promoting equal opportunities and combating Women in the Group (%) 2010 discrimination Board of Directors 13.3% The third three-year Air France agreement on gender equality was Executive Committees Group (GEC): 0% signed unanimously by unions in October 2010. AF: 7.7% KLM: 7.3% The agreement is based upon three main objectives: to establish a Senior managers / executives AF: 25.7% common methodology for measuring professional and wage equality, KLM: 19.9% to ensure equality of opportunity and equity of treatment in Human Ground staff managerial AF: 30.1% KLM: 23.1% Resource practices and to come up with practical measures concerning work-life balance. Flight crew managerial AF: Cabin crew: 52.1% Cockpit crew: 2.8% KLM: Cabin crew: 72.1% Wage equalisation measures at Air France started in 2008, will be contiCockpit crew: 3.0% nued in 2011. 543 women have benefited from this measure in 2010. Ground staff non managerial AF: 40.0% KLM: 30.6% In addition to measures already in place, proposals to facilitate Flight crew AF: Cabin crew: 65.1% women’s access to management positions were submitted to HR Cockpit crew: 6.9% KLM: Cabin crew: 82.7% management by employees. Cockpit crew: 4.2% KLM has launched a social network to bring together its gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender employees. In order that these people are visible, accepted and recognised within the company, exchanges will take place with management and human resources. A communication Increasing the number of disabled workers and campaign has also been set up. The network is part of the Company helping employees with long term absence Pride Platform, which also collaborates with many other companies. Air France is actively pursuing initiatives to welcome people with disabilities into its workforce. It recruited 25 disabled members of staff in Accompany the second part of working time 2010 and continues to subcontract to organisations within the sheltered To promote the employment of seniors, Air France-KLM aims to employment sector, resulting in the equivalent of 560 indirect jobs. increase the support provided to employees in the second half of their careers. Over the same period, the number and employment rate of disabled To achieve a real transition between professional life and retirement, staff members have both increased, totalling 1,572 employees and Air France-KLM is offering part time working arrangements at the end 3.92% of the workforce. of employees’ careers. Air France has invested 2.5 million euros of the budget provided for More than 300 members of staff have benefited from Air France’s in the disability agreement of 2010. This investment has mainly been retirement preparation training since July 2009. dedicated to actions to maintain disabled people at work, and to develop awareness. KLM offers a 3-day workshop to employees over the age of 45 in order to help them increase their motivation for their current job or to assist KLM, in close collaboration with the Works Council, has updated its them in finding a new job. policy supporting employees returning to work after long-term absence due to illness. An advisory committee has been set up to monitor cases with reference to the renewed policy, to provide advice, to improve progress and to define company and employee responsibilities more clearly. KLM’s financial liability concerning employees affected by disability has been extended to 12 years. Involving employees in our CSR program Air France and KLM have been building awareness among employees A general training programme on CSR in the form of an e-learning throughout the year in both a structural and inspirational way with module will be made available to all members of staff within the group different internal initiatives. in 2011. CSR in training At KLM, CSR is integrated into training in different divisions, for Air France has set up two training programmes on diversity via e-learning, example an e-learning course has been developed for Engineering to build awareness on professional integration of disabled workers & Maintenance and Fuel Awareness is now integrated into structural among all employees, and to assist managers in their day to day work. training at Flight Operations. All these different trainings are tailor52 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 made by the divisions concerned. The KLM Academy offers a variety In addition, 28 Air France employees in 2010 and 48 in 2011 are of training programmes. Part of this training offer is a yearly CSR participating in ‘Pandathlon’, a fundraising sports event on behalf of masterclass for middle management. WWF France, which will see employees climb Mont Ventoux, a Natura 2000 site and Biosphère reserve. Initiatives involving employees KLM also organises meetings between external stakeholders and At KLM quarterly ‘CSR cafés’ are held, bringing together employees employees, as well as meetings between employees on CSR topics, and outside speakers on a variety of subjects such as procurement in order to enrich the debate on these subjects. & CSR and responsible marketing. At Air France there have been dedicated stands and conferences during ‘Sustainable Development Week’. FOCUS 250 young executives attended a conference on diversity where they MOBILISING STAFF TO WELCOME PEOPLE WITH produced communication materials on their chosen topics, with the DISABILITIES jury selecting a film as the overall winner. A disability awareness booklet, published by a sheltered employment organisation, was handed out to all employees. The Air France is involving its employees in initiatives with the Air France booklet aims to encourage everyone to support the integration of disabled people within the company by showing examples of Quality Innovation Programme, which rewards the best proposals everyday workplace situations. submitted by employees. POINTS OF VIEW Socially responsible airline Fouad Benseddik Jean-Claude Cros Director of Methodology Executive Vice President Human & Institutional Relationships, Vigeo Resources and Labour Relations, Air France What constitutes a socially What constitutes a socially responsible airline? responsible airline? A company that has understood its performance An airline is an international business made up depends upon how well it is able to preserve the cohesion of its human of jobs at a mostly national level. In this context, being a socially capital. This means having clear, visible and measureable objectives, responsible company means meeting the dual challenge of adapting based upon dedicated management processes, which are monitored to ever more intense global competition, and to fast-changing technoaccording to respect for human rights, continuous improvement of logies, while at the same time developing our primary resource; our qualifications, the capacity to reorganise structures and businesses staff. without harming the psychological well-being of employees, promoting Our objective is to preserve jobs in the long-term and so strengthen social dialogue and widening the field of participation. The reputation our employees’ employability and professional mobility. This means of the company, its attractiveness on the labour and financial markets that every employee is constantly developing its skills and receives and in the end its effectiveness are based upon all of these things. appropriate trainings. Faced with these challenges, in which areas in partiWhich initiatives are planned to carry out this social cular do you think Air France-KLM should take action? vision? According to Vigeo’s rating, Air France-KLM comes out as the leading Developing the employability of our staff is a challenge that involves a Group in its sector. Your performance on respecting human rights, great deal of employee preparation and support. continuously improving employment and working conditions and Over recent years, we have intensified our efforts in improving profesprofessional relations is convincing. You have sional mobility. The Observatoire des Métiers is currently being rolledsolid assets to meet the challenges of carrying out restructuring in a out, the jobs and skills forecasting and management tool is being responsible way, and of continuously improving the employability of improved and a complete range of technical and managerial training your staff. Stress management, the inclusion of social performance is available. in executive pay criteria and the number of women in management Finally, Human Resources is working along with managers from the positions need a specific attention. The area of diversity, on which you start of projects so that social espects are taken into account at an have already rolled-out commitments requires constant vigilance. early stage of the process. Promoting a responsible human resources policy 53 Contributing to local development Through its business activities, Air France-KLM contributes to economic and social development, both where the Group is based and in the countries it serves. Its extensive international network also provides added economic, technological logistical and financial value, and stimulates numerous other sectors, such as tourism and commerce. The two companies pursue long-term dialogue with local partners to build sustainable, efficient and transparent relationships. Furthermore, The Group works on transferring skills, supports local populations by making financial and logistical means available, and also encourages the involvement of its employees in community projects. The Group leads and supports humanitarian projects via foundations and permanent NGOs, and provides relief in case of natural or humanitarian disasters. 54 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 Our vision We strive to add economic and social value in the areas where we operate, which starts with our flight services enabling people and business to connect around the world. By working together with local partners, we create new business opportunities and support projects contributing to the long term well being of local communities. Our commitments We support the economic and social development by providing information, through dialogue, partnerof the areas surrounding our major bases and ships and by contributing to local development and the countries we serve, particularly the most projects which improve residents’ living standards; disadvantaged among these, through initiatives • prepare for the future through skills development; which aim to: • encourage our employees to participate in com• contribute to the local economy through our munity projects; capacity of creating business and work, and by • promote and support development programmes using local suppliers; by making the Group’s human, logistic and finan• build durable relationships with local stakeholders cial resources available. Contributing to local development 55 Management indicators AIR FRANCE-KLM / Objectives / main achievements 2010-11 Contributing to the local areas – Participation in the Grand Roissy project, in public consultation on Grand Paris and publication of a stakeholder document surrounding our major hubs – Participation in Pays de Roissy-CDG associations, Hubstart, Aerotropolis Europe and the Aigle project – Support of the sheltered sector: subcontracting to 69 organisations for 11.8 million Euros (Air France) – Signed covenant with 10 neighbouring companies in the Schiphol Area on CO2 mitigation during a climate summit – Stakeholder dialogue and company visits by governmental delegations, local politicians and council members – Further contribution to operational issues carried out by the Schiphol Regional Review Board (CROS) – 3 issues of ‘Courrier, Air France partenaire de l’Ile de France’ published and distributed to 1.500 institutional recipients Promoting skills development – Taking active roles on the boards of local associations; Airemploi, JEREMY, AFMAé and the Val de Marne Second Chance School (Air France) – Making 8 executives available to the national education authorities (Air France) – The AÏDA programme; 35 training programmes in 20 African countries. 1,150 staff members received qualifications Involving employees in social projects – Les Amis de la Fondation Air France: 2,100 employees involved in volunteer work – Aviation Sans Frontières: 345 volunteers, most of them being Air France employees – Wings of Support: 80 volunteers and 3000 structural donors in over 20 countries – Sharing best practices and inspiring other colleagues to launch CSR initiatives through internal publications – Fundraising for several social initiatives through staff satisfaction questionnaires – Staff involvement and aid programmes during humanitarian disasters (e.g. Japan) – Providing 1,200 food packages to deprived families in the Amsterdam area during the Christmas period thanks to the involvement of 40 employees (KLM) – Recurring onboard sales action by cabin crew, raising money for Pink Ribbon, breast cancer research and treatment (KLM) Enhancement and extension of social – Funding of €10.3 million for humanitarian projects engagement – Foundation Air France: 100 education projects supported in 36 countries – €2 million – Acting for Life: 67 development programmes (children, economic, sustainable tourism) in the world – Closing the digital divide by offering ICT assets and door-to-door logistics to schools and education centreers in Africa (in concert with NGO Close the Gap) – Usage of social media to communicate social initiatives and donor participation (KLM) – Round table with social NGOs to progress on further steps in effective corporate citizenship (KLM) – Active engagement of CSR initiatives through online community Club Africa (KLM) Contributing to local development around our hubs Developing the local economy FOCUS By providing international transport, Air France and KLM support LOCAL COMMUNITIES AND AIR TRANSPORT business development in the areas around their hubs and throughout France and The Netherlands. With a small home market but huge As major players in regional development, Air France and KLM contribute to the debate on the economic impact of air transport, international economic potential, KLM contributes to the development explaining the challenges, constraints and opportunities of the of the Dutch economy. In addition, the regions surrounding Amsterdamsector. Schiphol, Roissy-CDG and Orly are major economic centres attracting both large corporations and SMEs, which benefit from the international Since 2008, Air France has participated in the Grand Roissy airport and the dynamic local economy. project, which was initiated by the President of France to ensure the future development of Roissy-CDG, while protecting local residents’ quality of life. This collective effort has resulted in 35 proAs a major private sector employer at its hubs, Air France-KLM posals for the sustainable development of the airport area concercontributes to job creation. The KLM Group employs over 33,000 ning environmental issues, and coordination and governance of of the 60,000 people employed directly at Schiphol Airport, while Air the local area. The first decisions were announced in January France employs nearly 47,000 of the 118,000 people employed at 2011 at the Grand Roissy Assembly. Roissy-CDG and Orly airports. KLM for its part has contributed to the Dutch Government White Paper on air transport (Luchtvaartnota), which has been endorAs contributor to local development, the Group is playing a role in sed by the Dutch Parliament. Aviation is seen as a key factor in discussions on projects set to shape the areas surrounding its hubs economic development and national competitiveness. A central over the coming twenty years, such as the Grand Roissy project (see aim of this White Paper is therefore to further optimise network Focus) and the consultation process on the Grand Paris-Express, the quality while also promoting a competitive and sustainable aviafuture public transport network in the Paris region. At the end of 2010, tion sector. Important conclusions are that the aviation industry Air France contributed to the public consultation on the ‘Grand Paris’ and KLM play a vital role in economic development and growth and that innovation hand in hand with leadership will ensure that debate by underlining the vital importance to both passengers and this happens in a sustainable way. employees of an efficient urban transport network serving airports in the Paris region. Because the network will constitute either the first or last stage of journeys, it is not only an important addition but also a key factor for the competitiveness of French businesses around the world. 56 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 To create the best possible conditions for business around RoissyCDG, cooperating with partners is essential. Therefore, Air France works together with Hubstart and with the Aerotropolis Europe ~80,000 association. The company is committed to promoting the ‘Grand Air France-KLM Group Roissy’ region around the world, to better compete with other airport areas. Air France Industries is taking part in the Aigle project, led by employees the ASTech Paris Regional Business Cluster, which brings together at Amsterdam-Schipol, aeronautical businesses with the goal of creating a world-class Roissy-CDG and Paris-Orly hubs aerospace centre of excellence around Le Bourget airport. Pursuing long-term dialogue with local stakeholders Air France and KLM take a proactive approach to engaging local Air France is a founder member and continues to support three assostakeholders such as residents, elected officials, associations and ciations which are involved in this area at Roissy; Airemploi, JEREMY regulatory authorities in open dialogue at their two main sites. Dialogue and AFMAé: and transparency are the keys to successful cooperation on issues such • Airemploi provides information and guidance on training courses as noise and quality of life. Air France also communicates with local leading to careers in aviation: 198 conferences for schools and stakeholders through its publication ‘Le Courrier Air France, partenaire careers advisors in 2010. Also in 2010, a programme was launched de l’Île-de-France’. which aimed to widen the career choices of 63 young women, by helping them to find out about traditionally male-dominated careers; To further strengthen links, Air France and KLM have continued • JEREMY promotes the integration of young local people from the opening their doors to residents and elected local officials; the mayors Roissy-CDG and Orly areas who do not hold formal qualifications: and council members of more than twenty surrounding communities 285 trainees began aviation-related apprenticeships in 2010; visited KLM to participate in open dialogue with Air Traffic Control • through its ‘CFA des metiers de l’aérien’, AFMAé trained 324 young The Netherlands and Schiphol on aeronautical and environmental apprentices and 116 interns through in-service training. Air France developments around the airport. A delegation of ambassadors and is continuing to host work-study students with 148 apprentices representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was invited to visit in 2010, 140 of who were at Air France Industries and 8 disabled several KLM departments where they were informed about innovative workers at ‘Commercial France’. and CSR throughout the company. In October 2010, Air France invited the public to visit its Orly Nord industrial zone to see newly constructed Air France has jointly set up innovative partnership initiatives with or redeveloped buildings for themselves. various stakeholders such as the ‘Ecoles de la Deuxième Chance’ (Second Chance Schools, see Focus) and the Education Nationale, Air France has set itself the objective of promoting development in the including its ‘Engineers for Schools’ (IPE) initiative, which involves Pays de Roissy area. The company has set up the ‘Pays de Roissyreleasing engineers for work in schools. Air France contributes CDG’ association, which since 2003 has benefited from two part-time with 8 engineers to the project. In February 2011, twenty-one executives provided by Air France organising theme-based working recently appointed secondary and high school head teachers took groups on training, economic development, housing, transport and part in a training course where they benefitted from the company’s culture. In 2010-2011, this association contributed to the debate on management know-how. Teaching staff are therefore able to provide the Grand Paris public transport network by drawing up a stakeholder guidance to students on careers in aviation. dossier, it also organised a European forum on security and safety. KLM is engaged in permanent dialogue with residents and local officials through the Alders Table and through its involvement in the Schiphol Regional Review Board (CROS). The new sector agreement on noise norms around the airport is a major achievement (see also FOCUS page 33). KLM and ten other companies in the Schiphol area signed SECOND CHANCE SCHOOLS an environmental covenant during the regional climate summit in Second Chance Schools offer young people aged between 18 Amstelveen, which aims to exchange ideas and best practice and and 25, who left school without formal qualifications a second encourages the participation of all these companies on CO2 mitigation. chance. As part of an individualised learning programme, students complete two or three internships to find out more about the world Training future generations and working with of work. vulnerable communities As a founder member of the Val-de-Marne Second Chance Sharing knowledge and providing training School (E2C), Air France Industries hosted interns in its logistics Both Air France and KLM are playing a role in the job market by department in 2010. These interns are supervised, but above all employing people at all skills levels. They are active in developing listened to, so that they can be independent on the job market. skills through their involvement in providing information and training on careers in aviation. Contributing to local development 57 KLM is continuing to invest in education programmes: Regional Education Centres (ROC) Amsterdam and KLM-Engine Services offer gas turbine mechanic and sheet metalwork training; KLM also assists in developing skills & competences and offers internships. KLM provides professional training for careers in aircraft maintenance at two schools with a two-year contract as a mechanic at the end of the course. At Global Start, potential school dropouts are given training in ICT and are recruited for KLM computer replacement projects. Working with the sheltered employment sector Providing employment for people with disabilities who cannot access the mainstream job market, is one of the commitments made by companies which respect their corporate citizenship responsibilities. In 2010, the number of sheltered employment sector organisations working with Air France increased to 69, representing 11.8 million Mobilising the Group’s employees Euros, and the equivalent of 560 full-time jobs. Air France has also Employees are regularly mobilised to assist with projects supported allocated 772,000 Euros of the training tax it pays to organisations by the Group. For example, the ‘Amis de la Fondation Air France’ which provide training for people with disabilities. network mobilises more than 2,100 employees in a range of voluntary and fundraising schemes. In 2010 they took part in more than 20 voluntary projects by giving their free time for extra school activities, awareness campaigns about donating blood and participating in fundraising activities. FOCUS KLM employees of various departments supported many good CONCIERGE SERVICES FOR EMPLOYEES AT AIR causes: e.g, KLM Catering Services donated 1,200 food boxes to FRANCE’S HEADQUARTERS the food bank of Amsterdam thanks to the involvement of around Since the start of 2011, employees at Air France’s headquarters 40 employees, fund raising initiatives were held throughout the have benefitted from a concierge service, thanks to a joint initiative between the company, a works committee, and the ESAT de company in aid of breast cancer research (Pink Ribbon), including Gonesse (a sheltered employment organisation). sponsored runs and other sporting events, computers were collected and shipped to schools abroad and several volunteer projects involving Before the service was launched, disabled workers spent two nature conservation were carried out. months acquiring skills in reception, IT and accountancy. Members of staff can now take advantage of laundry and ironing services, key cutting and a bakery, etc. This type of initiative serves three major social objectives for FOCUS Air France; promoting disability awareness, providing services to employees, and developing employment for disabled people. AVIATION SANS FRONTIÈRES IN FRANCE AND THE NETHERLANDS Aviation Sans Frontières (ASF) and Luchtvaart Zonder Grenzen (ASF The Netherlands) are two sister NGOs which assist humanitarian NGOs with air transportation; medical evacuations, transporting medical teams, emergency assistance, medicines and providing assistance in helping seriously ill children. Air France has supported the work of ASF for many years, and two-thirds of the association’s volunteers are current or retired Air France staff. KLM AirCares supports ASF NL, which has just launched a recent awareness campaign to collect frequent flyer miles, both among staff and among passengers who are members of the Flying Blue programme. Thanks to Air Miles donated by frequent flyers, ASF and ASF NL save large sums of money on the cost of providing transport to sick children. At the end of 2010, ASF celebrated its 15,000th child transported. 58 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 Contributing to local development at our destinations Promoting economic development The Group’s structural programmes at our destinations and partnerships The Group contributes to the development of the territories where it Air France has a 30-year partnership with the NGO Acting for Life, which operates by connecting them with 244 destinations in 105 countries. It supported 67 projects in 2010 in Africa, South Asia and South America also contributes through cooperation with local airlines or by sourcing on child protection, economic development and sustainable tourism. with sub-contractors locally on behalf of the Group, or through the use Moreover, Air France continues to be committed to protecting children of local products in meals served onboard. who are victims of human trafficking, sex tourism and sexual and economic exploitation through its support of ECPAT, and in particular Air France plays an important part in supporting economic and social by financing an awareness campaign which was broadcast onboard. development in DOM-TOMs (French-administered territories outside of the European continent), with the voluntary commitment charter on Air France’s Foundation supported 100 projects across 36 countries facilitating transport between mainland France and overseas countries, in 2010. One of the Foundation’s main areas of focus since its origin which it signed in 2009, which was then extended in 2010 to include has been street children. At the end of 2010, Air France Foundation TOM overseas territories. and the Samu Social Sénégal opened the new Samu Social Sénégal centre in Dakar. Tourism has a significant impact on local communities and their living standards. When managed well, it can bring economic prosperity and KLM AirCares supports annually 7 non-profit organisations with sustainable development. KLM supports the Chair of Sustainable financial, logistical, and organisational aid: from preventing diseases Tourism at Wageningen University and together with several leisure (malaria in Tanzania), transporting and accompanying seriously ill travel agents and the Dutch government’s Sustainable Trade children from rural Africa to hospitals in Holland, to shipping medical Initiative (IDH), KLM is working on a pilot to develop responsible and equipment to health clinics and providing education for children, all of sustainable tourism. which contribute to the benefit and development of the least privileged. The Group also participates in the transfer of skills to countries served Over 3,000 structural donors and 80 KLM and Martinair employees through Air France Consulting, or the AÏDA Programme (Assistance, are highly committed to and actively involved in Wings of Support. Investment, Development in Africa) in Mali, Senegal and Gabon. This This foundation is set up and managed by employees and is active in programme offers African Ground Service companies the opportunity 20 countries around the globe, supporting over 86 projects. By means to professionalise and to expand their skills in IT, equipment and of fund raising (2010: 500,000 Euros) and distribution of goods, toys airport facilities maintenance at a training centre (IAMA) in Bamako. and clothes, Wings of Support offers effective and sustainable care for 1,150 agents graduated in 2010 from training courses that took place thousands of children. in nine African countries. In March 2010, the IATA recognised the training course on dangerous merchandise, and new courses will be KLM is currently further developing its social policies to enhance set up such as the catering course (in partnership with Servair) and the effectiveness of its humanitarian initiatives and to encourage training for cabin crew. the participation of other actors. As a first step KLM organised a stakeholder dialogue with several international NGOs including Unicef, Sharing the Group’s resources for humanitarian Oxfam-Novib, Cordaid, ICCO and Plan The Netherlands. With their and development programmes input KLM works on further shaping of its social policies. The Group has played an active role in providing international development assistance, which is closely linked to its core business. In 2010-11, its total contribution amounted to 10.37 million Euros, in the form of cash donations, free transport for people and equipment, awareness campaigns and other initiatives. The Group also supports various NGOs and associations through skills contribution by staff. Air France provides logistical support to more than 70 NGO projects, principally involved in providing medical assistance. In 2010-2011, Air France donated 715 tickets to NGOs and transported 8.5 metric tons of medical equipment and medicines free of charge. Two of Air France Industries’ mechanics have provided their know-how to the NGO Aviation Sans Frontières and several of the Group’s staff members have been placed at the disposal of the NGO Acting for Life. Air France and KLM provide access to their media channels such as advertising in onboard magazines, videos and — increasingly — social media space to numerous humanitarian organisations. Contributing to local development 59 Distribution of Group’s contributions by project Geographical distribution of funds category 11% Carribbean 16% Europe 18% Environment & Indian Ocean incl. Netherlands & France 29% Sport, art & culture, 17% Americas miscelleaneous 24% Asia Pacific 32% Africa & Middle East 53% Humanitarian & Education Distribution by type of contribution 16.5% Tickets 1.3% Cargo Capacity Supporting projects throughout the world Numerous projects throughout the world receive support thanks to the 82.2% Money initiative and commitment of local delegations and employees. HUNGARY HAITI ‘Flying Smiles’ Programme in aid of several orphanages. Renovating a school for Drawing competition with the prize of a trip for the young 2,500 children. The Air France Founwinners: fundraising with the sale of KLM toys and money dation is supporting this project from every ticket sold. thanks to money collected from Air France and KLM employees. JAPAN Mobilising teams following CURACAO the catastrophe and helping Supporting the CliniClowns affected people. association, which sends clowns Hungary to entertain children in hospitals. Japan Haiti Curacao Senegal Malaysia SENEGAL Equator Mobilisation of Air France Industries Tanzania apprentices to develop book and toy libraries. Madagascar TANZANIA EQUATOR Malaria prevention and helping MALAYSIA Organising a flea market in aid to build a rural clinic, with the Fondation pour la Médecine Selling Dutch tulips in aid of a of the ‘Ancianitos Chimborazo Africaine et l’Education. centre that carries out research Foundation’, which provides supMADAGASCAR for childhood cancer. port to elderly homeless people. Providing financing for the Aina Centre, which cares for orphans and looks after children. Mobilisation of employees based on La Réunion island to fundraise and manage the association. Employee Transporting Financing Plane initiative goods projects tickets 60 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 FOCUS FOCUS THE AIR FRANCE KLM VILLAGE IN THE PHILLIPINES ENHANCING MOBILITY IN KENYA The Regional Delegation of Air France-KLM in Manila is working The Dutch National Park De Hoge Veluwe has donated over 200 alongside the NGO Gawad Kalinka (GK) in its fight against poverty of its famous white bikes (that can be used by visitors of the park) in the Philippines. GK is involved in various initiatives in the fields to the NGO Cycling Out of Poverty in Kisumu, Kenya. They proof infrastructure, child welfare, food self-sufficiency, health, the vide these bikes to health care workers, entrepreneurs and school environment and tourism. The Air France-KLM project is based children in order to improve their mobility. on building houses to help the most disadvantaged people live in Every year around 350 bikes are replaced and Hoge Veluwe dignity. In three years, the project has gone from 16 to 30, then wanted to find a sustainable second use for them. Before being to 45 houses built. They are now inhabited by families who have shipped to Kenya, the donated bikes are completely refurbished moved into their new dwelling place. The success of this initiative by a group of young people with behavioural problems who is thanks above all to the motivation of the Air France-KLM team, receive 24 hour care by the Hoenderloo Group. from the additional help they have received from the Asia Pacific KLM Cargo has taken care of all logistics and customs procedures division of the Group and from broadening the circle of donors to to facilitate the door-to-door transport of the bikes. Based upon the project beyond the Philippines. The head of GK, thanks to this the successful cooperation with Hoge Veluwe and the tangible support, had the opportunity to come to Europe to present the iniresults of this project, KLM Cargo management has decided to tiative. One of the notable successes of the project is having motirepeat these shipments on a regular basis. vated more than 200 young students from France to volunteer for work on the Air France-KLM Village construction site. POINTS OF VIEW Creating economic and social value where we operate Gerrit Barnhoorn, Michael Wisbrun, Managing Director Sher Flowers BV, Former Executive Vice President flower farm in Ehiopia Cargo, KLM. Since 1 June, 2011 Managing Director of SkyTeam Sher expanded to Kenya in 1997 and moved to Ethiopia in 2005. How How do you see the role of did you fill in your role regarding Air France-KLM regarding social responsibility? ‘contributing to local development’? We give priority to the social activities and development of our Through our activities we contribute to economic and social workers. Currently we employ more than 11.000 employees of which development worldwide by involving local suppliers (e.g forwarders, 7.500 directly. Also local suppliers have strong business ties with catering companies, handlers). And also through supporting the Sher Ethiopia flower farm. Right from the start we started building development projects at our hubs and destinations, we strive to residential houses for all our workers, a hospital, a school, a social generate economic and social value for local communities. hall and a big stadium. Our employees are entitled to a number of benefits like free medical expenses, school for children, insurance. How can the Group improve the contribution to local But we also take environmental protection into account; applying all communities? necessary environmental legislation, saving water as much as possible Trade is key to our business. Our challenge is to continue seeking and established a good waste management system to minimize new business opportunities in the countries where we operate and environmental pollution. which also benefits local communities, involving local partners and our local offices. What impact does your social policy create and how A good example is the implementation of a so-called ‘green lane’ will Sher Ethiopia fulfill its role in the future? together with freight agent Blue Skies and a local producer of fruits It creates motivated employees and we experience hardly any turnover and vegetables in Ghana. This ‘green lane’ is an agreement with of our personnel. Therefore our employees have good expertise and local customs authorities and ensures that all risks on safety, health, skills regarding flower farming. This has then also a financial effect as economy and environment are taken care of in the complete chain our professional employees deliver good flower quality which results in from producer to importing company. This allows less checks and higher sales and less ‘failure’ in the supermarkets. These purchasers faster through-put times; extremely important for perishable goods. are then more interested in doing business with Sher and willing to pay Another great example, which is given on the left side, is the of our fractional higher prices. It cuts both ways. Cargo customer Sher Ethiopia, a flower farm with social responsability Sher Ethiopia endeavors to create and enhance in all manners on in the heart of its business. issues related to CSR and the welfare of its workers. Good employees and the trust of our buyers are key elements but also the on time performance of airlines, as KLM, remains an important role for on time delivery which is crucial to our business. Contributing to local development 61 Annexes DIALOGUE WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS GROUP’S STAKEHOLDERS MAIN ENGAGEMENT TOPICS MAIN ENGAGEMENT PATHWAYS OUTCOMES AND RESPONSES 2010-11 • Shareholders • Financial information • Quarterly presentations to analysts • Results for improvement by questionnaires • Investors • CSR performance • Dedicated ﬁnancial website of non ﬁnancial rating agencies (VIGEO, SAM, EIRIS, CDP…) • Financial partners • Shareholder Club • Other outcomes: see chapter ‘Our CSR • Rating agencies • Advisory Committee for individual shareholders approach’ • Yearly General Shareholders’ Meeting: presentation of ﬁnancial and CSR performance • Annual publications • Passengers • Service quality • Customer satisfaction surveys • More than 500,000 customers questionnaires • Cargo customers • Innovation • Materiality test completed • Aircraft Maintenance • Security and ﬂight • Dialogue through social media • Feedback of passengers through CSR customers safety (Twitter, Facebook, Hyves) and other networks questionnaire with Flying Blue members • Awareness-raising on • Discussion panel and internet chats (InTouch) • Increased dialogue through social media CSR issues • Dialogue with European Association of people • fb@home achieved 12,000 active participants • Climate change and with disabilities (European Disability Forum) • Onboard video on Air France’s CSR issues CO2 reduction • Working group on sustainable tourism • Air France Industries incorporated the ISO • Green maintenance • Onboard movies about CSR topics 26000 guidelines • Dedicated business communities e.g. Club • Other outcomes: see chapter ‘Building Africa, Club China a sustainable relationship with our customers’ • Employees • Working conditions • Perception surveys • In-house Air France poll of 6,000 staff each • Trade unions • Training and mobility • Materiality test year. Annual Inter’face poll of 7,000 personnel employed outside the home countries • Professional • Health and • Intranet and internal newsletters and papers associations occupational safety • Collective labour agreements (CLA) 2010 signed. • Negotiations and signing of collective labour Talks with trade unions for innovative joint and bodies • Non-discrimination agreements with social partners proposals for CLA 2011 (KLM) • Diversity • Participatory innovation programs at Air France: • Agreement on gender equality and agreement • Social dialogue PIQ, Innovaction and QIS on prevention of psychosocial risks (Air France) • CSR awareness-raising • Regular meetings with governments, with the • Corporate travel plan (Air France) HALDE (French authority against discrimination) on human resources topics, e.g discrimination, • Discussion blog with executives committee occupation safety members and 2 web-conferences with Air France CEO • Inter-company working groups (ORSE, ANVIE, IMS...), with disability groups and the French • National French CSR week: internal forum and National Federation of Marchant Aviation (FNAM) conferences (Air France) • Work Council Committees on working • Start of Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender conditions, environment and on HR policies (LGBT) Network initiated by employees (KLM) • Partnerships with universities • Meeting by works council for all their members in cooperation with management on just culture-safety policy (KLM) • Other outcomes: see chapter ‘Promoting a responsible human resources policy’ • International, • Climate change • Dialogue and joint actions with national air • Input to environmental and transport ministries European and National • CO2 reduction transport authorities on ETS guidelines, and climate policies AF-KLM authorities • Working group on New European Regulations France and the Netherlands • Environmental • Certiﬁcation authorities management on passengers rights • Contribution of aviation industry at the ICAO • Draft proposals at AEA and IATA in particular for 37st assembly • Passengers rights a global approach to climate change • Implementation of the Authority of Financial • Better knowledge Market (December 2nd 2010) – Grenelle 2 of air transport issues • KLM follows up on Transportation Sector Agreement at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol • Working group AFNOR on ISO 26000 • Carbon accounting • Dutch Taskforce Biodiversity • Working group on carbon footprint calculators • HQE (High Quality of Environment) and LEED and CO2 accounting (EPE, FNAM, OEET...) (Leardership in Energy and Environmental • Other outcomes: see chapters ‘Our CSR Design) certiﬁcates for sustainable buildings approach ’and ‘Combating climate change’ 62 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 GROUP’S STAKEHOLDERS MAIN ENGAGEMENT TOPICS MAIN ENGAGEMENT PATHWAYS OUTCOMES AND RESPONSES 2010-11 • Suppliers • Environmental and • Applying the Sustainability Charter • Working groups on onboard textile products social performances and environmental clauses for tenders (Air France) and uniform upcycling (KLM) • CSR integration in the • Including suppliers in REACH • Working group with suppliers on environmental supply chain (Registration Evaluation and Authorization impacts organized at Group’s facilities • Eco-design for CHemicals) monitoring • Launch of concierge services for Air France staff • Local economic and with sheltered sector social development • Other outcomes: see chapter ‘Our CSR approach’ and ‘Building a sustainable relationship with our customers’ • Air transport industry • Safety and security • SkyTeam CSR permanent working group • Joint declaration of SkyTeam members • Airports • Accessibility • Involvement Air France-KLM in SESAR JU to sign UN Global Compact principles for new members • Air Navigation Service • Ground handling • Air France partner of SWAFEA and FCA Provider services (Future alternative fuels) • CSR SkyTeam meeting organized by Air France (february 2011) • Professional • New aircrafts • Involvement of Air France in CORAC associations (Committee for civil aviation research) • Working groups with FNAM and GIFAS • Sustainable biofuels on environmental impacts for aviation • Involvement of Air France-KLM in Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group (SAFUG), Support • Other outcomes: see chapters ‘Our CSR • CSR involvement approach’ and ‘Combating climate change’ the Roundtable of Sustainable Biofuels • Climate change • Sustainability Board of SkyNRG (JV of KLM, • Single European Sky NSG and Spring) with WWF-NL, Solidaridad, University of Utrecht • Dialogue with manufacturers and motorists to improve air quality and noise mitigation in line with ACARE • Local communities • Noise • Training and skills-sharing with local • Participation to Grand Roissy Assembly • Residents associations • Air quality associations and working groups on Orly area • Local economic • Local dialogue • Roissy area development : 2 Air France staff • Air France contribution to the Grand Paris players part time dedicated to Pays de Roissy-CDG consultation process • Social and economic association development • 2 issues of “Le courier Air France” • International promotion Roissy Area associations • The Alders Table reached an agreement by • Better knowledge (Aerotropolis, Hubstart, CAREX, ASTEch) of air transport issues ﬁnding a sustainable balance between growth (Air France) in number of movements and the ongoing • Member of the CCE and CCAR of the 10 biggest implementation of measures to reduce noise French airports • White Paper on air transport endorsed by • KLM involvement in Alders Table and CROS Dutch Parliament (Schiphol Review Board) • Other outcomes: see chapter ‘Minimizing • Cooperation in NS Hispeed (KLM) environmental impacts’ and ‘Contributing • Working visits and tours at Air France and KLM to local development’ facilities • AIDA programme and IAMA institute (Air France) • Scientiﬁc community • Climate change • IAGOS Program (Air France) • First data-batch produced by University • Universities • Operational • Research Technical University Delft (KLM) of Amsterdam as part of 5-year study in work procedures related to health issues (KLM) • Research experts • Support of studies from University Amsterdam • Technological • Research programs on alternative fuels • Membership in IDUT and supporting the chair performance Sustainable Tourism of Wageningen University • Pilot started on sustainable tourism with IDH and tour operators • Other outcomes: see chapter ‘Combating climate change’ • Environmental NGOs • Climate change • KLM Partnership with WWF-NL • Partnership with Landschap Noord Holland • Fighting against • Air France funds programme to combat to support conservation work in the Schiphol deforestation deforestation run by GoodPlanet and WWF in region • Biodiversity Madagascar • Other outcomes: see chapter ‘Combating • KLM Participation in IUCN (International Union climate change’ • Partnerships for Conservation of Nature) • Humanitarian • Humanitarian and • Sponsoring of humanitarian, educational and • Stakeholder round table held with and development development programs children projects: Air France Foundation, 7 humanitarian NGOs with the objective NGOs Acting for Life, KLM AirCares to further shape social policies (KLM) • Donation of tickets and free transport • Opening of the new Samu social centre in Dakar • Group’s employees initiatives: Friends with Air France Foundation of the Air France Foundation, Wings of Support, • Other outcomes: see chapter ‘Contributing Aviation without Borders (France and NL)… to local development’ • Onboard video space for NGO’s, ECPAT awareness campaign (Air France) Annexes 63 AIR FRANCE-KLM GROUP The table presents the Air France-KLM structure and main subsidiaries over which the Group has at least 50% control, whose acquisition dates back at least one full year and which have a signiﬁcant number of employees. Air France Brit Air Passenger transport, CityJet ACNA Maintenance, Cargo VLM Airlines Bruno Pegorier Regional OAT Servair Group Servair SA Transavia CPA BlueLink Base handling CRMA Passerelle Sodexi KLM KLM Cityhopper B.V. Air France-KLM Holding Passenger transport, Transavia Airlines C.V. Maintenance, Cargo KLM Catering Services Schiphol B.V. Cygniﬁc B.V. Cobalt Ground Solutions Ltd. KLM Equipment Services B.V. KLM Health Services B.V. KLM UK Engineering Ltd. Martinair Holland N.V. EPCOR B.V. International Aviation Services Ltd. KLM Luchtvaart School B.V. Passenger Maintenance Cargo Ground Catering Aircraft Call center Medical Assistance Training transport (logistic or services cleaning services to passengers freight transport) having limited mobility GROUP’S FLEET Operational aircraft as of 31 March 2011: 593 Average ﬂeet age: 9.9 years Air France Group KLM Group Average age Number Average age Number (years) Type of aircraft of aircrafts (years) Type of aircraft of aircrafts 9.6 in total 389 in total 10.4 in total 204 in total A318, A319 737-300/-400/ Short and medium-haul 9.5 141 9.3 48 A320, A321 -700/-800/-900 A380, A330-200 A330-200 Long-haul 8.9 A340-300 101 11.2 777-200/-300 63 777-200/-300 MD11, 747-400 747-400 Cargo 5.6 5 6.9 747-400 4 777F Regional ﬂeet Fokker AF: Brit Air, Régional, F70, F100 10.6 Embraer, 133 10.5 48 CityJet, VLM EMB190 Bombardier KLM: Cityhopper Other ﬂeet 737-700/-800 AF: Transavia France 767-300 5.1 737-800 9 10.7 41 KLM: transavia.com, 747-200/-400 Martinair MD11 64 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 GLOBAL COMPACT ON COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Air France-KLM established a Corporate Social Responsibility Statement which covers the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Below an overview of where the information is located in the report regarding these principles and where additional information can be found. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE PAGES EXTRA INFORMATION AVAILABLE OUTSIDE THE CSR REPORT SOURCE Human Rights (1 & 2) 13, 20, 51-53 Air France-KLM Social Rights and Ethics Charter In-house documents, Air France website: Contract clause on labour protection, and Sustainability http://corporate.airfrance.com/en/sustainableCharter for suppliers development KLM website: www.klm.com/csr Labour Law (3, 4, 5 & 6) 46-53 Air France: Charters for the prevention of harassment In-house documents, Air France at the workplace, for Occupational Safety and Accident and KLM websites prevention, Agreement on psychological and social risks Air France-KLM Reference Document KLM: preamble of the Collective Labor Agreement, 2010-11 (pages 74-81) Occupational Health & Safety Policy Statement Environment (7, 8 & 9) 22-37 Code for Good Environmental Practices (GEP) In-house documents, Air France Environmental protection clause for suppliers and KLM websites Air France-KLM Reference Document 2010-11 (pages 92-101) Fight against Corruption 16-17, 20 Air France-KLM Financial Code of Ethics In-house documents, Air France Code of Ethics to be signed by Air France and KLM websites and KLM buyers Air France-KLM Reference Document Whistle blower procedures 2010-11 (pages 15-16) KLM Code of Conduct GRI CORRESPONDENCE TABLE GRI 3 principles and recommendations were taken into account for the writing of this report. GRI has performed the Application Level Check to show to which extent the GRI guidelines have been utilized in the report. The check conﬁrmed the A Level. The complete GRI indicators table can be found on the Air France and KLM websites: www.klm.com/csr and http://corporate.airfrance.com/en/sustainable-development. GRI PRINCIPLES Governance, Commitments Environmental performance Human Rights performance Economic performance Social; Labor Practices & Product reponsibility Strategy and Analysis Pages Organizational profile Society performance Sector supplement Report Parameters Main chapters of the report of the report and Engagement indicators indicators Decent work indicators indicators performance indicators indicators Key Figures & Content 2-3 ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ Foreword 4-5 ✗ Challenging dynamics in the air transport industry 6-11 ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ Our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 12-21 ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ Combating climate change 22-29 ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ Minimizing our environmental impacts 30-37 ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ Building a sustainable relationship with our 38-45 ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ customers Promoting a responsible human resources policy 46-53 ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ Contributing to local developement 54-61 ✗ ✗ ✗ Annexes 61-71 ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ Annexes 65 NOTE ON THE METHODOLOGY FOR THE REPORTING OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS In 2005-06, under the aegis of the Air France-KLM Group’s have a significant impact on the data, comparison with the figures • Consumption of other energies Disclosure Committee, and validated by the college of Statutory for previous years is not relevant. Only the energy consumption for heating and cooling was published in Auditors, the Group’s environmental performance indicators were 3.1/ Air operations previous years. To be as exhaustive as possible, a new indicator was defined in order to comply with the requirements of the French • CO2 emissions reported in 2010, including the different sources of energy consumed: New Economic Regulations law (Les Nouvelles Régulations The decrease for the Group between 2009 and 2010 is proportional Natural gas for heating buildings and cooking (catering activity Économiques, NRE, May 15, 2001) and the European Regulation to the decrease in Jet Fuel consumption which is a consequence in particular). The conversion factor of the quantity of gas used (EC 809/2004). of the unfavorable economic context and the lower level of activity, as energy is calculated by taking into account the quality of gas As of the 2007-08 financial year, the Group chose to have a as in 2009. specific to France and the Netherlands. The consumption of gas selection of environmental indicators (indicated by the symbols √ Note that the increase for the KLM Group relates to the inclusion increased by 25% between 2009 and 2010 for the Air France and √ √) verified by one of the Statutory Auditors, KPMG Audit, of the Transavia and Martinair subsidiaries in the 2010 emissions. Group, due to the cold winter and the inclusion of the Le Bourget with the highest level of assurance, reasonable assurance1, for fuel Note that there are differences between the scope of the CO2 entity for the first time in 2010. consumption and related CO2 emissions for air operations (√ √) emissions and those of the European Trading Scheme for Superheated and iced water for climate comfort. For Air France, and a limited level of assurance1 for the other verified indicators (√). greenhouse emission quotas (EU-ETS), which do not enable a superheated and iced water is supplied by ADP (Aéroports de comparison. Paris) at the Orly and Roissy sites and is used, respectively, for 1/ Scope • SO2 emissions heating and cooling. KLM is not concerned. Scope covered and scope N-1 The calculation is based on the sulphur content of the fuel loaded, Jet fuel A1 for testing engines. For the air operations, the scope is identical to last year and on the Amsterdam and Paris platforms, which is applied to all fuel Domestic Fuel Oil (DFO) for power generators and ground support covers: used during the year by KLM and Air France respectively. equipment. All the commercial flights operated by Air France and its The decrease in SO2 emissions for the Group between 2009 and Petrol and diesel fuel for vehicles and coaches as well as for subsidiaries Britair, Régional and CityJet. The flights operated by 2010 is mainly due to a lower average sulphur content in the fuel ground support equipment. Transavia France have been excluded; supplied in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase between 2009 and 2010 is mainly due to the inclusion All the commercial flights operated by KLM and its subsidiary • NOX and HC emissions of these energy sources. KLM Cityhopper (KLC). In 2010, flights operated by subsidiaries Total Emissions For now, the indicator for KLM Group only includes energy Transavia and Martinair have been included in the indicators Air France: In 2009, a specific tool was developed to calculate the consumption for heating and cooling but the scope of this indicator of total fuel consumed, and for CO2 and SO2 air emissions, emissions of NOx and HC more precisely. will be expanded in future to include other sources of energy in line excluding low altitude emissions. Only emissions for Air France have been reported; the subsidiaries, with the new definition. For the ground operations, the consolidation scope for the included in the previous tool in 2008, will be included in the new • Emissions from ground operations (CO2, SO2 and NOX) environmental reporting includes: tool in future. CO2, SO2 and NOx emissions and their trends are relative to the All the entities of Air France and KLM located, respectively, in The calculation methodology is based on the fuel flow 2 methodoenergy consumption listed above. France and The Netherlands. The international outstations are not logy by Boeing2. For more than 75% of the flights, recorded data has For Air France, the sharp decrease in SO2 emissions is due to a taken into account; been used to calculate emissions specific to each flight. Emissions more precise calculation of the fuel consumed in power generators. The Air France consolidated subsidiaries are Brit Air, Regional, for other flights were estimated from the calculated average flight NOx emissions related to engine testing are based on a similar CRMA, Sodexi, Servair and its subsidiaries (only the activities emissions. For these flights, a less precise estimation method was methodology as the one used for flight operations and reflects the in France). VLM, Bluelink, Transavia France and CityJet are not used in 2010 than in 2009. However, the impact on the published actual testing conditions. included in the consolidation scope. data is not significant. • VOC Emissions Moreover, for Air France, indicators in the domestic outstations The A380 and B777-300 leisure aircraft, which represent less than VOC Emissions are calculated based on the direct emissions of are not reported when the fixed charges invoiced by airports do 0.5% of the Air France flights, are not currently taken into account solvents contained in the products used; VOC contained in removal not provide detailed information. The contribution of the domestic in the tool. waste are excluded. outstations affected by this issue is, however, marginal compared KLM: Two distinct methodologies are applied to calculate NOx and For Air France, the reporting scope has been extended to include with the published data. HC emissions depending on the aircraft: the fuel flow methodology third-party orders as well as paint kits. The increase between 2009 Concerning the Air France Group, the reporting scope is based on and the P3T3 methodology developed by General Electric. In and 2010 is mainly due to a more precise estimation methodology worldwide premises representing 88% of the Group. previous years, KLM also reported jettisoned fuel in the HC to calculate the VOC contained in waste. The KLM consolidated subsidiaries are KLC (KLM CityHopper), emissions. With the increased harmonization of the Air France and • HC Emissions KES (KLM Equipment Services), KCS (KLM Catering Services) KLM definitions, the 2008 and 2009 figures for HC emissions now Hydrocarbon (HC) emissions include the emissions from vehicles and KHS (KLM Health Services). Transavia (NL) and Martinair exclude fuel jettison. and ground support equipment, engine testing and aircraft fuelling. have been excluded from the KLM reporting scope for most of Low altitude Emissions • Hazardous Industrial Waste the indicators. The methodology used for the calculation of low altitude emissions The quantity of hazardous waste which has not been communicated The reporting period for the Group’s environmental data is based is based on the LTO (Landing-Takeoff) cycle and on engine data by service providers at the end of the reporting campaign is not on the calendar year to ensure consistency with national figures communicated by the ICAO3. Taxiing time taken into account is the taken into account. This is, however, estimated to be marginal. for greenhouse gas emissions and French law, unlike financial actual taxiing time, which is more precise than standard values The nature of recycled hazardous waste is determined based on reporting which is based on the IATA year (April 1 to March 31). recommended by the ICAO methodology. European standards. • In-flight fuel jettison For Air France, the rate of recycling of hazardous waste in 2009 2/ Reporting tools An exceptional operation (approximately one flight in 10,000 in has been updated due to a correction in a figure from a subsidiary. The environmental indicators are assembled at local level via 2010) involving the jettisoning of a quantity of fuel in flight to avoid For KLM, the percentage mentioned reflects hazardous waste two reporting tools: Osyris (Enablon software) for Air France an overloaded plane on landing whenever a flight is aborted. Each that has been recovered for continued use of the substances. The and CaeSaR for KLM, which are available respectively at each operation is effected in close coordination with air traffic control sharp increase between 2009 and 2010 is due to a waste stream Air France and KLM subsidiary. under strict conditions governing geographical location (avoiding following an incident when extinguisher water was identified as The reliability of the reporting process is supported by definitions urban zones) and altitude (generally at or above 2,000 meters). hazardous by the waste contractor. of each indicator and user guides for contributors available • Total noise energy • Effluents in both French and English. Consistency tests have also been This indicator was implemented by the Air France-KLM Group to Both Air France and KLM entities are required to comply with the implemented. manage the evolution in the noise footprint of its activity. The total regulations on effluents in each country. Each site has regulatory The consolidation of the Air France-KLM Group’s environmental noise energy indicator is calculated according to the methodology limits on effluents and the frequency of measurement. data is carried out by the Air France sustainable development defined by the DGAC4. It applies to all flights with the AF or KLM Given the different thresholds and frequencies of measurement department. commercial code operated, franchised and chartered, code share between one site or country and another, and due to the very excepted. variable readings depending on the measurement, the definition of 3/ Details and methodology, comments on variations The figures are determined by comparing total noise energy the indicators has been modified. Since 2009, the number of times At Air France-KLM Group level, the regulatory requirements calculated for the calendar year with that of 2000. The KLM figures regulatory thresholds were exceeded relative to the number of and the reporting and consolidation principles are outlined in a for 2008 and 2009 have been updated following a correction in the measurements has been taken into account for each type of effluent. document entitled the Instruction Memo Environment, which is calculation of the Global noise energy indicator. For 2010, the results, expressed in terms of the number of times updated annually. The assembly of data, calculation methodologies regulatory limits are exceeded as a proportion of measurements and operational consolidation are defined in procedures which are 3.2/ Ground operations were, respectively: specific to Air France and KLM, but which are harmonized, insofar • Water consumption For Air France, 0/10 for Nitrogen compounds, 0/100 for Phosphorus as local regulations permit. The consumption of water is taken into account for all ground compounds and 0/692 for metals. Within the framework of an approach based on continuous activities. Water used on board flights is not included. In previous For KLM, 0/52 for Nitrogen compounds, 0/52 for Phosphorus improvement, the methodologies used for certain performance years, KLM included part of the water taken onboard but this was compounds and 0/364 for metals. indicators have been more precisely defined. When these changes excluded in 2010. Note that the metals reported are Cr, Cd, Ni, Cu, Pb, Sn and Zn. 1 The review work was conducted in accordance with the International Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000), specific to extra-financial data verification. 2 Baughcum, S. L., et al. ‘Scheduled Civil Aircraft Emissions Inventories for 1992: Database Development and Analaysis, Appendix D: Boeing Method 2 Fuel Flow Methodology Description.’ Report NASA CR 4700, The Boeing Company, April 1996. 3 International Civil Aviation Organization. 4 Direction Générale de l’Aviation Civile. 66 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS Air Operations Air France KLM Group Air France Group (1) KLM Group (2) Unit 2008 2009 2010 10/09 2008 2009 2010 10/09 2008 2009 2010 10/09 Consumptions Consumption of raw materials: fuel √ √ 000 tonnes 8,732 8,021 8,534 6.4% 5,511 5,036 4,860 -3.5% 3,221 2,985 3,674 23.1% Emissions Greenhouse gas CO 2 √ √ 000 tonnes 27,506 25,269 26,879 6.4% 17,360 15,865 15,308 -3.5% 10,146 9,404 11,571 23.0% emissions NO X √ 000 tonnes 143.5 130.8 130.5 -0.2% 93.6 82.3 82.0 -0.4% 49.9 48.5 48.5 0.0% Emissions of substances NO X low altitude 000 tonnes 8.9 8.9 8.7 -2.2% 6.5 6.2 6.1 -1.6% 2.4 2.7 2.6 -3.7% contributing (< 3,000 ft) √ to acidification SO 2 √ 000 tonnes 14.925 12.902 10.158 -21.3% 10.108 7.720 6.551 -15.1% 4.817 5.182 3.607 -30.4% and eutrophication SO 2 low altitude 000 tonnes 1.084 1.089 0.712 -34.6% 0.794 0.741 0.521 -29.7% 0.290 0.348 0.191 -45.1% (< 3,000 ft) √ Occurences of fuel jettison √ number 47 51 39 -23.5% 32 33 27 -18.2% 15 18 12 -33.3% In-flight fuel jettison Fuel jettisoned √ tonnes 1,804 1,979 1,671 -15.6% 1,184 1,381 1,180 -14.6% 620 595 491 -17.5% HC √ 000 tonnes 2.8 3.6 3.3 -8.3% 1.6 2.6 2.4 -7.7% 1.2 (3) 1.0 (3) 0.9 -10.0% Other emissions HC low altitude 000 tonnes 1.1 1.0 0.8 -20.0% 0.8 0.7 0.6 -14.3% 0.3 0.3 0.2 -33.3% (< 3,000 ft) √ Noise impact Global noise energy indicator √ 1012 kJ 1.87 1.74 1.65 -5.2% 1.27 1.18 1.10 -6.8% 0.60 (4) 0.56 (4) 0.55 -1.8% √: Figures verified by KPMG for 2010 (limited level of assurance). (1) Perimeter Air France Group: all flights under AF code operated by Air France, Brit Air, Régional and CityJet. Flights operated by Transavia France are excluded. √ √: Figures verified by KPMG for 2010 (reasonable level of assurance). (2) Perimeter KLM Group: all flights operated by KLM and KLM Cityhopper. Transavia and Martinair are excluded for HC and NOx emissions. They are included for the first time in 2010 for fuel consumption, CO2 and SO2 emissions (exception of low altitude emissions). (3) The figures have been updated to enable some comparison between Air France and KLM (fuel jettisoned excluded in this category). (4) The figures have been updated due to a mistake found in the Noise Energy calculation module. Ground operations Air France KLM Group Air France Group (1) KLM Group (2) Unit 2008 2009 2010 10/09 2008 2009 2010 10/09 2008 2009 2010 10 / 09 Consumptions Water consumption √ 000 m3 1,145 979 951 -2.9% 865 742 749 0.9% 281 237 202 (3) -14.8% Electricity consumption √ MWh 417,990 421,581 416,149 -1.3% 320,991 327,094 321,818 -1.6% 97,000 94,487 94,331 -0.2% Other energies consumption (4) √ MWh 336,761 327,150 470,552 N.C. 242,782 232,172 367,748 N.C. 93,979 94,978 102,804 8.2% Emissions Greenhouse gas emissions CO 2 √ tonnes 89,833 84,290 92,569 9.8% 43,357 37,396 47,850 28.0% 46,476 46,894 44,719 -4.6% Emissions of substances Emissions of volatile tonnes 142 127 167 31.5% 92 85 132 55.3% 50 42 35 -16.7% contributing organic compounds √ to photochemical pollution Emissions of HC tonnes N.A. 166 161 -3.0% N.A. 112 106 -5.4% N.A. 54 55 1.9% Emissions of substances NO X √ tonnes 889 917 879 -4.1% 610 639 605 -5.3% 279 278 274 -1.4% contributing to acidification and eutrophication SO2 √ tonnes 26.5 18.7 13.2 -29.4% 21.2 13.2 9.8 -25.8% 5.3 5.5 3.3 -40.0% Waste Quantity of non-hazardous tonnes 61,054 61,067 58,756 -3.8% 43,237 42,664 42,309 -0.8% 17,817 18,403 16,447 -10.6% industrial waste √ Quantity of hazardous Waste production tonnes 6,084 5,961 5,914 -0.8% 5,006 4,839 4,569 -5.6% 1,078 1,122 1,345 19.9% industrial waste √ % of hazardous industrial % 48% 45% (5) 47% 2 pp 40% 36% (5) 36% 0 pp 84% 84% 84% 0 pp waste recovered √ Effluents Nitrogen compounds √ % 7,030 (6) 93% 100% +7 pp 6,890 (6) 90% 100% +10 pp 140 (6) 96% 100% +4 pp Compliance rate of effluents Phosphorus compounds √ % 1,659 (6) 100% 100% 0 pp 1,658 (6) 100% 100% 0 pp 1.24 (6) 100% 100% 0 pp with regulatory limits Metals (7) √ % 144 (6) 99% 100% +1 pp 141(6) 99% 100% +1 pp 2.9 (6) 100% 100% 0 pp √:Figures verified by KPMG for 2010 (limited level of assurance). (4) In 2008 and 2009, were inculded energy consumptions for cooling and heating: natural gas, fuel oil, iced water and N.A.: not available. superheated water. In 2010, Air France Group reports also natural gas and fuel oil other than for heating and cooling, N.C.: not comparable. gasoline and diesel for vehicles and ground support equipments, and jet A1 for testing engines. KLM Group remains on (1) Air France and subsidiaries: Régional, Brit Air, Servair and its subsidiaries (France only), Sodexi and CRMA. CityJet, scope 2008-2009. Blue Link, VLM and Transavia France are not included. (5) The data was updated as a result of adjustments made to a subsidiary. (2) KLM and its subsidiaries: KLM CityHopper (KLC), KLM Equipment Services (KES), KLM Catering Services (KCS) and KLM (6) Quantities discharged in effluents in kg. Health Services (KHS). Transavia and Martinair are partially included. (7) Cr, Cd, Ni, Cu, Pb, Sn and Zn. (3) Water consumption KLM included onboard drinking water in previous years. This has now been excluded. Annexes 67 NOTE ON THE METHODOLOGY FOR THE REPORTING OF THE SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS In 2005-06, under the aegis of the Disclosure Committee, and Note 2: Expatriate staff is included in the total number of employees. number of hours of exposure to occupational risks within the validated by the college of Statutory Auditors, the Air France-KLM The number of Air France-KLM Group employees fell by -2.3%, the framework of their activity on the ground and in flight. Group’s social performance indicators were defined in order to comply result of all the measures taken in response to the economic crisis The increase in the frequency and severity rates between 2009 and with the requirements of the French New Economic Regulations law such as the hiring freeze or the review of posts to establish whether 2010 is mostly explained by the change in reporting methodology for (Les Nouvelles Régulations Économiques, NRE, May 15, 2001) and or not replacements would be appointed in the event of departures. the hours worked by ground staff (theoretical hours worked in 2009 the European Regulation (EC 800/2004). A voluntary redundancy plan for Air France ground staff was also versus paid hours worked in 2010). Since the 2007-08 financial year, the Group has chosen to have a deployed across the French scope. KLM and KLM subsidiaries: The frequency and severity rates are number of its principal social indicators verified by one of the Statutory The number of KLM employees declined in 2010 given the ongoing calculated based on the theoretical hours worked. Auditors, KPMG Audit. These indicators are shown by the symbol √ measures aimed at freezing recruitment. There were no new hires KLM subsidiaries: Note 3: Linked to the lack of homogeneity in the in the tables on page 69. They are the subject of verification with a to fill the posts falling vacant due to retirement departures or process for monitoring the data, the health and safety data of the limited1 level of assurance. resignations, unless required for reasons of departmental continuity. KLM subsidiaries are calculated without the Cobalt Ground Solutions In certain cases, permanent contracts were offered to employees subsidiary. 1/ Reporting scope having reached the end of a second short-term contract within KLM. • Training The Air France-KLM Group’s social reporting consolidation scope is Note 3: Employees on permanent contracts are calculated excluding Air France and Air France subsidiaries: based on the number of employees (expressed as headcount) on the expatriate staff. Note 3: The Percentage of payroll devoted to training indicator payroll at the end of the calendar year. • Recruitment on permanent contracts corresponds to the overall costs linked to professional training (payroll The NRE reporting scope covers 96% of the average employees in The indicator concerns only employees hired on permanent contracts relating to staff immobilized by training, fixed functioning costs, the Air France-KLM Group at the end of the calendar year, expressed (CDI). external costs, accommodation, mandatory payments, etc.) over the in full-time equivalent. For Air France, the calculation of the number of employees recruited total payroll. These estimated costs are reported in the 2483 French The subsidiaries of Air France and KLM over which the Group has on permanent contracts includes those initially recruited on a fixedRegulatory Declaration relating to company contributions to training. at least 50% control, whose acquisition dates back at least one full term contract transferring to a permanent contract during the year. The Number of training hours by employee and Participation year and which have at least 300 employees are included in this NRE For KLM, only employees recruited directly on a permanent contract rate indicators are calculated based on all the training sessions, social reporting scope. are taken into account. independently of whether or not their nature requires them to be Note that the number of employees for Air France and KLM comprises • Recruitment on fixed-term contracts included in the 2483 French Regulatory Declaration. their entire workforce including staff employed internationally. This indicator was added to the reporting in 2010. At KLM, some In 2010, following the hiring freeze, the reduction in the number of The number of employees for the subsidiaries of Air France and KLM of the recruitment on fixed-term was justified by the fact that, in employees and the optimization of the training offer, the need for comprise only all their employees located respectively in France and certain cases, the occupancy of the post was vital but the financial internal training was reduced. the Netherlands, with the exception of CityJet and VLM all of whose situation did not enable the company to guarantee employment on The number of ground staff transferring to cabin crew positions also employees are included. a permanent contract. declined (200 hours of training per transfer). For 2010, the Air France consolidated subsidiaries are: BlueLink, • Departures For flight deck crew, each change of aircraft type involves specific Brit Air, CityJet, VLM, CRMA, Régional, Servair Group (ACNA, Bruno Note 4: The other leavings indicator has been added for the 2010 training. The fall in recruitment and internal mobility led to a reduction Pegorier, OAT, Servair SA, CPA, Passerelle and Base Handling), reporting and notably includes expected retirement departures, the in new aircraft qualifications meaning a significant fall in training Sodexi and Transavia France, representing 76% of the employees non-renewal of contracts during the trial period and departures linked hours. of the subsidiaries in the Air France Group (average employees in to the voluntary redundancy plan. Due to an increase in the level of activity in production centers such as full time equivalent). For Air France, a significant number of departures for other reasons call centers linked to a several instances of major operating disruption In 2010, this scope was extended to two new subsidiaries: Base is linked to the voluntary redundancy plan for ground staff across (volcanic eruption in April 2010, heavy snowfall in December 2010; Handling and Passerelle (in the Servair Group). the French scope. etc.) some of the training foreseen in the training plan was unable For 2010, the KLM consolidated subsidiaries are: Cygnific, Cobalt For KLM, the employment situation looks to be stabilizing given the to be carried out. Ground Solutions, KLM UK Engineering limited, KLM Cityhopper economic environment and the specific situation of air transport. Note 5: the data for the Air France subsidiaries have been calculated (UK and B.V.), Transavia, KLM Catering Services Schiphol B.V. and • Percentage of women Organization of working time without Transavia France. Martinair, representing 93% of the employees in the subsidiaries of Note 5: The indicators linked with the proportion of women and the KLM and KLM subsidiaries: KLM does not currently have a the KLM Group (average employees in full time equivalent). organization of working time are including both permanent and fixedcentralized reporting system solely for the costs of training in KLM In 2010, the reporting scope of the KLM subsidiaries was term contracts at December 31 of the reference year. and its subsidiaries although this indicator is now reported. Note that changed with the withdrawal of two subsidiaries, KES (KLM 3.2/ Other social data tables the disclosure of this information is not required by Dutch law. Equipment Services) and KHS (KLM Health Services) due to the The indicators reported in the other social data tables are subject Note 4: KLM and its subsidiaries have reported data on the costs fall in the number of employees in these subsidiaries to below the to different qualification and legal reporting obligations in relating to professional training since 2009. This year, the Percentage 300 threshold required for the reporting of the NRE social data. France and the Netherlands, which means they are not comparable of total payroll devoted to training indicator has been added to the The reporting period for the Group’s social data is based on the and need to be presented separately for Air France and KLM. The training indicators reported. calendar year to ensure consistency with the social performance subsidiaries concerned in these tables are listed in the reporting Over 2010 as a whole, the cost of vocational training increased, indicators of other French companies. Note that the reporting of scope section above. showing that KLM has not sought to save money in this area. financial information is based on the IATA year (April 1 to March 31). • Health and safety in the workplace Absenteeism • Number of disabled employees Cases of barometric otitis and musculoskeletal disorders are recorded Air France and Air France subsidiaries: For Air France, the number 2/ Reporting tools as work-related accidents in France and represent much of the workof disabled employees reported corresponds to those for whom a valid The indicators are compiled and consolidated using the Osyris related accidents reported by Air France in 2010, whereas they are certificate, pursuant to French law (DOETH ), is available, whatever software package developed by the company Enablon and deployed recorded as sick leave by KLM, pursuant to Dutch law. their ability to perform the tasks involved in their position. Note that across the entire reporting scope. The reliability of the reporting Air France: The absenteeism rates are calculated on the basis of the data for international employees is reported based on local process is supported by precise definitions of each indicator and user a ratio of the hours of absence divided by the hours theoretically legislation. guides for contributors to the Osyris tool, available in both French and worked. Note 4: For Air France: the increase in the number of employees with English. Consistency tests have also been incorporated within the tool. Note 1: The increase in the rate of absenteeism is mostly linked to disabilities and the disabled employment rate at Air France is notably The data is verified and approved locally at the level of each subsidiary a more detailed calculation of the hours worked by flight crew from explained by significantly higher recourse to the protected sector. by a local verifier who is responsible for the HR statistical data. which, as of 2010, have been deduced the statutory holidays. The number of employees with disabilities remained stable despite This system is supplemented by a general reporting procedure which KLM: the retirement departures; thirty employees were recruited despite defines the process for compiling, calculating and consolidating the Note 1: The calculation was changed in 2010 in order to come into the external hiring freeze in application of the 2009-11 three-year indicators, based on an instruction memorandum circulated by the line with that of the government body responsible for recording the agreement. Air France-KLM Group’s Finance Division. national rate of absenteeism (Centraal Bureau voor de Statistiek) and Note that the number of employees with disabilities corresponds to the The consolidation of the Air France-KLM Group’s social data is carried includes the monitoring procedures to protect the quality of recorded number of permanent and fixed-term contracts signed during the year; out by Air France’s Sustainable Development department. data, which led to a slight increase in the rate of absenteeism. an employee recruited on a fixed-term contract who then transfers to a A calculation error was also noticed in the rate of absenteeism in the permanent contract during the year will be reported twice. 3/ Details and methodology Commentary on changes in previous years: the data prior to 2010 should be around 17% higher Note 6: For the Air France subsidiaries: The increase in the number the indicators than the reported figures. of employees with disabilities in the subsidiaries is explained by the The notes below refer to the references in the tables on page 69. • Health and safety work-related accidents increase in the reporting scope and by a pro-active policy on the hiring 3.1/ Consolidated NRE social data for the Air France-KLM There are significant differences in reporting methods for work-related of persons with disabilities, particularly at the Servair Group which has Group table accidents between France and the Netherlands (see paragraph on signed a specific agreement in this regard. This table presents the indicators relating to employees, recruitment, absenteeism). KLM and KLM subsidiaries: For KLM, an individual is considered departures, the proportion of women employees and those working Air France: Air France’s definition of workplace accidents with days to be disabled if unable to carry out his or her work or any other part time. These indicators are consolidated at the level of the lost is in line with the definition under French law (at least one day of work at an equivalent salary level. This requires the employer and the Air France-KLM Group. absence from work). employee to look for another position with a salary as near as possible • Employees After a significant decline in work-related accidents in recent years, to the previous level and gives the employee the right to get governNote 1: Number of people employed by the Group (expressed as there was an increase in 2010. ment benefits to compensate for the possible difference. headcount) on both permanent (CDI) and fixed-term contracts (CDD) In 2011 the outlook will depend on the results of a major managerial Note 2: Due to a change in Dutch law, the number of disabled at December 31 in the reference year. In 2010, the Group’s reporting initiative including the deployment of a safety in the workplace status employees working for KLM declined between 2009 and 2010. scope was extended to include two new subsidiaries in the Servair report in the management committees, team meetings, briefings and The data for the KLM subsidiaries have been calculated without Group: Base Handling and Passerelle, i.e. 611 FTE employees (Full an action plan based on the sharing of best practices in the prevention Martinair. Time Equivalent). Two KLM subsidiaries were withdrawn from the of work-related accidents. • Collective agreements signed reporting scope due to the fall in the number of employees to below Note 2: The frequency and severity rates are calculated based on: The agreements signed were verified for the first time in 2010. the 300 threshold: KES (KLM Equipment Services) and KHS (KLM or ground staff, the actual paid hours worked; In 2010, KLM signed a protocol covering three new collective Health Services), i.e. 432 FTE employees (Full Time Equivalent). for flight crews, the hours of commitment, corresponding to the agreements which will expire in September 2011. 1 The review work was conducted in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000), specific to the verification of extra-financial data verification. 2 Annual declaration mandatory under French law. 68 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 Consolidated social data for Air France-KLM Group SOCIAL INDICATORS (1) Air France-KLM group Air France group* KLM Group** NRE social data Headcount at 31/12 (permanent contracts Total Air France Group from which Air France Total KL Group from which KL and fixed-term contracts) 2008 2009 2010 10/09 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Scope of NRE social reporting √ 96% 96% 96% 0.0% 95% 95% 100% 100% 99% 98% 100% 100% Total staff √ (2) 110,878 108,367 105,928 -2.3% 72,191 70,722 60,686 58,485 36,176 35,206 28,700 28,383 Ground staff 75,668 73,015 70,747 -3.1% 50,333 48,979 41,333 39,228 22,682 21,768 17,668 17,236 Cabin crew 26,308 26,121 26,144 0.1% 16,290 16,297 15,081 15,083 9,831 9,847 8,325 8,491 Cockpit crew 8,902 9,231 9,037 -2.1% 5,568 5,446 4,272 4,174 3,663 3,591 2,707 2,656 Staff under permanent contract √ (3) 104,601 104,425 102,045 -2.3% 70,342 68,727 59,506 57,336 34,083 33,318 27,700 27,392 Recruitments under permanent contract Ground staff 2,594 1,315 1,202 -9% 819 901 440 453 499 301 169 143 Cabin crew 995 111 124 12% 99 52 99 7 12 72 12 70 Cockpit crew 691 136 57 -58% 133 57 114 37 3 0 3 0 Total √ 4,280 1,562 1,383 -11% 1,051 1,010 653 497 514 373 184 213 Recruitments under limited contract √ N.A. N.A. 3,084 N.A. 2,432 N.A. 623 N.A. 652 N.A. 248 Leavings Ground staff 4,804 6,232 6,826 10% 4,303 5,448 2,665 3,533 1,929 1,378 1,089 765 Cabin crew 1,047 1,435 1,709 19% 737 880 628 678 698 829 189 251 Cockpit crew 355 246 281 14% 181 211 151 168 65 70 50 50 Total leavings √ (4) 6,206 7,913 8,816 11% 5,221 6,539 3,444 4,379 2,692 2,277 1,328 1,066 of which resignations √ 3,011 1,795 1,728 -4% 736 744 534 525 1,059 984 662 439 of which redundancies (incl. Economic) √ 1,208 1,177 662 -44% 631 448 374 263 546 214 89 52 of which retirements √ 1,852 1,644 1,583 -4% 1,286 1,186 1,099 1,132 358 397 326 370 of which deaths √ 135 155 129 -17% 114 95 100 85 41 34 34 27 of which other leavings √ N.A. N.A. 4,714 N.A. 4,066 N.A. 2,374 N.A. 648 N.A. 178 Percentage of women at 31/12 √ (5) 42.9% 42.6% 42.5% -0.1% 43.0% 43.0% 44.4% 44.6% 41.6% 41.6% 42.0% 42.7% Ground staff 37.0% 36.8% 36.4% -1.0% 39.9% 39.6% 40.9% 40.8% 29.9% 29.2% 28.7% 28.8% Cabin crew 72.2% 71.8% 71.9% 0.2% 65.4% 65.5% 64.7% 64.8% 82.3% 82.4% 82.3% 82.7% Cockpit crew 5.5% 5.5% 5.6% 1.3% 6.2% 6.4% 6.7% 6.8% 4.5% 4.4% 4.2% 4.2% Part time employment at 31/12 (5) Percentage of females part-time employees √ 39.9% 42.2% 42.6% 1.0% 32.7% 33.2% 35.2% 35.7% 61.6% 62.0% 64.5% 64.5% Percentage of males part-time employees √ 10.1% 10.3% 10.9% 5.2% 7.0% 7.5% 7.5% 8.0% 16.8% 17.4% 16.7% 17.2% Percentage of part time employees √ 22.9% 23.9% 24.4% 2.2% 18.1% 18.6% 19.8% 20.3% 35.4% 36.0% 36.7% 37.4% √: indicators verified by KPMG for 2010 (limited level of assurance). Other social data for the Group Air France (according to local legislation) N.A.: Not available * Air France Group: Air France and Air France subsidiaries. Air France (100% of the staff headcount, registered and payed)* Air France subsidiaries: Brit Air, BlueLink, CRMA, CityJet, VLM, Régional, Sodexi, Transavia France and Servair Group: Absenteeism (1) 2009 2010 10/09 ACNA, Bruno Pegorier, OAT, Servair SA, CPA, Passerelle, Base Handling. Due to illness ** KLM Group: KLM and KLM subsidiaries. Ground staff √ 2.9% 3.3% 13% KLM subsidiaries: Cygnific, Cobalt Ground Solutions, KLM Cityhopper (UK and BV), Transavia, KLM Catering Services Schipol B.V., KLM UK Engineering Limited and Martinair. Cabin crew √ 4.6% 5.8% 28% Cockpit crew √ 1.8% 2.3% 27% Due to work accidents Ground staff √ 0.5% 0.5% 17% Cabin crew √ 0.7% 0.8% 27% Other data for KLM (according to local legislation) Cockpit crew √ 0.3% 0.2% -28% KLM (100% of the staff headcount, registered and payed)* Maternity leave Absenteeism (1) 2009 2010 10/09 Ground staff √ 0.7% 0.8% 12% Due to illness Cabin crew √ 2.5% 3.5% 42% Ground staff √ 4.9% 6.7% 37% Cockpit crew √ 0.3% 0.4% 32% Cabin crew √ 5.8% 7.1% 22% Health and safety Cockpit crew √ 3.6% 4.0% 11% Total workplace accidents √ 2,388 2,454 3% Maternity leave Number of fatal workplace accidents √ 13 2 -85% Ground staff √ 0.2% 0.3% 40% Frequency rate of workplace accidents √ (2) 26.62 29.14 9% Cabin crew √ 1.5% 1.7% 15% Severity rate of workplace accidents √ (2) 0.95 1.05 11% Cockpit crew √ 0.1% 0.1% 40% Training (3) Health and safety Percentage of total payroll devoted to training √ 8.7% 8.4% -4% Total workplace accidents √ 252 225 -11% Ground staff √ 5.6% 5.6% 0% Number of fatal workplace accidents √ 0 0 0% Cabin crew √ 9.2% 8.8% -4% Frequency rate for workplace accidents √ 5.40 4.90 -9% Cockpit crew √ 15.3% 14.2% -7% Severity rate of workplace accidents √ 0.19 0.24 26% Number of training hours by employee √ 34 31 -10% Disabled staff Ground staff √ 27 25 -6% Total staff with disabilities √ (2) 713 641 -10% Cabin crew √ 37 31 -17% Training (4) Cockpit crew √ 96 82 -15% % of wage bill devoted to training N.A. 3.2% Participation rate (number of agents trained/workforce) √ 92% 90% -2% Total trainingcosts in k t √ 60,847 62,667 3% Ground staff √ 88% 86% -2% Total training costs in t per full time equivalent √ 2,500 2,645 6% Cabin crew √ 100% 100% 0% Collective agreements √ 3 3 Cockpit crew √ 100% 100% 0% * KLM: Data concerns KLM without international staff. Disabled staff (4) Total staff with disabilities √ 1,447 1,602 11% KLM Subsidiaries Ratio of disabled staff (under French law) √ 3.58% 3.92% 9% 2009 2010 10/09 Total staff with disabilities recruited during year √ 7 30 329% Scope of reporting for KLM subsidiaries 97% 93% -4% Collective agreements √ 16 19 Health and safety (3) * Data in italics concerns only Air France in Continental France and the French overseas territories. Total workplace accidents √ 149 199 34% Number of fatal workplace accidents √ 0 0 0% Subsidiaries Air France Frequency rate for workplace accidents √ 10.34 27.64 167% 2009 2010 10/09 Severity rate of workplace accidents √ 0.16 0.19 19% Scope of reporting for Air France subsidiaries 73% 76% 4% Disabled staff Health and safety Total staff with disabilities √ (2) 76 66 -13% Total workplace accidents √ 931 944 1% Training (4) Training (3) (5) % of wage bill devoted to training N.A. 4.2% Participation rate (number of agents trained/workforce) √ 90% 96% 7% Total training costs in k t √ 18,054 22,584 25% Ground staff √ 88% 96% 9% Total training costs in t per full time equivalent √ 2,143 2,782 30% Cabin crew √ 92% 97% 5% Collective agreements √ 6 11 Cockpit crew √ 99% 98% -1% √ : indicators verified by KPMG for 2010 (limited level of assurance). Number of training hours by employee √ 25 24 -2% N.A.: not available. Ground staff √ 19 19 0% Cabin crew √ 30 31 3% Cockpit crew √ 60 55 -8% Disabled staff (6) Total staff with disabilities √ 385 434 13% Total staff with disabilities recruited during year √ 38 47 24% Collective agreements √ 35 25 Annexes 69 ONE OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON A SELECTION OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL INDICATORS OF AIR FRANCE-KLM GROUP FOR YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010 As requested and in our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Air France-KLM extensive speciﬁcally concerning tests on spot check basis and enables us Group, we performed a review in the aim of providing: to provide a reasonable level of assurance. • A limited level of assurance on a selection of environmental and social We were assisted in our work by the Environment and Sustainable indicators for the year ended December 31, 2010 selected by Air FranceDevelopment professionals of our ﬁrm. KLM Group and identiﬁed by the symbol √. Comments on the Group’s reporting Protocol and implementation • A reasonable level of assurance on the indicators ‘fuel consumption’ and ‘CO2 emissions’ related to air operations for the year ended December Based on the work performed, the following comments were made on the 31, 2010, identiﬁed by the symbol √ √. reporting Protocol and its implementation: This selection of indicators (‘the Data’) is presented in the tables • Due to differences between legislative frameworks, the deﬁnitions of ‘environmental indicators’ and ‘social indicators’ of the ‘2010-11 Reference some social indicators are different between Air France and KLM. The Document’ and the ‘2010-11 Corporate Social Responsibility Report’ of ﬁgures are disclosed separately and cannot be compared. Air France-KLM Group. • The internal control system has been improved at Air France Data These Data were prepared under the responsibility of the Air France-KLM consolidation level, due in particular to more consistency checks being Group’s Environment and Sustainable Development division in accordance performed, but needs to be strengthened at the level of: with the internal performance reporting procedures, which may be environmental Data consolidation for KLM ground operations; consulted at the Group’s head ofﬁce (‘the Protocol’). The notes on the Data collection and validation for Air France, in particular regarding the methodology for the reporting of the social and environmental indicators, indicators related to industrial waste; provided with the tables ‘environmental indicators’ and ‘social indicators’, Data collection tools for Air France regarding the ‘Volatile Organic speciﬁes Data collection or calculation methodologies used to calculate the Compounds VOC emissions’ and ‘industrial waste’ indicators. indicators published. • The Protocol has been completed, in particular the indicator ‘Consumption Our role is to provide a conclusion on the Data selected based on the work of other energies’ for ground operations has been created and the performed. The conclusions expressed below relate solely to this Data and indicator ‘total payroll devoted to training’ has been broadened to KLM. not to all of the Air France-KLM Group’s ‘2010-11 Reference Document’ However: the deﬁnitions and the scope of the Data collection for some environand the ‘2010-11 Corporate Social Responsibility Report’. mental indicators could be further harmonized between Air France and Nature and scope of the work KLM, in particular for the air operations indicators; We conducted our procedures in accordance with ISAE 3000 standard, in for Air France, the calculation or estimation methodologies of some compliance with applicable professional guidelines in France. indicators (for the indicator ‘Volatile Organic Compounds VOC emissions’ and the indicators related to training in particular) could be speciﬁed in Limited assurance order to justify their relevance and to harmonize the collection processes We conducted the following limited procedures in order to provide limited of the reported Data. assurance that the selected Data identiﬁed by the symbol √ did not contain • The Group continued the formalization of the reporting scope, in particular any material anomalies. A higher level of assurance would have required for Air France, and the extension to its subsidiaries, for instance by more extensive work. integrating the KLM subsidiaries Transavia and Martinair to the scope of • We assessed the reporting Protocol relating to environmental and social some environmental indicators. However, the integration of the signiﬁcant performance indicators with regard to its relevance, reliability, neutrality, subsidiaries to the environmental and social reporting scope should be understandability and completeness. pursued in 2011, in order to ensure that all the Data are reported based • We conducted interviews with the Group’s Environment and Sustainable on a Group scope. Development division in order to update our knowledge of the reporting process and of the organization in place, as well as to ascertain that the Conclusion reporting Protocol had been applied correctly. Limited assurance • We performed tests on the implementation of the Protocol on a sample Based on our work, we did not identify any material anomalies likely to call of entities1 (“the selected Entities”). For the selected Entities, we veriﬁed into question that the examined Data appearing in the tables ‘environmental that the Protocol had been understood and implemented correctly, and indicators’ and ‘social indicators’ of the ‘2010-11 Reference Document’ we performed arithmetic tests, on a sample basis, on the calculation of and the ‘2010-11Corporate Social Responsibility Report’ of Air Francethese Data and reconciliations with supporting documents. KLM group, identiﬁed by the symbol √, have been prepared, in all material • We performed consistency tests on the Data consolidation at Group level. aspects, in accordance with the above-mentioned Protocol. The contribution of the selected Entities to the published Data represents Reasonable assurance an average of 77% for consolidated environmental Data published and In our opinion, the indicators ‘fuel consumption’ and ‘CO2 emissions’ related 68% for consolidated social Data published. to air operations, identiﬁed by the symbol √ √, have been established, in all Reasonable assurance material aspects, in accordance with the above-mentioned Protocol. For the indicators ‘fuel consumption’ and ‘CO2 emissions’ related to air operations, identiﬁed by the symbol √ √, the work performed is more Paris la Défense, May 31, 2011 KPMG Audit Departement of KPMG S.A. Valérie Besson, Partner Michel Piette, Partner 1 Environment: Direction Générale Industrielle Air France (Roissy, Orly et Villeneuve Le Roi), Direction Générale de l’Exploitation Air France (Roissy et Orly), Air France Cargo Roissy, Direction du Siège Air France (Roissy), Servair Group and its subsidiaires (Servair 1, Acna Roissy), CRMA, KLM Schiphol for ground operations. Air France and its subsidiaries CityJet, Brit Air and Régional, KLM and KLM CityHopper for air operations. Social: Air France in France, BlueLink, KLM, Transavia, Martinair. 70 Air France-KLM CSR report 2010-11 INDEX Acting for Life, p. 59 Embark, p. 4-5-14 Non-financial rating agencies, p. 21 Aérotropolis, p. 57 Energy consumption, p. 34 NRE indicators social and AFMAé Environmental Management System environmental, p. 66-70 (CFA des Métiers de l’aérien), p. 57 (SME), p. 15 Observatoire des métiers, p. 49 Aircraft dismantling, p. 36 Equal opportunities, p. 48-52 Offsetting, p. 25-44 Airemploi, p. 57 Ergonomics, p. 50 Pays de Roissy-CDG association, p. 57 Air France-KLM Connect, p. 40-42 EU-ETS, p. 19-24-25 Psychosocial risks, p. 51 Air France Foundation, p. 59 European Union Emissions Trading REACH, p. 21 Airports residents, p. 32-56-57 Scheme (EU-ETS), p. 19-24-25 Recycling, p. 20-36-37-40 Air/rail comodality, p. 19 European White Book Responsible catering, p. 43 Alders table, p. 32-33 on transport policy, p. 19 Responsible products Assistance in case of disruption, p. 43 Fleet, p. 7-26-64 and services, p. 43-44 Aviation Platform, p. 18 Flight safety, p. 9 Safety champions, p. 51 Aviation sans Frontières, p. 58-59 Food safety, p. 43 Safety Management System, p. 9 Balanced approach, p. 32 Fuel consumption, p. 24-25-26 Seniors, p. 52 Biodiversity, p. 29 Fuel Plan, p. 26 Service quality, p. 40-41 Biofuels, p. 19-27 Future-program, p. 50 Shareholders, p. 15-62 BtL, p. 28 Global Reporting Intiative (GRI), p. 15-65 Sheltered employment sector, Business Code, p. 14-17 Governance, p. 14-16 p. 21-52-56-58 Business travel plan, p. 34 GPEC, p. 49 Single European Sky, p. 19-26 CAEP, p. 28 Grand Paris, p. 57 SkyNRG, p. 27 Carbon footprint, p. 26 Grand Roissy, p. 19-32-56 SkyTeam, p. 7-20 Cargo, p. 10-34-35-39-44 Health and safety at workplace, p. 47-49 Social dialogue, p. 46-48 CDA Hubstart, p. 57 Social networks, p. 42 (Continuous descent approach), p. 33 Humanitarian and development Social Rights and Ethics Charter, p. 14-51 CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project), p. 21-25 programmes, p. 59-60 SOLIDAIR, p. 48 CEA, p. 28 IAGOS, p. 28 Solidarity, p. 46-59 Clean Era, p. 28 Innovation, p. 40-42-43 Sponsoring, p. 59 Climate Action Plan, p. 14-23 Internal audit, p. 14-17 Stakeholders, p. 15-62 Climate change, p. 18-22 à 29 Internship, p. 50 Subsidiaries, p. 20-51 CO2 emissions calculator, p. 25 ICAO, p. 24-32 Suppliers, p. 20-21 Consumer health and safety, p. 43 IOSA, p. 9 Supply chain, p. 20 Consumer rights, p. 19 ISO 14001, p. 15 Sustainable alternative fuels, p. 19-27 CORAC, p. 28 ISO 26000, p. 15-20-44 Sustainable Development Charter CSR cafés, p. 53 JEREMY (association), p. 57 for Group suppliers, p. 14 CSR Group statement, p. 14 Job market, p. 49 Trade Unions, p. 49-52 Customer, p. 39 à 45 KLM AirCares, p. 59 Training, p. 47-48 Customers Data protection, p. 42 LGBT, p. 48-52 Training charter, p. 14 Customer expectations, p. 42-43-45 Local development, p. 54 to 61 Transparency benchmark, p. 21 Customer service, p. 43 LOSA, p. 9 United Nations Global Customer surveys, p. 44 Maintenance, p. 10-35-36-39-44 Compact, p. 5-13-20-65 Deforestation, p. 29 Materiality test, p. 15 Voluntary Departure Plan, p. 47-48 Disability, p. 43-48-52 Mobility, p. 48 Waste, p. 36-37 Diversity, p. 47-52 Musculoskeletal disorders, p. 51 Water and soil pollution, p. 35 DJSI, p. 21 Network, p. 7-11 Water consumption, p. 34 Eco-design, p. 30-31-40 New technologies, p. 42 Working conditions, p. 50-51 Electric vehicles, p. 34 Noise, p. 19-30-31-32-33 Workplace accidents, p. 50 List of main abbreviations AEA Association of European Airlines GRI Global Reporting Initiative CCAR Consultative Commission IATA International Air Transport Association for Aid to Local Residents ICAO International Civil Aviation Organization CCE Environmental Advisory Committees NOx Nitrogen oxide CO2 Carbon dioxide QSE Quality, Safety and Environment DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Index Roissy-CDG Roissy-Charles de Gaulle airport ETS Emission Trading Scheme SESAR Single European Sky ATM Research Annexes 71 Design by: BETC EuroRSCG. Cover : Brandimage – Photographs : Air France and KLM photographic librairies, ArnoLam, Cécile Vic/Air France Foundation, Edward Parker/WWF-Canon, Joël Raveloson/ WWF-MWIOPO, Zeger van der Voet/TU Delft, Aviation sans Frontières – Istockphotos. Illlustrations : IDE. Document produced by Air France KLM Royal Dutch Airlines Environment and CSR Division CSR Office 45, Rue de Paris Postbus 7700 95747 Roissy CDG Cedex 1117 ZL Schiphol France The Netherlands This document was printed in France by SIC/Bergame 360, an Imprim’Vert certified printed, on certified FSC paper. For more information please visit: http://corporate.airfrance.com and www.klm.com/csr If you have any questions, you can send an e-mail to: mail.developpementdurable@airfrance.fr and csr@klm.com www.airfranceklm.com www.airfranceklm-finance.com As part of the Group’s CSR approach, this document is printed on environmentally-friendly paper.
