Sulzer Global Compact Communication of Progress 2011 SR Sulzer Sustainability Report QESH Quality, environment, safety, and health ESH Environment, safety, and health Statement of the CEO: Ongoing Commitment Sulzer is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, endorsing its ten universal principles covering human rights, labor, the environment, and anticorruption. Our core values and our Code of Business Conduct commit us to behave ethically in all our business activities and with our partners. We respect the people affected by our operations and comply with all relevant laws. The Sustainability Council on senior management level meets twice a year to review our sustainability performance. The council advises content and implementation of policies, and it identifies focus areas to manage sustainability issues. We collect sustainability data through a company-wide system, which helps us monitor and report our performance. As a board member of the UN Global Compact Swiss Network, we actively strive to further promote the active application of the ten UNGC principles. Ton Büchner, CEO Principles Fulfillment Further Reading in the Sustainability Report (SR Reference to GRI 2009) Index Sulzer Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should The Sulzer Code of Business Conduct contains SR page 11 EC5, LA4, LA6 – 9; support and respect the compliance-related topics, such as matters that LA13 – 14, HR1 – 9, SR page 4 (targeted measures) protection of internationally concern antitrust, corruption, bribery, conflict of SO5, PR1 – 2, PR8 proclaimed human rights; and… interest, international trade restrictions, environment, health and safety, fraud and Principle 2: …make sure that accuracy of records, insider trading, SR page 11 HR1 – 9, SO5 they are not complicit in human T:\cqesh\21 SuSu\2010 SR Online Update\UNCG COP\Global Compact Sulzer rev7_to_CEO.doc rights abuses. employment, and human rights. SR page 4 (targeted measures) Since 2003, all Sulzer employees worldwide sign an agreement in which he or she confirms to adhere to the Sulzer Code of Business Conduct. Certain managers—in particular the members of the Executive Committee, heads of the operational units, and compliance officers—are required to confirm their adherence on an annual basis. In 2010 the Sulzer Code of Business Conduct was revised and is publicly available in 17 http://www.sulzer.com/regulations languages. Due to the revision of the Sulzer Code of Business Conduct all employees received training and took part in an e-learning. Labor Standards Principle 3: Businesses should Sulzer builds on a long tradition of close and Sulzer Code of Business Conduct: LA4 – 5, HR1 – 3, uphold the freedom of trustful cooperation with its social partners. To http://www.sulzer.com/regulations HR5, SO5 association and the effective the extent permitted under the applicable law, recognition of the right to Sulzer respects the freedom of association of collective bargaining;… its employees and their right to collective SR page 20 bargaining within the boundaries of the local law. Representatives of employees are neither favored nor discriminated. Principle 4: …the elimination of Sulzer respects different cultural backgrounds Sulzer Code of Business Conduct: HR1 – 3, HR7, SO5 all forms of forced and and is committed to complying with all http://www.sulzer.com/regulations compulsory labour;… employment and labor laws including those related to the elimination of all forms of forced Principle 5: the effective abolition HR1 – 3, HR6, SO5 and compulsory labor including child labor and of child labour; and… the prohibition against all forms of discrimination in employment under applicable laws. Principle 6: …the elimination of Sulzer offers equal opportunities to all SR page 19 EC7, LA2, LA13 – discrimination in respect of employees regardless of national or ethnic 14, HR1 – 4, SO5 employment and occupation. origin, gender, or other differentiating characteristics. T:\cqesh\21 SuSu\2010 SR Online Update\UNCG COP\Global Compact Sulzer rev7_to_CEO.doc Sulzer defined and introduced the three core values in 2008 and 2009 based on web surveys, focus group discussions, and management workshops. The values include that all people are to be treated with respect. Sulzer launched an employer branding initiative in 2009 to further improve its attractiveness as an employer. The employer brand promotes diversity. In 2010 Sulzer launched a corporate-wide initiative to promote diversity (in particular with regard to gender, culture and demography). For the next three years each division has defined its own key figures with highest priority to increase the number of female employees and the number of managers from emerging markets and, as a second priority, to increase the company’s attractiveness for different generations (boomers, generation XY). In 2011 Sulzer will conduct an employee engagement survey which will deliver valuable insights into employee value propositions around the globe. This will enable to further enhance Sulzer’s strong culture of diversity and inclusion. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should Sulzer is committed to sustainable SR page 23 EC2, EN18, EN26, support a precautionary development and strives to operate without EN30, SO5 approach to environmental eroding the livelihood base of future challenges;… generations. The precautionary approach is part of Sulzer’s policies. Throughout the company, the Code of Business Conduct and the QESH (quality, environment, safety, and health) policy outline Sulzer standards and encourage a higher level of environmental protection than legally required. T:\cqesh\21 SuSu\2010 SR Online Update\UNCG COP\Global Compact Sulzer rev7_to_CEO.doc Principle 8: …undertake Sulzer is committed to sustainable SR page 4 (targeted measures) EN1 – 30, SO5, PR3 initiatives to promote greater development and strives to operate without –4 SR pages 23–25 environmental responsibility; eroding the livelihood base of future and… generations. SR case studies pages 24–25 To ensure common standards at Sulzer SR data section pages 32–33 locations worldwide, Corporate QESH has defined a set of minimal standards above legal compliance and best practices with which all sites must comply. Adequate management systems are essential to improving the environmental performance. The company has set the goal of certifying all production sites according to the ISO 14001 For the status of certification, please refer to: standard by the end of 2010. By the end of http://www.sulzer.com/en/desktopdefault.aspx/tabid2010, 59 sites covering 85% of all employees 3883/ are externally certified according to ISO 14001. All production sites and relevant service sites For general information regarding the assessment: (except one) are certified against ISO 14001 http://www.sulzer.com/en/desktopdefault.aspx/tabidsince 2010; the newly acquired sites at Sulzer 3882/7408_read-19038 Metco and Sulzer Turbo Services are not included in this figure, the integration process is ongoing and the inclusion in the sustainability database and the environmental management system has started. Regular audits ensure that environmental requirements are being met. In 2010, the corporate QESH department conducted around 20 internal ESH audits. A global network of around 200 QESH officers ensures that QESH initiatives are continuously implemented, monitored, and improved. The local QESH officers receive regular training in answering employee questions and in training other employees. Principle 9: …encourage the Sulzer offers sustainable and tailored solutions SR page 17 EN2, EN 5 – 7, EN development and diffusion of for performance-critical applications. They 10, EN 18, EN 26 – SR page 24 T:\cqesh\21 SuSu\2010 SR Online Update\UNCG COP\Global Compact Sulzer rev7_to_CEO.doc environmentally friendly increase the customers’ competitive positions 27, SR case studies pages 14–15, data section pages technologies. by increasing the eco-efficiency of the 32–33 EN30, SO5 equipment and the total cost of ownership. Sulzer conducts studies on an ongoing basis to assess the environmental impact of its solutions. This process often involves close cooperation with customers: life-cycle assessments, environmental product declarations, and carbon dioxide emissions analysis over the entire product life cycle. Sulzer published the first Environmental Product Declarations based on international standards (ISO 14025, International EPD Four EPD’s are published under: Cooperation) and audited by an independent http://www.sulzer.com/epd third party in 2010. They cover the entire lifeand under the webpage of International EPD cycle of products (procurement, production, Consortium (IEC): www.environdec.com and usage) and also include costs and climatehttp://www.environdec.com/Epdrelated data. The EPDs are externally verified Search/?page=2&query=&category=6197 by Atkins Ltd, United Kingdom. Further EPDs Examples of energy-efficient solutions of all Sulzer will be created in 2011. divisions are published under: Sulzer’s energy-efficient solutions create value http://www.sulzer.com/focus with combined economic and ecological Video ”energy-efficient solutions for a sustainable future” advantages for a more sustainable world. can be found under: http://www.sulzer.com/en/desktopdefault.aspx/tabid3265/6217_read-17594/ The Sulzer Technical Review is the customer magazine of the Sulzer corporation. It is published periodically (three times a year) in The Sulzer Technical Review is available under: English and German, as well as annually in Chinese. It informs about the latest www.sulzer.com/str developments, innovations and provides product information. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should The Sulzer Code of Business Conduct contains The Sulzer Code of Business Conduct is available SO2 – 6 work against corruption in all its compliance-related topics, such as antitrust, under: forms, including extortion and corruption, bribery, conflict of interest, and www.sulzer.com/regulations bribery. international trade restrictions (see also T:\cqesh\21 SuSu\2010 SR Online Update\UNCG COP\Global Compact Sulzer rev7_to_CEO.doc principle 1). The Sulzer Code of Business Conduct is publicly available in 17 languages. All new employees conduct an e-learning for the Sulzer Code of Business Conduct. Further specification is given in the Sulzer AntiCorruption and Anti-Bribery Guideline, which is in place since October 2009. In 2010 an elearning for the employees took place and the guideline is part of the face-to-face trainings. To further strengthen the ability of recognizing and fighting any kind of corruption and bribery, a new corporate directive “Intermediaries Due Diligence” came into effect on May 1, 2011. The directive is available in nine languages. An e-learning took place for employees who work with intermediaries. T:\cqesh\21 SuSu\2010 SR Online Update\UNCG COP\Global Compact Sulzer rev7_to_CEO.doc
