Global Responsibility Sustainability Report 2010 On the cover: For Stora Enso, Global Responsibility means working together with all the people around us, everywhere in the world. This photograph was taken at our trial plantations in Laos in October 2010. These farmers grow rice in between the plantation’s eucalyptus trees. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 Stora Enso is a global paper, packaging and wood products company producing newsprint and book paper, magazine paper, fine paper, consumer board, industrial packaging and wood products. The Group has some 26 000 employees and 85 production units worldwide, and is a publicly traded company listed in Helsinki and Stockholm. Our customers include publishers, printing houses and paper merchants, as well as the packaging, joinery and construction industries. Our annual production capacity is 11.8 million tonnes of paper and board, 1.3 billion square metres of corrugated packaging and 6.4 million cubic metres of sawn wood products, including 3.2 million cubic metres of value-added products. Our sales in 2010 were EUR 10.3 billion, with an operating profit excluding non-recurring items and fair valuations of EUR 754.1 million. Contents Sustainability map 2 Targets and performance 4 Message from the CEO 6 Governance and management 8 Stakeholder relations 10 Products 12 People 16 Wood and fibre sources 24 Supply chain and transport 30 Mills and environment 32 Climate and energy 38 Sustainability data by unit 42 GRI table 44 GRI statement 47 Assurance statement 48 The focuses of our work vary according to local conditions and priorities. This map gives an overview of our main sustainability issues in ­different geographical locations. Europe Most of Stora Enso’s production capacity is located in Europe. Minimising the environmental impact of our mills is therefore a top priority in this area. We have especially focused on minimising CO2 emissions, and on responsible water use. Read more about our mills’ environmental work on pages 32–37 and 38–41. Stora Enso sources most of its main raw material, wood, in Northern Europe. Promoting forest certification and sustainable forestry is therefore a vital part of our sustainability work in this region. Read more about how we source our wood and fibre on pages 24–29. As most of Stora Enso’s employees are located in Europe, occupational health and safety (OHS) is another important focus of our work. Read more about our OHS efforts on pages 20–21. As in recent years, we have reduced production capacity in certain locations in Europe during 2010. We have been actively supporting the people and communities affected by job losses. Read more on pages 16–17 and 23. Brazil Stora Enso owns a state-of-the-art pulp mill and large-scale eucalyptus plantations through its join venture Veracel, whose operations are located in Bahía, Northeast Brazil. Stora Enso also runs tree plantations in Rio Grande do Sul and a magazine paper mill at Arapoti, both in the South of Brazil. In the areas around Veracel’s plantations we work to protect local biodiversity by restoring natural Atlantic Rainforest habitats. Stora Enso and Veracel control large areas of land, and to support land reform in Brazil we engage with landless people to find sustainable land use solutions. To help local communities benefit from our presence in the area, we have also initiated tree-farming programmes and other forms of cooperation that promote socio-economic development. Read more on pages 26–28. 2 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 Russia Our operations in Russia consist of wood sourcing and forestry operations, as well as three packaging mills and two sawmills. In Russia we particularily focus on ensuring the legality and acceptability of wood, and on improving occupational health and safety practices. Read more on pages 20–21 and 24–27. Uruguay China Through our joint venture Montes del Plata, Stora Enso Stora Enso owns two paper mills and two core plants in owns large land areas in Uruguay. We have introduced China. We are also establishing tree plantations in Guangxi, plantation forestry in areas previously used for cattle grazSouthern China. Respecting local people’s land use rights ing. We engage with local communities and form partnerand working to prevent land use disputes are important ships with local farmers who earn their livelihoods through parts of our work in connection to these plantations. We wood production, cattle grazing and bee-keeping. Read are actively striving to improve the working and living condimore on pages 17 and 27–28. tions of our contract workers, and to train local contractors to meet our sustainability standards. Read more about our operations in Guangxi on pages 19 and 26–28. Sustainability map 3 Targets and performance Our sustainability targets ensure effective sustainability management. All Stora Enso’s sustainability targets for 2010 and 2011 are listed We report annually on our sustainability performance against these in the table below, with notes on the status of each target and referspecific targets. We also continuously review our sustainability targets ences to the sections of this report where progress towards them is and proactively set new targets where necessary. described in more detail. Targets for 2010 Performance Targets for 2011 Read more People All of our employees to complete the Code of 81% pages 18–19 Conduct training by mid 2010 To conduct a compliance survey for the Code of done pages 18–19 Conduct Zero lost-time accidents (LTA) LTA rate 13.2 Zero lost-time accidents pages 20–21 Attendance rate above 97% 96.2% Attendance rate above 97% pages 20–21 Wood and fibre sourcES To increase the share of certified fibre in our 67% To increase the share of certified fibre in our pages 24–25 wood supply to 69% by 2010 wood supply to 70% by 2012 Supply chain To conduct 5 spot check supplier audits 6 audits conducted To train all Stora Enso purchasing personnel on pages 30–31 managing sustainability in the supply chain Mills and environment Reduce SO2 emissions by 30% by 2013 from -26% Reduce SO2 emissions by 30% by 2013 from pages 32–35 2007 levels 2007 levels Reduce waste to landfill by 5% by 2013 from +51% Reduce waste to landfill by 5% by 2013 from pages 32–35 2007 levels 2007 levels Reduce Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) by -2% Reduce Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) by pages 32–35 10% by 2013 from 2007 levels 10% by 2013 from 2007 levels Reduce process water discharge by 10% by -5% Reduce process water discharge by 10% by pages 32–35 2013 from 2005 levels 2013 from 2005 levels To conduct an in-depth water balance done pages 32–35 assessment during 2010 Climate and energy Reduce Group-level CO2 intensity from pulp, -20% To establish a new CO2 reduction target by the pages 38–41 paper and board mills by 20% by 2020 from end of 2011 2006 levels Increasing trend in power-to-heat ratio of internal 22% pages 38–41 energy production Reduce energy consumption at pulp, paper and done pages 38–41 board mills by between 1% and 2% (depending on the Business Area) from 2009 levels 4 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 External recognition UN Global Compact Carbon Disclosure and Performance Leadership Index Stora Enso supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and Stora Enso was ranked the best Nordic company by the Carbon Disrespects and promotes these principles in its operations. The table closure Project (CDP) for its reporting on carbon emissions, receiving below states the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and where the highest scores in the CDP’s Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index information on how Stora Enso addresses these issues is included (CDLI). Stora Enso was also one of just five companies included in in our report. CDP’s Carbon Performance Leadership Index (CPLI), which focuses on actual reductions in carbon emissions and companies’ commitment to their climate strategies UN Global Compact principles The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an independent non-profit Human Rights Read more organisation backed by over 534 institutional investors with a comPrinciple 1: Businesses should support and pages 18–19 bined USD 64 trillion of assets under management. The CDP gathers respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. information on corporations’ greenhouse gas emissions, climate change related risks and opportunities, and sets standards for carbon Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that pages 18–19 they are not complicit in human rights abuses. disclosure methodology and processes. Labour Standards Dow Jones Sustainability Index Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the pages 18–19 In 2010, Stora Enso was listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index freedom of association and the effective 22–23 recognition of the right to collective (DJSI) for the 10th year running. Stora Enso was ranked the best bargaining. sustainability performer among forestry and paper companies in the Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the pages 18–19 Dow Jones Sustainability Europe Index, and was also included in elimination of all forms of forced and the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. The DJSI assesses the compulsory labour. economic, environmental and social aspects of some of the world’s Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the pages 18–19 largest companies. effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the pages 18–19 FTSE4Good Index elimination of discrimination in respect of 22–23 Stora Enso continued to be included in the FTSE4Good Index Series, employment and occupation. where we have been listed since 2001. The FTSE4Good Index Series Environment has been designed to measure the performance of companies that Principle 7: Businesses should support a pages 16–17 meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards, and to precautionary approach to environmental help investors identify such companies. The index focuses on envichallenges. ronmental management, human and labour rights, supply chain labour Principle 8: Businesses should undertake pages 24–29 standards and efforts to counter bribery. initiatives to promote greater environmental 32–37 responsibility. 38–41 World’s Most Ethical Companies Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the pages 32–37 Stora Enso was named as one of the Ethisphere Institute’s World’s development and diffusion of environmentally 38–41 friendly technologies. Most Ethical Companies for 2010. The World’s Most Ethical Companies are selected by the Ethisphere Institute, which is dedicated to the Anti-Corruption research, creation and sharing of best practices in ethics, compliance, Principle 10: Businesses should work against pages 18–19 and corporate governance. corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Targets and performance 5 Message from the CEO This report has been given the title Global Responsibility for good reason. At Stora Enso we are building a significant part of our future in new growth markets far from our traditional home. This means we face new challenges. We must overcome these challenges to make our future a long-term success, and to ensure we become a welcomed part of local societies and communities. This is why we need to rethink our roles and responsibilities – and build on the good and globally recognised work we have already been doing to protect the environment, enhance social inclusion and create a business model that makes tomorrow better not only for Stora Enso, but for the people and communities around us. One of the highlights of the past year was when out of close to 200 candidates Stora Enso was ranked the best Nordic company in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). We received the highest scores in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index, which recognises companies with the most complete and professional approach to reporting on carbon management. The CDP also ranked Stora Enso as the only company in our industry among the five best performing companies in terms of the actual reduction of our CO2 footprint. This clearly demonstrates that we have embarked on this journey with serious intent, even in the most challenging business environment. I am delighted to note that the target we set in 2006 for a 20% reduction in our CO2 emissions by 2020 has already been achieved. This spirit of making constant improvements with decisive speed and focus is increasingly becoming part of Stora Enso’s DNA. Although we should celebrate every success, we must never accept that things are now good enough – and we must continue to make improvements throughout our journey. Water resources are going to be the next major challenge for our planet. By 2050, when this Spaceship Earth will be home to more than 9 billion people, 50% more than today, the time for action will have passed. We must act now. At Stora Enso we have a significant role to play, not only in terms of our own use of water, but also working together with other stakeholders. As an active member of the World Business Council’s Water Group, we are developing new methodology for measuring water footprints in our industry. We are also building up a firm understanding of our own water balance and how we can improve water management. In the field of social responsibility, Stora Enso is committed to the United Nations Global Compact and its principles on human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. Our efforts are based on these principles, which we are striving to implement in our everyday work. We are proud to be the first company in our industry 6 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 to join the UN Global Compact’s CEO Water Mandate, an initiative in for its plantations. This situation is unacceptable to us. I would like which Stora Enso has already been active for two years. to point out that we had already recognised some of these problems more than a year before the RRI report was published, and One of our most rewarding achievements for 2010 has been that no had already been using significant additional resources in Guangxi to fatal accidents occurred in our operations. We are also gratified that review thousands of local rental agreements. Our better awareness of the attendance rate in 2010 was our highest ever and that the number these problems has enabled us to start working to rectify contracts of occupational health and safety incidents remained stable. Arapoti and ensure that they are based on the free choices of villagers who Mill in Brazil has set a great example for the whole Group by reaching receive fair compensation. two million working hours with zero accidents. This proves what is possible with focus and commitment, and defines a new benchmark The RRI report has nevertheless given us another reminder about the for all of us at Stora Enso. challenges we will face as a pathfinder. This is why we need to be on the ground locally, with our ears, eyes and minds wide open. Rather Mill closures in several countries in Europe have been a difficult reality than setting out to teach others and defend ourselves, we must be for us and our employees over the three past years. In 2010 we closed humble, courageous, and ready to learn and improve. down newsprint production in Varkaus, Finland and in Maxau, Germany. While I am still convinced that these actions to strengthen our competiTo help us deal with such issues in the future, we have now set up tive position have been taken in the interests not only of the company a new Global Responsibility function, particularly aiming to take our and our shareholders, but also of the majority of our employees, I also work on stakeholder dialogues up to the next level. understand that this is of little comfort to the people affected by the lay-offs, many of whom have given years of service to Stora Enso. To The way I see it, dialogues are about being open, and not being support these loyal employees, we have continued to try to find them afraid of tough conversations. Last year we launched a new Global new employment within Stora Enso, or work with the authorities to Responsibility website (www.storaenso.com/globalresponsibility) and provide retraining and outplacement services and financial support to a Facebook page for discussing difficult issues. These sites have enable them to start new careers or businesses. Although not everyreceived enthusiastic feedback, and I am pleased to report that in body has found their new beginning yet, I have been encouraged by December our Global Responsibility web pages were granted the reports from Varkaus that more than half of the people made redundant European Excellence Award 2010 out of more than 1 450 entries. I have now found solutions for their futures. This indicates how effective would like to invite you to take a look at them, and also contribute to collaboration between Stora Enso and the authorities can be – and also our work by telling us what you expect from us. Stora Enso is ready demonstrates the resourcefulness of our employees in the most difficult for straight talk. That is what global responsibility is all about. situations. This is the spirit in which we need to continue our efforts to find solutions for people affected by lay-offs. Let me finish with a positive story before you start looking through our report. This story shows how all of us as consumers can make Have we then been doing a good job in terms of meeting our Global a difference every day. Whenever we buy milk or juice packed in Responsibility? I believe the above examples would give us sufficient recyclable liquid carton board made of renewable fibre, we make a reason to say yes. However, I would reiterate that regardless of such good choice for the planet, since the CO2 emissions related to such positive developments, we must never feel that such achievements packages are 33% lower than for plastic containers. At Stora Enso are good enough. we are now also devising innovative fibre-based food packaging to replace plastic products. Remember this next time you buy your groOne area where we need to continue to improve is highlighted in a ceries – and you can contribute to the well-being of our planet. Such report published in October by the Rights and Resources Initiative stories relevant to our everyday lives encourage us at Stora Enso to (RRI) concerning Stora Enso’s plantations in Guangxi. This report continue our journey building up our global responsibility. I wish you stated that despite Stora Enso’s good intentions and responsibility welcome to join our journey. principles, some local land acquisitions had been made through contracts that endanger local people’s livelihoods and land use rights. These problems are due to the unclearness of the contracts Jouko Karvinen and the unfair distribution of the funds that Stora Enso pays as rent CEO of Stora Enso Message from the CEO 7 Governance and management Our sustainability governance and management practices ensure that • Principles for the Development of Forest Certification we integrate environmental and social responsibility into our daily • Principles for the Implementation of Environmental Management operations. We use a wide range of tools to do this in practice: Systems • sustainability governance • Energy Principles • policies and principles • Transport Environmental Principles • group-level sustainability targets • Principle on Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) • management systems • supply chain management We have also established a Code of Conduct which summarises the • sustainability impact and risk assessments for investment key elements of our policies, principles and guidelines, and provides decisions guidance on what they mean in practice (see page 18). • sustainability reporting and third party assurance Stora Enso has clearly defined its position on vital issues such as Sustainability governance climate change, forest certification, illegal logging and water use. Our In 2010 we expanded our approach to sustainability by forming a sustainability policy, all the principles listed above and the position new corporate function named Global Responsibility (read more on papers are available at: www.storaenso.com/sustainabilitypolicies. page 10). The Stora Enso Group Executive Team (GET) is responsible for all policy issues relating to sustainability. Everyday sustainability Group-level targets issues are handled by Stora Enso’s Global Responsibility function We set group-level sustainability targets to help us efficiently manage together with the Business Areas, which are responsible for the operasustainability performance across our operations. These targets are tional management of sustainability issues. The role of the Global continuously reviewed, and we proactively set new targets where Responsibility function is to develop, support and follow up on Stora necessary. We also report annually on our performance against these Enso’s sustainability strategy, so as to ensure that policies, targets targets. For more information about our sustainability targets and and priorities are duly realised. performance, see page 4. Policies and principles Management systems Stora Enso’s sustainability policy forms the cornerstone of the Group’s Stora Enso’s policies and principles are translated into practice social and environmental work, and is the basis for our sustainability through management systems that help our units to recognise any management. The policy encompasses the three pillars of sustainsustainability issues that need to be addressed. These systems are ability: economic, environmental and social responsibility. used to set targets and schedules, to assign responsibilities, and to follow up on our performance with regard to environmental impacts, To support our sustainability policy, Stora Enso has also established occupational health and safety, product safety and hygiene, as well a set of related p­ rinciples to guide our employees in their everyday as forest and plantation operations. work: • Principles for Social Responsibility Most of these management systems are third-party-certified. This • Principles for Occupational Health and Safety means that an external party has verified that the management sys• Principles for Sustainable Wood and Fibre Procurement and Land tems are in line with a relevant nationally or internationally recognised Management standard. More details of these systems are included in the respective 8 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 Verified reporting in line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sections of this report and a full list of units’ certified management This report follows the sustainability reporting guidelines systems can be found on page 42. defined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) network. The GRI has established a common framework for sustainability Supply chain management reporting, in order to help stakeholders to review and comSuppliers are organisations who provide materials, products or pare the sustainability performance and practices of different services to Stora Enso, including wood, chemicals and other raw companies. materials, as well as contracted services. Our wood suppliers and the whole wood supply chain are covered by regular controls and audits. We believe that following the GRI’s G3 guidelines is the best A detailed description of these processes is given in the wood and way to show our stakeholders that we are doing our best to fibre sourcing section of this report (see pages 24–29). offer transparent and reliable information about our efforts on all the vital aspects of sustainability. For other suppliers and contractors, Stora Enso has set sustainability requirements which are included in purchasing agreements. For a This GRI report has also been verified in detail by an independmore detailed description of sustainability management along the ent third party, the corporate responsibility specialists Tofusupply chain, see pages 30–31. ture. This kind of external verification involves evaluating the relevance of the report’s content with regard to stakeholders’ Responsible investment decisions needs, and fully ensuring the reliability of all the information Stora Enso strives to identify risks related to sustainability in good it contains by checking the reporting process step by step. time, in order to guide decision-making in our investment processes. Tools such as sustainability due diligence and Environmental and Tofuture have paid special attention to Stora Enso’s work on Social Impact Assessments (ESIA) help us to ensure that no unsusstakeholder engagement, our responsiveness on issues of tainable projects are initiated, and that we fully understand all the importance to stakeholders, and the ways vital data has been related risks and opportunities. They also enable us to adapt project collected and consolidated. plans to suit local circumstances. For more details, see pages 16–17. This report meets the GRI application level B+ on a scale of A Sustainability reporting and assurance to C. Level B indicates that the report covers all main reporting Our sustainability reporting is an important tool for managing environareas, but has some room for improvement when it comes to mental and social responsibility issues. We use third party assurance the number of performance indicators disclosed. The plus desto add transparency to our sustainability reporting. We have been ignation signifies that the report has been externally assured. using external verification since 1998. The full assurance statement for this report can be found on page 48. A table covering GRI content can be found on pages 44–46. An extended version of the GRI table, including detailed descriptions of the scope of the report and data measurement techniques can be found at www.storaenso.com/sustainabilityreport. Governance and management 9 Stakeholder relations Our operations affect many different stakeholders, ranging from our ties we conducted a materiality review during 2010, following up on customers, employees, investors and suppliers to governments and nona previous review carried out in 2009. governmental organisations as well as communities living close to our operations. In 2010 we recognised the need to find new approaches to A total of 93 external stakeholders were invited to participate in the corporate responsibility and understanding of our stakeholders. We must materiality review through an online survey. These selected stakeholdput a lot more emphasis on dialogue with all our stakeholders around the ers represented customers, suppliers, employees, non-governmental world, and we need to increase our understanding of the societies we organisations and investors reflecting the entire geographical and work within and the ways our operations affect them. business scope of Stora Enso’s operations. We received 27 external responses, with most of the respondents representing customers. To To this end, Stora Enso established in 2010 a new function named Global assess the impact of different sustainability topics on Stora Enso’s Responsibility, which gives stakeholder engagement a stronger role in business, the same survey was also sent to key internal stakeholders, our corporate responsibility work. During 2011 we will develop a more 26 of whom replied, including representatives from all of our business systematic and comprehensive approach to stakeholder engagement. areas and main group functions. This report strives to focus on the In 2010 as a first step towards improved communications with staketopics which proved to be material to our stakeholders and are also holders we launched a Global Responsibility website and a Facebook important for our business. page where anyone may post comments and openly discuss any issues relating to our corporate responsibility with us. Materiality review results The materiality review showed that our mills’ environmental perforKey stakeholder groups mance, the origin of wood and forest certification continue to be We have defined our main stakeholder groups from a global perspecthe most important sustainability topics for our stakeholders. The tive as follows: review also confirmed that the environmental and social impacts of tree plantations are increasingly important. Additionally, it is clear that Customers: All companies and individuals who currently choose or water use and managing sustainability along the supply chain remain may in future choose Stora Enso to provide goods or services. priorities among our stakeholders. Employees: All employees of the Group and operations under its control. Major stakeholder concerns in 2010 Investors: All current and potential owners of the company’s equity In 2010 the Rights and Resources Initiative (RRI) published a critical and debt. report relating to Stora Enso’s plantation operations in Guangxi, China. Partners: All of our suppliers, co-investors and other stakeholders The full RRI report and our response are available on our Global who work with Stora Enso in mutually beneficial activities, including Responsibility website: www.storaenso.com/globalresponsibility/ trade and business associations of which Stora Enso is a member. comment. For more details, see page 28. Civil society: Individual citizens in neighbouring communities and public organisations engaged in civic and charitable work, as well as Some Swedish environmental NGOs continued to criticise Stora Enso’s non-governmental organisations. harvesting practices during 2010. For more information, see page 26. Governmental bodies and authorities: Local and national governmental bodies, authorities, politicians and elected officials, as well as An anonymous organisation filed a complaint to the Forest Stewardtransnational bodies such as the UN. ship Council (FSC) about the FSC certification of Veracel in 2010. At the same time a group of NGOs who campaign against unsustainable Defining material issues forest management have been criticising current forest certification To improve our understanding of our stakeholders’ expectations and processes, and especially the FSC scheme, in the Belgian media. For to better align our sustainability efforts and reporting with their priorimore information, see page 28. 10 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 Memberships in associations UN Global Compact Nordic Network World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) • This network promotes the implementation of the principles of • WBCSD is a coalition of international companies united by a the UN Global Compact by sharing information among Nordic shared commitment to sustainable development. Stora Enso has companies who participate in the UN Global Compact. representatives in the WBCSD’s water working group and sustainable forest products industry working group. The Forest Dialogue (TFD) • TFD is a group of various stakeholders from different regions who The Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI) are committed to the conservation and sustainable use of forests. • CEPI represents the interests of the European pulp and paper Stora Enso actively participates in TFD and has a representative industry in dealings with European institutions. Stora Enso employon its steering committee. ees participate in CEPI’s environmental working groups and serve as representatives on CEPI’s board. Water Footprint Network (WFN) • WFN promotes the transition towards the sustainable, fair and effiNational industry federations cient use of fresh water resources worldwide. Stora Enso became • Stora Enso has representatives on committees and working a member of WFN in 2009. groups dealing with environmental issues, climate policy and emissions trading within the Finnish Forest Industry Federation, the ISO 26000 Working Group Swedish Forest Industry Federation, the German Paper Industry • Stora Enso has chaired the Finnish ISO 26000 working group and Association, the Federation of German Industries (BDI) and the actively participated in the development of the new standard’s Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK). guidance document on social responsibility, which was published in 2010. Forest certification bodies • Stora Enso participates in the development and revision of forest ISO Environmental Management Committee certification standards through membership in the national and • Stora Enso is active in the ISO’s standardisation work for product international associations of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) specific carbon footprints through its membership in the Finnish and Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC). ISO Environmental Management Committee. Engagement with key stakeholders Stakeholder group Examples of engagement methods Specific projects during 2010 Customers Customer satisfaction surveys Materiality review for sustainability report (p. 10) Interviews Feedback Employees Employee satisfaction surveys Materiality review for sustainability report (p. 10) Training and introduction programmes Code of Conduct compliance survey (p. 18) Internal communications channels “Our promise” training programme (p. 22) Support for performance development European Works Council meeting (p. 22) Investors Annual General Meeting Materiality review for sustainability report (p. 10) Road shows and one-to-one meetings Annual Capital Markets Day Quarterly telephone and web conferences Questionnaire responses Partners Supplier evaluation and auditing Materiality review for sustainability report (p. 10) Partnership projects Sustainability audits (p. 30) Participation in industry organisations Civil society Public hearings Materiality review for sustainability report (p. 10) Local information contacts and hotlines Issue-specific collaboration with WWF (p. 14 and Issue-specific dialogues and co-operation with NGOs 26) Public reporting Open House events at production units Governmental bodies and authorities Co-operation with intergovernmental organisations Materiality review for sustainability report (p. 10) Issue-specific dialogues with authorities Continuing collaboration with UNDP in China (p. 17) Public reporting Collaboration with Finland’s Ministry of Employment and the Economy on managing restructuring (p. 16) Stakeholder relations 11 Products Stora Enso is constantly looking to develop its product range by findplastics), microwaveable and ovenproof food packages (replacing aluing new applications for materials based on renewable fibre. In 2010 minium trays), biodegradable packing boards for use in cups, plates, 0.7% of our sales, equalling EUR 75 million, was reinvested into R&D trays and folding cartons, as well as lighter liquid packaging board. activities, especially focusing on developing products with environmental benefits such as reduced material use and minimised carbon In the building and construction sector, Stora Enso has developed and water footprints. Health and safety aspects are also important, a wood element solution known as Cross Laminated Timber (CLT), especially for packaging materials that will end up in direct contact which can be used in single family houses and multi-storey buildwith foodstuffs. ings instead of concrete and steel elements. Stora Enso has also continued to develop its wood pellet supply base. Wood pellets can Product development be used instead of fossil fuels to heat individual homes or in district During the year many new products were launched, providing markets heating plants. Pellet production is a natural business extension for with fibre-based packaging solutions for new uses. Such products sawmills, as sawdust and the wood shaving residues from the sawcan typically be recycled or composted, and are more material effimilling process form the raw material for compressed wood pellets. cient. Examples include fibre-based packaging for cold cuts (replacing 12 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 Why Nokia have opted for fibre-based packaging Renewable diesel in the pipeline At Nokia we produce nearly half a billion products every year in mulBeyond our traditional product offering we are also using our tiple locations around the world. This means that 15 of our products expertise in wood to develop completely new products. Together are packed every second, for delivery to every corner of the world. with Neste Oil, Stora Enso is testing the commercial production of renewable transport fuels based on forestry residues. In 2010 the joint These 500 000 000 packages are a very powerful branding tool. venture between the two companies, NSE Biofuels Oy, initiated an Over the last year we have further strengthened the brand impact environmental impact assessment for a commercial-scale bio­refinery of this tool by changing to an all blue look, unifying packaging to be located in Porvoo or Imatra in Finland. Another important sizes, and updating our material selection by switching to a matt, research area concerns microscale materials, which could result in non-coated, less processed paper grade. Now our packaging feels entirely new applications for wood fibre, such as bio-based lubricants. warmer to the touch and has a unified appearance. Products and the environment Sustainability is a core element of our approach to packaging, and To identify and minimise the environmental impacts of our paper and this further enhances Nokia’s reputation as a sustainable company. board products, we conduct product life cycle analyses (LCAs). LCAs Nokia’s packaging solutions are 100% recyclable, and over 95% usually cover the various life cycle stages of a product, extending of our packaging is paper-based, with an average recycled fibre from the procurement of raw materials through energy use and transcontent of 50%. Basic plastics account for less than 5% of the portation to the generation of emissions and waste, and impacts on material used in our packaging. Where plastics are used, we are water. LCAs serve as the basis for environmental labels and declaraincreasing the amount of recycled plastics, and introducing design tions, carbon footprint information, responses to customers’ inquiries, details that help to minimize material use. and product marketing. LCAs have been conducted for all of Stora Enso’s main paper and board product groups, and for one wood Over the last few years we have been systematically increasing our product group. use of fibre-based packaging, to ensure that our packaging materials can be reused or recycled anywhere in the world. The fact that Paper Profiles our products are used in all parts of the world means that conditions Stora Enso provides product-specific information on the environfor the end-of-life treatment of our packaging vary greatly. The most mental performance of its paper products through Paper Profiles, a challenging conditions are in rural areas with little or no infrastrucvoluntary environmental product declaration scheme developed by ture for recycling. From this perspective paper is a great material, as leading paper producers. Paper Profiles enable paper buyers to make a natural material that comes from renewable sources and is highly well-informed product choices, by presenting environmental figures in recyclable. The necessary materials and technologies are available a standardised way. Paper Profiles cover the environmental impacts everywhere, so we can avoid long transportation distances. of pulp and paper production, including product composition and emissions, wood procurement and environmental management. Paper Awareness of the sustainability of products is becoming an increasProfiles are available on request for all of Stora Enso’s paper and ingly important part of a delightful product experience, together with graphical packaging products. product quality. To enhance consumers’ experiences of their brand, product manufacturers like Nokia must therefore strive to minimise Eco-labels their environmental impacts. Several of Stora Enso’s paper products are covered by recognised eco-labels such as the EU Flower, the Nordic Swan and the Blue In packaging we are particularly focusing on minimising the amounts Angel (Blauer Engel). The criteria used by these labelling schemes of material used, while enhancing quality and design to give endtypically cover the whole life cycle of a product, from its raw materiusers high levels of satisfaction. Over the five years since 2005 we als to energy use and waste. To meet customer demand we have have halved the sizes of all our packaging. This has increased the application of the Nordic Swan criteria, which now saved 240 000 tonnes of paper in the category cover all of our copy and graphical paper products as well as some of compact packaging alone. The consequent graphical board products. benefits are both ecological and economical, showing that sustainability is also good busiMany Stora Enso products are also covered by forest certification ness sense. labels, showing that they have been produced using wood from certified forests and controlled sources. The two most common forest Ulla Uimonen certification systems are FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) and PEFC Head of Packaging Design (Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification schemes). A Nokia forest certification label on the final product means that the journey Products 13 of the wood from a certified forest all the way to the mill and onwards Stora Enso’s Barcelona Mill, for instance, has invested in an advanced to the store shelf has been documented and verified by an external beverage carton recycling process that enables the recycling of the party. For more details, see pages 24–29. cartons’ plastics and aluminium content, as well as their constituent fibres. In Spain Stora Enso is also collaborating with other users of Carbon footprints recovered fibre and the Spanish Paper Association on a programme All of Stora Enso’s business areas have calculated the carbon footthat aims to educate consumers and increase recycling rates. Langerprints for their main products or product groups based on existing brugge Mill in Belgium, which produces 100% recycled newsprint guidance, and we willingly make this information available to our cusand magazine paper, asks all mill visitors to bring 2–3 kg of used tomers. Stora Enso is also actively participating in the development of paper with them, to spotlight the importance of everyday recycling. methodologies for calculating and communicating carbon footprints, In Poland, Stora Enso currently runs around 20 collection points for particularly through the ISO’s standardisation work. recovered paper, and is looking to increase this number. In Eastern Germany we are helping private collectors to obtain increasing volStora Enso has made a decision not to claim that we offer carbonumes of recovered paper which they can then supply directly to our neutral paper. Describing paper as carbon-neutral would mean that Sachsen Mill. either no fossil CO2 emissions are emitted during the entire production process, or that the amounts of fossil CO2 emission emitted are offset. Product safety As no internationally accepted method for offsetting CO2 emissions Ensuring product safety is fundamental for products that are used exists, Stora Enso has decided to refrain from marketing its paper in food contact or human contact applications. In 2010 Stora Enso’s as carbon-neutral. Instead we focus on minimising CO2 emissions Packaging business area produced 1.8 million tonnes of packaging throughout our own value chain. For more details, see pages 38–41. materials that will come into direct contact with food or pharmaceutical products, or be used for other hygiene-sensitive purposes. Water footprints Stora Enso is also in the process of defining water footprints for its Responsible chemical use products. To properly reflect the true impact of our operations on the Ensuring the safety of products starts with the purchasing of chemiavailability and quality of water, we need to analyse local conditions cals. In the production of food contact materials, only chemicals such as water scarcity and the status of water bodies, as well as specifically approved for such purposes are used. Stora Enso is also the volumes of water used. No commonly accepted methodology for working with suppliers to ensure that we only use chemicals that are calculating and communicating water footprints exists yet, although registered in accordance with the European Union’s REACH legislamany current initiatives aim to develop such methodologies. Stora tion. The REACH legislation aims to improve the protection of human Enso is participating in many of these initiatives, including the ISO’s health and the environment by comprehensively identifying chemical standardisation work on water footprints. substances’ safety properties. Stora Enso also works to ensure that no chemical substances listed by REACH as substances of very high During 2010 Stora Enso tested the water accounting methodology concern appear in our products. developed by the Water Footprint Network (WFN) at Stora Enso’s Skoghall Mill in Sweden together with WFN, WWF and the Alliance for Safety and hygiene systems Beverage Cartons (ACE). One key finding indicated that 99% of the To guarantee that consumer and food safety demands and regulations overall water consumption is related to the rainwater that feeds groware met, all Stora Enso units producing food contact materials and ing forests, and only 1% is derived from our production processes other sensitive packaging materials follow Good Manufacturing Pracand processes along the supply chain. A weakness of this methtice (GMP). This set of internationally recognised guidelines, which odology is that it does not take water scarcity issues into account, is also incorporated into EU regulations, aims to ensure safety and but treats water use the same way in all geographical areas. Other product quality in foods and pharmaceutical products. GMP covers aspects that should still be further developed concern the role of forthe whole manufacturing process from the procurement of raw materiests in water accounting, and how to include waste water discharges als, through production processes, to the delivery of the end products. in the water footprint. Stora Enso provides customers with information on products’ hygiene Recyclability of products and safety aspects through compliance declarations, and has effective All of Stora Enso’s paper and board products are safely recyclable processes in place for testing product safety, dealing with complaints, and recoverable. Stora Enso is one of Europe’s largest users of recovand organising product recalls if necessary. All Stora Enso mills proered fibre. For more information, see page 29. ducing direct food contact materials and materials for other hygienesensitive purposes are certified according to the hygiene management We are also working to enhance and promote the recyclability of our standards ISO 22000 or BRC/IoP (British Retail Consortium and The products in various ways. We strive to further increase the European Institute of Packaging). Stora Enso mills that produce indirect food paper recycling rate, which is already 72%, through our own actions contact materials are also in the process of building up certified hygiene and collaboration with the Confederation of European Paper Industries management systems. Such certification shows that mills have ana(CEPI). lysed and eliminated any possible safety risks, to ensure the maximum safety of their products. For a full list of certified mills, see page 42. 14 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 Paper v digital media – which is greenest? The growth of the digital media has been projected as one way legitimate e-mail generates about 4–9 grams, and each spam e-mail towards a more sustainable society, offering lower resource and only results in emissions of about 0.3 grams. energy consumption than paper. This is a topical issue for the paper industry, as digital applications are spreading through a number of This means that sending a letter via the post office generates 2–6 areas where paper has traditionally been used, including e-commerce, times more carbon dioxide than sending an e-mail. e-mails, e-books and digital photography. But we must also consider the volume factor. Some 430 billion traThis raises the question – will information and communications techditional mail items were delivered globally in 2008. This should be nology (ICT) really replace paper? We can distinguish three different compared to an estimated 15–20 trillion non-spam e-mails and more types of impact ICT applications may have on paper consumption: than 60 trillion spam e-mails sent annually. Substitution, Complementary use and Generation. This means that the total CO2 emissions from e-mails add up to 7–20 The idea of the paperless office is often discussed in this context. times those of traditional mail. Moreover, about one out of every ten The prediction that computers would replace all paper in offices has e-mails gets printed, adding to the impact of the e-mail alternative. so far proved to be wrong. During the period 1991–2004, when computers became commonplace in offices, paper consumption actually The substitution effect of ICT is apparently starting to curb paper increased by 40%. Over the period 2000–2005, paper consumption consumption. But going digital does not automatically mean that the in some 600 Swiss companies increased by more than 20%, mainly overall environmental impact will decrease. ICT products and services due to the printing of digital documents. This trend is known as recome with their own environmental costs, which are often smaller materialization. than those of the traditional services they can replace. But if we take volumes into account, the accumulated impacts may become even It is clear that substitution is not the only effect in offices: both comlarger than those of the traditional service, as is the case for the subplementary use and generation are prevailing, and the consequent stitution of e-mails for letters. increase in paper use apparently exceeds the substitution effect. But new trends are emerging. In striving for a more sustainable path, I believe that the question is not just choosing between paper and digital media; it is more of findOne example concerns letters. Postal services around the globe ing a healthy co-existence, and keeping overall consumption levels are handling decreasing volumes of letters. Britain’s Royal Mail has sustainable. This goes for paper as well as ICT. reported that the number of letters sent in the UK increased from 16 billion in 1993 to a peak of 22 billion in 2005/2006, but since then the figures has declined and a further drop in volumes is predicted. The use of e-mail has correspondingly increased across the UK: in Peter Arnfalk 2000, only 9% of the population used email, but by 2007, the figure Associate Professor was 54%. The International Institute for Industrial Environmental If e-mails are starting to replace traditional letters, what does this Economics at Lund University mean for the environment? The CO2 emissions associated with sending a traditional letter amount to about 20–25 grams. Sending a Products 15 People Community impacts Our operations have wide-ranging impacts on different groups of To remain competitive in the rapidly globalising economy Stora Enso stakeholders locally, regionally and globally. In addition to minimising has undergone profound restructuring. This has meant that communiany adverse impacts that our activities may have, we also aim to enrich ties in some localities where we have traditionally operated have sufeconomic and social conditions in the communities where we operate. fered as we have closed down production lines or entire production units. At the same time, we are investing considerably in Latin America Economic impacts and China, where our operations are generating new job opportunities Our operations contribute to local, regional and national economies and socio-economic development. on a large scale. Our sales and purchases boost our customers’ and suppliers’ businesses. Our employees, our shareholders and local and Structural change in Finland national governments gain income through the salaries, dividends and Discontinuing operations and closing mills creates problems not only taxes we pay. Stora Enso also engages in many community projects for our employees, but also for the affected communities as a whole. and events in the localities where we operate. The related direct We proactively help such communities to deal with regional structural monetary flows for 2010 indicate the extent of Stora Enso’s economic changes, and also help to find new alternative employment for the impacts on different stakeholders. people affected. We have particularly taken such measures in certain localities in Finland which have been most affected by the company’s Customers: Stora Enso mainly serves business-to-business customrestructuring programme. ers. Stora Enso’s total sales amounted to EUR 10 296.9 million (EUR 8 945.1 million in 2009). In 2009 Stora Enso initiated a joint project with Finland’s Ministry of Employment and the Economy to anticipate structural change and find Suppliers: Stora Enso provides a reliable source of income for many new business opportunities for the communities around Varkaus and companies working as contractors and suppliers. Stora Enso acquired Sunila Mills. One important outcome of this project was the develmaterials and services valued at EUR 6 391.4 million (EUR 5 668.1 opment of an operational model that Finnish public authorities and million). companies will also be able to apply in response to sudden structural changes occurring in other areas and industries. When significant Employees: Wages and benefits received by employees totalled EUR capacity closures were announced at Varkaus Mill in 2010, Stora Enso 1 375.3 million (EUR 1 349.6 million). and the local authorities continued work that had been initiated in 2009, with the aim of attracting new businesses and employment opportuniShareholders: At the end of 2010, Stora Enso had approximately 75 ties to the area. 600 shareholders. The total sum distributed to shareholders was EUR 157.7 million (EUR 157.7 million). Interest payments to loan providers In addition to these measures, Stora Enso assists affected employees amounted to EUR 90.3 million (EUR 100.7 million). by providing support packages and other forms of compensation. For more details, see page 23. Stora Enso also works to minimise the Government bodies: Corporate taxes are a major source of income environmental impacts of mill closures (see page 36). for governments. Net taxes paid by Stora Enso to governments around the world totalled EUR 62.0 million (EUR 3.0 million). Establishing operations in new settings When we plan operations in new areas, it is vital that we understand the Communities: Many Stora Enso units have long traditions of co-operenvironmental and social impacts of the projected operations on local ation with their surrounding communities, supporting local schools, communities. We conduct Environmental and Social Impact Assesssports associations and cultural events. Stora Enso’s charitable donaments (ESIA) for all new projects that could cause significant changes tions amounted to 393 900 EUR (240 118 EUR). in local conditions. Such projects include all green-field pulp, paper or board mills, large green-field sawmills, industrial-scale plantation Impacts on local communities projects, and any large-scale expansions of existing facilities. Our operations often play a major role in the communities where we operate. Many of our mills are located in provincial regions where Stora Enso has developed common guidelines for conducting ESIAs they are major employers, tax-payers and business partners for local as part of the Group’s Investment Guidelines. One vital element of any entrepreneurs. ESIA involves establishing dialogues with local residents, members of 16 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 Sales by region Benefits for local farmers in Europe 95.0% Uruguay Asia 3.2% South America 1.3% North America 0.4% Purchases by region Europe 93.9% Asia 4.1% South America 1.6% North America 0.3% The landholdings of Montes del Plata, the Uruguayan joint venture of Stora Enso and Arauco, include areas designated by the local authorities as suitable for cattle grazing. These pastures are rented out to local farmers, who use them to graze their beef Personnel expenses by region and dairy cattle. So far such rental contracts have been agreed with around 200 producers covering over 100 000 hectares. Europe 96.1% Instead of maximising rent revenues, Montes del Plata makes Asia 1.7% these lands available at reasonable prices, and limits the areas South America 1.4% rented out to individual farmers to give as many farmers as posNorth America 0.9% sible access to land. The idea behind this scheme is to ensure that the local communities gain from opportunities to use the company’s lands. “The company has truly understood that it will also benefit when the surrounding society is doing well,” says Professor Oscar D. Licandro of the Catholic University in Montevideo. Professor Licandro is currently leading a corporate social responsibility research project examining how small-scale dairy farmers are faring in the Department of Durazno in Central Uruguay. local organisations, expert researchers and other stakeholders, through Some farmers have managed to quadruple their milk producinterviews, meetings, workshops and public hearings. tion thanks to the availability of new grazing grounds and other forms of assistance from the local authorities and Montes del The results of ESIAs for example give Stora Enso valuable information Plata, such as the provision of sanitation, veterinary and technical on how local communities will be affected by changes in their socioservices, and training. Grazing cattle often benefit from the preseconomic structure, impacts on cultural heritage, and developments ence of trees, which provide shelter on windy winter days and in community health, safety and security. This information can then be cool shade on hot summer days. The trees also benefit, since the used as a basis for sustainability agendas for planned projects. cows help to limit competing undergrowth. Based on the outcomes of the ESIA conducted for our plantations in Cattle ranching is the most important livelihood in Uruguay, where Uruguay, for instance, Stora Enso has taken action to ensure that our Montes del Plata is applying a traditional local practice by plantoperations truly benefit local communities. Similarly, in our plantations ing trees and enabling cattle grazing in the same lands. in Guangxi, China, we have hired social engagement officers to improve our relations with local villagers, and worked to improve biodiversity protection in the area. UNDP China is currently conducting a new ESIA for a possible combined mill and plantation site in Guangxi. People – Community impacts 17 People Social compliance We want to make sure that we are fair, transparent and responsible Half of the complaints were considered to be serious, and thus in our everyday dealings with our employees, our business partners resulted in further actions. Of the complaints that were investigated, and the communities around us. 50% resulted in disciplinary actions. At Stora Enso we are actively committed to the United Nations UniMeasuring compliance versal Declaration of Human Rights and we fully observe the InternaIn 2010 we conducted a compliance survey for the Code of Conduct tional Labour Organisation’s Core Conventions defining labour rights. to find out how well the Code of Conduct has been internalised within This gives internationally recognised human and labour rights to all the Group. In addition to assessing the effectiveness of the Code of Stora Enso employees. These international agreements especially Conduct training, this compliance measurement also aims to drive define minimum standards and guide our operations in areas where and improve our company culture and further promote a positive local legislation is weak or non-existent. ethical atmosphere. Code of Conduct The compliance measurement involved a survey and targeted manOur Code of Conduct defines common rules for all our employees, agement interviews. The survey, which was sent to 2 500 randomly and provides the basis for Stora Enso’s approach to human and selected Stora Enso employees, covered the three main themes of the labour rights, ethical business practices and the safeguarding of Code of Conduct: human and labour rights; business practices; and company assets. The Code of Conduct sets out what Stora Enso safeguarding of assets. The survey was anonymous, and responses expects from its employees, what our employees can expect from remained confidential. Stora Enso, and how we must act in business when it comes to ethical and compliance issues. It aims to ensure that every one of our The survey results show that our Code of Conduct training has employees has an equal right to a workplace that is safe, healthy and effectively introduced the Code of Conduct to our employees and free of discrimination, and that as a global organisation we always familiarised them with our guidelines on compliance. Respondents take responsibility for our actions and comply with local laws and clearly recognised the importance of the Code of Conduct to them regulations everywhere we operate. as individual employees. However, the survey indicated that further actions are still needed to make the Code of Conduct a more integral Training our employees part of our everyday operations. To ensure that all Stora Enso employees understand and follow the rules set out in the Code of Conduct, we have set a target that every Human rights compliance assessment Stora Enso employee should receive related training, either through To gain an improved understanding of how well human rights issues our established e-learning tool or face-to-face training. By the end are acknowledged and embedded in our day-to-day operations, we of June 2010, an estimated 81% of our employees had undergone conducted a human rights compliance assessment in 2010. This such training, including 77% of our management and 81% of all other assessment was aimed to identify possible human rights risks in our employees. We are continuing this training where employees have not business operations, while at the same time raising awareness of been trained yet, and also working to ensure that all new employees these issues and promoting internal learning. The assessment covered are trained. our operations in Brazil, Uruguay, China, Laos and Russia. Where necessary, its results will be used to help define action plans to ensure Grievance mechanism compliance with human rights in these locations. In 2010, Stora Enso’s Senior Vice President, Internal Audit, received several complaints through our Code of Conduct grievance channel, The assessment applied the Human Rights Compliance Assesswhich enables employees to report anonymously and in confidentiality ment (HRCA) quick check tool developed by the Danish Institute for on concerns or breaches against the Code of Conduct. All reported Human Rights. This comprehensive tool has been designed to help cases were duly handled and reported to Stora Enso’s Financial and corporations detect human rights risks in their operations. It covers Audit Committee. The complaints were all related to ethical business all internationally recognised human rights and their impacts on a practices such as the misuse of company assets or poor management wide range of stakeholders, including employees, local communities, culture. suppliers and contractors. 18 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 The assessment showed that the most significant human and labour commitment to human rights extends through the operations of our rights risks in our operations are related to contract labour and the suppliers and contractors. Our target for 2011 is to have all purchassupply chain. In Guangxi, China local people’s land use rights are also ing agreements covered by these requirements, including locally an important issue. managed agreements. We are also in the process of stepping up monitoring procedures to ensure that the requirements are fulfilled in We also learned that we need to further enhance our internal awarepractice, which will particularly involve sustainability self-assesments ness, and have resolved to organise special human rights training for and conducting sustainability audits. For more details, see page 30. employees in key positions. We also need to improve collaboration with contractors to ensure that human rights are fully observed throughout In response to disputes related to land use rights in Guangxi, China, their operations. For instance, training was provided for contractors in we have taken specific measures to improve the land leasing process our plantation project in Guangxi in 2008 and 2009 on topics including and to guarantee that land use rights are respected. For more inforlabour laws and health and safety management through an initiative mation, see page 28. launched by Stora Enso together with the International Finance Corporation (IFC). We aim to continue to provide such training in 2011. Stora Enso’s sustainability requirements for suppliers and contractors, which cover human and labour rights, help to ensure that our People – Social compliance 19 People Occupational health and safety Improving our overall health and safety performance and building Attendance rates an effective safety culture remained priorities in 2010. In this work In 2010 the Group-wide attendance rate (actual working time as a the special focus on our Finnish mills has continued, due to their percentage of total theoretical working time, considering all absencomparatively poor safety performance. teeism related to sickness and accidents) remained fairly stable at 96.2% (compared to 96.1% in 2009). As with accident rates there Preventive safety measures in focus are significant differences between countries, with Finland at 93.9%, In 2010 we widened our approach to measuring safety performance still clearly below the corporate average rate, and Sweden slightly by assessing preventive actions and safety work in addition to above the average, at 96.8%. Sweden was able to make a slight accident rates. To this end, two new targets were introduced for full improvement in the country’s overall attendance rate, while Germany implementation during 2011. These targets are that the number of experienced a worsening trend. The best performing countries with near miss reports submitted per person per year should be at least the highest attendance rates were China and Brazil, mainly due to two, and that the processing rate for accidents and near misses national legislation and local practices related to absenteeism. should be at least 80%. By spotlighting and more widely reporting on near misses we can raise awareness and prevent future accidents. Top performers From a learning perspective it is also vital to investigate and take All in all six units reached the Group-level target of zero lost-time accicorrective actions relating to accidents and near misses, so we want dents in 2010 (Arapoti Mill, Wood Supply Sweden, Arzamas Mill, Balato maximise the proper processing of any accidents and near misses banovo Mill, Lukhovitsy Mill and Hungary packaging mills). The best that occur. performing unit continues to be Arapoti Mill in Brazil, which reached 2 million working hours without lost-time accidents in November 2010, In 2010 we also continued to put a special focus on attendance rates since there have been no accidents since 2007. The second and third and promoting work ability especially in Finland where performance best units on safety performance were Wood Supply Sweden with in this area is comparatively poor. 1 135 280 accident-free working hours and Balabanovo Mill in Russia reaching 739 256 hours without lost-time accidents. Health and safety performance 2010 By the end of 2010, a total of 68 production units, equalling 87% of Arapoti Mill has a long tradition of building a safety culture due employees, were covered by Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) to local management’s strong commitment to safety. Arapoti Mill management certificates in line with OHSAS 18001 or equivalent rethought its approach to safety in 2004 when two new tools were national standards. In 2010, 92% of Stora Enso’s employees were introduced to highlight safety on a daily basis. Firstly, all employees represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety take part in compulsory 5–10 minute discussions on safety before committees. These safety committees act at unit-level to plan and beginning work every day. Secondly, one-on-one safety consulting monitor OHS actions and performance. They also serve as cosessions are organised periodically for all employees, to help them ordination bodies between management and employees. take individual responsibility for creating a safe workplace. No fatal accidents The best units in terms of near miss reporting were Oulu Mill, with a No fatal accidents occurred in Stora Enso’s own operations or our total of 1 439 reported cases, which is 2.0 reported near misses per contractors’ operations in 2010. employee, and Corenso Finnish units with 407 reported cases, which is also 2.0 reported near misses per employee. The other top performAccident rates ers in this area were Enocell Mill and Varkaus Mill, both reaching a Our average lost-time accident rate remained stable at 13.2 accidents level of 1.9 near miss reports per employee. per million hours worked compared to 13.1 in 2009. As in previous years, there are still significant differences in safety performance In terms of attendance rates, the best units in 2010 were Wood between countries and units within Stora Enso. This reflects variations Supply Guangxi, Corenso Hualun and Dawang Mill, all in China. This in safety culture and management commitment to safety issues. In is partly due to differences in national legislation and health services, both Sweden and Germany the accident rates increased, to 11.2 and which result in differing levels of absenteeism due to sickness or 17.5 respectively. In Finland the accident rate dropped and is now accidents. 21.8 (for more details for Finland see page 21). 20 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 Lost-time accident rate and attendance 1, 2) Group Finland 40 100.0 40 100.0 30 97.5 30 97.5 20 95.0 20 95.0 10 92.5 10 92.5 0 90.0 0 90.0 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 LTA rate 18.1 17.7 16.5 13.1 13.2 LTA rate 30.4 31.0 28.3 23.1 21.8 Attendance 95.2 95.3 95.7 96.1 96.2 Attendance 93.3 93.3 93.5 93.9 93.9 Sweden Germany 40 100.0 40 100.0 30 97.5 30 97.5 20 95.0 20 95.0 10 92.5 10 92.5 0 90.0 0 90.0 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 LTA rate 9.8 8.4 10.3 7.8 11.2 LTA rate 15.5 16.3 12.9 16.3 17.5 Attendance 95.5 95.8 96.4 96.6 96.8 Attendance 95.7 95.7 95.7 95.7 94.9 1) Lost-time accident rate (LTA) as number of accidents per one million hour worked. 2) Attendance, in % of theoretical working hours. Building safety culture in Finland work. Specific responsibilities include keeping contact with employIn 2009 our Finnish units were targeted with a special safety proees during long periods of absenteeism, and taking action together gramme due to their comparatively poor safety performance. The with occupational health services if an employee’s work ability is at Finnish units continued to implement the actions defined in this risk. The implementation of the Early Care programme will continue programme throughout 2010. throughout 2011. In Finland, management participation in everyday safety work has Actions planned for 2011 been improved by obliging the head of each unit to participate in all In 2011 we will continue to focus increasingly on actions that prevent accident investigations and a set number of safety rounds. All line accidents and absenteeism. We will improve and unify our definitions managers and supervisors were also required to conduct monthly and data collection systems for safety issues, and shift our focus from safety discussions with their staff, and to participate in a certain the current key indicator of lost-time accident rate to all accidents number of safety rounds. and near misses as the main indicators of safety performance. To this end we will also continue to seek further indicators for measuring The lost-time accident rate for Stora Enso’s units in Finland dropped safety culture and organisational commitment. Accident severity rates from 23.1 accidents per million hours worked in 2009 to 21.8 in 2010 and near miss severity rates will at the same time receive increased (a decrease of 5.6%). The main reasons for this progress were greater attention, to ensure that we prioritise preventive actions that target management involvement and the raised awareness of safety issues the highest risks. at all organisational levels. The year 2011 will also see a continued and strengthened focus on Extraordinary measures were also taken in Finland to increase attendboosting attendance and work ability. The implementation of the Early ance rates and promote work ability. A programme named Early Care Care model will continue in our Finnish units, and partnerships with was devised to highlight and clarify line managers’ responsibilities in occupational health services, insurance companies and other key terms of being aware of and promoting their workers’ capabilities to actors will be strengthened. People – Occupational health and safety 21 People Human resources By the end of 2010 Stora Enso had 26 379 employees. In 2010 the which sets priorities for each employee’s work and professional restructuring of the company continued, with the numbers of employdevelopment. To identify potential talents, Stora Enso also annually ees in various locations reduced. The average number of employees conducts a Management Audit process covering all employees. This decreased by 4.6% compared to 2009. This was mainly due to produchelps us to map skills and further develop our people and their comtion line closures and efficiency improvements in administrative functions. petences to match our business needs. In 2010 our employees spent an average of 2.6 days in training, with no change from 2009. Our employees are still largely concentrated in Finland, Sweden and Germany, where 59% of all Stora Enso employees work (61% in 2009). We continued our efforts to train managers and supervisors in all of In these countries our workforce decreased the most during the year, by our Finnish units through the Our Promise programme, which was 8%. In other regions our workforce levels remained stable. Due to our initiated in 2009. This programme aims to develop leadership skills, strong focus on new growth markets, we expect further expansions in to support cultural change, and to create a more people-oriented the future in Latin America and China. working environment through a series of workshops and the special coaching of change agents. During 2010 unit-specific workshops Our personnel turnover in 2010 was 4%, compared to 3.7% in 2009. were organised for supervisors and managers at all of our Finnish There are marked differences in turnover between countries and units, units, and similar workshops will also be held during 2011. with the highest turnover among employees in Russia (14%), and the lowest in Poland (1.6%). Employee representation and labour organisation The percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreeEmployee diversity ments is the most direct way to demonstrate a company’s practices Our workforce is ageing in many of the countries where we operate. in relation to freedom of association. In the units that report this In 2010, 27% of our employees were over 51 years old. Employee figure 77% of employees were covered by collective bargaining age structures vary significantly between different countries, with the agreements, mainly through union membership. We do not collect ageing workforce concentrated in Finland, Sweden and Germany, and or report figures on union membership due to differences in national operations in new growth markets characterised by lower average legislations. ages. Stora Enso has employee representation committees at the Group, Women account for 20% of our workforce, with no change from 2009. business area and unit levels. Employee relations, including collecThe share of women recruited for permanent positions was 25%. The tive agreements, are mainly managed on a national level. Our annual number of women on the Board of Directors remained the same as in European Works Council meeting was held in June, with 26 employee 2010. The Group Executive Team currently has no female members. representatives present delegated from the 10 European countries where Stora Enso has operations that qualify for representation. Personnel development Similar meetings were also held for each of our four business areas. To align individual targets with company targets, all Stora Enso The meetings examined the company’s current business situation, employees are covered by our Performance Management process, market outlook, ongoing restructuring measures and capacity reducEmployee distribution by country Age distribution Finland 26% < 20 1% Sweden 23% 21–30 16% Germany 10% 31–40 25% Poland 8% 41–50 31% Russia 5% 51–60 24% Other Europe 19% > 61 3% China 7% Other countries 2% 22 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 tions, as well as Stora Enso’s approach to corporate responsibility and tions, most of our Chinese operations have formed unions that form developments in health and safety issues. part of the state-authorised China Labour Union. We have also formed worker councils at most of our units in China to serve as channels for In China, the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining direct feedback and dialogue between employees and management. is expressly stipulated by law, and the practical enforcement of such rights is ongoing. In accordance with the relevant laws and regulaSupport for employees affected by redundancies Our total staff was reduced by 1 011 employees in 2010, due to continued company restructuring, efficiency improvements and Key human resources indicators a weakened market outlook. Stora Enso actively supports those affected by offering solutions such as redeployment, retirement plan2010 2009 2008 ning, outplacement, supported moves to other locations, retraining, Average number of employees 27 383 28 696 33 815 coaching, and additional payment upon termination. Number of employees at year-end 26 379 27 390 31 667 Personnel turnover % 4.0 3.7 6.3 In October Stora Enso closed down two newsprint machines at VarTraining days/employee 2.6 2.6 3.1 kaus Mill in Finland, making 175 persons redundant. Stora Enso has Share of women among all actively provided support for those affected, for instance by providing employees % 20 20 20 financial support to former employees who would like to start their Women in the Group Executive own businesses. These measures have proven successful, and by the Team 0 out of 8 1 out of 8 1 out of 11 end of 2010 as many as 106 of the affected employees had already Women in the Board of Directors 2 out of 8 2 out of 9 2 out of 9 found a solution. Personnel turnover % In November Stora Enso permanently closed down one newsprint machine at Maxau Mill in Germany, affecting some 180 employees. Region Europe South America Asia Stora Enso is implementing a social plan to support the employees 3.8% 5.4% 6.8% affected by these restructuring measures. Gender Female Male For more information about measures taken to ease the regional 5.4% 3.7% impacts of company restructuring, see pages 16–17. People – Human resources 23 Wood and fibre sources Wood is Stora Enso’s most important raw material. We procure most of sharing of economic benefits, the multiple uses of forests, and the our wood from private forest-owners, state forests and companies in protection of sites of historical, social or cultural importance. Key Finland, Sweden, the Baltic countries, Continental Europe and Russia. environmental priorities include the conservation and sustainable use Some 6% (7% in 2009) of our wood is sourced from tree plantations in of forests, biodiversity issues, soil protection, and the quality and the Southern Hemisphere, including pulp produced by our joint venture quantity of water resources. The right balance between these priorities Veracel in Brazil. Although this is still a small share, plantation sources varies from region to region. are becoming increasingly important for Stora Enso. In 2010, we continued developing our plantations in Brazil, Uruguay, China and Laos, Promoting forest certification and also maintained our trial plantation in Thailand. In 2010, the total We promote independent forest certification to demonstrate sustainamount of wood (including roundwood, chips and sawdust) delivered able forest management. The two major forest certification systems to our mills was 35.5 million cubic metres of wood (solid under bark) recognised by Stora Enso are the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) (30.0 million). and the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification schemes (PEFC). To meet our customers’ demand for certified prodFor reasons related to logistics and quality, we bought 6% (8%) of ucts, we aim continuously to increase the amounts of certified fibre. the pulp we used from external suppliers in 2010. The importance of recovered fibre as raw material continues to increase. In 2010 recovDespite a steady increase in forest certification, the proportion of the ered fibre accounted for 26% (25%) of the fibre used in our paper and world’s forests certified for sustainable management is still below board production. 10%. Most of the certified forests are located in North America and Europe. We have managed to increase the share of certified wood in Our global wood procurement and land management principles, robust our wood supply to 67% in 2010, from 49% in 2005. Our target is to traceability systems and our active promotion of forest certification all further increase this share to 70% by 2012. help to ensure that no wood or fibre from unacceptable sources enters our supply chain. In addition, when sourcing logging residues and other The lack of a widely accepted FSC forest management standard in forest biomass for energy use, which is an expanding business for us, Finland has been a major challenge for Stora Enso. As a member of we follow the specific guidelines developed for the harvesting of forest the Finnish FSC Association, Stora Enso has actively participated energy, which include strict environmental considerations. in the related negotiations, which finally achieved a breakthrough in 2010 creating consensus on a new FSC forest management standard Sustainable forestry for Finland. The standard was approved by FSC International in early Economically, socially and environmentally sustainable forest and 2011. Stora Enso has also actively participated in the revision of the tree plantation management is the foundation for our operations. Finnish PEFC standard, which was endorsed by the PEFC Council in From an economic perspective our priority is to ensure that our busi2010 and will be implemented in 2011. ness operations remain viable. Our social priorities include respect for human and labour rights, health and safety issues, the equitable We have been working for several years within FSC Sweden to review the national FSC standard. A new standard for Sweden was approved by FSC International in 2010. The new Finnish and Swedish FSC standWood procurement by region * ards both include special criteria for small and low intensity managed forests (SLIMF) that can be applied by private forest-owners who own Finland 13.1 less than a thousand hectares of forest in Sweden and less than five Sweden 10.6 hundred hectares in Finland. Social responsibility criteria for certification Russia 2.5 have particularly been strengthened through the SLIMF criteria. Baltic countries 2.5 Continental Europe 6.4 In 2010, we also continued to participate in the development of forest Brazil 0.1 management certification standards in China through the FSC National Other countries 0.1 Initiative and the Chinese National Forest Certification System (NFCS). Stora Enso’s plantations earlier served as a pilot site for the NFCS. * Total amount of wood (roundwood, chips and sawdust) delivered to own mills in these areas (million m³, solid under bark). 24 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 Working together with forest-owners joined our certification group. After extensive preparation and the Both FSC and PEFC offer opportunities for group certification, which training of managers and employees the companies achieved certiallows forest-owners to apply for certification collectively with assisfication in early 2011. More wood suppliers will be invited to join our tance from a certification group manager. FSC certification group in the future. The FSC certification groups established by Stora Enso in Sweden, In Brazil, Stora Enso’s joint venture Veracel continued to work towards Estonia and Lithuania continued operating through 2010. In Finland, the FSC and CERFLOR (Brazilian national certification system we set up our first FSC group certification in 2005, and we will restart endorsed by PEFC) group certifications of some 20 000 hectares of the group certification process now that the new Finnish FSC forest local tree farmers’ plantations. The first group certification is expected management standard has been approved. to be finalised in 2011. In Estonia, Stora Enso maintained the SmartLogging certificate (a Tracing the origins of wood standard established by the Rainforest Alliance for logging operaWhether the wood we reprocess comes from certified forests or not, tions) received in 2009 for its forestry services operations. The Smart­ we want our stakeholders to be able to trust that it has sustainable Logging certification of forestry contractors helps forest-owners to origins. We use our own traceability systems to check that all wood comply with FSC group certification requirements. has been harvested in compliance with national legislation and according to our own Wood Procurement Principles. Our traceability systems Group certifications can also support larger-scale forest-owners. covering all roundwood, chips, sawdust and externally purchased pulp During 2010, two logging companies in Russia, Ljubinsky and Buisky, are regularly controlled through internal and external audits. Wood and fibre sources 25 Moreover, 100% of our purchased wood and pulp is also covered by Enso also continued to promote the METSO Forest Biodiversity third party verifications and certifications, such as Chain of Custody, Programme, a voluntary Finnish forest protection scheme, by helping Controlled Wood and ISO 14001. Arapoti Mill in Brazil received FSC forest owners to identify areas suitable for protection. In 2010, Stora chain-of-custody certification in 2010. Arapoti had previously been Enso proposed a total of 15 areas for protection under the METSO our only mill with no third party verified traceability system in place. programme. Conserving biodiversity Protecting biodiversity is a major element of responsible tree planOur forest and plantation management planning involves ecological tation operations. We only establish plantations on lands with low landscape planning and biodiversity assessments conducted to idenbiodiversity value, such as former pasturelands, and we never convert tify valuable habitats and guide forestry operations. natural forests or protected areas into plantations. We work to identify and protect any ecologically important areas under our management. Stora Enso’s employees and forestry contractors have continued Our operations and their impacts on biodiversity are monitored to receiving in-work training on nature management. In Sweden, for make sure that we do not harm soil and water resources, and that we example, training has concentrated on the protection of watercourses safeguard ecosystem functions. and sensitive aquatic ecosystems in logging operations. Around 1 000 employees and contractors took part in such training during 2009 Veracel continued to actively protect and restore Atlantic rainforest and 2010. habitats in Brazil during 2010. As in previous years, the company planted native trees on 400 hectares of former pastureland. This In 2010, some Swedish environmental NGO’s continued criticising work is part of a government scheme that aims to connect remaining Stora Enso and other forest companies for not respecting key bionative coastal forests with ecological forest corridors. By the end of topes in logging operations and the Swedish Society for Nature Con2010 Veracel had restored a total of more than 3 900 ha of rainforest. servation (SSNC) published a report on the topic. In uncertain cases, ­Veracel has also been funding and participating in a new study initiwe always consult the Swedish Forest Agency for an independent ated in 2010 to assess changes in native forest cover between 1970 assessment before harvesting. In collaboration with the Swedish Forand 2010 in the state of Bahia. estry County Board, more advanced nature management training was also provided to 50 employees on key biotopes and 120 employees In China, Stora Enso and Fauna and Flora International launched a on nature value assessment during 2010. seven-year programme to monitor bird species in and around eucalyptus plantations. This programme forms part of biodiversity monitorIn Finland, Stora Enso continued to require employees and forestry ing work in tree plantations in Guangxi province. A baseline survey of contractors to conduct Nature Management Examination. Stora residential and migrant birds was conducted in 2010. New Generation Plantations show the way By applying innovative approaches tree plantation projects ben“The underlying challenges relating to plantation investments vary efit both the local economy and biodiversity. The New Generation in different continents”, adds Silva. “In Africa the greatest challenge Plantation Project, coordinated by WWF, is actively promoting such is still poverty, while in Latin America there is the social history of approaches around the world. land ownership concentration, and in Asia land use pressures are severe due to large populations.” “The project is an initiative that aims to build up a common vision shared by industry, governments and civil society”, says Luis Neves New generation plantations respect lands and resources that are Silva, WWF’s New Generation Project Manager. important for local people, while contributing to the local economy and employment. The best plantation models also support the resThe plantations associated with Veracel pulp mill in Brazil, a joint venture toration of natural forest habitats, the conservation of biodiversity between Stora Enso and Fibria, are recognised as setting a good examand the integrity of wider ecosystems. ple of favourable plantation practices. Veracel has unique landscape planning methods that preserve and restore Atlantic rainforest habitats. “The second phase of work, with a major report due to be published at the end of 2011, will integrate additional issues into the new genera“The New Generation Plantations Project defines a framework for tion plantation concept, including bioenergy, water management, forest favourable plantation practices around the globe,” explains Silva. The carbon markets, and responsible financing and consumer markets.” project’s website features cases from three continents alongside a wideranging report. Partners in the project include government agencies such as the State Forest Administration of China and the UK Forestry For more information, visit Commission as well as Stora Enso and several other forest companies. www.newgenerationplantations.com. 26 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 Forests, plantations and lands owned by Stora Enso* As of 31 December 2010 Unit** Hectares Certification Broader landscape and protected areas Montes del Plata plantations and lands, 238 622 ha, of which FSC on 120 966 ha, of The landscape consists mainly of pasture and Uruguay (joint venture with Arauco) 125 642 ha planted which 69 822 ha agricultural fields. Remnants of native ecosystems, such planted as grasslands and riparian forests, have been protected within the company’s lands. Veracel plantations and lands, 211 676, of which CERFLOR (PEFC), FSC The landscape is dominated by pasture converted from Bahía, Brazil (joint venture with Fibria) 90 599 planted the Atlantic rainforest between the 1950s and 1980s. 105 368 ha of Veracel’s areas are protected, including 6 000 ha Private Natural Heritage Reserve. The protected areas mostly consist of native forest remnants at different stages of regeneration (see page 26). Plantations and lands, 45 161, of which The landscape resembles that in Uruguay. 14 000 ha of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil 20 850 planted the total area is protected including native grasslands, riparian forests and other habitats. Trial plantations, Thailand 1 350, of which The plantations are located within an agricultural 1 280 planted landscape with no protected areas in or near the plantations. Wood Supply Baltic, Lithuania 453 70 ha of nature reserves, e.g. buffer zones, and part of a national park. Wood Supply Baltic, Estonia 92 of which 85 forests No protected areas within this area. * In addition to the forest and plantation areas listed above Stora Enso owns 43% of Bergvik Skog (www.bergvikskog.com), which owns 2.3 million hectares of land in Sweden, and 41% of Tornator (www.tornator.fi), which owns 600 000 hectares of forestland in Finland. ** Including units where Stora Enso’s shareholding is at least 50%. Forests and plantations leased and managed by Stora Enso As of 31 December 2010 Unit* Hectares Certification Broader landscape and protected areas Olonetsles, Russia 222 500 FSC group certificate In Russia protected areas are generally excluded from lease agreements. Areas amounting to 2 362 ha are protected as natural monuments (mainly marshlands). Ladenso, Russia 153 900 FSC group certificate 409 ha protected as natural monuments, including genetic pine reserves and water courses. Plantations and lands, Guangxi, China 90 347, of which The landscape consists of a mosaic of agricultural 74 779 planted with crops, forest plantations and settlements. Native eucalyptus and 8 765 ecosystems are not found in the leased lands. Areas ha with other species totalling around 800 ha are protected, consisting of steep slopes, buffer zones and other important areas for watershed protection. Terminal, Russia 42 800 FSC group certificate No protected areas within this area. Wood Supply Continental Europe, Czech 21 700 PEFC 7 084 ha within a landscape protection area, including Republic 1 895 ha of a bird protection area under the Natura 2000 programme. Other small-scale nature reserves totalling 892 ha. Montes del Plata plantations and lands, 15 846 ha, of which FSC on 5 947 ha, of The landscape consists mainly of pasture and Uruguay (joint venture with Arauco) 10 099 ha planted which 5 870 ha planted agricultural fields. Protected and sensitive areas are excluded from lease agreements. Trial plantations, Laos 1 200, of which The plantations are located within a mosaic of intensive 400 planted shifting cultivation areas and traditionally protected remnants of native forests. One plantation area is located close to a National Biodiversity Conservation Area. * Including units where Stora Enso’s shareholding is at least 50%. Wood and fibre sources 27 Tree plantations and neighbouring communities An FSC Forest Management audit and a Chain of Custody certificate Veracel in Bahía, Brazil follow-up audit were also realised and approved for large part of the Veracel pulp mill and plantations is a joint venture involving Stora Enso plantations managed by Montes del Plata. and Fibria in Southern Bahía in Northeast Brazil. In 2010 Veracel continued working on income generation programmes initiated in previous The company continued to rent out land for cattle grazing, with over years. Some of these programmes provide development and marketing 100 000 hectares of company land now under rent. The company support for handicraft manufacturing and beekeeping in local commusupports the equitable sharing of land and benefits by limiting land nities. In 2010 Veracel donated 300 hectares of land to neighbourhood rental agreements to 1 500 hectares per tenant. Local partners include associations for crop production also providing the associations with individual local landowners as well as sheep and honey production support on farming techniques and crop sales. Veracel has also estabcooperatives and associations of dairy and beef producers. For more lished a tree farming programme with the aim of sourcing around 20% information, see page 17. of its wood from local farmers. The programme involves 104 farmers and some 20 000 hectares of plantation land. Veracel is working with A Good Neighbour Programme was implemented in areas newly the tree farmers to achieve forest management certification for the planted in 2010. This programme aims to promote open stakeholder farmer’s tree plantations (for more details see page 25). dialogues. Its measures include a grievance mechanism and the provision of information for neighbouring communities about company Veracel maintains good relationships with the area’s 17 indigenous operations such as planting and harvesting. communities, and supports educational schemes and other initiatives designed to strengthen the cultural identity of the Pataxó and TupiIn addition to company-owned land, Montes del Plata has rented nambás communities. 15 622 hectares of land from local landowners for tree farming. These wood production partnerships involved 56 landowners by the end of By the end of 2010, Brazilian social movements including the Land2010. less Workers’ Movement (MST), the Fight for Land Movement (MLT) and the Federation of Agricultural Workers of Bahia (FETAG) continued Plantations in Guangxi, China to be involved in 12 land invasions on Veracel’s lands. Veracel has We started establishing plantations in the south of Guangxi provactively continued dialogues with these movements and the governince, China, in 2002. The land use plan for the plantation areas has ment of Bahia, with the aim of finding common ground for cooperaprovided an overall framework for planting, harvesting and conservation. The company takes every possible effort to ensure that such tion activities. During 2010 we continued to develop our integrated invasions are always handled peaceably. All cases have so far been sustainability and quality, environmental and occupational health and resolved peacefully. safety management systems. In 2010, FSC received a complaint about the FSC certification of In October, the international coalition Rights and Resources Initiative Veracel and Veracel’s certificate provider. The complaint was filed (RRI) published a report accusing Stora Enso of irregularities related by an anonymous organisation, and FSC decided to investigate the to acquisitions of collectively owned lands in the Beihai area. We complaint by interviewing local stakeholder groups and auditing are aware of the issues raised in this report and since last year we Veracel and the certifier. According to the audit Veracel’s certification have taken concrete measures to improve the land leasing process. continues to be valid, but the status of the certifier is still pending. In 2009, we started to systematically review all our land leasing contracts. The review showed that a number of contracts did not Plantations in Southern Brazil fulfil our standards. In 2010, we finished the reviewing work (which Stora Enso’s tree plantation project in the State of Rio Grande do Sul covered almost 2 300 contracts) and the work to modify the contracts in Brazil was launched in 2005. In 2010, we continued to integrate to satisfy all parties is underway. tree plantations with other land use forms and strengthen our relations with neighbouring communities and other stakeholders. We initiated Two violent incidents occurred in Stora Enso’s plantations in Guangxi a project with a local technical school aiming to take advantage of in 2010. In July, villagers took three Stora Enso employees captive, synergies between tree plantations and traditional cattle grazing. We blaming them for the accidental drowning of a villager. One Stora also established a new system for monitoring the hydrological effects Enso employee was beaten during this incident. In August, some of tree plantations, as part of a water monitoring network run by a 100 villagers came to a site where the company was establishing tree local university. To enhance stakeholder dialogue in Rio Grande do plantations, questioning the land use rights over the Qinlian forest Sul we are participating actively in the regional process of The Forest farm, which had been leased to Stora Enso. The villagers damaged a Dialogue. forestry contractor’s property and seven people were injured during the incident. Stora Enso has withdrawn from the site until a peaceful Montes del Plata in Uruguay solution acceptable to all parties is found. During 2010, Montes del Plata, a joint venture of Stora Enso and Arauco in Uruguay, conducted a comprehensive environmental and Trial plantations in Laos and Thailand social impact assessment to identify the main impacts of a possible Stora Enso continued to run pilot tree plantation projects in Laos and future pulp mill and the existing plantation operations. In early 2011 Thailand. In Laos, an environmental impact assessment was finalised the decision to build a pulp mill in Punta Pereira was taken. in 2009 and a social impact assessment conducted by UNDP Laos 28 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 Five questions about recycled fibre How much recycled fibre does Stora Enso use? How many times can paper be recycled? We use about 2.8 million tonnes of recycled paper every year. It We can recycle fibres between four and six times. After that, fibres accounts for about a quarter of all the fibre we use. Stora Enso is become weak and start to disintegrate. This means that some fresh one of the largest consumers of recycled paper in Europe. If you put fibre is always needed eventually. We hope everyone will take the your newspaper or milk carton in a recycling bin in Sweden, Germany, trouble to recycle all the paper and packages they use, because this Netherlands, Belgium or Spain, there is a very good chance that it will is always worthwhile! end up being used at one of our mills to make new paper. What happens after I put an old newspaper or a used What are the advantages of using so much recycled milk carton in a recycling bin? fibre? After it is collected, it will be sorted. Different kinds of recovered paper Recycled paper is a highly suitable and valuable raw material for many and board are sent to different production lines, where they will be forms of paper production. But of course it’s also a question of using used to make different kinds of new paper and carton products. If materials responsibly. Recycling is an excellent way to reduce the you throw your old newspaper into a recycling bin today, you could in need for new fibre from the forests – while also saving energy. This is theory be holding the same paper in your hands again in 4-6 weeks, particularly sustainable and worthwhile when our mills can use recyprinted with up-to-date news. cled paper collected from households nearby. Our mills in densely populated areas of Germany, Belgium and Spain are doing just this. Which of your products contain recycled fibre? Newsprint for newspapers is perhaps the best example, but we also Rickard Arnqvist use recycled fibre to make magazine paper and packaging board. It’s Senior Vice President quite possible that the breakfast cereal box you held in your hands Stora Enso this morning and the box containing the perfume you were given Publication Paper for Christmas are our products. Both of these products are made of recycled fibres. will be completed in 2011. In Laos Stora Enso has developed a plantapliers to establish chain-of-custody certification. In 2010 88% of the tion concept that combines wood production with food production. purchased pulp (including Veracel pulp) was covered by either FSC This agro-forestry model involves villagers growing agricultural crops or PEFC chain-of-custody certification. in between rows of trees. In 2010 villagers planted rice in 125 newly established hectares of plantation. The local conditions are challenging Using recovered fibre as the area was bombed during the Vietnam War. Before establishing The importance of recovered (recycled) fibre as a raw material conplantations Stora Enso clears the lands of unexploded bombs. tinued to increase in 2010. Recovered fibre accounted for 26% of our total fibre use in 2010 (25%). This corresponds to nearly 2.8 million Market pulp and recovered fibre tonnes of recovered paper, making Stora Enso one Europe’s leading Pulp procurement users of recovered fibre. We produce most of the pulp we use ourselves in connection to our paper and board mills. However, for reasons related to quality and We use recovered paper as raw material at ten of our paper and logistics some 6% of the chemical pulp used by the company was board mills. We seek to cooperate with municipalities in the vicinity of purchased from external suppliers (8% in 2009). Only a small amount our mills to optimise the benefits of paper recycling for both parties. of mechanical pulp was purchased from external suppliers. Pulp The mills that consume the largest quantities of recovered fibre are deliveries from Veracel to Stora Enso totalled 0.54 million tonnes in located in densely populated areas close to major sources of recov2010. Pulp from Veracel was mainly shipped to Oulu, Uetersen and ered paper and board. One example is Langerbrugge Mill in Belgium, Suzhou mills. which produces 100% recycled newsprint and magazine paper at a location where 80 million people live within a radius of 300 kilometres. Purchased pulp must meet the same sustainability requirements as In 2010 we launched a new sorting plant at Langerbrugge Mill with the purchased wood. Pulp is included in Stora Enso’s traceability system, capacity to receive 240 000 tonnes of recovered paper per year. The so the origins of all the fibre used in purchased pulp must be known scheme also enables local communities to deliver recovered paper and suitably documented. Stora Enso also encourages all pulp supfrom their household collections directly to the mill. Wood and fibre sources 29 Supply chain and transport In 2010 Stora Enso sourced goods and services worth some EUR 6.4 Based on the experiences gained through these pilot audits, we are billion. This figure includes wood, other raw materials such as chemideveloping our auditing approach and resources further. cals and fillers for production processes, and various other materials and services, such as spare parts, clothing and maintenance, as well To improve the implementation of our sustainability requirements as purchased pulp, energy and logistics services. Some 94% of these along the supply chain we also need to increase awareness of suspurchases by value was sourced in Europe, 4% in Asia and 2% in tainability issues, especially among our purchasers. During 2011 we South America. Through our supply chain we have considerable influwill train all our purchasers on managing sustainability in the supply ence over many communities, societies and environments in different chain. parts of the world. Transportation and the environment Supplier requirements Stora Enso transported 49 million tonnes of wood raw material and Our wood suppliers and the whole wood supply-chain are covered products in 2010. Nearly three-fourths of this total consisted of wood by regular sustainability controls and audits through chain-of-custody transportation. Roughly 50% of this wood was transported by truck, and certification schemes. A detailed description of our wood and fibre some 40% by rail and 10% by sea. For the transportation of products, sourcing is given in the wood and fibre sourcing section of this report transportation by sea accounts for approximately 95%, by truck 3%, on pages 24–29. and by rail 2%. For other suppliers and contractors Stora Enso has developed a set One of the most significant environmental impacts of transportation of sustainability requirements covering environmental management, concerns CO2 emissions. In 2010 transportation accounted for an estihealth and safety issues, human and labour rights, and business pracmated 13% of Stora Enso’s total carbon emissions (see pages 40–41). tices. These requirements are included in our purchasing agreements. In Sweden we have taken special measures to reduce CO2 emissions In 2010 these requirements covered 99% of material purchases and related to wood transportation by shifting away from road transporta91% of the transportation services purchased at Group level. Our tion and moving greater volumes of wood by rail. In 2010 a third major target is to have all purchasing agreements covered by the requireroundwood terminal came into operation enabling more wood to be ments, including also purchases made at local level. transported from forests to mills by train instead of truck. We estimate that this long-term logistics programme could keep as many as 100 000 Ensuring compliance trucks off Sweden’s roads annually, leading to significant reductions in During 2010 we developed a monitoring procedure to ensure that our CO2 emissions. sustainability requirements are followed in practice. The implementation of this monitoring procedure will continue during 2011. The follow up Composition of raw material and service costs * mechanisms include the following elements: • Sustainability self-assessments Fibre 53% • Sustainability audits Chemicals and fillers 14% Energy 14% A format for sustainability self-assessments for suppliers was tested Production services in 2010 and will be adopted for wider use in 2011 when self-assessand materials 4% ments will become a requirement for all Group-level-coordinated Logistics and commissions 15% material suppliers and logistics service providers. Sustainability audits are also conducted at selected suppliers. In 2010 * % of variable costs. we conducted six sustainability audits to pilot our auditing approach. 30 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 The climate impacts of shipping Brazilian pulp to Europe Stora Enso produces pulp in Brazil through its joint venture company the only factor. Another important raw material for pulp production is Veracel. The pulp produced by Veracel is shipped to Stora Enso’s chemicals. Most of the chemicals used by Veracel are produced on paper and board mills in Europe. Most of the pulp from Veracel ends site, meaning that no transportation is needed. up in coated fine paper sold in Europe. Once the pulp is ready, it is dried and packed in bales. Shipping pulp But what are the climate impacts of shipping pulp long distances? in dry form means that it weighs less. The pulp travels from Veracel’s The idea of producing pulp so far away from where it will be used harbour through the Brazilian port of Portocel to Brake in Germany might sound environmentally problematic, but the facts reveal a more or Zeebrugge in Belgium. This is a long journey, but as the ships are complex reality. Stora Enso has conducted an in-depth analysis of the modern and have low emissions their climate impacts are relatively carbon footprint of Veracel pulp, and the findings reveal that transsmall. This stage of the transportation adds 54 kg of CO2 per tonne portation does indeed play a vital role in the carbon footprint of the of pulp. From the European ports the pulp is transported to its final pulp – but not in the way one might expect. destination. This results in additional CO2 emissions ranging between 8 and 40 kg per tonne of pulp, depending on the location of the Veracel comprises a state-of-the-art pulp mill as well as extensive receiving mill. eucalyptus plantations. The company sources its main raw material – wood – from its own nearby plantations. Wood is transported for Interestingly enough, after adding up all the elements including the an average distance from the plantations to the mill of 44 km. This transportation of trees to the mill, all the production processes, and is a comparatively short distance, since in Finland, for instance, the the transportation of the pulp to its final destination, the carbon footaverage transportation distance from harvesting sites to mills is 200 print of Veracel’s eucalyptus pulp turns out to be on average 248 kg km. Wood transportation thus only adds some 5 kg of CO2 per tonne CO2 per tonne compared to an average of 253 kg CO2 per tonne for of pulp to the total carbon footprint of Veracel pulp. But wood is not hardwood pulp produced in Europe. Purchasing matters When I say that I work in purchasing, you will most probably be thinking Sometimes there doesn’t even need to be a real case of irresponsible about goods and their prices. But there is much more to purchasing than behaviour. Even a suspicion of wrongdoing may be enough to generate comparing prices. For a company like Stora Enso that purchases goods headlines, especially if the company cannot show that it has a strong and services worth some six billion Euros every year, responsibility is a grip on its supply chain. key factor in all of our purchasing. It is not only a question of following the company rules; irresponsible purchasing is a real business risk. My Since the beginning of 2010 Stora Enso has conducted thorough onjob is to make sure that everybody in purchasing understands this. site audits at suppliers in India, China, and Brazil, where we wanted to be sure of their reliability. These audits resulted in lists of actions Stora Enso’s business is absolutely dependent on very many suppliers required from suppliers, which are being closely followed-up. Any nonand service providers all around the world – from global chemical supconformances must be promptly remedied by suppliers. If this does not pliers to local trucking companies. This means it is vital for us to make happen, they will no longer be contracted to provide goods or services sure that they play by the same rules as we do. for us. We hope that such steps will not be necessary, but this stance shows the extent of our determination! People increasingly judge how responsible we are as a company by what happens along the whole supply chain. This is why we have to To finish, I would like to destroy a myth by stressing that responsible make sure that our suppliers, be they big or small, near or far, are purchasing does not cost us more. There is no extra price tag for Stora environmentally and socially responsible and comply with our policies. Enso when it comes to insisting that our suppliers respect social and If we don’t do this, we put our reputation at risk. environmental standards! Purchasing these days is truly global. Unsustainable practices in a Heinz Felder faraway country can easily end up in the headlines close to home. If Head of Purchasing something goes wrong along our supply chain, the blame can easily Stora Enso be attached to us. Our responsibility and our reputation are at stake, much more than the suppliers’. Responsibility is not something you can outsource. Supply chain and transport 31 Mills and environment At Stora Enso, our environmental work focuses on two main issues. fibre and chemicals. The results showed that the greatest water inputs Firstly, we work to minimise the environmental impacts of our mills. consist of process and cooling water, and as expected only a minor This is a top priority for Stora Enso, and the basis of our everyday contribution comes from different raw materials, including 2% from work. Secondly, we strive to use raw materials as efficiently as poswood and bark, and 0.3% from recovered fibre, purchased pulp and sible. This ensures that we do not waste valuable natural resources chemicals. The study also examined water outputs, and concluded or financial resources. that around 4% of our total water intake ends up being released as steam from processes, 0.3% ends up in our products, residuals and We are committed to continuous improvement in environmental prowastes, and the rest is treated and discharged back into the water tection. We have set strict targets for emissions to air, process water bodies from which it was extracted. These results will help us focus discharges and waste. Our environmental targets are normalised for our continued efforts to improve water measurement and reporting production and apply to our pulp, paper and board mills. We monitor and to reduce water use in the right areas at each mill. our progress towards these targets on quarterly basis, and report our results transparently every year. Water sources In 2010, we used a total of 318 million cubic metres of process water Stora Enso has management systems in place to ensure that all our and 365 million cubic metres of cooling water in our production prounits follow the best environmental practices and improve their work cesses. Most of this water (99%) was taken from lakes and rivers, continuously. All Stora Enso’s pulp, paper and board production units and less than 1% was withdrawn from municipal water supplies or are certified according to the ISO 14001 management system. extracted from groundwater. Using water responsibly All of our water intakes are regulated by the authorities, and we follow Since 2009, our sustainability work has had a special focus on water. local laws and regulations everywhere. In five localities local water Water scarcity is a growing global concern, and this particularly puts sources are significantly affected by our water use. This means that pressure on industries that use water intensively. we either use more than 5% of the average total volume of the water body, or that the water body has been recognised by authorities as Water is essential for Stora Enso’s production processes. The a sensitive area. For more details, see the extended GRI table at structure of paper is dependent on water, as hydrogen bonds are www.storaenso.com/sustainabilityreport. In these localities our water needed to keep the wood fibres together. The Group also uses water use is particularly strictly regulated and supervised by the relevant for cooling, for cleaning, and to make steam for producing energy. authorities. Water is also needed as a medium to carry fibres through production processes. Water discharges After water is used in production, it is carefully treated and then Stora Enso is committed to the responsible use of water, and we released back into the natural environment. Treating water is imporactively participate in various international initiatives related to water. tant, as impurities in water discharges can harm ecosystems in lakes, These initiatives include the CEO Water Mandate of the UN Global rivers and other natural water bodies. Stora Enso uses top class Compact, and the work of the World Business Council for Sustainable waste water treatment systems to ensure that the water we release Development developing tools for measuring water use. Stora Enso is is purified, ecologically safe, and meets all regulatory requirements. also involved in the development of an international ISO standard for About 99% of our releases of purified water are discharged into surwater accounting, and in the Water Footprint Network, whose water face water bodies. Some of Stora Enso’s mills discharge waste water accounting methodology has been tested by Stora Enso at Skoghall into municipal or private treatment plants. Mill in Sweden. See page 14 for more details. Stora Enso’s target is to reduce process water discharges by 10% of To better understand our water use, we initiated an in-depth water their 2005 levels by 2013. During 2010 the Group made slight prostudy in 2009, covering all of our pulp, paper and board mills, and this gress towards this target. We have reduced our normalised discharges study was completed in 2010. The study examined both direct water of process water by 5% since 2005. use at mills, and our indirect water use related to the water present in 32 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 Another target that we have set for water discharges is to reduce and phosphorus have declined considerably, by 13% for nitrogen and average Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) in our water releases by 17% for phosphorus. 10% from 2007 levels by the end of 2013. During 2010 normalised COD discharges declined slightly and are currently 2% lower than Emissions to air in 2007. Minimising emissions to air continues to be a priority for Stora Enso. Our atmospheric emissions result mainly from the combustion of In 2010 our normalised discharges of Adsorbable Organic Halogen fuels used in production processes. These emissions include carbon Compounds (AOX) increased, but their present level is still 3% below dioxide (CO2), sulphur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxides (NOx). Stora their level in 2006. AOX is a collective term for the amounts of chlorine Enso has taken action to reduce its CO2 emissions and total carbon or other halogens bound to organic matter in waste water. Over the footprint (see pages 40–41). SO2 and NOx affect air quality and cause last five years our discharges of AOX have fluctuated within a range acid rain and soil acidification. that represents good performance. This is due to the fact that Stora Enso has not used elemental chlorine in its bleaching processes for We are working to reduce our emissions to air by using more renewover 20 years. able energy and by increasing our energy efficiency (see pages 38–40). SO2 and NOx emissions are also controlled through advanced During 2010 our normalised discharges of nitrogen decreased, while technologies such as scrubbers and boiler process control systems. phosphorus discharges increased. Compounds of both nitrogen and phosphorus are used to provide nutrient sources for the micro-organIn 2010 our SO2 emissions increased slightly. Our target has been to isms that are vital to our biological waste water treatment processes. reduce our SO2 emissions by 30% from 2007 levels by 2013. In 2010 In natural water bodies excessive amounts of nitrogen and phosphoour normalised SO2 emissions were 26% below the 2007 level. Over the rus can lead to increased biological activity through eutrophication. five year period 2006–2010 we have reduced our normalised emissions Over the past five years our normalised discharges of both nitrogen for both SO2 and nitrogen oxides (NOX), by 33% and 2%, respectively. Mills and environment 33 Material use in 2010 Wood 35.6 million m³ Sold electricity 0.62 TWh Pulp & recovered fibre Heat and steam 2.9 million tonnes 0.48 PJ Water Paper and board 683 million m³ 10.7 million tonnes Pigments, fillers & starch Wood products 2.1 million tonnes 5.9 m³ Fossil fuels Market pulp 44.8 PJ 1.1 million tonnes External biomass Residuals for reuse 17.1 PJ 2.5 million tonnes Residuals and waste Hazardous wastes Stora Enso’s production processes generate various residuals and Hazardous wastes from our production include used oils, solvents, wastes, the vast majority of which are beneficially reused. Such paints, laboratory chemicals and batteries. In 2010 Stora Enso’s pulp, materi­­als include ash from energy production, lime solids from pulping paper and board production units created 2 895 tonnes of hazardous processes, and waste water treatment sludge. Many of these materiwaste, down from 2 955 tonnes in 2009. We dispose of hazardous als can be used for bioenergy production, for agricultural purposes, wastes by either burning them to generate energy, or ensuring that or for brick manufacturing and road construction. We are constantly they are safely processed at hazardous waste facilities or incinerators. looking for new and innovative ways to reuse materials that would We report on our disposal of hazardous wastes in line with definitions otherwise end up as wastes. Across the Group we have achieved a set out in respective national regulations. No significant spills, releases waste use rate of 96% (96% in 2009). or leakages of hazardous wastes occurred in 2010. Waste to landfill Beneficial use of residuals and waste to landfill Residual materials that cannot be reused end up in landfills. In 2010 our total waste to landfill rate increased to 17 kg/tonne of board and Energy generation 44% paper produced (16 kg/tonne in 2009). This means that no progress Pulp manufacturing 27% was made towards our target to reduce normalised waste to landfill by Pellet and chipboard 5% from 2007 levels by the end of 2013. In 2010, 51% more waste to manufacturing 7% landfill was generated (in terms of kg/product tonne) than in our target Landscaping, landfill and base line year 2007. One major reason for this is our increased use road construction 5% of biomass fuels, which generate more ash than other fuels, coupled Waste to landfill 4% with the reduced demand for residual ash for beneficial uses. Agricultural use 2% Other 11% 34 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 Total sulphur as SO2 1) NOX 1) 8.5 0.85 14 1.10 7.5 0.75 13 1.05 6.5 0.65 12 1.00 5.5 0.55 11 0.95 4.5 0.45 10 0.90 3.5 0.35 9 0.85 2.5 0.25 8 0.80 06 07 08 09 10 06–10 06 07 08 09 10 06–10 1 000 tonnes 7.5 6.7 4.6 3.6 4.3 -43% 1 000 tonnes 12.8 12.2 11.3 8.9 10.7 -16% kg/tonne 0.52 0.47 0.35 0.33 0.35 -33% kg/tonne 0.89 0.86 0.85 0.82 0.87 -2% AOX 2) COD 1) 700 0.26 145 17 625 0.23 135 15 550 0.20 125 13 475 0.17 115 11 400 0.14 105 9 325 0.11 95 7 250 0.08 85 5 06 07 08 09 10 06–10 06 07 08 09 10 06–10 tonnes 680 650 557 391 530 -22% 1 000 tonnes 137 128 116 98 108 -21% kg/tonne 0.159 0.163 0.156 0.144 0.155 -3% kg/tonne 9.5 9.0 8.7 8.9 8.8 -7% Nitrogen 1) Phosphorus 1) 1.80 0.12 200 0.018 1.65 0.11 180 0.016 1.50 0.10 160 0.014 1.35 0.09 140 0.012 1.20 0.08 120 0.010 1.05 0.07 100 0.008 0.90 0.06 80 0.006 06 07 08 09 10 06–10 06 07 08 09 10 06–10 1 000 tonnes 1.62 1.36 1.20 1.10 1.19 -27% tonnes 181 151 141 99 120 -34% kg/tonne 0.112 0.096 0.090 0.101 0.097 -13% kg/tonne 0.012 0.011 0.011 0.009 0.010 -17% Process water discharge 1) Waste to landfill 1) 390 26.4 220 20 370 26.0 200 18 350 25.6 180 16 330 25.2 160 14 310 24.8 140 12 290 24.4 120 10 270 24.0 100 8 06 07 08 09 10 06–10 06 07 08 09 10 06–10 million m³ 367 363 331 274 304 -17% 1 000 tonnes 150 160 160 173 210 +40% m³/tonne 25.4 25.5 24.8 25.0 24.6 -3% kg/tonne 10.4 11.3 12.0 15.8 17.0 +63% 1) From pulp, paper and board production facilities. Normalised figures are reported per unit sales production. 2) From bleached chemical pulp facilities only. Normalised figures are reported per unit bleached chemical pulp production. Mills and environment 35 Environmental incidents Unit Incidents Corrective actions Fors Mill, Sweden The mill exceeded limits for phosphorus and Resolved. The cases have been reported to the authorities. Stora suspended solids due to problems with its waste Enso decided to rebuild the waste water treatment plant. The new water treatment plant. plant is expected to be running during the first quarter of 2011. Skoghall Mill, Sweden A leaking pipe resulted in chlorine dioxide Resolved. The incident was reported to authorities and preventive discharges. The discharges were channelled to actions, including the repair of the pipe, have been taken. the mill’s waste water treatment plant and the incident had no environmental impacts. Skoghall Mill, Sweden A leak in the mill’s white liquor pipe was Resolved. The incident was reported to the authorities and corrective detected. All resulting discharged were actions, including the repair of the pipe, have been taken. channelled to the mill’s waste water treatment pant and no environmental impacts ensued. Kvarnsveden Mill, Sweden Phosphorus guideline value exceeded due to Resolved. The incident was reported to authorities and dosage of faulty dosage of ferrous sulphate in the waste ferrous sulphate has been adjusted. water treatment plant and high summer temperatures. Hylte Mill, Sweden The mill exceeded the air limit value for dioxins Pending. The incident was reported to the authorities. The cause of and furans due to emissions from one of the the incident is being investigated internally so that preventive actions boilers. can be taken. Varkaus Mill, Finland Plastic waste from the mill’s recycling plant Resolved. The mill cleaned the areas of the lake where plastic waste entered the lake and was borne downstream by was noticed. The incident was investigated by the environmental water currents. authorities who concluded that no further actions are needed. Enocell Mill, Finland The permit limit for phosphorus was temporarily Resolved. The incident was reported to the authorities, and preventive exceeded due to technical problems. actions have been taken. Corbehem Mill, France The legal limit for suspended solids in waste Pending. The cause of the incident is being internally investigated so water discharges was exceeded. that preventive actions can be taken. In accordance with the French authorities’ requirements a study to evaluate the efficiency of the waste water treatment plant will also be conducted. Maxau Mill, Germany Small amounts of oil leaked into the cooling Resolved. As soon as the spill was discovered the discharged water water circuit, resulting in discharges into the was channelled to the waste water treatment plant. The defected heat Rhine river, due to a defect in the heat exchanger. exchanger has been replaced. Ostrołe˛ ka Mill, Poland Water containing small amounts of light oil Resolved. The spilled oil was successfully retained through several entered River Narew during the start-up measures. Preventive actions including changes to construction, operations of a new power plant on the site. automation and the organisational processes as well as internal training have been taken. Environmental investments Complying with environmental permits In 2010, Stora Enso’s environmental investments amounted to EUR 37 Each of our mills is regulated by environmental permits based on million (EUR 21 million in 2009). These investments were mainly directed the national, regional and local legislation applicable to each locato improve the quality of air and water, to enhance resource efficiency tion. Our mills continuously monitor their own compliance with these and energy self-sufficiency, and to minimise the risk of accidental spills. permits, as do the appropriate environmental authorities. All of the Several significant environmental investments were completed in 2010. environmental incidents at Stora Enso mills in 2010 that resulted in New multifuel boilers started operating at Maxau Mill and Langerbrugge major permit violations, claims, compensations or significant media Mill (see page 40). A new recycling facility at Barcelona Mill now enables coverage are detailed in the table above. beverage cartons’ plastics and aluminium content to be recycled, as well as their constituent fibres. A new gas turbine at Sachsen Mill is Environmental impacts of mill closures considerably reducing the mill’s NOx and CO2 emissions. When closing down a mill, Stora Enso always ensures that the mill site and surrounding area is properly cleaned and restored. This is done Stora Enso’s environmental costs in 2010 excluding interest and in accordance with local laws, regulations, and environmental permits including depreciation totalled EUR 152 million (EUR 147 million). granted by the relevant authorities. These costs include taxes, fees, refunds, permit-related costs, and repair and maintenance costs, as well as the prices paid for chemicals In April 2010, Kemijärvi Mill in Finland received an environmental and certain materials. Estimates indicate that a total of EUR 122 milpermit related to its closure in 2008. Stora Enso subsequently sublion (EUR 145 million) will be needed to cover future environmental mitted an appeal concerning the permit to the Vaasa Administrative liabilities, such as removing mercury and other contaminants from Court. Between June and November 2010 Stora Enso carried out Stora Enso mill sites. There are currently no active or pending legal remediation work on the mill site in line with an environmental permit claims concerning environmental issues which could have material granted in 2009 for the necessary soil cleaning work. adverse effect on Stora Enso’s financial position. 36 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 Companies embrace “water stewardship” In July 2007, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon presented a chaland water, and encourage them to see industry as a critical user and lenge to the global business community: to embrace the concept of therefore steward of water resources. The Mandate has also brought “water stewardship” as a key corporate priority. companies together with public-sector entities, NGOs, UN agencies, investors, and other stakeholders to help find solutions to water chalIssues related to water availability, quality and sanitation had previlenges – particularly at the level of the catchment area or watershed. ously not figured very high on the general business agenda. Companies typically viewed water management as an ancillary environmental This approach helps companies participating in the Mandate to go concern, devoting some resources to water recycling and waste “beyond the fence line” of their operations and recognise that their water treatment, perhaps, but not seeing water as a material risk or direct operations and their suppliers have broader responsibilities to a possible opportunity – and certainly not taking a holistic view. The the surrounding communities and ecosystems. same could be said of many other global actors and stakeholders – including governments, civil society organizations, and investors. Mandate endorsers are pursuing a range of inspiration actions, includInternational attention remained largely focused on climate change as ing working with suppliers to improve water efficiencies, collaborating the headline issue of the day, even though global warming is known with NGOs on watershed restoration, and working with the public to have major implications for water resources. water authorities to improve water governance. Much of this changed in 2006 following the publication of the UN To address understandable concerns about the role of businesses in Development Programme’s “Human Development Report 2006: shaping water policies, the Mandate has recently released a Guide to Power, Poverty and the Global Water Crisis”. This landmark report Responsible Business Engagement with Water Policy, developed with presented a comprehensive overview of the escalating global crisis in the Pacific Institute and WWF. water and sanitation – and highlighted the crucial correlation between water availability and economic development. The CEO Water Mandate recognises that by mobilizing a critical mass of committed companies dedicated to working in partnership with The UN Secretary-General subsequently issued his challenge and other stakeholders, progress can be made towards the achievement launched the UN Global Compact’s CEO Water Mandate. of the vital Millennium Development Goals. Important connections are also being made between water sustainability and other key issues In just over three years, the CEO Water Mandate has established such as food and energy. itself as a pre-eminent business platform for water stewardship and sustainability. The Mandate today involves more than 70 companies Indeed, growing numbers of corporate leaders see their critical and from industries ranging from footwear to forest products. important role in the broader development and sustainability agenda of the 21st century, recognising the fundamental truth that healthy The CEO Water Mandate entails commitments by Chief Executive societies and healthy markets go hand-in-hand. Officers on six areas: direct operations, supply chain and watershed management, collective action, public policy, community engagement and transparency. Endorsing CEOs and their companies pledge to implement these six Gavin Power aspects, and submit annual “Communication on Progress – Water” Deputy Director of the UN reports, which are posted on the public CEO Water Mandate website. Global Compact and Head of the These reports form a growing repository of best and emerging pracCEO Water Mandate tices for learning and benchmarking. The CEO Water Mandate seeks to bring about a transformational change in the minds of business leaders with respect to sustainability Mills and environment 37 Climate and energy We work to eliminate and reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and our subsidiary Stora Enso Bioenergi, which is already the bigall along our value chain. This includes promoting sustainable forest gest supplier of logging residues and certain other biomass fuels in management, creating innovative products based on renewable mateSweden. Read more about our products and product development rials, and developing cleaner and more energy efficient production on pages 12–14. processes. Our production processes Forests and the climate Most of our greenhouse gas emissions come from the energy we purAs trees grow they absorb carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and chase and produce to operate our mills and manufacturing processes. store it as carbon. Trees are a renewable resource. If forests and plantations are managed in a sustainable way, after trees are logged To reduce costs and reach our environmental goals, we are continua new generation of trees will grow back absorbing CO2 from the ously working to improve the energy efficiency of our production. We atmosphere once again. Sustainable forest and plantation managealso focus on enhancing energy self-sufficiency and promote the use ment therefore plays a vital role in mitigating global warming. of low carbon energy alternatives, both in our own power generation and in external procurement. In addition, we want to continue the We promote third party forest certification and chain-of-custody long-term supply of district heating for local communities wherever certification to guarantee that all our wood originates from sustainthis is technically and economically feasible. ably managed forests and tree plantations. We also actively combat illegal logging, which is a major cause of global deforestation. Our tree Energy use plantations sequester more carbon than the previous land uses, since We purchase fuel, electricity and heat from external suppliers and they have been almost entirely planted on formerly unused grasslands generate steam and electricity internally for use at our production or areas used for grazing cattle. We restore and conserve Atlantic facilities. Our energy procurement and generation strategy focuses rainforest in and around the tree plantations we own through our joint on our long-term needs. Existing contracts and our internal electricity venture Veracel in Brazil, and these forests and tree plantations are a generation are estimated to cover around 87% of our electricity needs significant carbon sink. For more details see pages 24–28. for the next 5 years. Products from renewable materials In 2010 we consumed 16.2 TWh of electricity and 127.7 PJ of heat As our main raw material – wood – is a renewable resource, our at our mills. Our total energy self-sufficiency figure in 2010 was 56%, products have a much smaller carbon footprint than competing compared to 54% in 2009. The share of renewable energy in our total products made of non-renewable materials. Stora Enso is constantly energy use was approximately 63% in 2010. developing its product range by finding new applications for wood and wood-based materials. During 2010 Stora Enso has launched Energy procurement and partnerships many new packaging applications which are more material efficient Stora Enso is increasingly focusing on securing and enhancing access and can be recycled or composted. Examples include fibre-based to cleaner energy through strategic partnerships with external energy packaging for cold cuts replacing plastic trays, and microwaveable suppliers. In 2010, 81% of our purchased electricity was generated and ovenproof packaging replacing aluminium trays. Stora Enso has from low carbon sources including nuclear energy and renewable invested in developing and testing biomass-based transport fuels energy sources. At Skutskär Mill in Sweden, the wind park built by together with Neste Oil in Finland. We are also actively building up VindIn AB of which Stora Enso owns about 15%, generated 29.5 GWh our expertise in biofuels through our expanding wood pellet business during 2010. Stora Enso has also decided to participate in VindIn’s 38 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 Energy consumption Fuels Electricity Biomass 73% Internally generated 36% Gas 14% Purchased: nuclear 40% Coal 3% Purchased: fossil 12% Oil 3% Purchased: hydro 9% Peat 5% Purchased: other renewable 3% Other fossil 2% Our total annual fuel consumption was 159 295 (130 389) terajoules (TJ) in 2010. We generated and purchased 16.8 terawatt hours (TWh) of electricity in 2010 and 1 TJ = 10¹² joules consumed 16.2 TWh. 0.6 TWh was sold. TWh (terawatt hour) = 109 kilowatt hours Energy efficiency Electricity consumption 1) Heat consumption 1, 2) 20 1.50 160 12.0 19 1.45 150 11.5 18 1.40 140 11.0 17 1.35 130 10.5 16 1.30 120 10.0 15 1.25 110 9.5 14 1.20 100 9.0 06 07 08 09 10 06–10 06 07 08 09 10 06–10 TWh 19.6 19.2 17.7 15 16.2 -17% PJ 147.4 141.9 129.6 107.6 127.7 -13% MWh/tonne 1.35 1.35 1.33 1.37 1.31 -3% GJ/tonne 10.18 9.96 9.73 9.82 10.32 +1% 1) From pulp, paper and board production facilites. Normalised figures are reported per unit sales production. 2) Excluding heat for electricity generation. Investors looking for transparent sustainability reporting Due to the intensifying global focus on climate change, investors measure and report their emissions transparently. We also aim to use today are increasingly attracted to companies who are clearly worksuch data to create new responsible investment products. ing to improve their environmental performance, and developing and applying technologies towards this end. At Nordea, we encourage our portfolio companies to develop new business ideas and generate sustainable profits through operations Nordea is one of the leading financial providers in the Nordic region, that are also socially and environmentally responsible. and we see responsible investments as an integral part of our product offering. One key factor behind such investment decisions is how Sustainability cannot just be a buzzword companies have to use in companies are addressing climate change. When we see that a their reports to attract responsible investments; it must be a genuine company is reporting its CO2 emissions transparently, this has a real and active choice, reflected in responsible and transparent reporting. impact on an investment decision. We aim to invest in companies that make such active choices to help build a sustainable future. We use the emissions data we receive from our investee companies to steer our investments so that they contribute towards the goal of a low-carbon economy. Information about companies’ other efforts Sasja Beslik to tackle climate change, such as improvements in energy efficiency, Head of Responsible are also useful in this context. Investments & Governance Nordea Investment Funds In response to growing climate awareness we are improving the products that we offer investors by encouraging our portfolio companies to Climate and energy 39 second wind farm project in Sweden which is expected to generate To further promote smart and efficient energy use we started a new 213 GWh annually from the end of 2012. training programme focusing on energy saving in 2010. Six of our European mills were selected for this scheme, with one member of Internal energy generation personnel at each mill trained to act as an internal energy saving agent. In 2010 our electricity self-sufficiency was 37%, compared to 33% Our goal is to establish a network of energy saving experts covering all in 2009. This increase was mainly due to the new multifuel power Stora Enso mills by the end of 2011, to share experiences and spread plants that started up at Langerbrugge Mill in Belgium and Maxau best practices. Mill in Germany. We expect that this figure will increase further in 2011 when these two plants, and another power plant completed Our special energy saving efforts initiated in 2009 continued in 2010. at the end of 2010 at Ostrołe˛ ka Mill in Poland, will be operational for Potential energy savings were identified through audits at Hylte, the whole year. With their combined capacity of 127 MW, these three Skoghall, Langerbrugge, Veitsiluoto, Imatra and Anjalankoski mills. power plants should alone increase our electricity self-sufficiency by This information will be used in the planning and implementation of approximately 5%. energy efficiency investments and improvements at these mills. During 2011 similar audits are planned to be conducted at Nymölla, Sunila, Pulp and paper production results in by-products such as black liquor, Corbehem, Uetersen, Imatra, Kabel and Maxau mills. bark and de-inking and bio-sludge that we use to produce bioenergy. Harvesting residues and recovered wood are also important biomass Following our carbon footprint sources in our internal energy generation. In 2010 our use of biomass Since 2007 we have estimated our Group-wide carbon footprint on for internal energy production remained stable at 73% (73%). an annual basis, with the aim of identifying the main sources of CO2 emissions across our operations. In addition to improving our energy self-sufficiency, the new multifuel power plants at Langerbrugge, Maxau and Ostrołe˛ka mills will enable We base our carbon footprint accounting and calculations on guideus to increase our use of biofuels. Multifuel boilers can use various lines established and provided by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the types of biomass fuels including forest residues and recovered wood, World Resource Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for as well as various sorted wastes, coal and gas. These plants will Sustainable Development (WBCSD). In our accounting we concentrate also help us to improve our overall energy efficiency, and they should on CO2 which is the dominant greenhouse gas in our carbon footprint, reduce our annual CO2 emissions by an estimated 205 000 tonnes but emissions of other greenhouse gases, such as methane (CH4) and per year. nitrogen dioxide (N2O) are also included where data exists. Improving energy efficiency We report on emissions in three areas: The best way to cut costs and work towards our environmental goals is to reduce our energy use. In 2010 our overall electricity efficiency • Scope 1: Emissions from sources we directly own or control, including improved by 3% from 2009. In 2009 we had set individual targets for on-site energy generation and processes, power boilers, lime kilns, each of our business areas to further improve energy efficiency. Fine paper-drying processes, vehicles, engines and harvesting equipment. Paper and Packaging Business Areas reached their targets of reducing • Scope 2: Emissions related to the purchased electricity and heat specific energy consumption by at least 2%. Publication Paper reached consumed in our operations. its target of reducing electricity consumption by 1%. The baseline year • Scope 3: Emissions from other indirect sources including the harvestfor these targets was 2009. These business areas have kept the same ing and transportation of wood raw materials and finished products, percentage improvement targets for 2011, with their energy consumpand emissions generated by raw material and fuel suppliers. Figures tion levels for 2010 as the new baseline. have been calculated based on estimates of CO2 per unit production in 2010. Better use of the combined heat and power (CHP) potential of our mills can increase the power-to-heat ratio of our internal energy production. In 2009 we improved the methodology and the accuracy for calculating This means that for each MWh of heat that we produce we also aim our Scope 3 emissions. Based on this improvement we also recalcuto maximise the amounts of electricity generated. The Group’s overall lated our Scope 3 estimates for 2006, 2007 and 2008 and we have power-to-heat ratio improved from 21% in 2009 to 22% in 2010. used the same methodology in 2010. Our centralised energy efficiency fund, which was set up in 2008 to Our total estimated carbon footprint (including Scopes 1, 2 and 3) support our mills energy efficiency projects, supported 22 projects in has increased by 12% from 8.54 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 2010. We will continue to support such energy efficiency projects and 2009 to 9.58 million tonnes in 2010. This was largely due to production have already selected 34 projects that will receive support during 2011. increases and consequent increases in energy use in 2010, following a year with extensive production curtailments in 2009. In 2010, direct 40 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 emissions from production (Scope 1) made up 34% of our total carbon in our power and heat generation. Another significant reason for the footprint, indirect emissions related to production (Scope 2) made up CO2 reductions achieved has been increased purchases of electricity 24%, and emissions from outsourced activities (Scope 3) accounted generated from low carbon energy sources. for 42%. Direct and indirect CO2 emissions CO2 reduction target In 2010 we increased our direct fossil CO2 emissions both in absolute We are actively working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our terms and per unit of sales production compared with 2009. Since production, and we have set a target to reduce fossil CO2 emissions per 2006 we have reduced our direct CO2 emissions from stationary saleable tonne of pulp, paper and board by 20% from 2006 levels by combustion sources at our pulp, paper and board mills by 6% per the end of 2020. This target covers both emissions generated directly unit of sales production. by our own facilities (Scope 1), and indirect emissions produced during the generation of the electricity and heat we purchase (Scope 2). Our indirect CO2 emissions are significantly influenced by the energy mix used in the national grids of the countries where we operate. By By the end of 2010 we had reduced our CO2 emissions per tonne of the end of 2010 our fossil CO2 emissions from energy purchased for product from our pulp, paper and board mills by 20% compared to electricity and heat had decreased to a level 35% lower per unit of our baseline year 2006. Since this means we have already reached sales production than in 2006. our target, we have made a commitment to set a new, tougher target during 2011. Recognised by the Carbon Disclosure Project In 2010 Stora Enso was ranked the best company in the Nordic region This significant reduction has been achieved mainly through improved by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) when it comes to reporting productivity, the use of more efficient equipment and streamlined on carbon emissions. The CDP also recognised our achievements in processes, the reduced use of fossil fuels, and improved efficiency reducing carbon emissions. For more information, see page 5. Our carbon footprint 2010 Performance against CO2 target 1) 9.58 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents 8 525 7 500 Scope 1: Direct emissions from 6 475 production 34% 5 450 Scope 2: Indirect emissions related 4 425 to production (purchased electricity 3 400 and heat) 24% 2 375 Scope 3: Indirect emissions from 06 07 08 09 10 06–10 outsourced activities 42% Million tonnes 7.36 6.66 5.68 4.52 5.01 -32% kg/tonne 508 468 426 412 405 -20% Target level 1)  overing direct and indirect fossil CO2 emissions (Scope 1 and 2) from C pulp, paper and board production facilities. Normalised figures are reported per unit sales production. Group level carbon footprint 2006–20101) Fossil CO2 equivalent ** Emission source Scope 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Stationary and mobile combustion sources (direct) Scope 1 3.25 2.61 * 3.26 * 3.60 * 4.01 * Purchased electricity and heat (indirect) Scope 2 2.27 2.33 * 2.91 * 3.50 * 3.91 * Other sources (indirect)* Scope 3 4.06 3.60 * 4.37 * 4.67 * 4.75 * Total 9.58 8.54 10.54 11.77 12.67 1) Covers all Stora Enso’s production units. * Figures have been recalculated due to changes in baseline and reporting errors. ** million tonnes Climate and energy 41 Sustainability data Certificates by unit OHSAS 18001 BRC/IoP/FDA ISO 14001 ISO 9001 ISO 22000 FSC C-o-C PEFC C-o-C Number of Recovered Unit emplyees a) Products Production b) fibre c) Landfill * Hazardous waste d) * Belgium Langerbrugge Mill 383 ① 528 117 x x x x x x 24 710 42 Brazil Arapoti Mill 350 ① 155 000 x x x x x 2 764 5 China Dawang Mill 216 ① 137 495 x x x x x x 200 0 Suzhou Mill 545 ② 219 972 x x x x x 0 7 Estonia Tallinn Mill 34 ⑤ 9 403 x 13 Finland Anjalankoski Mill 355 ①③ 555 431 x x x x x x 14 305 385 Enocell Mill 167 ④ 457 172 x x x x x 422 36 Heinola Fluting Mill 193 ③ 258 100 x x x x x x 11 407 79 Heinola Mill 147 ⑤ 39 933 x x x x x 21 Imatra Mills 1 242 i) ②③④ 1 049 854 x x x x x x x 6 793 184 Lahti Mill 259 ⑤ 30 668 x x x x x 23 Oulu Mill 681 ②④ 1 168 193 x x x x x 32 296 133 Ruovesi Mill 90 ⑤ 5 561 x x x x x 15 Sunila Mill 246 ④ 336 144 x x x x x 11 994 85 Tiukka Mill 56 ⑤ 6 680 x x x x x 13 Varkaus Mill 308 i) ①②④ 425 634 x x x x x 12 393 304 Veitsiluoto Mill 792 i) ①②④ 850 855 x x x x x 2 936 42 France Corbehem Mill 351 ① 270 567 x x x x 1 937 182 Germany Kabel Mill 631 ① 384 958 x x x x x 81 Maxau Mill 634 ① 531 320 x x x x x x 5 769 322 Sachsen Mill 338 ①④ 318 275 x x x x x x 0 73 Uetersen Mill 442 ②③ 267 898 x x x x x 42 Hungary Páty and Komárom Mills 187 ⑤ 15 524 x x x 56 75 Latvia Riga Mill 116 ⑤ 39 534 x 45 Lithuania Kaunas Mill 46 ⑤ 6 044 x 11 Poland Łodz Mill 238 ⑤ 47 309 x x x x 107 4 Mosina Mill 90 ⑤ 7 220 x x x x 40 17 Ostrołe˛ ka Mill 1 187 ③⑤ 323 068 x x x x x 5 366 83 Tychy Mill 188 ⑤ 43 260 x x x x 25 5 Russia Arzamas Mill 210 ⑤ 52 647 x 263 Balabanovo Mill 386 ⑤ 55 068 x 336 Lukhovitsy Mill 126 ⑤ 30 810 x 282 Spain Barcelona Mill 265 ③ 162 925 x x x x x x x 16 972 47 Sweden Falu Rödfärg h) ⑦ 721 x x x 9 Fors Mill 675 ③ 349 849 x x x x x x 522 92 Hylte Mill 803 ① 835 139 x x x x x x 50 021 147 Jönköping Mill 220 ⑤ 25 577 x x x 24 5 Kvarnsveden Mill 828 ① 883 287 x x x x x 51 194 Nymölla Mill 780 ②④ 458 870 x x x x x 110 65 Skene Mill 171 ⑤ 40 448 x x x 28 0 Skoghall Mill 879 ③ 717 499 x x x x x x 2 038 237 Skoghall Mill Forshaga 111 ⑤ 97 212 x x x x x 3 2 Skutskär Mill 391 ④ 512 859 x x x x x 172 15 Vikingstad Mill 63 ⑤ 19 719 x x x 9 6 Corenso Corenso Pori Coreboard Mill 108 ③ 112 660 x x x x x 45 10 Corenso Soustre Coreboard Mill 88 ③ 89 270 x x x x x 3 194 3 Wisconsin Rapids Coreboard Mill 66 ③ 66 307 x x x x x 3 717 Corenso, core factories 780 ⑤ 198 664 j) j) j) j) j) j) 358 14 Stora Enso Wood Products Sawmills 3 762 ⑥ 5 866 343 j) j) j) j) j) 7 254 482 Total pulp, paper, board and converted products, tonnes 13 198 720 211 806 3 032 Total wood products, m3 5 866 343 7 254 482 Grand Total 219 060 3 514 * tonnes ** 1 000m3 Footnotes a)=Year average. Source: financial accounting database. b)=Sales production. Sawn timber is reported in m3, other products in metric tonnes. c)=Mills using recovered fibre as raw material (fully or partly). d)=Reported on the basis of country-specific definitions applied in national regulations. e)=Total sulphur is reported as SO2 (sulphur dioxide) and includes all sulphurous compounds. f)=All CO2 figures are calculated using the WRI/WBCSD greenhouse gas protocol. Direct emissions from internal transport are excluded. g)=Indirect emissions from purchased heat and electricity. h)=Does not have personnel but buys this as a service from Stora Enso Ab. i)=The figure does not include service company personnel. j)=See www.storaenso.com/certificates. 42 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 Process Direct Direct water SO2 e) * NOX as NO2 * CO2 fossil f) * CO2 biomass f) * Indirect CO2 g) * COD * AOX * Phosphorus * Nitrogen * discharge ** 10 259 94 666 330 854 234 930 1 068 1.2 6.3 33.6 6 715 0 75 28 776 85 305 98 312 507 2 826 0 0 0 153 770 131 17.4 0.6 1.3 1 919 290 293 154 526 97 200 77 0.4 4.0 1 698 3 747 5 1 320 336 240 64 341 52 564 4 502 4.3 136.4 10 640 250 783 64 595 1 527 504 9 439 103.3 2.4 39.1 22 688 530 477 209 585 194 595 7 646 1 260 2.4 17.8 4 063 31 13 5 132 733 105 193 1 662 178 336 2 441 732 67 719 17 228 174.0 13.6 203.6 63 306 2 718 18 601 1 200 355 314 1 269 649 31 652 8 781 54.0 12.7 70.1 18 903 448 204 3 56 846 50 105 860 814 6 733 79.7 10.2 20.8 16 464 81 76 1 291 844 92 080 704 133 56 713 4 720 15.2 6.8 94.5 14 125 916 1 227 369 534 1 111 818 53 815 12 663 38.7 11.1 127.8 13 100 1 30 57 102 24 418 853 0.6 3.9 6 127 15 17 281 356 816 846 0.2 3.1 19.3 6 440 2 111 238 753 124 010 280 629 1 830 0.8 1.7 14.6 6 551 0 150 169 480 63 651 2 016 738 0.5 0.8 4.5 3 586 0 31 78 273 62 552 40 0.1 0.0 0.2 1 016 1 639 2 814 5 2 3 644 10 1 360 2 0 3 76 219 5 115 15 393 1 599 2 97 38 74 343 175 676 304 266 809 2.0 22.0 5 727 2 392 3 315 8 1 3 4 017 14 430 33 1 3 4 939 21 208 38 0 3 2 254 11 945 44 127 181 914 0 184 786 0 757 160 8 112 3 047 281 983 5 885 2 462 1 2.0 29 4 038 3 197 25 366 447 910 17 500 1 485 0 2.7 31 7 578 1 331 526 86 146 31 849 312 296 33 803 3 078 2 3.3 75 12 531 499 586 -3 658 770 285 5 162 11 138 0 7.7 63 27 544 0 6 19 201 489 96 109 906 791 10 572 7 621 12 5.9 81 23 326 339 299 711 26 162 1 553 587 226 8 850 53 15.8 100 20 398 3 1 492 11 1 1 709 28 203 571 0.2 5.9 667 19 349 1 363 93 503 0 0 43 142 587 982 4 543 12 344 23 25 698 20 079 308 733 157 775 145 2.9 310 4 372 10 755 3 054 481 13 226 934 2 117 181 108 294 554 120 1 195 304 559 25 698 20 079 308 733 157 775 145 2.9 310 4 397 11 453 3 074 561 13 535 667 2 274 956 108 439 554.2 122.9 1 195.5 304 869 Products: ① newsprint and magazine paper ② fine paper ③ board and packaging paper ④ market pulp ⑤ converted products (e.g. cores, inpregnated laminating paper, corrugated board) ⑥ wood products ⑦ red paint pigment Sustainability data by unit 43 GRI table This report follows the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3 guidelines and meets the GRI B+ level standard. The table below shows how and where the GRI indicators are adressed. An extended version of the GRI table can be found at www.storaenso.com/sustainabilityreport. SP = Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 FP = Stora Enso Financial Performance Report 2010 CG = Stora Enso Corporate Governance Report 2010 • Fully reported Partially reported Location Level PROFILE 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Statement from the CEO SP pages 6–7 • 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities SP pages 2–3, 6–7 • 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organisation SP page 1 • 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services SP page 1 • 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation SP page 1, FP page 50 • 2.4 Location of headquarters SP back cover • 2.5 Countries in which the organisation's operations are located SP pages 1, 2–3 • 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form SP page 1 • 2.7 Markets served SP pages 1, 16–17 • 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation SP page 1, FP page 35 • 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period SP page 23. Kotka Mill was sold in 2009. • 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period SP pages 5, 6–7 • 3. REPORT PARAMETERS Report profile 3.1 Reporting period 1 January 2010–31 December 2010 • 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 25 February 2010 • 3.3 Reporting cycle SP page 9 (annual) • 3.4 Contact point for questions SP back cover • Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content SP page 10 • 3.6 Boundary of the report Extended GRI table • 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary Extended GRI table • 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries etc Extended GRI table • 3.9 Data measurement techniques Extended GRI table • 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information Extended GRI table • 3.11 Significant changes in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied Extended GRI table • Assurance 3.13 Policy and practice with regard to external assurance SP pages 9, 48 • 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT Governance 4.1 Governance structure CG page 2 • 4.2 Position of the chair of the board of directors CG page 2, Extended GRI table • 4.3 Independent, non-executive directors on the board of directors CG page 4 • 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations to CG page 3, Extended GRI table • the board of directors 4.5 Executive compensation CG pages 4, 6, 7, 9–13, Extended GRI table • 4.6 Avoiding conflicts of interest CG pages 4, 14 • 44 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 Location Level 4.7 Determining the qualifications and expertise board members need for guiding Extended GRI table • strategy on sustainability 4.8 Mission or values statements, codes of conduct, sustainability principles SP page 8 • 4.9 Board-level procedures overseeing sustainability performance SP page 8, Extended GRI table • 4.10 Evaluating board performance with respect to sustainability performance CG pages 4, 5, Extended GRI table • Commitments to external initiatives 4.11 Addressing the precautionary approach or principle SP pages 9, 17 • 4.12 External charters, principles or initiatives endorsed SP pages 5, 6–7, 9 • 4.13 Memberships in associations SP page 11 • Stakeholder engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged SP pages 10–11 • 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders SP pages 10–11, Extended GRI table • 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement SP pages 10–11, Extended GRI table • 4.17 Responding to key topics resulting from stakeholder engagements SP pages 10–11 • 5. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ECONOMIC INDICATORS Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed SP pages 16–17, Extended GRI table • EC2 Risks and opportunities due to climate change SP pages 38–41, FP page 30 EC3 Coverage of defined benefit plan obligations FP pages 89–93 • EC4 Significant financial assistance from government FP pages 3, 60 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume SP page 34 • EN2 Recycled materials used SP pages 24, 29 • Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption SP pages 38–40 • EN4 Indirect energy consumption SP pages 38–40 • EN5 Energy saved through conservation and efficiency improvements SP pages 38–40 • EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products SP pages 38–40 • EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption SP pages 38–40 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal SP page 32 • EN9 Water sources significantly affected SP page 32, Extended GRI table • EN10 Total recycling and reuse of water SP page 32 Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land holdings in biodiversity-rich habitats SP page 27 • EN13 Habitats protected or restored SP pages 26–28 EN14 Managing impacts on biodiversity SP pages 26–28 Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions SP pages 40–41 • EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions SP pages 40–41 • EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions SP pages 33, 35 EN21 Total water discharge SP pages 33, 42–43 • EN22 Total amount of waste SP page 34 EN23 Significant spills SP page 34 • EN24 Transported, imported, exported or treated hazardous waste SP page 34 Products and services EN26 Mitigating environmental impacts of products and services SP pages 12–15 Compliance EN28 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental regulations SP page 36 • Transport EN29 Environmental impacts of transportation SP pages 30–31 Overall EN30 Environmental expenditures SP page 36 • GRI table 45 Location Level SOCIAL INDICATORS LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment LA1 Breakdown of workforce SP pages 22–23 LA2 Breakdown of employee turnover SP pages 22–23 LA3 Employee benefits SP pages 16–17 Labour/management relations LA4 Coverage of collective bargaining agreements SP page 22 • Occupational health and safety LA6 Workforce representation in joint health and safety committees SP page 20 • LA7 Injuries, lost days, absentee rates and fatalities SP pages 20–21. We have not identified significant • absenteeism due to occupational disease. Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee SP pages 22–23 LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning to support continued SP pages 22–23 employability and manage career endings LA12 Employees receiving performance and career development reviews SP page 22 • Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and employee breakdown SP pages 22–23, CG pages 16–19 • Human rights Investment and procurement practices HR1 Human rights screening or clauses included in significant investment SP pages 9, 16–17 agreements HR2 Screening suppliers and contractors on human rights and actions taken SP page 30 HR3 Employee training on human rights SP page 18 (Code of Conduct training, which takes • aproximately 45 minutes to complete) Non-discrimination HR4 Actions taken in incidents of discrimination SP page 18 (Code of Conduct grievance mechanism) • Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Supporting right to freedom of association and SP pages 22–23 • collective bargaining in risk areas Child labour HR6 Measures taken to eliminate child labour in risk areas SP page 19 Forced and compulsory labour HR7 Measures taken to eliminate forced and compulsory labour in risk areas SP page 19 Indigenous rights HR9 Violations of indigenous people’s rights and actions taken SP page 28. No violations have ocurred. • Society Community SO1 Management of impacts on communities in areas affected by activities SP pages 16–17 • Corruption SO3 Anti-corruption training SP page 18 (Code of Conduct training) • Public policy SO6 Contributions to political parties, politicians and institutions Extended GRI table • Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Anti-trust and monopoly court cases Extended GRI table • Compliance SO8 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Extended GRI table • Product responsibility Customer health and safety PR1 Assessment of health and safety impacts of products SP page 14 • Product and service labelling PR3 Product information required by procedures SP page 15 (Paper profiles) • 46 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 GRI statement 47 Independent Assurance Statement Conclusions to the Management and Stakeholders Adherence to AA1000 Accountability Principles of Stora Enso • Inclusivity: Stora Enso was found to have systems in place for stakeholder involvement, and the company has made a commitment to stakeholder dialogue Scope and Objectives • Materiality: Stora Enso has defined material sustainability reporting issues The Management of Stora Enso has commissioned us to perform a limited as a part of the Stora Enso sustainability governance and management assurance engagement on the Sustainability Performance Report 2010 • Responsiveness: Stora Enso has adequate policies, guidelines and (“Report”). The assurance engagement was conducted in accordance with procedures in place to respond to stakeholder’s expectations the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008). We have performed a limited assurance engagement, the objective of which was to evaluate: Reliability of Performance Information • Stora Enso’s adherence to the AA1000 Accountability Principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness, We have reviewed the basis of the sustainability information in the report. • Reliability of performance information presented in the Report according Based on the review, nothing has come to our attention that would suggest, to the Quality of Information Principles defined in the Global Reporting that the report does not give, in all material issues, a fair and balanced view of Initiative Guidelines, and Stora Enso’s sustainability performance, and that the information presented • GRI application level of the Report. is not, in all material issues, reliable based on the reporting criteria. Responsibilities of the Management of Stora Enso GRI Application Level and Assurance Providers Stora Enso’s Management is responsible for the preparation of the Report, The Report corresponds to the GRI application level B+ the presented performance data including statements expressed within the Report; and has approved them. The reporting criteria used for our Observations and Recommendations assessment are the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and Stora Enso’s Based on our limited level assurance engagement, we present the following internal responsibility reporting guidelines. Our responsibility is to express observations and recommendations, which do not affect our conclusion a conclusion on the information disclosed in the Report based on our work presented above. performed. • Stora Enso has systems and controls in place to collect and consolidate Assurance Provider’s Independence and Competence Group level sustainability data. Data collection is based on distinct An assurance provider is required to be independent and impartial from processes, which could be better integrated for sustainability management the reporting organization. We were not involved in the preparation of the purposes. We recommend integrating all the sustainability data gathering Report, and have no other engagement with Stora Enso during the reporting processes into a common, streamlined process, which is completely year. In 2007-2008 we have assisted Stora Enso to implement a Group documented in order to confront reporting risk management and change level data consolidation system (SDM) for environmental performance data. management issues. Furthermore systematic data gathering and analysing As a part of this assurance engagement the SDM system was reviewed procedures, improved documentation on Group level occupational health by an independent Certified Information System Auditor. Our assurance and safety (OHS) and human resources (HR) data can be developed. team consists of competent and experienced responsibility reporting and • Based on materiality analysis there are several business critical assurance experts, who have necessary skills to perform an assurance sustainability issues in which Stora Enso has responded. Primary concerns process. Further information, including a statement of competencies related to Stora Enso’s stakeholders are the environmental performance of mills, to the team can be found at: www.tofuture.eu. origin of wood, forest certification, environmental and social impacts of plantations. We encourage Stora Enso to progress intensively with the Basis of Our Opinion and Limitations new Global Responsibility approach to global stakeholder engagement An assurance process is required to be planned and performed in a way in including forest certification, plantation and land ownership issues. which the assurance provider collects adequate evidence for the conclusion. • Sustainability governance and management in Stora Enso is firmly The procedures selected depend on the assurance provider’s judgement; established. Stora Enso’s sustainability reporting has been developed including the assessment of the risk of material misstatement adhere to the incrementally. We encourage Stora Enso to establish even more challenging reporting criteria. We have performed the following procedures: targets for environmental performance and further increasing efforts to • Assessment of Stora Enso’s procedures in place to adhere to principles meet the targets regarding OHS performance. of stakeholder inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. • Evaluation of performance information presented in the Report against stakeholder expectations. For this purpose we have conducted a materiality test and collected 27 external and 26 internal experts’ views on material stakeholder expectations for Stora Enso. Espoo, 4th February 2011 • Interviews with managers responsible for performance data collection at Tofuture Oy | Sustainability Assurance Group level and in selected sites. • Review of Group level systems and procedures to generate, collect and report performance data for the Report. • Evaluation of Group level calculations and data consolidation procedures and internal controls to ensure data accuracy. • Review of data sources, data generation and reporting processes at Mikael Niskala Jani Alenius Veitsiluoto Mills in Finland and Wood Supply in Sweden. Director of Assurance Practice Senior Assurance Practitioner 48 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 Does recycling do any good? www.storaenso.com/globalresponsibility Please help us be part of the solution by recycling this publication if you do not need it anymore! Concept and design: Miltton Oy Photography: Petri Artturi Asikainen (Cover), Visuamo/Jenni-Justiina Niemi, Gabriel Pereya, Nordea, Nokia, Teemu Kuusimurto, Markus Bullik, Potkastudios/Katri Pyynönen, The United Nations, Mikael Risedal/The International Institute for Industrial Environmental Economics at Lund University, cultura/Corbis, Kai Skyttä, Stora Enso It should be noted that certain statements herein which are not historical facts, including, without limitation those regarding expectations for market growth and developments; expectations for growth and profitability; and statements preceded by “believes”, “expects”, “anticipates”, “foresees”, or similar expressions, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Since these statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, they involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to materially differ from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: (1) operating factors such as continued success of manufacturing activities and the achievement of efficiencies therein, continued success of product development, acceptance of new products or services by the Group’s targeted customers, success of the existing and future collaboration arrangements, changes in business strategy or development plans or targets, changes in the degree of protection created by the Group’s patents and other intellectual property rights, the availability of capital on acceptable terms; (2) industry conditions, such as strength of product demand, intensity of competition, prevailing and future global market prices for the Group’s products and the pricing pressures thereto, price fluctuations in raw materials, financial condition of the customers and the competitors of the Group, the potential introduction of competing products and technologies by competitors; and (3) general economic conditions, such as rates of economic growth in the Group’s principal geographic markets or fluctuations in exchange and interest rates. Financial Stora Enso – Financial Performance 2010 Facts Performance & Figures Financial Report 2010 Stora Enso’s Year 2010 2 Information for shareholders Global 10 Calculation of key figures 3 Map Responsibility 11 Key figures 5 Stora Enso in brief Sustainability Report 2010 12 Facts Extract of the consolidated financial statements 6 Business Areas 16 Auditor’s report & Figures Stora Enso’s Year 2010 8 Board of Directors and Group Executive Team 2 3 Information for shareholders Map 10 11 Calculation of key figures Key figures 5 Stora Enso in brief 12 Extract of the consolidated financial statements 6 Business Areas 16 Auditor’s report 8 Board of Directors and Group Executive Team Global Responsibility – Facts & Figures – Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 Stora Enso 2010 Describes Stora Enso’s sustainability Offers basic information for the shareholder activities relating to the company’s mills, about Stora Enso's financial performance products, stakeholders, wood and fibre and proposed dividend, as well as gives sourcing, climate and energy, the environAnnual General Meeting, publication and ment, and social responsibility. The report other important dates. follows Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. Stora Enso Oyj P.O. Box 309 FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland Visiting address: Kanavaranta 1 Tel. +358 2046 131 Stora Enso AB P.O. Box 70395 SE-107 24 Stockholm, Sweden Visiting address: World Trade Center Klarabergsviadukten 70 Tel. +46 1046 46 000 www.storaenso.com group.communications@storaenso.com Facts & Figures – Financial Performance – Stora Enso 2010 Stora Enso Financial report 2010 Offers basic information for the Contains in-depth information about Stora shareholder about Stora Enso's financial Enso's financial performance, corporate performance and proposed dividend, as governance as well as the capital markets. well as gives Annual General Meeting, Includes consolidated financial statements publication and other important dates. and notes, and the report of the Board of Directors. Stora Enso Oyj P.O. Box 309 FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland Visiting address: Kanavaranta 1 Tel. +358 2046 131 Fax +358 2046 21471 Terhi Koipijärvi Head of Global Responsibility Stora Enso Oyj P.O. Box 309 FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland Tel. +358 2046 21347 Read more at: www.storaenso.com www.storaenso.com/globalresponsibility Send your feedback to: sustainability@storaenso.com
