COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) LANDELL CONSULTING 6/99 Queen Street Melbourne, Victoria, Australia 3000 1 February 2011 INTRODUCTORY REPORTING INFORMATION Name of the Organisation Landell Consulting Country Australia Joining Date 12 December 2009 Organisation Type Small company Sector Primarily government Website www.landell.com.au A+: GRI Reporting Level C C+ B: B+ A Reporting Period December 2009 – December 2010 Date of most recent 24 December 2009 previous report Reporting cycle Annual External Assurance Yes No Contact Caroline Gordon Principal, Government and Corporate Social Position Title Responsibility E-mail info@landell.com.au Contact number +61 3 9011 8440 Table of Contents OPEN LETTER OF SUPPORT SUPPORT FROM LANDELL’S MANAGING DIRECTOR ................................................................ ....................................3 1. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL GLOBA COMPACT ............................................ ................................ 4 1.1. Global Compact ................................................................ ............................................ 4 1.2. Ten Global Compact Principles .................................................... ................................ 4 2. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PRO (COP)....................................... ................................ 4 3. LANDELL’S MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNITED NATIONS NATION GLOBAL COMPACT ................................................................ ..........................................4 4. LANDELL CONSULTING ORGANISATIONAL ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE PROFIL ...................5 4.1. COMPLIANCE WITH THE GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE ................................................................ ................................................... 5 4.2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE ..................................................... ................................ 5 5. LANDELL’S 2009-2010 2009 PROGRESS.................................................. ................................ 7 5.1. LANDELL’S 2009 INITIATIVES .................................................... ................................ 7 5.2. LANDELL’S 2010 INITIATIVE REVIEW ....................................... ................................ 9 6. LANDELL’S 2011 CSR INITIATIVES I ................................ ................................................ 16 7. COMMUNICATION OF THE COP .................................................... ................................ 18 OPEN LETTER OF SUPPORT FROM LANDELL’S MANAGING DIRECTOR It gives me great pleasure to present Landell Consulting’s Communication on Progress (COP) for 2011. In 2008, Landell Consulting took the opportunity offered by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) to publicly express our commitment to the 10 principles. Encouraged by the UNGC, we issued our first COP last year which confirmed our continued commitment to the 10 principles, and our commitment to the areas of human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption. Landell’s membership of United Nations Global Compact is an undertaking to contribute to a collective responsibility in which business can strive to find joint solutions to ensure our future. We endeavour to lead by example and to disseminate, where possible, those 10 principles for the social and economic progress of society. Landell’s progress is predicated on the belief in ‘leading by example’. Our commitment to ethical behaviour within our own business is ongoing. Beyond internal goals, our range of expertise in a number of relevant fields (including corporate social responsibility, procurement and probity, contracts, brokerage, training and project management) and our role as a service provider to government, has allowed us to promote the goals of the UNGC to our clients. In addition to securing membership of the United Nations’ Global Compact, we have taken a membership role on the United Nations Global Compact Network Australia: Human Rights Working Group for Business. As part of our operations, Landell’s CSR Unit has been responsible for developing the sustainability training package with ECO-Buy, the pre-eminent green procurement non-profit organisation in Victoria, and the provision of social procurement and policy advice to the Department of Human Services on its Discount for Housing Tenants package. Landell is currently supporting a Department of Planning and Community Development DPCD initiative – ‘Expert Support Program: Social Procurement in Practice’ – a partnership initiative providing offering eight pilot councils support in their development of social procurement initiatives. Landell offered a 40% discount for the provision of its services to the project, as a reflection of Landell’s commitment to its corporate responsibility ideals and principles. These are just a few of the ways that we seek to enhance our relationships with government stakeholders to disseminate the principles and implement the practice of the UNGC’s 10 goals. I affirm my continuing support for the United Nations’ Global Compact. Lexton Gebert Managing Director, Landell Consulting 1. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 1.1. Global Compact Through the power of collective action, the Global Compact seeks to advance responsible corporate citizenship so that business can be part of the solution to the challenges of globalisation. The Global Compact asks participants to pursue two complementary objectives (1) making the Global Compact and its principles part of business strategy and operations; and (2) facilitating co-operation among key stakeholders by promoting partnerships in support of UN goals. 1.2. Ten Global Compact Principles The UN Global Compact is a framework to enable businesses to align their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. 2. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) One of the explicit commitments that a company makes when it participates in the UN Global Compact is to communicate annually with stakeholders on actions taken by implementing the Global Compact principles in the form of an annual Communication on Progress (COP). The COP provides informs stakeholders about the progress the company has made in implementing the 10 Global Compact principles in its business activities. While there is no specific format or standard for a COP, the communication must contain three elements: 1. Statement of continued support for the Global Compact by the CEO or other senior executive 2. Description of practical actions taken to implement the global compact principles 3. Measurement of outcomes or expected outcomes 3. LANDELL’S MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT On 27 November 2008, the Managing Director of Landell Consulting, Lexton Gebert, wrote to the Honourable Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General of the United Nations seeking membership of the Global Compact. On 12 December 2008, the Global Compact Office officially advised Landell that it had become a member of the Global Compact. 4. LANDELL CONSULTING ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 4.1. COMPLIANCE WITH THE GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE Landell’s COP utilises the performance indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Linking the GRI G3 Guidelines to the 10 Compact principles integrates the COP with its other GRI-based sustainability reporting mechanisms. 4.2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 4.2.1 Organisational Name Landell Corporation Pty Ltd trades as Landell Consulting. 4.2.2 Services Provided Founded in 1999, Landell Consulting is a management consultancy specialising in government procurement, probity, risk management, project management and training. In 2008, Landell Consulting extended its operations to incorporate a Corporate Social Responsibility Unit, managed by a Principal of the organisation. Landell’s diverse government client base includes many State and Commonwealth departments and funded agencies, exemplified by its membership of a number of government probity and procurement panels including: Victoria • The Probity Practitioner Services Panel (whole-of-Victorian-Government). • eServices Panel (whole-of-Victorian-Government). • The Commercial and Financial Advisory Services Panel for Infrastructure and Capital Assets Projects and Commercial Transactions (whole-of-Victorian-Government). • The Environment Protection Authority Preferred Consultants Panel (Victoria). • Strategic Procurement Plan Development Services Panel (Victoria Police). Commonwealth • The Defence Services Group Consultancy Panel – Probity. • The Department of Veterans Affairs Probity Adviser Services Panel. • The Department of Families, Housing, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs, Provision of IT Contractors – Procurement. • The Medicare Australia ICT Services Advisory Panel. 4.2.3 Organisational Structure / Scale of the Organisation Landell has a committed team of over 20 highly experienced consultants working across the organisation’s four business lines. Landell’s organisational structure is represented in summary format diagrammatically below. Managing Director Office Manager In-house counsel Office assistant Principal, Business Principal, Government Principal, ICT Principal, Probity and Commercial Policy & Corporate Procurement Strategy Social Responsibility Senior Consultant Probity Advisor Consultant Consultant Senior Consultant Probity Advisor Consultant Note: Not all Landell consultants are represented in the diagram 4.2.4 Location of the Organisation’s Headquarters Landell Consulting is based in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. 4.2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates Landell Consulting currently only operates in Australia. 4.2.6 Nature of Ownership and Legal Form Landell Corporation Pty Ltd, which trades as Landell Consulting, is a private company. 4.2.7 Markets Served by the Organisation Landell Consulting primarily undertakes projects for the Victorian and the Commonwealth Government, but has undertaken several projects for the private sector. 4.2.8 Report Boundaries, including Clients, Supply Chain and Stakeholders This report extends beyond the internal operations of Landell Consulting to its suppliers and clients. 5. LANDELL’S 2009-2010 PROGRESS 5.1. LANDELL’S 2009 INITIATIVES This report represents Landell’s second COP. Landell’s first COP outlined a number of initiatives and key performance indicators by which Landell intended to measure success. We have seen success against a great number of targets and have made substantial progress with many others (as tabulated in 4.2 below). However, the experience of our first year has allowed us to reflect on our objectives and review the ambition behind our first COP. Our involvement in the UNGC is based on the assumption of continuing improvement, and as such, our synthesis of the objectives, criteria and evaluation described led us to conclude the following: • Goals can be better aligned to Landell core business. Landell is unique in being able to offer a range of specialist expertise in a number of relevant fields, and in aligning our CSR targets more closely with this expertise we will be better able to capitalise on the diverse knowledge and drive of our consultants. • There is a need to ensure a systemic coordination between and within the individual teams throughout the year, to allow for more accurate reporting in our 2012-13 Communication on Progress. Landell will develop not only the quantitative measure but additionally Formative evaluation techniques will ensure valuable feedback during the year and summative techniques will contribute to the overall evaluation at the time of the next COP. • Landell’s 2009-10 goals have undergone significant revision for 2011-12. We have sought to better define our strategic stretch goals, to stimulate innovation within the field of CSR. Any future targets will seek to be more ambitious than improved standard operations. Landell Consulting’s Communication on Progress January 2011 5.2. LANDELL’S 2010 INITIATIVE REVIEW Below is the code key for the assessment against performance indicator measurement for Landell’s 2010 initiatives. KEY TO ASSESSMENT AGAINST PERFORMANCE INDICATOR MEASUREMENT FOR LANDELL’S 2010 INITIATIVES CODE DESCRIPTION Target Achieved 2009 Project successful in its aims. Project complete, or ongoing with continuing systems. Target On Track for Success Project has not yet had sufficient time for completion, but remains on track for success. May have minor setbacks or failures to meet targets in non-core areas. Target Steady Shortcomings in core/non-core areas. Project may still be successfully implemented with effort, but a revision of targets is recommended. Unacceptable Progress Target has not yet been successful and appears manageable only with major effort. Target Failure Target has not been successfully met, and has little or no prospect of successful attainment. Target Not Assessed Insufficient time for project results to be known, or limited data available. No results are yet determinable. Any target not receiving a green code assessment was recommended for further consideration, with reason for lack of success to be determined. Targets coded dark yellow were not assessed due to insufficient time, information or relevance. No ‘not assessed’ targets were considered unsuccessful and were, therefore, not recommended for further review. Page 9 of 19 Landell Consulting’s Communication on Progress January 2011 LABOUR Performance Indicator Measurement Performance Measurement Result Initiative 2009 Project for Landell’s second COP in 2010 • Dissemination of the code of The supplier code of behaviour has been presented behaviour to Landell partners and to Landell Principal’s Meeting (Senior Management In 2009, Landell developed a draft supplier suppliers 100% Group) in 2010. The supplier code of behaviour is code of behaviour which promotes an • Inculcation of the principles of the available to all Landell staff and contractors through environment in which business can be supplier code into client the Landell intranet. conducted with integrity and in a fair and documentation 80% Supplier Code of reasonable manner, which includes: The principles of the supplier code of conduct are Behaviour • an ethical sourcing standard; an essential part of Landell core business. As • legislative and regulatory compliance procurement and probity specialists, contractors provisions; and submitting to tender self-declare against ethical • CSR performance monitoring and employment, and other legislative and regulatory reporting provisions. provisions. Substantial due diligence is done as part of the tender process, and Landell offers support to ensure the success of this process. Page 10 of 19 Landell Consulting’s Communication on Progress January 2011 LABOUR Performance Indicator Measurement Performance Measurement Result Initiative 2009 Project for Landell’s second COP in 2010 • Total training hours per employee Training per annum 40 hours Employees have been offered training hours in • Gender profile: relevant areas, including training for maintaining a o Employee/sub-contractor legal practising certificate. We operate a graduate gender profile 50% male / mentoring programme. Employees who have not yet 50% female elected to undertake their training allowance continue to have the option of doing so. o Managerial gender profile 50% male / 50% female Gender Profile of Landell Managerial – 50% male (2) and 50% female (2) In 2009, Landell drafted a Human Resources • Total number of incidents of Framework which: discrimination and actions taken Employee/subcontractors – 50% male (6) and 50% • mandates regulatory compliance; against Landell 0 female (6). • precludes discrimination; • Total number of incidents of Incidents • encourages equal opportunity, violations involving rights of Total number of incidents of discrimination and Human Resources diversity, job security, work-life indigenous people 0 actions taken against Landell in 2010 0 (incl. Equitable balance, high morale, teamwork and • Total number of substantiated Employment training; and Total number of incidents of violations involving complaints regarding breaches of rights of indigenous people and actions taken in Policies) • ensures organisational health and customer privacy and losses of 2010 0 safety. customer data 0 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Landell’s Human Resources Framework is • Total number of incidents of nonbreaches of customer privacy and losses of regularly reviewed to ensure that employment compliance with regulations and customer data in 2010 0 standards are respected. voluntary codes concerning health Total number of incidents of non-compliance with and safety impacts 0 regulations and voluntary codes concerning health • Annual Landell turnover rate: 10% and safety impacts in 2010 0 • Full-time employees receiving the Employment Conditions benefits sick leave; recreation leave; Annual Landell turnover rate for 2010 10% (2) carer’s leave; bereavement leave; and study leave 100% Full-time employees who received the following benefits sick leave; recreation leave; carer’s leave; bereavement leave; and study leave 100% Page 11 of 19 Landell Consulting’s Communication on Progress January 2011 Landell has recently developed a Code of • Code breaches investigated and Breaches to the code of conduct in 2010 0 Conduct, which canvasses key Global remediated 100% Compact principles including respect for human rights and equal opportunity; and Code of Conduct deterrence of discrimination and corruption The Code of Conduct provides for the confidential reporting of conduct breaches to senior management HUMAN RIGHTS Performance Indicator Measurement Performance Measurement Result Initiative 2009 Project for Landell’s second COP in 2010/11 • Landell has developed a Human • Operations having a significant risk Based on Landell’s internal Human Resources Resources Framework which addresses for incidents of child labour 0 Framework, and the use of the Malplecroft Child the following matters: • Landell staff received who receive Labour Index where relevant, Landell has had zero o employment, Landell’s human rights statement operations having significant risk for child labour. o diversity, 100% Landell’s human rights statement was made available o equal opportunity and to all staff via Landell’s internal intranet. In addition, a Commitment to o discrimination; and discussion paper was prepared for circulation Human Rights o occupational health and safety. amongst staff, outlining Landell’s commitment to • In compliance with Landell’s endorsement human rights, and our involvement in the United of the UN Global Compact and its Nations Global Compact. underlying principles, Landell has adopted a statement supporting basic human rights. Page 12 of 19 Landell Consulting’s Communication on Progress January 2011 ENVIRONMENT Performance Indicator Initiative 2009 Project Measurement for Landell’s second Performance Measurement Result COP in 2010/11 • Landell was originally established as a • Maintenance of the MoU between The MoU between Landell and ECO-Buy has been procurement organisation Landell and ECO-Buy maintained. • “Green” procurement practices are • Inculcation of “green” procurement “Green” procurement clauses have been incorporated critical, as they filter down to all clauses in all procurement in all procurement documentation drafted by Landell for government activities documentation drafted by Landell government agencies where compatible with clients’ for government agencies directions. • Landell has actively sought to: o develop partnerships with green organisations; and Dissemination of o inculcate green requirements in green policies to all of its procurement projects clients and the • In 2009, Landell: wide community o signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), with the pre-eminent NGO green procurement agency, ECO-Buy; and o undertook the development of 8 “green” procurement training modules for ECO-Buy to be provided to Victorian Government agencies Page 13 of 19 Landell Consulting’s Communication on Progress January 2011 ENVIRONMENT Performance Indicator Measurement Initiative 2009 Project Performance Measurement Result for Landell’s second COP in 2010/11 • Landell has implemented an • Contract with a green Landell uses EMAS Europa (EU Eco-Management and internal environmental strategy paper recycling company – Audit Scheme) endorsed recycled paper recycled paper to reduce our organisation’s 2010/11 and maintains a contract with Tree House Recycling for environmental footprint, by • % reduction in CO2 paper disposal and recycling. implementing initiatives emissions 10% from Landell uses 100% green energy. Our electricity is relating to: 2009 provided from sustainable and renewable sources o recycling; • % reduction in paper use including wind and solar. o water consumption; 10% from 2009 Employees routinely turn off lights, and natural light is o electricity • % reduction in electricity used wherever possible to minimise electricity usage. consumption; and use 10% from 2009 Landell participates annually in EarthHour. Reduction of o carbon emissions • % reduction in water use While Landell’s electricity and water use were monitored, 10% from 2009 it was not possible to monitor a reduction in CO2 Landell’s emissions. environmental • Staff working from home footprint 40% Subject to client or operational needs, Landell has been • Use of Skype (to preclude successful in the 40% target for employees working from unnecessary travel by home in 2009. employees) 20% increase from 2009 usage In addition to our online instant messaging facilities for Landell staff and contractors, Landell uses virtual meetings to minimise travel. Use of Skype was replaced by Gmail video and audio chatting in June 2010, and employees were provided with training and support on use of our new systems. All new employees receive training and systems support on commencing with Landell. Page 14 of 19 Landell Consulting’s Communication on Progress January 2011 ANTI-CORRUPTION Performance Indicator Performance Measurement Result Initiative 2009 Project Measurement for Landell’s second COP in 2010/11 • Probity • Landell Consulting is only one of • Renewal of Landell’s membership Landell was advised by DTF in January 2011 that our Tender 11 members of the whole-ofof the whole-of-Victorianfor the Whole of Victorian Government was been successful Victorian-Government Probity Government Probity Practitioner Practitioner Services Panel Services Panel 2011 • Accountability • Landell’s policies and operations • Employee training in public All Landell employees receive training in public accountability, and have been reviewed to accountability, transparency and and transparency as part of their initial training. Transparency incorporate the concepts of continuous improvement 2010 Internal malfeasance breaches in 2010 0 public accountability, • Internal malfeasance breaches 0 transparency and continuous improvement • Landell promotes clear corporate transparency to preclude any risk of malfeasance • Privacy and • Landell has developed strict • Dissemination of privacy and Privacy and confidentiality protocols were supplied to Confidentiality privacy and confidentiality confidentiality protocols to employees and contractors, and to stakeholders where protocols employees and stakeholders practical. .All Landell consultants are required to sign a confidentiality deed at the commencement of any project. Victorian public sector employees, and external project contractors, are advised of their obligations for confidentiality and are recommended to sign a confidentially acknowledgment or deed respectively. Table 1: Landell's 2010 CSR Performance Page 15 of 19 Communication on Progress Landell Consulting January 2011 6. LANDELL’S 2011 CSR INITIATIVES In addition to all performance indicator measurements outlined in Section 5.2, Landell will also undertake the following CSR initiatives in 2011. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Initiative 2011 Project Performance Indicator Measurement for Landell’s 2011/12 COP • Landell will act as a broker between eight • Successful completion of the projects and dissemination of the outcomes to Local Government Victorian local government and specialist all Victorian councils Broker advisers to assist the councils to implement corporate social responsibility projects • Landell will develop a tool for local government • Successful development of a sustainable procurement tool for local Local Government to inculcate CSR in procurement policy and government Initiative procedures • Landell will provide significant discounts on all • Provision of discounted CSR offerings to government government projects which have a primary CSR Discount corporate social responsibility focus to underscore Landell’s commitment to the 10 Global Compact Principles • Provision of at least four significant instances of pro bono advice to Pro bono advice to • Landell will provide pro bono advice to charitable organisations, including World Vision, Australia's largest charitable charitable organisations charitable organisations group • Landell is establishing itself as a Registered • Development of training materials and tools which include corporate social Training Organisation. Landell will develop responsibility and sustainability policies and procedures Sustainability Training procurement training which inculcates sustainable and corporate social responsibility initiatives in all training tools and documents Page 16 of 19 Communication on Progress Landell Consulting January 2011 HUMAN RIGHTS Initiative 2011 Project Performance Indicator Measurement for Landell’s 2011/12 COP UN Global Compact • Membership of the UN Human Rights Working • Provision of pro bono advice and work for the Human Rights Working Group Network Australia: Group for Business for Business Human Rights Working • Involvement in a key initiative of the Working Group Group for Business Page 17 of 19 Communication on Progress Landell Consulting January 2011 7. COMMUNICATION OF THE COP Given that Landell is a small, private company, which does not produce an annual report, Landell’s COP will be published on its website at: http://www.landell.com.au, to enable the company’s stakeholders and clients to view Landell’s progress in implementing its CSR strategy. Page 18 of 19
