Detailed Version CSR Report 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report MHI Social and Environmental Report Creed 1. We strongly believe that the customer comes first and that we are obligated to be an innovative partner to society. 2. We base our activities on honesty, harmony, and a clear distinction between public and private life. 3. We shall strive for innovative management and technological development from an international perspective. Reason for Instituting the Creed (Issued June 1, 1970) In Japan there are many enterprises with their own “creeds” company, the mental attitude of employees, and the future which simply represent their management concept. directions of the company. Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. has a creed of this type, The reason for instituting the present creed is so that all also. It was instituted in 1970 on the basis of the policy adof us can call to mind our one hundred years of tradition vocated by Koyata Iwasaki, president of Mitsubishi Goshi and strive for further development in the future. Kaisha in the 1920s, to indicate the essential attitude of the Editorial Policy Scope of this Report This is the tenth report of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Target organization: Ltd. (MHI), including the first Environmental Report The information contained in this report pertains to Mitsubishi published in 2001. In this 2010 edition, we have Heavy Industries, Ltd. and its Group companies (125 in Japan endeavored to show the faces of the people involved and 112 overseas). Some articles, however, only include with MHI while presenting a dialogue between the descriptions of MHI activities. President and an intellectual, opinions from various stakeholders, and the voices of employees from the Target period: sites of their CSR activities, all in an easy-toApril 1, 2009 through March 31, 2010 understand manner. In the feature articles, we (includes information on some activities after March 31, 2010) introduce representative initiatives under the three themes of our CSR Action Guidelines: “close ties with the Earth,” “close ties with society,” and “a Referenced Guidelines bridge to the next generation.” In addition, we posted a CSR Report digest • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) version (brochure) to succinctly communicate the “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” (2002 edition G2 and company’s activities as well as the detailed version third edition G3) (PDF) on the website to provide readers with more • “Environmental Reporting Guidelines” (2007 edition) issued information on our activities. by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment We will continue to improve this report in response Note: A “Guideline Comparison List” will be posted on our website. to your feedback. Structure of CSR information disclosure Detailed version (PDF) Date of Issuance The detailed version June 2010 (previous issue: June 2009) Digest (brochure) (PDF) can be found on our website under “CSR” URL http://www.mhi.co.jp/en/csr/ Disclaimer In addition to objective information on the past and present status of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. and its Group companies, this report also contains plans, perspectives, and forecasts based on business plans and management policies as of the date of publication. These forecasts are made using information available at the time of publication and therefore the actual status and outcome of future business activities may differ from these forecasts as a result of changes in the given variables. 1 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Detailed Version MHI Social and Environmental Report Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 C O N T E N T S Dialogue 3 We aim to continue pursuing our aspiration to contribute to the global community through manufacturing. Mr. Akira Ikegami and President Hideaki Omiya Overview of the MHI Group 9 CSR of the MHI Group 11 Special Feature Close ties with the Earth 13 Nuclear power plant reduces CO2 emissions —for safe, secure operation at an improved operating rate Close ties with Society 17 Advancing to the frontiers of cancer treatment Developing a radiotherapy machine that reduces the burden on patients A bridge to the next Generation 21 Our nationwide works participate in children’s science classes Responsibilities and Actions of MHI CSR Action Plans 25 Management Commitment to People and Society Corporate Governance 28 Commitment to Our Customers 50 Promotion of CSR 30 Commitment to Our Shareholders and Investors 52 Compliance 33 Commitment to Our Business Partners (Suppliers) 53 Commitment to Our Employees 55 Commitment to the Global Environment Contributions to Society 58 Environmental Management 38 Targets and Progress 41 Environmental Accounting 42 Countermeasures against Global Warming 43 Recognition from Society 62 Resource Conservation and Waste Management 45 Progress Toward a Sustainable Society 63 Management of Chemical Substances 46 Third-Party Opinions 64 Products and Technologies that Reduce Acting on Valuable Opinions 64 Environmental Impact 47 CSR Report 2010 2 President, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Hideaki Omiya Dialogue We aim to continue pursuing our aspiration to contribute to the global community through manufacturing. President Hideaki Omiya recently discussed MHI’s CSR (corporate social responsibility) in respect to the future of the global community with journalist Akira Ikegami, who is highly regarded for his ability to explain complicated issues in easy-to-understand terms. Our aspiration is to contribute through mary social responsibility, we believe, is to contribute to the susour business activities to social tainable development of the global community through manudevelopment. facturing. Our CI statement “Our Technologies, Your Tomorrow” Ikegami: Today, the global community faces a multitude of expresses our aspiration to continue tackling the many issues issues. Mr. Omiya, I would like to hear your views on how MHI that burden the global community. intends to address these issues and how it will fulfill its social Ikegami: Yes—contributing solutions to the various social responsibility. issues on the planet by providing outstanding products and Omiya: In our services is an important element of CSR. corporate creed, Omiya: Of course, we think there’s more to CSR than just that. MHI declares its Our stakeholders represent a diverse group of people: not only determination to contribute to society through its business opeProfile rations. And we Hideaki Omiya are playing a President, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. true role in solvAfter joining the company in 1969, Hideaki Omiya was long involved in aircraft development, and in 1999 he was appointed Deputy General ing environmenWind turbines (California, U.S.A.) Manager of the Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works. He subsequently tal and energy served as Director, Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems Headquarters, and in April 2007 he issues by building social infrastructures such as power plants, was appointed Director and Senior Executive Vice President in charge of industrial plants and public transportation systems. MHI’s priProduction System Innovation Planning. He became President in April 2008. 3 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Journalist Akira Ikegami the customers who use our products and services, but also our tasks that we deem to be necessary for humankind from a investors and numerous shareholders, our business partners long-term perspective, even if it means having to overcome (suppliers), people in the areas surrounding our works, and difficulties. We hope to take businesses that are absolutely employees. We believe CSR equates to returning profit to all essential for the global community and make them commerthese stakeholders. Furthermore, 30 years ago, when MHI cially viable, and then return the profits to our stakeholders. began developing and manufacturing wind turbines, quite a few people warned us against doing so because they projected no profit would come from that business. However, We take pride in being one of the few we have always been certain of the need to nurture businesses companies that can address the two that address the issues society faces, from a long-term major global concerns of energy and the perspective, instead of pursuing only short-term gains. environment. Ikegami: Nowadays wind power is attracting attention as a Ikegami: “Close ties with the Earth” is the first of the three countermeasure to global warming, but there was a time when themes of the MHI Group CSR Action Guidelines. With regard its significance went unnoticed. So rather than discarding to the Earth, global warming caused by increasing CO2 emissomething as unprofitable in the near term, you’re saying that sions is a foremost concern. MHI has a social responsibility to take its time and develop Omiya: Global businesses that will benefit the entire global community over warming is an the long term. energy issue, Omiya: We want to be a company that aspires to accomplish too. For generations humankind has been burning vast quantiProfile ties of fossil fuels Akira Ikegami to obtain energy. Journalist As a result, we Ohi Nuclear Power Station After joining NHK (Japan Broadcasting Corporation) in 1973, for 32 years face massive CO2 Akira Ikegami worked as a news reporter. Then, starting in 1994, for 11 years he served as a commentator on a weekly news program for children. emissions on the one hand and the need to prepare for the In 2005 he left NHK and went freelance. He has written many books, future depletion of fossil fuels on the other. At MHI we take including: Soodattanoka! Gendaishi (“So That’s What Modern History Is All About!”) and Wakariyasuku ‘Tsutaeru’ Gijutsu (“The Art of ‘Conveying,’ In pride in being one of the few companies that can address Easy-to-Understand Terms”). these issues of global scale. First, regarding the use of renewCSR Report 2010 4 Dialogue able energies, in addition to the wind power generating equipdepleted. It’s also effective in preventing global warming since ment I mentioned earlier, we manufacture solar and geothermal the same amount of CO2 emitted during combustion is power facilities too. We also undertake operations involving absorbed by the plant during its growth process. But using nuclear power plants that use no fossil fuels and produce zero food crops such as corn as the raw material has its problems, CO2 emissions during power generation. In addition, we have given the many people suffering from starvation. achieved energy savings and reductions in CO2 emissions for Omiya: I agree that is a problem. So at MHI, instead of corn or thermal power generation plants that do use fossil fuels. sugarcane that are consumed as food, we’re researching For example, we developed GTCC (gas turbine combined methods that use rice straw and wheat straw discarded as cycle), a system that uses natural gas or other fuel. With waste in the grain production process. GTCC, first a gas turbine is used to generate power; then Ikegami: Producing ethanol from straw must be quite a techrecovered heat from that process is used to drive a steam nical challenge. If you use strong acids to decompose the turbine, again generating power, resulting in one of the highest coarse plant fiber contained in the straw, you end up increasing energy efficiency rates in the world. Similarly, our IGCC the environmental impact. (integrated coal gasification combined cycle) system, which Omiya: To reduce environmental impact in the production uses gasified coal as fuel, makes efficient use of energy as well. process, we use water to decompose the fiber instead of sulfuIGCC also generates less dust and soot than direct coal firing; ric acid. Many technical challenges remain and achieving comand it’s even possible to remove the CO2 by combining it with mercial viability will take time, but we remain hopeful because carbon capture and storage technology. development of this technology will benefit humankind. Ikegami: There are larger reserves of coal than oil, so the Ikegami: I certainly look forward to your success. It would be efficient use of coal for power generation can be an effective wonderful to see you achieve a new technology that can simulsolution to the issue of energy resource depletion. But how do taneously address the global issues of not just fossil fuel depleyou actually remove CO2? tion and global warming but also food shortages caused by a Omiya: MHI developed a technology for capturing CO2 growing population. Now, what about water? Today, there’s a through absorption into a special liquid; seven plants around serious shortage of water worldwide. the world are already using it. Furthermore, we are currently Omiya: MHI conducting verification testing at thermal power plants in the also manufacU.S. and Germany of equipment capable of capturing several tures desalinathousand tons of CO2 per day. We are recognized as the world tion plants. Since leader in this area. we delivered a Ikegami: I see. That sounds like a dream technology. large-scale plant to produce drinking water from Looking ahead, it will be important for us sea water to to contribute to addressing food and Saudi Arabia in water concerns. 1981, we have Inside a desalination plant Omiya: Speaking of dream technologies, MHI is currently established a track record of delivering 11 large-scale desalinadeveloping bioethanol as fuel for automobiles, collaborating in tion plants around the world. Construction is currently underjoint research with a team that includes a brewing company. way in Saudi Arabia on one of the world’s largest plants, Ikegami: With plant-based ethanol, since the raw materials capable of producing 216,000 tons of drinking water per day, can be produced through agriculture, fossil fuels aren’t toward its scheduled completion in December 2010. Ikegami: Last year, I traveled the entire length of Sudan from north to south. In the north, where the Sahara Desert lies, there wasn’t a cloud in sight. But as I traveled south along the River Nile, clouds began to appear on the horizon. Further south, I saw trees thriving under the clouds and towns inhabited by people. In other words, water vapor rises wherever there is vegetation, creating clouds that bring rain, which moistens the land. I got a real sense of how essential water is to the lives of both plants and people. And I have great hopes for MHI’s efforts to produce potable water. Our products have reduced CO2 emissions by more than 100 million tons, and we are also working to reduce our own CO2 emissions. Ikegami: Is MHI making progress on reducing CO2 emissions resulting from your own business activities? Omiya: With respect to CO2 emissions from factories and offices, we are striving, in accordance with the Kyoto Protocol, 5 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. to reduce emissions by an average 6% (to approximately broadcasting accidents. Speaking of accidents, I heard you 0.44 million tons per year) compared with 1990 levels in the once had a close call in your days as an aircraft engineer. five-year period from 2008 to 2012. In fiscal 2009 we brought Omiya: I was once involved in designing an experimental CCV emissions down to near 0.45 million tons. We’re also pursuing (control configured vehicle) aircraft for the Japan Air Selfother energy saving efforts, one step at a time, such as Defense Force. Soon after the aircraft took off in a test flight, it upgrading our production facilities and air conditioners and began to oscillate and nearly crashed. The problem was installing solar cell panels at our works nationwide. In this caused by a subtle gap between the human perception and way, first we’re pursuing reductions in-house, and if attaining the computer’s response. These days, not only aircraft but our target proves difficult despite these efforts, we intend to even automobiles are mounted with advanced automatic take advantage of the Clean Development Mechanism or control functions. This requires considerations of safety design purchase emission credits to make sure we keep to the and quality control relating to human-computer interface. designated targets. Ikegami: That’s a novel and challenging domain for engineers. Ikegami: But the more products you manufacture that Omiya: Yes, it is. Going forward I think we will be required to contribute to preventing global warming, won’t your own CO2 work in the cutting-edge domain of safety and quality in emissions become that much greater? human-machine interface for a variety of products. If we manuOmiya: It’s true that boosting production will increase CO2 facture something wrong, accidents will occur in accordance emissions generated by MHI. I believe, however, that our with the laws of physics. But if we build it right, the product will energy and environment products will have even greater operate safely in accordance with the laws of physics. I explain impact in preventing global warming. For example, compared it to my employees this way: you can never deceive technology. with 1990 levels, with a 1,100 MW nuclear power plant operatIkegami: Your own past experience and self-reproach are ing at an 80% capacity utilization rate, it’s possible to cut CO2 embodied in those words, aren’t they. emissions by approximately 8.5 million tons per year. Similarly, holding to the same utilization rate, with a 500 MW GTCC system annual emissions can be reduced by approximately 2.7 We are pursuing compliance from the million tons, and with a 500 MW IGCC system by about 1.4 dual aspects of employee awareness and million tons. When we combine the overall impact of these corporate mechanisms. products of ours, the total reduction in CO2 emissions exceeds Ikegami: How about compliance? As a company that builds 100 million tons per year (see p. 48 for basis of calculation). social infrastructures, MHI wields powerful influence on society and is therefore expected to act fairly at all times. Omiya: You’re absolutely right. In the past, employees have Facing up to past mistakes is important been arrested and MHI itself has faced litigation for bid-rigging. for preventing accidents. Such unfair practices shatter the public trust, disappoint stakeIkegami: Let me turn now to “close ties with society,” the holders and shake the very foundations of a company. second theme of the MHI Group CSR Action Guidelines. The Ikegami: No matter how good a product might be, it’s of no general public’s greatest concerns are product safety and use to society or to the company if the way it’s provided is bad. quality. Getting manufacturers to make sure their products Omiya: Precisely. We shouldn’t stop at raising employee don’t cause accidents is an important social issue for people awareness; the company must also take responsibility by everywhere. creating mechanisms to prevent any recurrence of misconOmiya: I agree, duct. At MHI, we’re striving to prevent recurrence by reinforcing and at MHI we mechanisms such as our Order Compliance Committee and place significant emphasis on product safety and quality. This April we opened the Accident Exhibit and Materials Room Accident Exhibit and Materials Room for employees at our Technical Training Center in Nagoya. Exhibits here include video and panel displays of past product-related accidents, such as a helicopter crash. We also exhibit the actual accident-causing products at each production site. We want employees to face up to the tragedy of accidents by seeing these actual cases, so that they will strive for thorough product safety and quality control with renewed determination to make sure such accidents never happen again. Ikegami: Learning from actual cases is certainly effective toward preventing accidents. When I first joined NHK, I also received a lesson on previous cases of misinformation and CSR Report 2010 6 Dialogue internal audits. from science. Moreover, scientific thinking, including an Ikegami: What about employee education? understanding of the laws of physics, is the backbone of our Omiya: We conduct compliance education drawing upon past society. As a manufacturing company, we want to communicases, in a vein similar to the Accident Exhibit and Materials cate the importance and enjoyment of science and technolRoom I mentioned before. In educating our employees, we ogy to children. Our employees who serve as teachers also also apply the results of audits conducted by outside experts feel they are doing something worthwhile, and enjoying the and feedback received during such audits. experience, too. Ikegami: I’ve heard that, in general, seeking orders in developIkegami: When I was working on a children’s news program at ing countries can easily lead to questionable conduct due to NHK, I had a wonderful time explaining world events. Children differences in business practices. have more fun and find it easier to understand when the adults Omiya: My instructions to employees are clear: if you’re going teaching them feel what they’re doing is worthwhile. to end up getting your hands dirty, it’s better not getting the order in the first place. Profit gained through questionable practices will always lead to a loss in the long term. MHI has been We provide opportunities for direct participating in the United Nations Global Compact since communication so employees can better 2004, and we think it’s essential to act based on its ten feel a sense of doing something worthwhile. principles in the four areas of corruption prevention, human Omiya: In terms of feeling a sense of doing something worthrights, labor and the environment. while, it’s also important that employees feel this way about their daily work. Ikegami: Business and CSR both depend on employees, so As a manufacturing company, we will there’s a need to create a work environment that’s both fulfilling continue communicating the importance and comfortable. and enjoyment of science and Omiya: To do technology to children. that, we need Ikegami: What about “a bridge to the next generation,” the to energize our third theme of your CSR Action Guidelines? What kind of activientire organities are you undertaking in this area? zation through Omiya: One representative example is the science classes communication. offered by our works nationwide. Under this program, employAs president, ees use products or technologies they developed to communiI hold “town cate the enjoyment of science to elementary and middle school meetings” on a students. continuing basis President Omiya visiting the new nursery at the Ikegami: Employees go into the schools to teach, don’t they. at each of our Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Omiya: We’ve works. In 2009, been working on these meetings were organized into two parts: an informal this continuously meeting with the general managers where they can express based on our their opinions directly to me, and a visit to the worksites to let three-year plan me hear what employees have to say about their jobs. Last to support inyear we also launched Forum 35, a project in which employschool science ees in their mid-thirties discuss corporate and social issues education. In among themselves. I regularly exchange ideas with members fiscal 2008 we of this group as well. In addition, in April 2010 we opened held classes at MHI’s first children’s nursery at the Nagasaki Shipyard & A science class taught by an MHI employee 12 schools; in Machinery Works, a move taken to support employees in fiscal 2009, at 28 schools. About 2,700 children have particibalancing their work and family life. pated to date, and they have told us how much they enjoyed it, Ikegami: Companies come in many shapes. MHI, I think, is some even commenting they would like to become engineers the kind of company where employees can get a real sense when they grow up. And in the coming years we’re planning they are helping to resolve social issues through their work. I further improvements to the program based on the feedback hope your employees will continue striving to provide safer and comments we’ve received from the children and teachers. and better products and services to enable sustained social Ikegami: Given how children in this country are increasingly development. moving away from the sciences, this is a very significant Omiya: We appreciate your sentiments. It’s true that many of program for the future of Japan. our employees join MHI with high aspirations of serving society, Omiya: I’m determined to prevent Japan’s manufacturing and we will continue working together with these employees to prowess from eroding, or our foundations as a technologyengage in manufacturing as our way of contributing to the oriented nation from being shaken, because of a move away global community. You can count on us. 7 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Forum 35 Project Aiming for employees to get satisfaction from their jobs, as a way of further energizing the entire organization The President exchanges ideas with employees in their mid-thirties. To encourage communication among employees as a way of energizing the whole organization, MHI implements Forum 35, a project in which employees in their mid-thirties discuss a broad range of topics relating to the company and to society. Meetings are also regularly convened between the project members and the President, to enable the President to hear what people of this generation have to say. Forum 35: occasions for employees in their private matters as well as the level of problem awareness mid-thirties to freely discuss topics that shared by those of the same generation. Forum activities had transcend departmental boundaries also included visits to other works (for example, to observe the Employees in their mid-thirties born during the second baby launching ceremony of a container carrier) and training camps. boom constitute the majority of MHI’s employee demographics His report also included an introduction to a new bulletin board and play a central role in the business operations of all launched via the company’s intranet and aimed at creating an workplaces. MHI launched the Forum 35 project in July 2009 environment enabling easy exchange of ideas and information to promote communication among these employees as a way with Forum members from other works. In reference to of energizing the entire organization. The project provides energizing the organization, the representative said that in a forum in which employees of this generation can freely addition to improving formal systems and mechanisms it was discuss topics that transcend departmental boundaries. A also necessary to reform personal awareness, and he said he distinguishing feature of Forum 35 activities is the emphasis on felt it was important to create low-profile mechanisms like the communication process itself, instead of seeking any Forum 35. He further announced that he would be handing specific outcomes. over the reins of the activities to new (second-year) members The project began with seven members from each and would continue to offer support as a “graduate” and work department at the Head Office, followed by similar forums to widen the circle of activities to even more works. launched at the Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works and the The representative of the Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works. Today the circle of where the Forum was launched in January 2010, presented the communication among employees continues to expand ideas expressed by members during the seven discussions steadily. held so far on themes such as compliance awareness, concerns as managers, and handing down technology. He also reported that a sense of unity had been nurtured through these The President sends messages to Forum activities, creating an energized forum in which thoughts can be members drawing upon their activity reports. shared, which has boosted member motivation. Members of As part of Forum 35, meetings are regularly held where the the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works, where the Forum President and employees exchange ideas relating to the themes was only recently launched, spoke about their personal and content of the discussions associated with Forum activities, aspirations toward specific future activities. and members can openly express their individual views. In response, President Omiya touched on his own The second such meeting was held in April 2010 and was experiences while offering advice and expressing his hopes attended by President Omiya and fifteen Forum 35 members for mid-thirties generation employees. The President noted each from the Head Office, Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works that communication is the key element in daily operations as and Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works. The members well as for building relationships with those around us. He also were drawn from diverse departments, including marketing, said that self-development requires a strong awareness of design, planning and administration, personnel, internal one’s job and knowledge of its position within the auditing, materials and equipment, and hospitals. After an upstream-downstream process flow, as well as emulating the initial round of self-introductions, activity reports were strengths of others through communication. He also shared presented by representatives of each works and exchanges of how impressed he had been by the words of a member who ideas took place. said he had made life-long friends through the Forum 35 The representative from the Head Office reported that more activities. That alone, the President offered, was enough to than 20 wide-ranging discussions had been held since the prove the value of these activities. launch of the Forum, covering both work-related concerns and CSR Report 2010 8 Overview of the MHI Group Company Profile Operating income (consolidated) Trade Name: Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. (Billions of yen) 150 Head Office: 16-5, Konan 2-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 136.0 120 President: Hideaki Omiya 108.9 105.8 Foundation: July 7, 1884 90 70.9 65.6 Establishment: January 11, 1950 60 Capital: 265.6 billion yen (as of March 31, 2010) 30 Employees: 34,139 (as of March 31, 2010) 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (FY) Net income (consolidated) CI* Statement (Billions of yen) 80 Our Technologies, Your Tomorrow 61.3 60 48.8 This CI statement represents our intention to 40 “continuously provide an assured future where people 29.8 24.2 can live safe, secure and enriched lives through 20 14.1 technologies that can excite people and passion as a manufacturer for the sustainability of the earth and 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (FY) humankind.” Research and development expenditures CI statement logo (consolidated) (Billions of yen) 150 129.2 120 106.3 107.9 100.7 101.3 90 * CI: Corporate Identity 60 30 Orders received (consolidated) 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (FY) (Billions of yen) 4,000 3,715.2 FY2009 net sales by industry segment (consolidated) 3,274.7 3,268.7 (Billions of yen) 3,000 2,942.0 Others Shipbuilding & Ocean Development 2,476.2 57.4 230.6 2,000 Mass and Medium-Lot Manufactured Machinery Power Systems 1,000 544.3 1,066.1 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (FY) Aerospace Machinery & Steel Structures 500.2 542.0 Net sales (consolidated) FY2009 net sales by region (consolidated) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 4,000 Other 148.9 3,203.0 3,375.6 3,068.5 2,940.8 3,000 2,792.1 The Middle East 170.7 2,000 Central and Japan 1,462.1 South America 184.7 1,000 Europe 223.3 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (FY) North America 360.1 Asia 390.7 9 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Businesses and Products Shipbuilding & Sea vessels •Cruise ships •LNG carriers •LPG carriers •Oil carriers •Container ships •Pure car and truck carriers • Ferries •Defense ships •Patrol vessels Ocean Development Ocean development •Submersible research vehicles •Oceanographic research ships Shipbuilding & Ocean Development Headquarters Power Systems Thermal power generation plants and other facilities •Combined cycle power plants •Steam turbines •Gas turbines • Boilers •Diesel engines •Desalination plants •Lithium-ion rechargeable batteries •Fuel cells Power Systems Headquarters Renewable energy •Wind turbine plants •Water turbine plants •Geothermal power plants •Photovoltaic systems Nuclear Energy Systems •Biomass power plants •Solar thermal power plants Headquarters Nuclear power plants and other facilities •PWR nuclear power plants •Advanced reactor plants •Nuclear fuel cycle plants Machinery & Environmental and chemical •Fertilizer plants •Methanol plants •Petrochemical plants •Flue gas desulfurization systems • Flue gas CO2 recovery plants •Wastes treatment equipment Steel Structures Transportation systems •New transportation systems •Toll collection equipment (ETC, etc.) Machinery & Steel Structures Headquarters Machineries •Compressor and turbine •Iron and steel manufacturing machinery •Rubber and tire machinery • Cranes for steel plants and quayside containers •Accelerator •Medical equipment • Printing machinery • Paper converting machinery •Plastic injection molding machine • Food and packaging machinery Basic Facilities & Steel Structures for Infrastructures •Steel bridges •Stacks •Mechanical parking systems Aerospace Aircraft •Fixed-wing aircraft •Helicopters •Subsystems of commercial aircraft •Aeroengines Aerospace Headquarters Space equipment •H-IIA launch vehicle • H-IIB launch vehicle • H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) •Rocket engines Guided weapon systems •Missiles •Torpedoes General Machinery & Engines •Engines for power generation •Agricultural engines • Industrial engines •Marine engines Special Vehicle Power Train •Hybrid drive systems •Inverters and controllers • Transmissions • Drive axles •Lithium-ion rechargeable battery pack General Machinery & Material handling equipment •Forklift trucks •Heavy cargo carriers Special Vehicle Turbochargers •Turbochargers Headquarters Construction machinery •Earthmoving and grading machinery • Hydraulic equipment Special vehicles •Tanks •Armored personnel carriers Others Air-Conditioners and related products •Air-conditioners (for residential, commercial) •Automotive thermal systems • Transport refrigeration units •Centrifugal chillers Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems Headquarters Industrial machinery •Machine tools •Precision machinery products (precision cutting tools, engine valves, power transmissions) Machine Tool Division Operating Bases and Employees by Region Total number of employees (consolidated basis): 67,669 (as of March 31, 2010) Japan Head Office and Europe Domestic Offices: 9 Representative Offices: 2 Research & Development Centers: 6 Group Companies: 29 Headquarters & Divisions: 9 Employees: 2,286 Works: 9 Domestic Group Companies: 126*1 Employees of Domestic North America Middle East Group Companies: 56,696*2 Group Companies: 24 Representative Offices: 2 Employees: 2,497 Group Companies: 3 Employees: 24 Asia Overseas Offices and Representative Offices: 6 Group Companies: 43 Africa Employees: 5,228 Oceania and others Representative Offices: 1 Group Companies: 2 Group Companies: 3 Employees: 37 South America Employees: 1 Group Companies: 8 Employees: 900 *1 Includes Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. *2 Comprises 22,557 employees, the total from Group companies with that from Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. CSR Report 2010 10 CSR of the MHI Group Aiming to win the solid trust of society through the advancement of CSR The underlying objective of the MHI Group is, as a manufacturer, to carry out CSR through production activities; and we are working to achieve that goal under our CSR Action Guidelines and CSR Action Plan. MHI Group CSR Action Guidelines (formulated July 2007) In order to ensure a secure future for the Earth, we will establish and maintain: Close ties with the Earth Safeguard an abundantly green Earth through environmental technologies and environmental awareness; Close ties with Society Build a relationship of trust with society through proactive participation in society and trustworthy actions; A bridge to the next Generation Contribute to the cultivation of human resources who can shoulder responsibility in the next generation through technologies that can realize dreams. Promoting CSR through and to allocate our earnings generated capable of strategically and compremanufacturing as an innovative through the appropriate provision of hensively conducting activities in such partner to society these products to every stakeholder areas as compliance, environmental The MHI Group established manufacassociated with our business activities. protection, human rights and labor turing as the core of its business as an relations. innovative partner to society (see p. 1) Continuously improving CSR In July 2007, the company formuthat provides products that improve through PDCA cycles lated the MHI Group CSR Action social infrastructure and assist customTo fulfill its social responsibilities, MHI Guidelines with three basic vectors: ers in reducing their environmental set up a CSR Committee, chaired by Close ties with the Earth, Close ties with impact. the President, and a CSR Promotion Society, A bridge to the next In our CSR initiatives, our primary Department, with the latter handling Generation. We subsequently develaim is to minimize environmental loads related office duties from October oped our CSR Action Plan (see p. 25) in emanating from our production activities 2006. A system was thus inaugurated April 2008 and have since worked to constantly improve each activity through the application of PDCA cycles. MHI Group involvement with society Then in June 2008, the company formulated representative CSR activities based on the themes in the MHI Group guidelines for cultivating stronger CSR Production Activities awareness group-wide and is impleDividends, share price, Labor menting these activities in every Retained earnings Shareholders interest (capital investment, Value division, headquarters, works and & R&D investment, risk Profit allocation, Customers Investors Capital Expansion of Group company. countermeasures) sense of achievement customer benefit through valuation through product differentiation Materials Sales functions Employees Profit allocation Profit allocation Business Offices Partners Sales Job creation, Companies (Suppliers) minimization of environmental load, local Tax payment, provision of products contributions supporting the world’s infrastructure as well as ecological, economic CSR Committee Legal compliance Local and energy needs Communities Laws and Japanese Society, Regulations Global Society 11 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Outline of Representative CSR Participating in neighborhood and scholarship programs in Activities cleanups September 2009 at the Hanoi Institute Since fiscal 2008, MHI has participated of Technology, from which students For “close ties with the Earth” in Hometown Cleanup Meetings, a nagraduate before becoming employed • Greening of company facilities (e.g., wall greening, symbolic greening of the factory) tionwide cleanup campaign hosted by by the company. • All-hands environmental activities with the Mt. Fuji Club to contribute to local employees (e.g., recommendation of percommunities and raise employee sonal energy-saving declaration by Group awareness of environmental protection employees, recommendation of ecocommuting, volunteer participation in and community contribution. Company Forest Creation Program) In fiscal 2009, 5,073 employees For “close ties with Society” from MHI works and 62 Group compa• Reinforcing community contribution nies participated in the event and carCommemorative photo after delivery of photovoltaic facility specifications activities (one event per year by each Group ried out neighborhood cleanup activities company at home and overseas) during the entire month of October. • Providing support for emerging and developing countries with MHI products Promoting communication with • Strengthening information dissemination of the local community through MHI environmental technologies and employee environmental products advertisements For “a bridge to the next Generation” MHI inaugurated an advertisement pro• Sending employees to schools (e.g., duction program for environmental science classes at local elementary schools) technology and products to improve • Manufacturing classes at MHI facilities (e.g., local community understanding of our learning about manufacturing at MHI Cleanup activity at Ganryujima including employees works, enhancing exhibition facilities) from the Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works product lines and businesses as well as our environmental efforts and thereby Examples of Representative Photovoltaic facility donation reinforce relationships of trust. CSR Activities and endowment of chair at a In fiscal 2008, the first year of the Opening Mitsubishi Wind Turbine university in Vietnam program, it was implemented at three View Park at Kanazawa Plant, MHI Aerospace Vietnam Co., Ltd. sites: Nagasaki, Shimonoseki and the Yokohama Machinery Works (MHIVA), a Group aerospace parts Hiroshima/Mihara area and received Amid rising concern for energy and enmanufacturing company in Hanoi, the the Newspaper Advertising Runners-up vironmental issues across society, the capital of Vietnam, contracts Japanese Prize in the Advertisers’ Planning Yokohama Machinery Works opened language training for local staff of the Category organized by the Japan Mitsubishi Wind Turbine View Park at company to DOWACEN, a neighboring Newspaper Publishers & Editors its Kanazawa Plant in October 2009. Japanese language school. Association. The park covers 5,600 m2 and In September 2009, MHI decided In fiscal 2009, 30 young employees overlooks the wind turbine of the works. to donate MHI-brand photovoltaic faciliof the works and Group companies in We constructed a gentle hill using ties to the school as a pilot initiative to the Nagoya area formed a working waste soil generated at the works, provide support for emerging and degroup. The group completed four adplanted a variety of trees, and installed veloping counties with MHI products, vertisements, highlighting the ways that 3-kW photovoltaic facilities. one of our representative CSR activiMHI products protect the environment The works uses the park as a place ties. Installation is scheduled to be under the theme, “Earth friendly techwhere people can observe wind and completed in September 2010. The fanologies born in Nagoya.” photovoltaic power being generated in cility will serve as a power source for MHI views the program as an effeca casual, natural setting. It is also the classroom lighting and so forth, elimitive means of raising employee CSR stopping point for works tours and an nating the need to suspend classes in awareness and therefore plans to impleonsite learning opportunity for children. the event of a power failure. ment the program in the Kansai and Employees at the works can also visit To contribute to industrial developKanto areas starting from fiscal 2010. the park for a refreshing interlude. ment in Vietnam, MHI endowed a chair “Earth friendly technologies born in Nagoya” Huge wind turbine seen from the park 2009 Chunichi Shimbun Advertising Grand Prizes—General Paper category “Chunichi Shimbun Advertising Solar panels installed in the park Prizes Selected by Readers, Category Prize” CSR Report 2010 12 Close ties with the Earth Safeguard an abundantly green Earth through environmental technologies and environmental awareness Special Feature 1 Nuclear power plant reduces CO2 emissions —for safe, secure operation at an improved operating rate With the planned construction of new nuclear power plants across the world to address the two global concerns of energy and the environment, safety improvements are absolutely required. MHI recognizes that one of its greatest social responsibilities as an integrated nuclear plant supplier involved in the entire process of pressurized water reactor (PWR) power plants, from design to manufacture, construction and maintenance, is to ensure plant safety while boosting operating rates. Nuclear power generation CO2 emissions by power source —Addressing both environmental and g-CO2 /kWh (transmission end) Combustion of power generation fuel (direct) Facilities; operations (indirect) resource challenges 1,000 975 Driven by the economic growth of developing countries and 88 Source: Websites of Agency for Natural Resources and Energy and the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan other factors, global energy demand is expected to rapidly expand, reaching 1.5 times the 2006 level in 2030*1. At the same 800 742 time, global warming associated with CO2 emissions released 38 CO2 emissions during lifecycle by the burning of fossil fuels such as oil, coal and natural gas 600 608 is worsening as public concern intensifies over the depletion of 130 519 those same fossil fuels. 111 887 Under these circumstances, interest is turning to the 400 wind, solar and other renewable energies that emit no CO2 704 and the scheduled construction of new nuclear power plants. 478 200 408 Nuclear power generation has particularly attracted attention as power generation facilities produce zero CO2 emissions 22–25 11 15 53 29 in the power generating process, thereby addressing the chal0 Coal-fired Oil-fired LNG-fired LNG-fired Nuclear Hydro Geothermal Solar Wind lenge of growing energy demand as well as environmental (steam) (combined) and resource-related concerns. Currently, about 430 nuclear power plants are operating across the world with a total electricity generation capacity of 370 GWe*2 per year. Capacity is An integrated nuclear plant supplier expected to grow as high as 810 GWe in 2030*3. In Japan, —A wealth of experience and an outstanding approximately one-third of electric power is generated by track record in all 24 plants in Japan nuclear power plants. The Japanese government has adopted MHI has accumulated advanced technologies and a wealth of a policy calling for about 40% or more of electric power to be experience as an integrated nuclear plant supplier, involved in generated by nuclear plants in the future. the entire PWR power plant business from design to manufac*1 Source: IEA (International Energy Agency) “World Energy Outlook 2009” ture, construction and maintenance. The company has supplied *2 GWe (gigawatts of electricity) = 1 billion watts *3 Source: Forecast released by the IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency) in all 24 of the PWR power plants constructed in Japan. It has also September 2009 contributed to a reduction in CO2 emissions*4 and the stable supply of electric power in the country. MHI’s technology in this field is widely recognized around 13 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. the world. The company has supplied a large volume of major nology that does not use welding material. equipment for PWR power plants, such as containment vessels In the construction stage, we strive to eliminate human erand steam generators, to customers in the U.S., Europe and ror by improving the efficiency of on-site works by, for example, China. We command the top share (85%) of the export of this employing the method of installing the top dome (the upper part equipment among Japanese manufacturers. of the reactor containment vessel) as a single unit and using In addition, MHI was chosen as a core company for the modules prefabricated in the factories. next-generation fast breeder reactor (FBR) development proMethod for installing the gram in Japan and is also involved in all of the processes at top dome as a single unit the Rokkasho reprocessing plant. Consequently, we are makWe lift the hemispherical upper part of the reactor containment ing a major contribution to the establishment of the nuclear vessel (diameter: 40 m; height: 20 fuel cycle. m; weight: over 500 tons) as one *4 The volume of reduced CO2 emissions (equivalent to coal-fired power) achieved in 24 unit, using a super-large crane, PWR power plants in Japan is 80 million tons. and install it on the top of the cylindrical part. This shortens the construction period. Fivefold walls for a nuclear power plant supported by MHI technologies —Contributing to safe, secure operation, from In the maintenance stage for plants in operation, MHI helps design to construction and maintenance boost the operating rate of power plants through scheduled Extensive safety measures are undertaken in nuclear power preventive maintenance activities (check, inspection, repair and plants. replacement work) in collaboration with electric power compaOne such measure is defense in depth. Radioactive materinies. Concretely, the company conducts periodic inspections als are safely contained to prevent leakage by installing fivefold as required under the law and rewalls consisting of a pellet containing uranium fuel, a cladding places major components, such tube to seal the pellets, a reactor pressure vessel, reactor conas reactor internals and steam tainment vessel, and reactor containment building. generators of plants that have operated for a long time, upon conFivefold wall sealing in radioactive materials firmation with customers. MHI also utilizes IT to implement the overall digitalization of First wall: advanced control and protection Fuel pellet systems, which were introduced in newly constructed plants as Second wall: Fuel cladding tube well as existing power plants. As a result of those initiatives, Third wall: the Sendai Nuclear Power Plant Reactor pressure vessel All-in-one-piece replacement Unit 1 of Kyushu Electric Power work of reactor internals Co., Inc. achieved the world’s All-in-one-piece replacement work Fourth wall: highest operating rate of all 430 of reactor internals, which supReactor containment vessel plants across the world in 2009. ports fuel assembly and the guiding and positioning of control rods. Fifth wall: In fact, four PWR power plants The company has conducted this Reactor containment building constructed by MHI were among replacement operation in four the top ten plants*5. plants in Japan. MHI is the only Training workers to support company in the world with such a track record of replacement. MHI contributes to the safe, secure operation of plants, these technologies is also impordrawing upon its integrated capabilities, including fivefold tant. MHI conducts a practical, systematic simulator-based walls, in all of the areas of training program at the Maintenance Training Center of our a nuclear power plant. manufacturing sites. This training leads to work being done First, in the design quickly and more securely while at the same time protecting stage, design is jointly worker safety, lowering exposure to radiation and reducing reviewed by all divisions the frequency and duration of concerned from its initial plant shutdowns. stage. The overall designs The company also focuses of hundreds of thousands on research and development of parts are reviewed in to undergird these technologies. detail by all divisions, in3D CAD Design R&D initiatives focus on such cluding basic design, deareas as technologies for regular tailed design, manufacturing, quality assurance, construction monitoring, inspection and repair, and maintenance, using 3D drawings to visualize parts from evand technologies and systems ery angle. This process facilitates safe, high-precision product for processing radioactive wastes design. as well as technologies for decomIn the manufacturing stage, we employ advanced facilities missioning reactors (disassembling and manufacturing technologies. MHI manufactures highand decontamination) to safely disMaintenance Training Center precision products, for instance, by using a large-scale, multicontinue plant operations. These Facility for demonstrating and training on core internals replacetask machine tool named “Super Mirror,” which facilitates activities reflect our commitment ment work high-precision processing of a huge containment vessel weighto improve safety across the entire ing 400 tons while holding it in a standing position to avoid lifecycle of a nuclear power plant. material deformation as well as an electron beam welding tech*5 Source: Survey by NW (Nucleonics Week) CSR Report 2010 14 Responding to society’s trust and expectations In response to MHI is preparing to construct the world’s largest scale PWR these worldwide deUnits 1, 2 power plant for the U.S. market (US-APWR), based on orders mands, MHI is building from U.S. electric power companies, Dominion Resources, Inc. up its manufacturing and Luminant Generation Company. Mitsubishi Nuclear Energy capacity. In 2008, MHI Units 3, 4 Systems, Inc. (MNES), an MHI subsidiary in the U.S. was qualiexpanded this capacity fied for membership in the Nuclear Energy Institute of the U.S. for steam generators, (NEI) in NEI’s “nuclear plant designer” category in 2009. MNES a major piece of equipbecame the first wholly-owned subsidiary of a Japanese comment for PWR power Comanche Peak Power Station of U.S. Luminant pany to qualify for NEI membership in this category. plants, in order to Generation Company (Rendering of Units 3 and 4) This US-APWR for the U.S. market is a U.S. compliant vermanufacture a higher sion of the advanced PWR power plant (APWR) that the comvolume of larger-scale steam generators. Construction of a pany developed for Tsuruga Power Station Units 3 and 4 of plant dedicated to steam turbines for nuclear power generation the Japan Atomic Power Company. The company also plans is being completed in 2010. In addition, construction of a plant to apply for a European safety review for nuclear plants—EUR for containment vessels and reactor internals is scheduled for (European Utilities Requirements) of EU-APWR (European comcompletion in 2011. pliant version of APWR). We will continue to contribute to the resolution of energy MHI and the French company AREVA jointly developed and environmental problems at a global scale as an integrated ATMEA1™, a mid-sized nuclear power plant for the East nuclear plant supplier that fulfills the trust and expectations of European, Middle Eastern and Asian markets. We also teamed stakeholders worldwide through improved nuclear power plant up with the Japanese government and electric power compasafety and higher operating rates. nies to accept orders from Vietnam. Expectations held toward MHI We trust MHI to consistently meet our requirements. The experience of EDF Group is based on more than 60 years of existence. 72% of electricity generated by EDF on its 127 GWe installed capacity is nuclear, making it the largest nuclear power generation producer in the world. In the coming decade, EDF will build with its partners, the equivalent of 10 new nuclear generating units in France or abroad and continue the renovation of existing units to extend their life, with the support of highly experienced manufacturers through a spirit of long term cooperation. In this context, EDF has placed in 2004 an initial order to Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (MHI), of 6 RSGs (Replacement Steam Generators) dedicated to two 900MWe French nuclear units, placed subsequent orders to the consortium led by MHI for another 6 RSGs on 2008, and 3RSGs on 2010. As the Inspection-Department Representative in Japan, I would like to point out some reasons of such award to MHI:: high production capacity, long experience in manufacturing and maintenance, competitiveness, commitment for the respect of deadlines, customer-focus, thoroughness of risk analysis, appropriate application of nuclear regulation, transparency and good relationship with French Safety Authorities. Meanwhile, we have also identified areas for improvement, such as inspection technology, traceability of engineering and manufacturing operation, transportation conditions, and adaptaMr. H. Le Maut tion to new French regulations. We have confidence in the ability of MHI and its partners to meet Inspection those requirements. EDF (Electricite de France S.A.) Products and technologies contribute to the realization of a low-carbon society MHI contributes to the realization of a low-carbon society through the efficient use of energies in such fields as nuclear power, thermal power, renewable energy, energy management, and transportation. Nuclear Thermal power Renewable Energy Transportation power plants generation plants energy management systems • PWR nuclear power plants • Combined cycle • Wind power • Lithium-ion rechargeable • MRJ*1 • Eco-ships • Advanced reactor plants power plants • Geothermal battery • LRT*2 • HSST*3 • Steam turbines • Solar • Electric bus • Heat pump • APM*4 • Nuclear fuel cycle plants • Gas turbines • Boilers • Solar thermal • Eco-house • Desalination • Hydro • Alternative fuel • Biomass • Hybrid forklift PWR nuclear power plant Gas turbine Wind turbine Lithium-ion rechargeable battery MRJ *1 MRJ: Mitsubishi Regional Jet *2 LRT: Light Rail Transit *3 HSST: High Speed Surface Transport *4 APM: Automated People Mover 15 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Close ties with the Earth CSR activities reported by our employees Local government and other organizations have recently been increasing their support for the “Company Forest Company Creation Program,” which is intended to prevent global warming and preserve biodiversity. MHI promotes forest Forest conservation in various regions in collaboration with their respective local governments. The company also views such activities as opportunities for employees to learn about environmental issues and give back to society. General Machinery & Special Vehicle Headquarters Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems Headquarters 127 employees worked together to thin a forest in 132 employees and family members planted March and August 900 trees (14 species) in the Company Forest General Machinery & Special Vehicle Headquarters signed a memoranThe Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems Headquarters has dum of agreement with the Kanagawa prefectural government to participated in the Company Forest Creation Program organized by the participate in the Kanagawa Water Source Forest Creation Project in Mie prefectural government. In fiscal 2009, we joined a planting event February 2009. A total of 127 employees took part in preserving carried out at Kihoku-cho, Mie Prefecture on November 28. A total of forestlands in Matsudamachi, Kanagawa Prefecture in March and 132 MHI employees and family members planted Japanese maple, August 2009. mountain cherry and other species of trees Having received many comments from (14 species; 900 trees). We will be involved participants, such as “I had a great in weeding and other maintenance and experience and was able to understand management activities related to the thinning,’ we will aggressively pursue this program and plan to actively engage in effort with due consideration for safety. other events in this town that contribute to the local community. Michio Sato Nobuyuki Kato Labor and Safety Section General Affairs Section General Affairs Department General Affairs Department General Machinery & Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Special Vehicle Headquarters Systems Headquarters Thinning forests to allow for passages Carefully planting each seedling of sunlight that facilitates the growth of grasses and trees “Eco-commuting” refers to traveling to the company by bicycle or on foot, or using public transport instead of Ecodriving a car or riding a motorcycle. Central and local governments are actively promoting eco-commuting. MHI commuting sites participating in this campaign include the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, Yokohama Machinery Works and Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works. Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Six-day campaign involving 9,402 cars and Ongoing efforts throughout fiscal 2009 brought the motorcycles total of participants in the campaign to 854 employees The Nagasaki Municipal Government has At the Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, organized the “No Private Car Driving” we have been demonstrating our shared campaign since July 2008 and the commitment to the “No Private Car Driving Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Day” campaign with its organizer, the Kobe participated from its very beginning. In City Government, by conducting our own 2009, the three-day campaign was held in program to encourage employee commutJuly and December, and at the Nagasaki ing by public transit on Wednesdays and Shipyard & Machinery Works, 7,170 cars paydays since April 2009. We carried out and 2,232 motorcycles were involved. We the program for 51 days in fiscal 2009 with also encourage employees to ecoKazuhiko Nakanose 854 participants. The program offers Rihoko Kakizaki commute at times other than these Labor and Management Group participants the benefit of refreshing their Labor and Welfare Section campaign days and many of them do. General Affairs Department minds and bodies at dinner with their General Affairs Department Nagasaki Shipyard & Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works colleagues as they return home. Machinery Works Number of participants in the “No Private Car Driving Day” campaign for fiscal 2009 (persons) Accumulated total Number of participants 1,000 854 800 604 600 330 400 151 200 179 274 250 0 151 Employees traveling to the Koyagi Plant Holding up flags highlighting the April– July– October– January– Every Wednesday, employees use on a commuter boat campaign June September December March public transit instead of their cars CSR Report 2010 16 Close ties with Society Build a relationship of trust with society through proactive participation in the society and trustworthy actions. Special Feature 2 Advancing to the frontiers of cancer treatment Developing a radiotherapy machine that reduces the burden on patients MHI entered into the medical equipment field in the hope of helping people who are suffering from cancer. Our contribution centers on reducing the burden on patients and medical staff through collaboration with an academic institution, culminating in the development of the MHI-TM2000*, a state-of-the-art radiotherapy machine that achieves quick, simple, pinpoint irradiation of cancer cell clusters. * Product name: Linear accelerator system MHI-TM2000 (Medical equipment approval number: 22000BZX00028000) Growing population of cancer patients In this context, throughout the world calls are being heard across the world for early detection of cancer through higher examination rates According to a survey by the Ministry of Health, Labor and and for more effective treatment methods. Welfare, in 2008 the number of cancer patients in Japan was Currently, there are three methods for treating cancer: up 95,000 from 2005 and up 238,000 from 2002. Since 1981, resection of the affected area by surgical operation; chemocancer has been the top-ranking cause of death among the therapy using anticancer agents; and radiotherapy using X-rays Japanese, accounting for nearly a third of all deaths. to prevent cancer cells from dividing. Compared to surgery, The number of cancer patients is also rising overseas. The radiotherapy permits maintenance of normal body functions International Agency for Research on Cancer has reported that and form and provides such merits as sustained quality of life cancer will become the top cause of death worldwide in 2010. before and after treatment, painless treatment, and applicability Number of cancer patients Number of cancer deaths by site Stomach Colon Rectum Liver Lung (Thousand) (Thousand) Breast Uterus Prostate Other 1,600 350 1,518 300 1,500 1,423 250 1,400 200 1,280 150 1,300 1,270 100 1,200 50 0 0 1999 2002 2005 2008 (Year) 1960 1965 1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2008 (Year) Source: Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, “Overview of Patient Survey Results” Source: Compiled from statistical data released by the National Cancer Center 17 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. to physically weakened, aged patients. which the patient lay had Nevertheless, only 25% of cancer patients in Japan unto be rotated, and as the dergo radiotherapy. In contrast, 66% of patients receive this original position of the treatment in the U.S. Recently, expectations have been rising for beam was no longer on such methods as stereotactic radiotherapy, which achieves actarget, time was needed curate, pinpoint irradiation targeting of the tumor, and intensityto make the necessary modulated radiotherapy, which modulates the intensity of X-ray adjustment. This placed doses by providing fine control of multiple beams to irradiate the considerable strain on Accomplishing high-quality manufacturing tumor according to its shape. As further advances are made the patient as well as the through ongoing discussions to the machinery, radiotherapy is expected to become widely medical staff. accepted in Japan as well. To ensure effective treatment of the patient, however, medical staff had to spend a long time adjusting targeting. Medical staff wanted to accurately limit irradiation to only the cancerous Targeting a highly advanced radiotherapy cells to avoid damaging normal cells through excessive irradiamachine that achieves quick, simple, tion. pinpoint irradiation To realize those hopes and reduce impact on the patient “We want to help those who are suffering from cancer.” Based required developing a new, faster and simpler technology for on that desire, we began research and development on radiohighly accurate pinpoint irradiation. This was the starting point therapy machines in 2001 of our development project for a as part of our New Business new machine that eventually led Development Project named team members to develop three “Frontier 21” for creating the innovative technologies. MHI of the 21st century. We First, the irradiation system believed that the small-sized and imaging device were comaccelerating tube* technology pactly mounted onto a rigid O-ring accumulated by MHI would be shaped mechanical structure. This applicable for such machines. enables rotation of the various deHowever, we had never vices instead of repositioning the before set foot into the field of patient’s bed, thereby reducing medical equipment. Judging the strain on the patient while minithat success would depend mizing shifts in positioning. on the cooperation of experts, Second, a gimbaled X-ray irwe sought the assistance of radiation head with tilt and pan roKyoto University and gained Carefully confirming the accuracy of pinpoint irradiation using an anatomical model tation functions, the first of its kind the participation of Professor in the world, was incorporated to Masahiro Hiraoka, an authority on radiation oncology, as our enable automatic fine adjustment of the irradiation direction. advisor. This mechanism made it possible to automatically correct even After we began researching the current state of radiominute shifts caused by mechanical deflection, thus maintaining therapy under this collaborative framework, several problems mechanical irradiation accuracy within a range of ±0.1 mm. arose. Among them, we focused on the fact that conventional Third, the number of imaging devices was increased from machines required significant time and effort to maintain the the conventional single pair to two pairs. This not only enables precise positioning required for accurately irradiating X-rays 3-dimensional information on the patient’s physical situation, to the affected area. In particular, when changing the angle of but also achieves automatic positioning based on dual-image irradiation (non-coplanar irradiation) was required, the bed on collation, enabling faster, more accurate irradiation targeting * A device that accelerates an electron beam to nearly the speed of light. Used in of the affected area. sterilization units and other applications. Features of the MHI-TM2000 radiotherapy machine Enhanced irradiation accuracy + Enhanced positioning precision = Less unnecessary irradiation to normal cells and reduced burden on the patient Accurate Fast Secure Gimbaled Small-sized Organ at risk Coplanar irradiation X-ray head accelerator Imaging system (two pairs installed) Couch (6-DOF) O-ring The mechanical structure itself shaped Cancer lesion Non-coplanar rotates and skews rather than structure irradiation the patient’s couch CSR Report 2010 18 A machine that not only reduces the burden Contributing to cancer treatment worldwide of treatment but is also innovative in terms of through an integrated system of development, safety measures manufacturing, sales, maintenance and support Reducing the stress on patients and medical staff was not our MHI launched sales of only focus in developing this new radiotherapy machine. We the MHI-TM2000 in were thoroughly committed to securing operational quality January 2008, after (performance) and safety, the most critical aspects of medical obtaining approval by equipment. the U.S. Food and Drug For example, duplicate sets of sensors and computerized Administration (FDA), controls for X-ray irradiation were incorporated to configure the European CE mark, mechanisms that would continue to operate normally even in and manufacturing and the event one set fails. We also devised every safety measure marketing approval conceivable, including a system of seven countermeasures all based on the Japanese Visiting the engineers of BrainLAB in Germany for preventing overradiation. Pharmaceutical Law Furthermore, we installed a new dedicated inspection and from the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. testing facility within the manufacturing factory that can actually Two machines are currently being used for clinical generate X-rays for inspection and testing purposes. We treatment at the Institute of Biomedical Research and conducted rigorous quality checks using anatomical models to Innovation in Hyogo Prefecture and at the Joetsu General ensure pinpoint accuracy of X-ray irradiation. Hospital in Niigata Prefecture. Installation work is in progress This is how the MHI-TM2000 was completed. The product for two more machines. Overseas, one unit is being used for has enabled highly accurate pinpoint irradiation quickly, simply, research at UZ Brussel (Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel) in safely and securely. This innovative radiotherapy machine Belgium. In addition to Japan and Europe, we are planning to lessens unnecessary irradiation of normal cells while reducing launch sales in the United States from 2010, and we have tied the time and effort spent by patients and medical staff. up with BrainLAB of Germany to handle marketing in the larger In recognition of the innovations accomplished through overseas markets. We will also reinforce our maintenance and MHI’s collaboration with Kyoto University, in June 2008 the support systems. MHI-TM2000 received the Industry-Academia-Government Looking ahead, we intend to more actively exchange Collaboration information with experts in cancer treatment and other medical Contribution Award fields to raise recognition of the machine and promote its from the Ministry of features toward expanding its use, while reflecting feedback Economy, Industry from experts and on-site medical staff in future product and Trade. development and sales support systems. In October 2006, we completed a plant dedicated to the production of MHI-TM2000 in Hiroshima, Japan where MHI’s Industrial Machinery Business, Technology & Solutions Division is located. Under an integrated system that encompasses development, manufacturing, sales, maintenance and support, we will open up new avenues in cancer treatment as our contribution Uncompromising pursuit of precision in the to patients and medical staff throughout the world. manufacturing process Expectations held toward MHI I hope MHI’s entry will revitalize the entire medical equipment industry. Over the past twenty years, radiotherapy has evolved from 2-dimensional to 3-dimensional treatment based on the stereoscopic identification of affected areas. However, to achieve advanced irradiation treatment that can sustain millimeter-level precision, 4-dimensional treatment will be necessary to track down and irradiate cancer, which is constantly on the move. MHI has developed the world’s first radiotherapy machine with functions to irradiate cancer while tracking it, a completely innovative model of medical equipment that enabled us to crack open the door to a new paradigm. Even with such technological advances already accomplished, several years will still be required for the machine’s effectiveness to be recognized and for it to begin generating profit. I hope MHI will maintain a long-term perspective for developing this machine into the top brand sought by every medical expert in the world. MHI’s courageous entry into medical equipment also represented a significant step for revitalizing Japan’s medical equipment industry as a whole. I have always lamented the fact that technologies possessed by companies in Japan, a manufacturing giant, were not being sufficiently applied to medical equipment, a field that symbolizes the cutting edge of technology. This forced the nation to depend on imported medical equipment for examination and treatment. If Japan were to Masahiro Hiraoka M.D. seriously apply its technological prowess to medical equipment, we would be able to deliver Professor and Chairman treatment that is more appropriate to Japanese needs, which would in turn benefit many more Department of Radiation Oncology and Image-Applied Therapy patients who are suffering around the world. I hope MHI’s entry will encourage Japanese compaKyoto University Graduate School of Medicine nies’ efforts in the medical equipment field to lead to a major leap forward. 19 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Close ties with Society CSR activities reported by our employees Digging for Tamachi Building Co., Ltd., a member of the MHI Group, invited 30 children from the Minato Ward Shiba Nursery School for a sweet potato digging event at the rooftop garden of its Dai Ichi Tamachi Building, a rental building sweet in front of Japan Railway’s Tamachi Station. potatoes Tamachi Building Co., Ltd. Nursery school children enjoy learning about the importance of greenery Our most recent event was held with the goal of offering a fun environmental learning opportunity for nursery school children. We exercised significant care to make the event an enjoyable experience, such as by using children’s hats as an example to explain the effects of greening building rooftops. The garden was filled with the cheers and laughter of children. We plan to hold a strawberry picking event in the future. Toyomi Miyake Chie Sato Customer Service General Affairs Group Engineering Section General Affairs Department Engineering Department Tamachi Building Co., Ltd. Tamachi Building Co., Ltd. Children enjoy digging sweet potatoes Explaining the effects of rooftop greening to children Launched in 2007, Hometown Cleanup Meetings are held for four weeks around October each year as cleanup Hometown activities established using feedback from companies, NPOs and residents of regional communities. Cleanup A total of 5,073 employees of MHI works and 62 Group companies participated in these activities in fiscal 2009. Meetings Machine Tool Division Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works 42 participants including family members collected 2,046 participants from Group companies collected 306 fish of foreign origin and 20 bags of garbage. 69 bags of garbage The Machine Tools Division sponsors the The Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works Lake Biwa Cleanup and Non-indigenous held its Third Voluntary Cleanup Around the Fish Extermination Activity. On October 17, Oye Factory on October 23, 2009. We 2009, 42 participants collected 306 fish of asked employees to participate through foreign origin and twenty 45-liter bags of company broadcasts the day before and on garbage. The large number of foreign fish the day of the activity, leading to 2,046 collected led to a renewed awareness of employees from the Nagoya Aerospace the importance of protecting the natural Systems Works and Group companies environment and the ecosystem. In fiscal joining the cleanup. During lunch break, 2010, we plan to hold regional cleanup Hisaki Shimizu participants collected a total of 37 bags of Kazunori Suwa activities in June and the Lake Biwa General Affairs Section flammable garbage, 17 bags of nonflamSecurity Management Section Cleanup and Non-indigenous Fish General Affairs Department mable garbage and 15 bags of cans and General Affairs Department Machine Tools Division Nagoya Aerospace Extermination Activity in October. PET bottles (all in 45-liter bags). Systems Works Children also participate using A commemorative group photograph Working in large numbers to efficiently Separating collected garbage into easy-to-bait hooks after exterminating non-indigenous fish collect and separate garbage smaller categories CSR Report 2010 20 A bridge to the next Generation Contribute to the cultivation of human resources who can shoulder responsibility in the next generation through technologies that can realize dreams. Introducing the mechanical Children taking a close look at the robotic fish construction and performance of rockets “Putt Putt steamship” race in a portable pool Introducing the mechanism of air-conditioners using a demonstration unit Special Feature 3 Our nationwide works participate in children’s science classes We hope Japan will continue to be a nation that produces human resources who contribute to the future of the global community through science and technology. MHI conducts science classes throughout Japan to communicate to children the fascination of manufacturing as well as science and technology. Japan could lose its competitive edge in List of science classes held in fiscal 2009 international society Division, Headquarters, Target Grades Number of Participants Content and Themes Works It has been pointed out that in Japan, children are having fewer (persons)*1 opportunities to get involved in the sciences over recent years Paper & Printing Machinery Division / Transportation Systems Mihara Saizaki Elementary School and Sagiura Elementary School 44 Experiment and workshop using LED lights, tour of the linear motorcar factory and are showing less interest in and understanding of the & Advanced Technology Division (Hiroshima Pref.) and the Operating Control Center Industrial Machinery Business, Hiroshima Minamikanon Elementary subject. This has raised concerns that Japan might lose its Technology & Solutions Division School 258 Science class using wakamaru competitive edge in technologies, which has been the very Industrial Machinery Business, Hiroshima Minamikanon Elementary Technology & Solutions Division; 124 Science class using robotic fish source of its growth. MHI Solution Technologies Co., Ltd. School MHI believes that it is its responsibility as a manufacturer to General Machinery & Special Vehicle Headquarters 10 elementary schools in the Sagamihara City region 19 Mechanical construction of forklift trucks address this issue by cultivating human resources who can Air-Conditioning & Mechanical construction of Kiyosu Nishibiwajima Elementary contribute to the global community through science and Refrigeration Systems Headquarters School (Aichi Pref.) 86 air-conditioners, science class using wakamaru technology. The company accordingly formulated a Three-year Machine Tool Division Ritto Hayama Higashi Elementary 61*2 Science class using wakamaru School (Shiga Pref.) Plan to Support Science Education at Schools in April 2008. Nagasaki Shipyard & Elementary School Attached to Nagasaki Global warming and wind 70 Since then, employees at our nationwide works have been Machinery Works University Faculty of Education power generation mechanism Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Kobe Wada Misaki Elementary visiting elementary, junior high and high schools in neighboring Works School 95 Science class using wakamaru regions to teach science classes. Shimonoseki Shipyard & Shimonoseki Enoura Elementary 70 Workshop on “Putt Putt Machinery Works School (Yamaguchi Pref.) steamship” In fiscal 2009, MHI offered classes on the theme of discovTour of demonstration wind Yokohama Machinery Yokohama Namiki-chuo Elementary ering how scientific knowledge learned at school benefits Works School 55 turbine, wind power generation experiment using models society, by using products and technologies developed by each Takasago Iho Minami Elementary Science class using wakamaru, Takasago Machinery Works 115 works. Over 2,700 children and students have participated. School (Hyogo Pref.) global warming Ichinomiya High School, Okazaki Lecture on the definition of space and High School, Okazaki Kita High rocket theory, tour of rocket factory, Outline of the three-year plan to support science Nagoya Aerospace Systems School, Toyota Nishi High School, 88 question-and-answer session (held as Works Zuiryo High School, Asahigaoka part of the Super Science High School education at schools High School, Jishukan High project of the Ministry of Education, School (Aichi Pref.) Culture, Sports, Science and Technology) • Implementation of science classes for elementary schools by all works, using tools such as wakamaru (Understanding the needs of schools and gaining the expertise for conducting science classes) Odate Yamase Elementary School, Hayaguchi 2008 • Development of science class teaching materials at individual works (Individual works create teaching materials for science classes based on their own products and Elementary School, (Akita Prefecture), Komaki Momogaoka Elementary School, Kitasato technologies) Elementary School, Ajioka Elementary School, Hikarigaoka Elementary School, Koki Elementary Nagoya Guidance & School, Honjo Elementary School, Komakihara Mechanical construction of 1,666*2 • Implementation of science classes for elementary schools by all works based on their respective Propulsion Systems Works Elementary School, Oshiro Elementary School, rockets products and technologies Komaki Elementary School, Shino-oka 2009 (Conducting science classes using the teaching materials created by respective works) • Brushing up science class teaching materials Elementary School, Komeno Elementary School, Isshiki Elementary School, Mitsubuchi (Improving content based on the responses of children and feedback from schools) Elementary School, Muranaka Elementary School, Sue Elementary School (Aichi Prefecture) • Continued implementation of science classes for elementary schools based on the products and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Mechanical construction of Busan Japanese School, Korea 42 technologies of respective works Korea, Ltd., Busan Office rockets 2010 (Conducting science classes after reflecting on achievements and areas in need of improvement in FY2009 classes) Total 32 classes 2,793 • Consideration toward conducting science classes for junior high schools *1 Total numbers are provided for classes held in multiple schools (Considering teaching materials and presentation methods for operating science classes in junior high schools) *2 Includes neighboring nursery school children and parents 21 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Science Class at the Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion many people are involved in flying a rocket?” and “Where does Systems Works the sky end and space begin?” An experiment is also conducted using liquid nitrogen instead of the ultra low-temperature Nurturing the dream of space development liquid propellant used to fuel rockets. through rockets Children responded with strong interest, their eyes gleamThe Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works began ofing at visual images of the takeoff and voices crying out in fering classes on rockets in November 2008 at elementary amazement at seeing a rose and rubber ball instantly freeze schools in Komaki City, Aichi Prefecture, one year ahead of the during experiments. Many have subsequently expressed their FY2009 goal of conducting science classes, using the teaching desire to participate in this field themselves or work with rockmaterials created by reets when they grow up. spective works, under the Three-year Plan. To nurture children’s dreams of rocket technology and space development, engineers from the works served as teachers to speak about space and introExperiment on freezing instant noodles using duced the mechanical liquid nitrogen construction and performance of rockets. The class received enthusiastic support from both children and teachers, and Komaki City has requested the works to conduct the classes in all of the city’s elementary schools. To respond to the request, about 20 employees at the works volunteered through open application and organized Explaining how rubber loses its elasticity at ultra-low temperatures using a themselves into teams of three to share teaching responsibilirubber ball ties and create a system for visiting each school. They conducted classes in 15 elementary schools in Komaki City and 2 schools in Odate City in Akita Prefecture where the works’ rocket testing grounds are located, for more than 1,600 particiExpectations held toward MHI pants including parents. The Delivery Lecture & Experiment for Rocket is a Surprise and excitement broadens 45-minute program. To attract children’s interest, the class starts with an explanation of the size and structure of rockets children’s interest in the sciences. and the role of satellites using models and projectors. A video We were able to familiarize ourselves with is then shown to explain the rocket from launch to separation rockets, which we had only seen on TV. of the satellite. Children are quizzed on such topics as “How Experiments conducted by people with expert knowledge generate surprise and excitement for children and broadens their interest in the sciences. I sincerely hope MHI will continue holding classes that touch children’s hearts. Ms. Misako Okumura Delivery Lecture & Experiment for Rocket also Teacher, Komaki Komeno Elementary School held at the Busan Japanese School in Korea In March 2010, employees at the Busan Office of Mitsubishi CSR activities reported by Heavy Industries Korea conducted a Delivery Lecture & Experiment for Rocket at the Busan Japanese School. our employees Educational material developed by the Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works was used and arranged according to local needs for this class. Also introduced were plans to launch a Korean satellite on the H-IIA launch vehicle manuNagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works factured and launched by MHI. Afterward, the principal of the school expressed his apWe satisfied children’s curiosity through preciation by saying the class stimulated children’s imaginacountless creative efforts. tion and interest in rockets and hearing the words directly Countless creative efforts went into spoken from an expert making the class one in which we perspective provided a ourselves could also share in the valuable experience. children’s laughter, surprise and enMany children asked us joyment. Still gripped by excitement, to conduct a second many children came up to us after the class on rockets. class to ask questions, which assured me that we had been able to satisfy their curiosity. Delivery Lecture & Experiment for Rocket Hiroyuki Aihara Liquid Rocket Engine Design Section in Korea Engine and Control Equipment Engineering Department Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works CSR Report 2010 22 Science Class at the Shimonoseki Shipyard & Science Class at the Industrial Machinery Business, Technology Machinery Works & Solutions Division and MHI Solution Technologies Co., Ltd. Using the “Putt Putt steamship” to teach the Stimulating interest in machines and controls principles of physics using robotic fish On November 18, 2009, we conducted a science class for On November 24, 2009, a science class was held for 124 making “Putt Putt steamships” for 70 fifth-graders at the sixth-graders at the Hiroshima Minamikanon Elementary Shimonoseki Enoura Elementary School In Yamaguchi School by MHI Group company MHI Solution Technologies Prefecture. Co., Ltd. using its robotic fish. The program was designed by the Shimonoseki Shipyard The robotic fish can swim as freely as a fish through appli& Machinery Works, which develops eco-ships with a low envication of a technology developed by MHI that enables simultaronmental impact, in the hope of teaching children the technolneous control of propulsion and direction with a single fin. The ogy that propels ships and the fascination of manufacturing. technology had been showcased at the Mitsubishi Minatomirai The “Putt Putt steamship” is a model boat based on the physIndustrial Museum and the EXPO 2005 AICHI JAPAN and ics principle that water increases in volume when turned into proved very popular. steam, and the ship moves on the power of steam produced On the day of the science class, the mechanical construcby heating a copper tube containing water with a candle. tion of the robotic fish was explained to children in simple The children used styrofoam to create the body of the terms. They also enjoyed first-hand experience controlling the ships in various shapes of their fish. A golden carp robot, sea choice and assembled a bream robot and coelacanth steam engine out of a copper robot appeared and children tube and a candle. Upon who observed them swimcompletion, a race was held in ming for the first time rea portable pool. When the sponded with comments such candles were lighted and the as: “They look totally real!” ships began to move, the children cheered loudly. Making “Putt Putt steamships” Children fascinated by the carp robot Expectations held toward MHI Expectations held toward MHI Exciting experiences motivate children I have high hopes for science classes that to take their first steps toward science. nurture children’s dreams for the future. “I understood the mechanism of how Science classes that give children a real things move,” “I made it move sense of the fascination of science and myself!”—the eyes of children who atthe wonders of nature represent a signifitended the class sparkled with delight. I cant initiative that nurtures the intellectual feel that exciting experiences that go becuriosity of children. I hope MHI will utilize yond the scope of school education motiits manufacturing prowess to continue ofvate children to take their first steps fering science classes that provide chiltoward science. dren with dreams of the future. Ms. Manami Maeda Mr. Takuya Suga Teacher, Shimonoseki Enoura Elementary School Teacher, Hiroshima Minamikanon Elementary School Science Class at the Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems Headquarters 4 Explaining heat energy displacement using air-conditioners On February 16, 2010, a science and listening intently to employees who played the part of the class using air-conditioners teacher. (heat pumps) was held for 86 fourth-graders at the Kiyosu Nishibiwajima Elementary School Expectations held toward MHI in Aichi Prefecture. During the science class we Children feel wind from a An experience that connects what children explained how displacement of demonstration unit learn at school to daily life is meaningful. heat energy produces cool or warm air from air-conditioners by pointing out the example of how we all experience a cooling I think the value of an experience-oriented sensation when alcohol is applied as a disinfectant before rescience class lies in encouraging children to realize how what they learn at ceiving an injection. We also used a demonstration unit school is connected to their daily lives (training material) to actually produce a warm breeze, allowing and stimulating imaginative thinking. I children to observe and feel the temperature change. hope children will achieve further growth In addition, we introduced wakamaru, a communication by learning the fundamentals and basics robot developed by MHI, and set aside time in the latter half of we teach as well as their applications the class for children to shake hands with and talk to the rothrough the science classes. bot. Children gathered around the demonstration unit and Ms. Akemi Oshima wakamaru with strong interest, asking many kinds of questions Teacher, Kiyosu Nishibiwajima Elementary School 23 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Exchange of ideas at the General Machinery & Special Vehicle Headquarters Seeking to further enhance the science classes On March 29, 2010, the General Machinery & Special Vehicle Headquarters in Sagamihara City, Kanagawa Prefecture, invited 19 fifth-graders to a science class, which included the use of a forklift truck, one of the products of the headquarters. Afterward, we also convened an idea exchange with Mr. Toshihiko Nishiyama, a member of the Sagamihara City Board of Education who attended the class as an observer, and members of the NPO Kodomo Uchu Mirai Association (KU-MA), who provided their expertise in organizing the class. Providing children with a lively educational broadly contributes to society and that the science classes opportunity are valuable from that standpoint. On the day of the science class, we explained with help from The participants also confirmed that to create lively eduKU-MA the mechanism that allows a forklift truck to carry or cational opportunities, it is important for schools, local govraise objects by conducting experiments illustrating the prinernments, companies and NPOs to share the same goals of ciples of the lever and pulley and Pascal’s principle. We also cultivating the next generation, and to communicate with chilset aside time for a tour of the forklift truck production factory dren by cooperating in the areas of their respective strengths. to offer children a genuine worksite experience. Loud cheers were heard when the forklift truck easily raised a heavy weight Sustaining and enhancing the science class that could not be budged with human power alone. in collaboration with local communities The program was develThe MHI team asked what the participants expected of the oped as a joint project based MHI science class. on a series of discussions that Mr. Nishiyama of the Board of Education touched on the took place over a half year current situation, in which not only children but also teachers between KU-MA members have been drifting away from the sciences in recent years. He and a team from the General requested MHI to provide an opportunity for observing the Machinery & Special Vehicle enthusiasm with which children learn during the science class Headquarters. Therefore, to enable young teaching staff to acquire the skills for making we sought their opinions in Experiments using a variety of materials science classes fun. He also expressed his gratitude for the the exchange session on learning opportunities provided by a company located in the the value of companies and city, saying it was also fortunate for the children. He hoped NPOs providing opportunities MHI would continue conducting these classes. for experience-oriented eduMembers of KU-MA noted the various products handled cation for children in local by each of the MHI works and said KU-MA is always looking communities. for educational material that interests children, expressing Mr. Nishiyama of the their hope of continuing their collaborations with each works Board of Education said the to develop quality educational materials and programs in the Forklift truck demonstration lively engagement of children future. left a powerful impression and that learning in the worksite In response to these comments, MHI staff expressed its setting was an opportunity for real-life education that motigratitude to child education experts for their cooperation on vates children to improve in their studies. the project, which enabled us to form a connection between Members of KU-MA mentioned the importance of proour products and technologies and what children learn at viding children in materially affluent Japan with an approach school. MHI concluded the idea exchange by speaking about that lets them enjoy learning for its own sake. They emphaour enthusiasm for sustaining and enhancing the science sized the need to give them a real sense that what they learn classes through closer collaboration with the local community. Mr. Toshihiko Nishiyama Mr. Sumio Endo Ms. Reiko Yamamura Mr. Yuichi Taguchi Kazuhito Hori Takeharu Numazaki Supervisor Director General Administration General Administration General Affairs and General Affairs and School Education Section, Kodomo Uchu Mirai Department Department Environment Management Environment Management School Education Division Association Kodomo Uchu Mirai Kodomo Uchu Mirai Section Manager Section Sagamihara City Incorporated Nonprofit Association Association General Affairs Department General Affairs Department Board of Education Organization Incorporated Nonprofit Incorporated Nonprofit General Machinery & General Machinery & Organization Organization Special Vehicle Headquarters Special Vehicle Headquarters CSR Report 2010 24 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI CSR Action Plans Medium-term targets and action plans for fiscal 2008 to 2010 MHI developed medium-term CSR targets for a three-year period (fiscal 2008 to 2010) as well as action plans for each fiscal year to expand CSR management across the entire Group. The CSR Committee, chaired by the President, reviews the progress of activities every half term to promote strategic and comprehensive CSR initiatives across the Group. Area Priority item (responsibility) Medium-term targets (FY2008–2010) 1. Broadened CSR awareness across the Group and promote self-directed activities of individual departBroadened CSR awareness (CSR Committee / ments CSR Department) 2. Selection and implementation of unified activity themes for the entire Group (representative CSR activities) based on the CSR Action Guidelines 1. Energizing activities in line with the social contribution policy of the entire company (community contribution and nurturing the next generation) and instilling a sense of unity across the Group Socially beneficial activities (CSR Department) 2. Raising the level of all activities by exchanging information among departments and energizing activities of Group companies 3. Building a structure to support participation of employees in social contribution activities CSR Promotion Strengthening information dissemination (Corporate Communication Department) 1. Gain wider recognition and improve evaluation of the company’s environmental protection efforts 1. Enhancement of brand value concerning the environment 2. Promote PR to improve the company image 2. Enhancement of company image 3. Increase the number of shareholders who hold the company’s stocks longer (fan) 3. Promotion of IR activities 4. Attract 140,000 visitors a year 4. Improvement of the Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum 1. Penetration of CSR Procurement Guidelines and strengthened PDCA cycle CSR procurement (Material Department) 2. Response to REACH Regulation and others 3. Deepened activities for further reducing energy use in transportation 1. Establishment of promotion system across the Group and unified activity content Thorough compliance (Compliance Committee) 2. Implementation of compliance training that is well-developed in terms of both awareness and knowledge Compliance Order compliance (Order Compliance Committee) Maintaining zero violations of the Anti-Monopoly Act (continued order compliance activities) 1. Improvement of on-site compliance level Compliance with the Construction Business Act 2. Establishment of the system for compliance (Construction Business Act Compliance Committee) 3. Support of the Group companies in compliance Compliance with export-related regulations (Export1. Enhancing sure export management at individual departments and training experts in export management related Regulations Monitoring Committee) 2. Further strengthening effective export management by Group companies Ensuring achievement of the voluntary reduction target for CO2 emissions 1. Visualization of energy usage and implementation of energy conservation by eliminating waste Reduced CO2 emissions (Environment Committee) 2. Obtaining necessary emission credits and systematically introducing energy-saving equipment 3. Installation of additional photovoltaic facilities to bring cumulative total across the company to more than 2,000 kW Environment 1. Completing introduction of environmental ISO in Group companies in Japan Group environmental management 2. Deployment of environmental management activities by the Group acting as one (Environment Committee) 3. Implementation of regular audits of Group companies and round-table conferences Raising awareness of human rights (Committee for Broaden understanding and awareness regarding human right issues across the company and implement Raising Awareness of Human Rights) initiatives to prevent sexual and power harassment Promote employment of the handicapped (Committee Maintenance and expansion of employment level exceeding legal mandate, and promotion of systematic for Promoting the Employment of the Handicapped) employment by individual departments Human rights Creating a better workplace (Personnel Department) 1. Further enhance the environment for carefully nurturing valuable human resources and labor 1. Enriched education 2. Implementation of effective measures, starting from the prevention of mental health disorders to support2. Strengthening mental health ing employees in returning to work 3. Utilization of retired employees 3. Further increasing the rehiring rate (more than 60%) 4. Nurturing the next generation 4. Maintaining Kurumin (next generation nurturing support) certification mark 1. Establishment of an integrated QMS (Quality Management System) across the headquarters and works Ensuring quality and safety of nuclear business and construction of an autonomous framework (Managing Board for Innovation in the Nuclear 2. Further improvement of plant reliability Product Business) 3. Nurturing a climate that does not allow compliance violations and earning the public trust through ongoing dissemination of information responsibility 1. Utilization, spread and deployment of accomplishments related to product safety activities Product safety (Legal Department / Production (including improved instruction manual models) System Innovation Planning Department) 2. Further reinforcement of product safety system 1. Further strengthening the PDCA cycle for autonomous risk management at the company as well as Risk Risk assessment and management domestic and overseas Group companies management (Internal Audit Department) 2. Regular implementation of risk assessment 3. Thoroughly implementing company-wide horizontal deployment of advanced cases using database 25 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Achievements of FY2009 Action plans for FY2010 1. D istributed CSR report (digest version) to all employees of our Group companies (87 thousand 1. Distribute CSR report to all employees of domestic Group companies, implement e-learning on copies) CSR 2. H eld President’s Town Meeting at 10 locations and “CSR training sessions” at 13 locations 2. Multilevel dialogues, broadened CSR awareness through CSR training program and expanded 3. Implemented representative CSR activities in line with the CSR Action Guidelines almost as implementation in Group companies planned 3. Continue to carry out representative CSR activities across the Group 1. Activities were carried out in line with the social contribution policy (1) Community contribution activities: donation of goods to the Shinagawa Church Kindergarten bazaar; donation of photovoltaic facilities; opening of a nursery, etc. 1. Develop policy on community contribution and the next generation nurturing activities that are (2) Nurturing the next generation: MHI Charity Opera (for audience of 280), science classes (32); unique to the company Hands-on Manufacturing Class for families, etc. 2. Revitalize and follow up on activities of Group companies 2. Socially beneficial activities of Group companies Furusato Seiso Undokai (local clean-up effort) hosted by Mt. Fuji Club (total of 5,073 employees of MHI Group participated in the activity), etc. 1. Disclosed information on business activities for improving the global environment 2. R an corporate ads in newspapers and published periodicals (MHI Graph); ran CSR ads in Nagoya area (newspapers and train station ads) 1. Broadly publicize information on company technologies and products that contribute to energy 3. H osted plant tours for individual shareholders (Industrial Machinery Business, Technology & and the environment Solutions Division, Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works); Held briefings for individual 2. Publish information on content of business through corporate ads and periodicals (MHI Graph, investors (Nagoya, Osaka, Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum); ran articles in reports etc.) to enhance the level of awareness of the company’s business published by securities companies (on high-efficiency gas turbines, MRJ) 3. Increase frequency of events for individual investors 4. C umulative number of visitors exceeded 150 thousand following renovations of the Industrial 4. Continue renovation of the Industrial Museum, reinforce management structure Museum (Ocean Zone, Technology Quest Zone) Number of visitors in FY2009 was 158 thousand (accomplished 113%) 1. S tarted CSR procurement promotion project and formulated guidelines 1. Seek penetration of Guidelines for Promoting MHI Group Supply Chain CSR inside and outside 2. G athered information on REACH Regulation and examined policy in response the company 3. R educed energy use in transportation (97 in unit energy consumption indexed against 2006 2. Continue to gather information on REACH Regulation and promote policies as 100) 3. Reduce energy use in transportation (96 in unit energy consumption indexed against 2006 as 100) 1. C hecked the status of compliance promotion activities based on in-house rules 1. Continue to implement compliance promotion activities based on in-house rules 2. A ggregated and analyzed compliance cases that require improvement and ensured appropriate 2. Aggregate and analyze compliance cases that require improvement and ensure steady manageprocessing of letters received ment of contact points to provide feedback for related measures 3. C ontinued implementation and enhanced theme-setting of compliance promotion training 3. Improve the theme-setting for compliance promotion trainings for on-site employees, seek 4. C ontinued implementation of compliance awareness survey (recorded highest scores to date) greater awareness by coordinating measures unique to each company workplace 1. Order Compliance Committee checked the status of activities 2. Carried out monitoring of the company and 19 Group companies that participate in bidding of public sector projects Prevent forgetfulness by continuously following up on status of order compliance activities 3. Dispatched information on the Anti-Monopoly Act 4. Implemented course on order compliance in compliance promotion trainings as requirement for departments in charge of public sector sales 1. Held routine workshops at the works (976 participants) 1. Continue routine workshops at the works 2. Opened an e-learning course (481 participants) 2. Hold briefings on the Construction Business Act for subcontractors 3. Held workshops on the Construction Business Act for Group companies 3. Reinforce compliance system across the entire Group 1. Implemented e-learning (cumulative total of 8,282 participants) 1. Continue implementation of e-learning 2. Carried out audits by primary supervising department 2. Continue audits by primary supervising department at Group companies 1. P romoted introduction of energy-saving equipment Reduction of CO2 sustained at 4.9% against reduction target of 6% 1. Continue to promote introduction of energy-saving equipment; introduce a monitoring system, 2. Introduced additional 220 kW photovoltaic facilities (Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, promote plans for updating in-house air-conditioners Takasago Machinery Works, Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works), making the 2. Purchase and manage the signed emission credits cumulative total 2,110 kW (target exceeded) 3. Install 101 kW photovoltaic facility in company dormitories Photovoltaic facilities installed in company dormitories, nursery and Wind Turbine View Park Total of 33.5 kW installed 1. A total of 8 Group companies in Japan and abroad completed their initial acquisition of ISO certification 1. Promote initial acquisition of ISO certification by Group companies in Japan and overseas 2. D eployed and followed up on common targets for Group companies 2. Promote activities for achieving the common targets for Group companies 3. H eld an environmental conference with each of the 14 domestic Group companies 3. Continue to hold environmental conference (of 15 companies) Held a joint environment liaison conference for the 14 companies involved in the environmental conference The committee and the respective committees of each works held annual meetings Continue to hold annual meetings of the committee and the respective committees of each works Continue aggressive recruitment activities (monthly review of activity status) and enlightenment Achieved the employment level of 1.98%, exceeding the legal mandate of 1.8% activities toward achieving employment level of 2% 1. Implement education based on the new system (practical application of PDCA) 1. Restructured (improved) company-wide training system 2. Deploy education for managers across the entire company and distribute booklet to employees 2. Developed educational materials for managers and booklet for employees on leave on leave 3. Accomplished the rehiring rate of 71%, exceeding the 60% medium-term target 3. Accomplish the rehiring rate exceeding the medium-term target of 60% 4. S et up a Work-Life Support Group based on the overall standpoint of improving the quality of the 4. Work to promote in-house understanding of the content of the program for nurturing the next working environment generation in balance with actual working responsibilities 1. Practiced the Nuclear QMS 1. Seek further reform and innovation in Nuclear QMS 2. Assessed the utilization level of maintenance information 2. Implement preventive maintenance by sharing information 3. Implemented ethics education for engineers 3. Establish a system for ethics education 4. Proactively worked on information disclosure 4. Establish information disclosure policies 1. S upported product safety (risk assessment, improvement of instruction manuals and guarantee 1. Continue risk assessment, improvement of instruction manuals and guarantee certificates, etc. certificates, etc.) 2. Introduce the company’s thinking on product safety activities and advanced cases 2. Conducted product safety awareness survey across the entire company 1. Enhance control and implement internal audit that takes into account the results of FY2009 risk 1. Implemented risk assessment across the entire Group and ascertained risks that require assessment enhanced control and risks to be checked by internal audit 2. Implement self-check on evaluation results from FY2009 risk assessment to ascertain current 2. Updated the risk management database to pursue horizontal deployment of advanced cases status of risk assessment through above-mentioned actions CSR Report 2010 26 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Management In the course of providing products that support social and economic infrastructures on a global scale, MHI makes every effort to fulfill its social responsibility as a corporation by strengthening and enhancing its corporate governance, internal controls and CSR efforts while acting in full compliance with prevailing laws, rules and social norms in addition to promoting fair and sound management. Organization Chart (as of July 1, 2010) Internal Audit Department CSR Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Department Order Compliance Committee Compliance Committee Corporate Planning Department Environment Committee Presidential Administration Group Management Department Committee for Raising Awareness of Human Rights Office Shipbuilding & Ocean Committee for the Promotion of Employment of the Corporate Communication Department Development Headquarters Handicapped Information Systems & Communications Department Export-related Regulations Monitoring Committee Construction Business Act Compliance Committee General Affairs Department Managing Board for Innovation in the Nuclear Business Yokohama Machinery Works Legal Department Power Systems Headquarters Takasago Machinery Works Personnel Department Accounting Department Finance Department Nuclear Energy Systems Material Department Headquarters Technology Planning Department Intellectual Property Department Environmental & Chemical Plant Division Advanced Technology Research Center Machinery & Steel Structures Transportation Systems & Advanced Headquarters Technology Division Nagasaki Research & Development Center Technical Headquarters Industrial Machinery Business, Takasago Research & Development Center Technology & Solutions Division Hiroshima Research & Development Center Aerospace Headquarters Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Executive Committee Yokohama Research & Development Center Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Nagoya Research & Development Center Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works Board of Directors President Overseas Business Promotion Department Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works Global Strategic Planning & Board of Statutory Auditors Operations Headquarters Overseas Administration Department General Machinery & Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Special Vehicle Headquarters Systems Works Statutory Auditors Production System Innovation Planning Department Statutory Auditors’ Office Sustainability Energy & Environment Strategic Planning Department Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Joint Lithium Battery Operations Department Systems Headquarters Kansai Office Chubu Office Kyushu Office Machine Tool Division Hokkaido Office Chugoku Office Tohoku Office Hokuriku Office Shikoku Office Jakarta Liaison Office Taipei Liaison Office 27 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Management Corporate Governance In its quest to continuously develop its business operations and fulfill its social responsibilities, MHI is reforming its management structure while promoting fair and sound management rooted in complete legal compliance. Current Status of discussing important matters related the work carried out by statutory auditors. Corporate Governance and to business execution. This allows for Internal Controls a more cohesive approach in terms of Ensuring reliability of financial discussions as part of the operational reporting by assessing the execution framework centered on the Strengthening the oversight status and operation of the President, and consequently leads to functions of the Board of internal control system more effective management decisions Directors through such and business execution. In May 2006, the Board of Direcmeasures as appointing In accordance with the auditing poltors approved a basic policy for interoutside directors icy and auditing plan determined by the nal control systems. Under this policy, The Board of Directors makes important Board of Statutory Auditors, statutory the company has been steadily promotkey management decisions and overauditors attend meetings of the Board ing thorough compliance, reinforcing risk sees the execution of business operaof Directors, the Executive Committee management, and improving the effections, while statutory auditors audit the and other key meetings related to busitiveness of internal audits. execution of duties of directors and other ness planning, enabling them to accuUnder the Japanese Financial Instrumatters. rately assess and monitor the status of ments and Exchange Act, an internal Currently, 3 of the company’s 18 management execution in a timely mancontrol reporting system, sometimes directors and 3 of its 5 statutory auditors ner. They also confirm whether the execureferred to as J-SOX, came into effect in are from outside MHI and are engaged tion of duties by directors complies with April 2008. in their respective roles of overseeing laws, regulations and the Articles of IncorPrior to this, the Board of Directors and auditing management by maintainporation and whether the business of the revised the basic policy in March 2008 ing an independent standpoint from the company is being appropriately executed. to articulate its response. In April 2008 management team. The company has This is done by conducting spot checks MHI set up a group inside the Internal also streamlined the Board of Directors, and verifying compliance with relevant Audit Department to be responsible for shortened the term of office, and introlaws and regulations and by monitoring all J-SOX-related operations inside the duced an Executive Officer System. MHI and conducting follow-ups of the status MHI Group, concurrently setting up simihas sought through these measures to and operation of internal control systems lar groups or offices throughout all of our reinforce the oversight functions of the including internal controls related to finanmanufacturing works. Board of Directors and to clarify the roles cial reporting. Statutory auditors periodiIn fiscal 2009, as in earlier years, the and responsibilities of the directors who cally exchange information and opinions Internal Audit Department and the intermake decisions on key management with the Internal Audit Department and nal audit divisions of our manufacturing issues and oversee the overall manageaccounting auditors, and cooperate works exercised the initiative in assessment of the company as well as the roles closely with them in other ways, including ing the status and operation of the interand responsibilities of the executive offireceiving their audit results and attending nal control system and concluded that cers who execute business. accounting audits. The Statutory Audithe MHI Group’s internal controls related MHI has also established an Exectors’ Office has been set up with its own to financial reporting were functioning utive Committee to serve as a forum for dedicated staff to support and facilitate effectively. Corporate Governance Structure (including internal control system) (as of April 1, 2010) General Meeting of Shareholders Election/Dismissal Proposal/Report Audit/Report Election/Dismissal Report Election/Dismissal Provide opinions Coordination Directors (Board of Directors) Statutory Auditors (Board of Statutory Auditors) Accounting Auditor Statutory Auditors’ Office Report on accounting audit Nomination/Oversight Proposal/Report Audit Accounting audit Deliberate President Instruction Coordination Recommendation/Report Consult Representative Directors Report Executive Committee Instruction Report Audit Instruction Coordination Executive Officers Internal Audit Department CSR Committee Divisions • Administration Departments • Compliance Committee • Headquarters and Divisions • Export-related Regulations General Report Monitoring Committee • Works Survey Consult supervision • Research and Development Centers • Environment Committee • Offices • Risk Management, etc. Audit/Instruction Audit/Instruction Survey Group Companies CSR Report 2010 28 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Management New Organizations and Promoting in-house pact lithium-ion rechargeable batteries Measures Concerning collaboration to reinforce the and supplying them as prototypes. The Business and Management energy and environmental company has decided to fully enter the Inclusively businesses lithium-ion rechargeable battery business and has been constructing a mass The company established its Sustainabilproduction verification plant within the Ongoing reinforcement of ity Energy & Environment Strategic PlanNagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works “Monodzukuri” (production ning Department in April 2008 to position around autumn this year toward incorsystem for value creation) the company as a leader in energy and porating the batteries into hybrid forklift capability through the environmental fields. The Department trucks developed by MHI. process innovation across has taken the lead in establishing and The company established the Joint the company promoting collaboration with other diviLithium Battery Operations Department “Monodzukuri capability” is the origin of sions to reinforce the energy and enviin October 2009 to promote this initiative the competitiveness in the manufacturronmental businesses while actively as a company-wide effort. ing industry. Securing and strengthening presenting information on business stratThe Department is organized around this capability has emerged as a critical egy and technologies related to energy staff from both the Power Systems Headmanagement issue in the face of today’s and the environment to those outside the quarters and the General Machinery & increasingly severe business climate. company. Special Vehicle Headquarters, and overBased on this awareness, MHI As an example of its collaborative sees projects related to product planning established the Production System Innoefforts with other divisions, the Departand the mass production of lithium-ion vation Planning Department in 2006 to ment is participating in a project in rechargeable batteries. A system for suplead the way in a concerted effort with the Australia for effectively using coal and porting the project has been organized product businesses to achieve innovation reducing CO2 through the combination through the collaboration of the Technical across the entire process, from marketof an Integrated coal Gasification ComHeadquarters, Production System Innoing, design, and production to service. bined Cycle (IGCC) power plant and Carvation Planning Department, SustainIn fiscal 2009, the Department bon Capture and Storage technology. ability Energy & Environment Strategic focused on procurement, a key factor in Feasibility studies were conducted under Planning Department and other departour Monodzukuri, and in collaboration this project in fiscal 2009, and we plan ments in a concerted effort to develop with the Material Department promoted to obtain orders for basic design in fiscal and strengthen this business. activities to maximize the bargaining 2010. The Department has also estabpower of MHI as a whole from the perlished a development system for electric Introducing a business spective of reinforcing our supply chain. buses and is preparing to conduct driving division structure in the In concrete terms, we developed a comtests on public roads during fiscal 2010. Machinery & Steel Structures pany-wide procurement database and The Department also supports the Power Headquarters analyzing system to support the estabTrain System Division established within lishment of strategic procurement in the General Machinery & Special Vehicle In October 2009, MHI introduced a busiterms of optimal procurement across the Headquarters. ness division structure in the Machinery & entire company. In its external communication efforts, Steel Structures Headquarters to bolster Keeping up with the increasing the Department is submitting proposals our global competitiveness. proportion of overseas markets in our for realizing a low-carbon society to relWe established three divisions—Envi­ operations, MHI has launched interevant government agencies, conducting ronmental & Chemical Plant, Transport­ departmental management for prodiscussions with electric power compaation Systems & Advanced Technology, moting the globalization of its product nies and hosting various lecture semiand Industrial Machinery Business, businesses. nars. It also participates in joint projects Technology & Solutions—to facilitate From the perspective of strengthwith governments and other companies, rapid response to emerging market conening our global competitiveness, MHI such as the smart community develditions under management teams with a will pursue process innovation focused opment projects in India and the Ecodeep understanding of the products and on efficient asset management and reinTown project on Sado Island, Niigata businesses. The overall intent is to boost forcement of our Quality Management Prefecture. the efficiency of operations from busiSystem (QMS), which establishes the ness negotiations to execution of conquality required in order to sophisticate struction work. Company-wide promotion of products and strengthen their internaIn the same month, the Strategic the lithium-ion rechargeable tional competitiveness. Business Development Office for the battery business In addition, the company intends to UAE was established within the Machinachieve its goal of building a global supDemand has been expanding worldwide ery & Steel Structures Headquarters. The ply chain for Monodzukuri through the for lithium-ion rechargeable batteries Office will seek to contribute to the develglobal development initiatives launched mounted on electric vehicles and hybrid opment of social infrastructures in the in the previous fiscal year. cars amid calls for restraining CO2 emisUnited Arab Emirates (UAE) centered on sions, recognized as a cause of global the Emirate of Abu Dhabi by supporting warming, and more effectively using fosprojects related to carbon capture and sil fuels. storage along with enhanced oil recovery Over the years, MHI had been develand by actively submitting proposals for oping large-volume, high-capacity, comnext-generation transportation systems. 29 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Promotion of CSR MHI established the CSR Committee to become a company that maintains public trust with CSR at the center of management. The company is steadily pursuing its initiatives by assigning responsible personnel to each of its divisions, headquarters, works and Group companies in Japan and overseas to grasp, assess and monitor the progress of CSR activities and by implementing followthrough measures. Promoting Comprehensive of action. faced by current CSR activities. The and Strategic CSR Activities In terms of (2), the company assigned results of this analysis will be applied to a CSR Director and CSR Practice Manfuture CSR activities. ager in each of its headquarters, divisions, Key activities categorized works and spin-off Group companies to President’s Town Meeting under six themes and broaden CSR awareness throughout the The President met with employees at the monitored by the CSR Group and to promote representative general manager level who play a central Committee CSR activities. role in managing the works and visited In October 2006, the company set up Looking ahead, MHI will continue workplaces to engage in direct dialogues the CSR Committee, chaired by the these efforts in accordance with the CSR with frontline staff in charge of specific President, and the CSR Department, Action Plan and by developing specific tasks at ten sites to boost employee which reports directly to the President, in activities for each department. motivation and revitalization activities. order to strengthen management of CSR. The committee currently undertakes Forum 35 Sustained promotion of PDCA activities according to categories based Activity for re-energizing the organizabased on the CSR Action Plan on the CSR Action Plan (Roadmap) covtion through the exchange of ideas and ering the fiscal years from 2008 to 2010, In fiscal 2009, we ran PDCA cycles, concerns about the company and sociand monitors progress on (1) activities including follow-up and evaluation of ety involving employees in their mid-thirby individual committees and groups of progress and achievements, and the conties. Seven employees in this age group managing members and (2) represensideration of next plans for each of the from the Head Office met about twenty tative CSR activities based on the CSR six areas—CSR promotion, compliance; times. The activity is already spreading to Action Guidelines. environment, human rights/labor, product other works. In terms of (1), the committee has responsibility; and risk management—of confirmed the current status and issues the CSR Action Plans (see p. 25). of activities organized under the six Major activities under the theme of themes (CSR promotion, compliance, “CSR Promotion” undertaken at each site environment, human rights/labor, prodin fiscal 2009 are summarized below. uct responsibility, and risk management). Prior to the CSR Committee meeting, CSR training the CSR Liaison Conference comprisGroup discussions were held in 13 works ing individual committees and groups with the goal of broadening CSR awareof managing members is held to review ness. The company also conducted an activity reports and discuss future course analytic survey to clarify the challenges Group discussion at CSR training CSR Promotion Structure • Members: President (chair), Directors in charge of the administration departments, technology-related CSR Committee departments, headquarters and divisions, and full-time auditors • Mission: To determine CSR basic policies and exercise general supervision over individual committees • Members: Managers or assistant managers of the respective CSR Report administration departments, headquarters and divisions CSR Liaison Conference CSR Department Editorial Meeting • Mission: To serve as a contact point for producing the CSR Report • Members: Secretariat of the respective committees, Administration Departments of • Members: General managers in charge of headquarters and divisions, deputy managers of divisions, deputy general the Head Office managers of works and officers of the Group companies CSR Director • Mission: To deliberate and • Mission: To promote respective initiatives in line with the CSR policies of MHI follow up on problems in setting clear targets and implementing • Members: Section heads of headquarters and divisions, deputy managers and section heads of works, and general PDCA cycles at individual CSR Practice Manager managers of Group companies committees and organizations • Mission: To act as a flag person for promoting and establishing CSR and a point of contact for producing the CSR Report • Members: Younger and female employees of headquarters, divisions and works, and Group companies CSR Working Group • Mission: To develop action guidelines and representative activity plans and promote CSR penetration in the departments of working group members CSR Report 2010 30 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Management Activities of Major Related pliance promotion training introduced in Committee for Raising Awareness of Committees in Fiscal 2009 fiscal 2003 as well as other activities. It Human Rights has consistently confirmed an increase in Promoting a workplace in CSR Committee compliance awareness among individual which every employee respects employees at each worksite, according Following up on CSR the human rights of others to the results of the annual compliance activities awareness survey (see p. 35). MHI set up the Committee for Raising Having followed up on the status of activAwareness of Human Rights in 1992 to ities by individual committees and groups Environment Committee promote the establishment of a sound of manager members at the sixth sesworkplace in which every employee Reviewing the approach to sion of the CSR Committee held in May correctly understands the issue and promote Group environmental 2009 and the seventh session held in respects the human rights of others. management December, we confirmed they were Chaired by the Director in charge of perworking systematically based on their The Environment Committee was estabsonnel and with the membership of genindividual roadmaps. lished in 1996. Each year, the commiteral managers in charge of personnel of These activities will be continued tee plans and proposes environmental each works, the committee is working on going forward, and the committee will actions to be carried out across the comraising awareness of human rights, sharalso consider the direction of CSR activpany and sets the direction for the year. ing information and promoting human ities suitable for MHI, which can be susIt also promotes and follows up on the rights training. The committee has also tained as priority CSR activities. annual environmental protection plans for established a system for preventing sexeach headquarters, division and works. ual harassment by establishing a contact Compliance Committee In fiscal 2009, the committee dispoint for consultation and by creating cussed plans to introduce an electronic an e-mail mailing address dedicated to Raising awareness primarily manifest for fulfilling MHI’s responsibilconsultation. through compliance ity as a waste producer and launched In fiscal 2009, the committee implepromotion training company-wide activities (see p. 42). The mented a training program for raising The Compliance Committee was estabcommittee also implemented measures awareness among new recruits, newly lished in May 2001 to ensure complifor CO2 reduction actions and the proappointed managers and supervisors. ance with laws and social norms and to motion of consolidated environmental In addition, the committee distributed a promote fair and honest business activimanagement across the Group. In addipamphlet on preventing sexual harassties. It plays a central role in deliberating tion, continuing efforts from fiscal 2008, ment throughout the company and congroup-wide progress in compliance and the committee carried out activities for ducted activities for raising awareness, other related issues (see p. 33). accomplishing the major midand longsuch as incorporating related themes into The committee is also working to term environmental targets (waste reduccompliance promotion trainings. raise in-house awareness of compliance, tion, control of chemical substances, and and has continued to implement comenergy conservation.) Topics Town Meetings for direct dialogue between the President and employees—organized as a two-part event of meetings with general managers and worksite visits in fiscal 2009 In fiscal 2009, Town Meetings were held in a continued effort from fiscal 2008. These meetings are conducted with the goal of bringing the entire company into alignment by directly communicating the company’s management policies and the thoughts of top management behind those policies to increase the employees’ sense of participation and motivation. In 2009, the President conducted meetings with employees at the general manager level who play a central role in managing the works and visited workplaces for direct diaMeeting with general managers at the General logues with employees at the manager level or in charge of specific tasks. Machinery & Special Vehicle Headquarters held on The President began his meetings with general managers by explaining MHI’s goals August 5, 2009 from the customer’s perspective and the internal perspective of sharing and standardizing the operational process based on an understanding of the current status of the company. A question and answer session was then held on issues faced by each department with the participation of general managers. Worksite visits provide a rare opportunity for employees to meet their president, and employees responded by confirming the value of hearing information directly from the President. Given the proven effectiveness of Town Meetings as a communication tool between top management and employees, MHI will continue this initiative while devising ways to create an atmosphere that encourages employees to voice themselves. Worksite visit at the Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works on July 9, 2009 31 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Committee for the Promotion of and the Foreign Exchange Order. The Workshops on the Construction BusiEmployment of the Handicapped Export-related Regulations Monitoring ness Act by external lecturers were held Committee was established in 1987 to nine times at major works as part of the Proactively expanding reinforce the company’s export concommittee’s compliance education activjob opportunities for the trols. A responsible person is assigned ities. A total of 976 employees attended, handicapped to each headquarters and division for including representatives from Group This committee was established in 1992 related matters, and the committee companies. to expand employment opportunities for meets on a regular monthly basis to strinThe committee also carried out other the handicapped based on the belief that gently screen exports of controlled items, activities, including support for compliproviding opportunities for handicapped as well as exports of commodities and ance at construction sites, provision of persons to utilize their abilities is a signifitechnology transactions to nations and information on the Act and implemencant social responsibility of MHI. Chaired regions of concern such as Iran that may tation of compliance training at partby the Director in charge of personbe subject to international sanctions. The ner companies to raise the level of legal nel and with the membership of general members also share information on the compliance. managers in charge of personnel at each status of each department, draw up and works, the committee’s duties include implement in-house education programs, Order Compliance Committee formulating basic policies related to and provide their respective departEnsuring the appropriateness employment of the handicapped, drawments with instruction and supervision of order-receiving activities ing up and implementing related plans, as needed. and establishing compliance raising awareness for promoting employIn fiscal 2009, the Foreign Exchange awareness concerning the ment of the handicapped, sharing inforand Foreign Trade Control Law was Anti-Monopoly Act mation, and contacting and coordinating revised for the first time in 22 years, resultwith related administrative agencies and ing in tighter restrictions against transTo concretely demonstrate our serious organizations. porting technology outside the country. intent to prevent recurrences of past In fiscal 2009, the company proMHI has therefore sought to further bolviolations of the Anti-Monopoly Act, actively advanced recruitment by using ster its in-house export control system. In the company established this commitits website, “mano a mano,” in Spanaddition to educating general employees tee in August 2005. The committee has ish or “hand to hand,” which was crethrough e-learning programs, the secresought to ensure transparency in orderated to support the employment of the tariat of the Export-related Regulations receiving activities and to establish handicapped, while partnering with local Monitoring Committee convened responcompliance awareness concerning the job-placement offices and skill-building sible officers and staff in charge of operAnti-Monopoly Act by conducting dedschools for the handicapped and particiations at each department to directly icated monitoring and other measures pating in job interview meetings to further explain major aspects of the revision. The (see p. 34). expand recruitment activities in advance committee will continue to strengthen its of the enactment of the revised Law for activities to further develop MHI’s export Managing Board for Innovation in the Employment Promotion, etc. of the Discontrol systems. Nuclear Business abled in July 2010. The rate of employment of the handicapped as of April 1, Continuing internal reforms 2010 is 2.01%, which exceeds the statuto ensure the safety and tory employment rate of 1.80%. security of nuclear power In fiscal 2009, the committee adopted a policy for examining the maintenance and management of manufacturing instructions and for reinforcing activities related to the internal sharing of information on e-learning program on export-related laws and regulations lessons learned from the accident to further solidify inspections of work proConstruction Business Act cesses. Based on this policy, the followCompliance Committee ing activities were implemented at the “mano a mano” website for handicapped people Nuclear Energy Systems Headquarters, Building an independent and at the Kobe Shipyard & Machinery compliance system for Export-related Regulations Monitoring Works and Takasago Machinery Works, enhancing local construction Committee involved in manufacturing equipment for management nuclear power plants. Reinforcing export control Launched in 2003 to review inter• Quality management activities, including the systems for technology nal systems and institutions, educainspection and improvement of business following revisions in the processes to prevent nonconformity tion and instruction, and supervision to Foreign Exchange and ensure compliance with the Construction • Activities related to the internal sharing of Foreign Trade Control Law information on lessons learned from the Business Act, this committee has accident As a company with a high export ratio, been disseminating information on the MHI is aware of the grave importance of Construction Business Act while moni• Proposals for preventive maintenance of power companies in response to the aging exercising export controls to prevent any toring engineer qualifications, supporting of nuclear power plants possibility of its commodities or techtheir development and promoting com• Compliance training to further raise the nology being diverted to weapons of pliance at construction works. awareness of those involved in the nuclear mass destruction or military purposes by An independent compliance syspower business ensuring compliance with export-related tem for enhancing the construction manlaws and regulations, such as the Foreign agement of local sites was developed in Exchange and Foreign Trade Control October 2009 and is being implemented Law, the Export Trade Control Order, throughout the company. In fiscal 2009, CSR Report 2010 32 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Management Compliance To promote fair and sincere business activities, each MHI employee is expected to act with an awareness of compliance. The company has established a compliance structure encompassing all Group companies and shares policies and information with Group companies to encourage thorough commitment. Promoting Compliance with company-wide compliance promotion and an increase in compliance awarea Structure Encompassing plans and monitoring progress. ness among employees. Appropriate the Entire Group In April 2006, Departmental Comresponses were also made for matters pliance Committees were established in requiring improvement. all departments of the company. These One representative from committees are chaired by members of each department and Group company appointed as the Compliance Committee, and compliToward Thorough contact points to oversee ance measures are implemented for each Compliance respective department. At the same time, promotion Compliance Liaison Conferences were Distributing to all employees The company set up a Compliance set up for regularly exchanging complithe MHI Compliance Committee in May 2001. The commitance information with Group companies. Guidelines containing tee members are general managers of Individual departments are required specific rules of conduct the related departments, business manto ensure their own compliance through agers of headquarters and divisions, these committees and conferences and The MHI Compliance Guidelines estabdeputy managers of divisions in charge are expected to carry out compliance lished in September 2001 define the rules of managerial matters, branch managactivities on their own accord as part of of conduct for thorough compliance and ers, and deputy general managers in their responsibility. explicitly stipulate that the company shall charge of managerial matters of works. The committee has noted that in execute fair and sincere business activiThe committee meets twice annually to fiscal 2009, data indicates a consisties. The guidelines have been summadiscuss activities such as drawing up tent distribution of compliance activities rized into a pocket-sized card format, so they can be carried at all times, and disCompliance Promotion Structure tributed to all employees together with a handbook, Compliance Guidelines, which President provide easy-to-understand explanations. With the appointment of the new president in April 2008, MHI completely Compliance Committee revised the President’s Message for the • Chairman: Director in charge of compliance MHI Compliance • Members: General Manager of Internal Audit Department, Guidelines. This General Manager of CSR Department, General Manager of Corporate Planning Department, General Manager of was done as a Group Management Department, General Manager of Corporate Communication Department, General Manager of call for all employInformation Systems & Communications Department, ees to recognize General Manager of General Affairs Department, General Manager of Legal Department, General Manager of the importance of Personnel Department, General Manager of Accounting compliance and Department, General Manager of Finance Department, General Manager of Material Department, General Manager of to conduct fair Overseas Administration Department, General Manager of and sincere busiOverseas Business Promotion Department, General Manager of Production System Innovation Planning Department, ness activities. Compliance Guidelines General Manager of Sustainability Energy & Environment Strategic Planning Department, General Manager of Joint Lithium Battery Operations Department Compliance Officer of Technical Headquarters, business managers and deputy managers in charge of managerial matters of headquarters and divisions, deputy general managers in charge of managerial Formulating and publicizing matters of company works, branch managers company guidelines for • Functions: Promote compliance across the MHI Group preventing bribery involving • Secretariat: Compliance Group of General Affairs Department foreign civil servants Internal Audit Business managers Department of headquarters and Special Contact Point MHI strives for fairness in its global comdivisions, branch Monitoring compliance mercial transactions by upholding its managers, general promotion and other managers of works activities basic policy of complying with the Unfair Departmental Compliance Committees Competition Prevention Law and the • Chairman: Member of the Compliance Committee Guidelines to Prevent Bribery of Foreign • Members: Selected by respective divisions, headquarters, works and branches Public Officials that forbid bribing a civil • Functions: Promote compliance measures in respective departments servant of a foreign country to obtain based on the policies of the Compliance Committee • Secretariat: To be determined by each department unfair advantage. The MHI Compliance Guidelines also prohibit improper business dealAdministrators Compliance Liaison Conferences ings. In conjunction with these aims, the company established the Guidelines for • Domestic: In principle, a Compliance Committee shall be set up Group the Prevention of Bribery Involving For• Overseas: Primary administrative department provides Companies guidance on appropriate programs for the specific eign Civil Servants in April 2005 to define Employees country or region the rules of conduct based on the Unfair Competition Prevention Law. These doc33 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. uments have been posted on the intranet Protection of the rights of internal Compliance with Japan’s to ensure thorough understanding by all reporters has been widely disseminated Anti-Monopoly Act, and Other involved in MHI’s overseas business. along with information on reporting conRules for Fair Competition tact points. Periodic investigations are undertaken twice a year to ensure that Operation of the contact Establishing guidelines reports bearing individual names have point for reporting and and special monitoring not resulted in unfair treatment. consultation procedures to improve compliance The Compliance Committee operates a Hot Line as a special contact point for MHI Shall Reject All Contact In 2005 and 2006, MHI was subject consultation and reporting on any illewith Organizations Involved to investigations by Japan’s Fair Trade gal or inappropriate activity involving MHI in Activities in Violation Commission on suspicion of violatemployees, employees at Group comof the Law or Accepted ing the “Act on Prohibition of Private panies or suppliers. Consultation and Standards of Responsible Monopolization and Maintenance of Fair reporting are accepted directly via e-mail, Social Behavior Trade” (the “Anti-Monopoly Act”). These phone or facsimile, and the Compliance investigations were related to certain Committee quickly investigates each The order and safety of civil society orders for bridge construction projects report and effectively addresses the continue to be threatened by antisocial and raw sewage treatment facilities, issues. forces. In this context, the company has respectively. Instructions for reporting have been clearly stipulated its stance in the MHI To prevent recurrence of breaches, disseminated by inclusion in the MHI Compliance Guidelines in the statement, the company set up an Order CompliCompliance Guidelines distributed to all “The company will respond firmly to any ance Committee chaired by the Director employees and the monthly corporate forces working counter to the interests of in charge of compliance and took other newsletter. society.” measures such as establishing guidelines In concrete terms, the company and implementing compliance checks for established a department at each busibidding on public sector projects. These Clearly establishing rules ness site that oversees corporate initiatives aim to improve transparency in for protecting the rights of response to undue claims from forces MHI Group companies’ tender processes internal reporters working counter to the interests of socifor such projects and compliance with The Hot Line is being operated under ety, to fully ensure that in case MHI the Anti-Monopoly Act. rules for protecting the rights of reporters is faced with such undue claims, the Since fiscal 2006, MHI has also conas set out in the Compliance Promotion department will take the lead in collaboducted special monitoring with respect to Rules established as internal rules in 2007, rating with other related departments to public sector procurement rules. which stipulate that individual names shall enable MHI to deal with the issue orgaIn fiscal 2007, special monitoring not be disclosed without prior agreement nization-wide. In addition, the company related to the Anti-Monopoly Act was by the reporter and that the reporter shall has publicized the ideal mindset and carried out across MHI as well as in 24 not be treated unfairly under any circumessential concepts for responding to MHI Group companies that regularly bid stances based on the report. undue claims through compliance proon public sector projects. motion training and other actions. In fiscal 2008, personnel in charge of Submissions to the Special Contact The company also maintains close compliance in the department that overPoint (monthly average) contact with the police, lawyers and spesees Group companies, joined the Order (Submissions) cialized institutions, even in the absence Compliance Committee to reinforce guid9.9 9.7 10 8.7 8.8 of emergencies, to receive advice and ance of Group companies, and special 8.0 support in dealing with undue claims monitoring was expanded further to all 8 6.4 from forces working counter to the interMHI Group companies that participate in 6 ests of society. bidding for public sector projects. 4 In fiscal 2009, continued special 2 monitoring efforts by MHI confirmed 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (FY) that compliance was being maintained and that awareness of legal compliance issues had improved within the sales teams involved in public sector procurement. MHI also made public procurement MHI Compliance Guidelines rules part of mandatory compliance trainI. Business activities ing for such sales teams. We will conduct sensible company activities in compliance with laws and in While there have been no violations of an appropriate manner, and contribute to society by providing safe, highthe Anti-Monopoly Act since the establishquality products and services. ment of the Order Compliance Committee, MHI remains vigilant and committed II. Relationship between the company and society to maintaining a firm awareness of legal We will try to preserve the environment and live in harmony with society as a good corporate citizen. compliance in all of its businesses taking part in public sector procurement. III. Relationship between the company and employees The company will secure a safe, healthy work environment, and company members will make clear distinctions between public and private, comply Fiscal 2009 compliance with laws and internal rules, and execute their duties faithfully. In fiscal 2009, MHI was not subject to any on-site inspections or orders from govMHI Compliance Guidelines ernment agencies responsible for enforchttp://www.mhi.co.jp/en/csr/compliance/ ing anti-monopoly rules. CSR Report 2010 34 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Management Compliance Education and difficult cost or delivery requests. ple of approximately 40% of all employAwareness Raising In fiscal 2009, more than 33,000 ees) of whom 11,379 (82.9%) responded. employees, over 96% of the entire workAbout 97% of respondents answered force, participated in this training. The that they were aware of compliance, Training in a discussion company will continue offering training enabling us to confirm that the awareformat for all employees based on topics that are directly related to ness of compliance has been steadily The company has been conducting comthe daily operations of many employees. increasing. pliance promotion training in a discussion Furthermore, all indicators have format for all employees at their respecimproved over the previous year for Conducting the annual tive worksites since 2003. “level of compliance awareness,” “vioCompliance Awareness Survey These training sessions are intended lation potential,” “recognition of the MHI to raise participant awareness so that The Compliance Committee has conCompliance Guidelines,” and “workplace correct compliance judgment can be ducted annual surveys on compliance environment regarding compliance.” We made to avoid violations under any conawareness since fiscal 2004 to determine believe this indicates positive results from dition. During the training, participants the extent to which various initiatives our compliance promotion efforts. discussed what they would do and what have changed the awareness of compliThe company will continue to conwould be the right thing to do in the area ance among the company’s employees duct survey-style research to confirm the of compliance when they are unsure and influenced their everyday behavior. level of compliance awareness among about their own actions or when they feel In fiscal 2009, a questionnaire was employees. pressured by superiors in response to sent to 13,724 employees (a random samComments by a Compliance Number of participants at Participation rates for compliance Promotion Training Participant compliance promotion trainings promotion trainings (Participants) (%) 40,000 100 96.1 96.8 96.4 32,325 32,070 32,833 32,709 33,602 33,016 93.5 Knowing the 30,000 rules is essential 90 for acting 20,000 84.0 responsibly. 80 10,000 0 70 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (FY) first second Ryosuke Hoshina first half second half first half second half half half * Trainings have been held twice a year (first and second Machinery & Assembly Shop, Machinery (FY) halves) since 2005. Figures represent the average Production Department, Yokohama Machinery * Number of participants over the past three years participation rates for the first and second halves. Works, Power Systems Headquarters In September 2009, I attended training led by government agencies on preventResults of Compliance Awareness Survey ing collusive bidding and a session on order compliance. Knowing the rules is the Q How much are you aware of compliance? essential part of maintaining compliance, that is, observing the rules. The training Not much Strongly aware A little aware aware was extremely valuable in that sense. I also 1.1% learned the importance of maintaining a Fiscal strong commitment to observing the rules. 66.0% 30.8% Not sure 2009 2.1% Since taking part in the training, I have been making a conscious effort, based on what I learned, to respond responsibly by observFiscal ing the rules while paying due consideration 64.0% 32.0% 2.5% 2008 for the circumstances of my counterpart. 1.5% I hope to acquire more knowledge and practical experience on compliance so that Fiscal in time compliance will no longer require a 59.5% 35.8% 2.9% 2007 special effort but will come naturally to me. 1.8% Q Does your workplace atmosphere allow you to point out cases of compliance violations? Yes, but nevertheless difficult Yes No 4.5% Fiscal 64.2% 23.1% Not sure 2009 8.2% Fiscal 60.8% 24.8% 9.5% 2008 4.9% Fiscal 56.7% 26.8% 10.8% 2007 5.7% 35 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Information Security However, in 2005 and 2006, PCs review the implementation status of secuowned by an MHI employee and an rity measures. Once a year, the comemployee at a company that collabopany conducts a regular internal audit for Information Systems & rates with MHI were infected by a comemployees at MHI who use PCs based Communications Department puter virus that resulted in the leakage of on a common check list for all departand General Affairs product information, causing significant ments. Steps are taken to fix problems Department take the lead inconvenience to customers. To prediscovered by the audits and the status in protecting confidential vent the recurrence of such information of remedial actions is evaluated during information leaks, the company reinforced its prohiaudits undertaken the following year. To protect confidential information, such bition against using privately owned PCs as data on corporate management and for business and installing software that Future efforts technology as well as information on is not required for company operations. customers and suppliers, MHI estabIn addition, to prevent information leakFollowing the establishment of informalished a company-wide system led by the age resulting from theft or loss of PCs tion security management rules at overInformation Systems & Communications and external storage media, the comseas Group companies, the company will Department and General Affairs pany has provided thorough instructions expand in fiscal 2010 the internal audits Department to effectively manage inforon encrypting data on PCs, external storthat have been conducted at MHI and mation, including paper-based docuage media and e-mail, and clarifying prodomestic Group companies to overments and electronic data, and enhance cedures for taking these devices outside seas Group companies. We will strive information security. the company. to further strengthen information secuIn regard to domestic Group comrity through PDCA cycles on information panies, MHI provides instruction in the security management across the Group. Using the manual and development of information security database to thoroughly management rules, information manprotect personal information agement training and internal audits to Risk Management and In conjunction with the enforcement of ensure the effective management of Crisis Management the Act on the Protection of Personal information across the entire Group. The Information in April 2005, MHI announced company also exchanges confidentialMHI undertakes risk and crisis manageits own Privacy Policy and formuity agreements with service agents to ment across the Group under the basic lated Personal Information Protection ensure thorough management of confipolicy for internal control systems estabRules and the Personal Information dential information. lished in May 2006. Management Manual. In addition, the In fiscal 2009, MHI sought to estabWhile the company has been implecompany compiled key points related lish information security management menting risk assessment over the years, to our business into a digest and disrules at overseas Group companies and it expanded the scope of assessment in tributed it to all employees in an effort to confirmed that about 90% of them have fiscal 2009 to include the entire Group. ensure thorough protection of personal in fact formulated such rules. It also identified higher priority risks after information. assessing risks affecting overall operaA personal information database tions. The company plans to reinforce Implementing employee registration system has been developed internal control activities starting in fiscal training to enhance as a means for consolidating the handling 2010 and implement internal audits based awareness of management of of personal data by registering all data on the results of this risk assessment. confidential information owned by respective divisions. The company has also established Privacy Policy MHI has incorporated education on proa crisis management information system http://www.mhi.co.jp/en/ tection of personal information into comthat enables general managers within privacy.html pliance promotion trainings attended by MHI and presidents of Group compaall employees and training by employee nies to directly relay risk-related informalevel, and also provides e-learning on the tion to top management, including the Constantly reinforcing overall topic of confidential information President, so that rapid and accurate measures to protect and information security to thoroughly response can be taken in the event a risk confidential information educate employees on specific proceis realized. Over the years, MHI has managed condures and rules. Under the company’s crisis managefidential information by establishing inIn fiscal 2009, the company implement system, the Executive Vice Preshouse rules on managing confidential mented training for employees at MHI ident in charge of Risk Management is data, documents and other informaand domestic Group companies who responsible for risk management for the tion. Standards on information security use PCs with the goal of developing an entire company, a risk management offimanagement were set down in 2001 in awareness of circumstances that may cer has been assigned to each departresponse to the growing volume of elecresult in incidents or accidents related ment, and a task force is set up in case of tronic data and in an effort to more effecto information security and to thoroughly an emergency. tively manage electronic information. disseminate preventive measures. The company has also sought to raise employee awareness of how to manage Continuously assessing the confidential information by preparing and status of security measures distributing a manual on the managethrough internal audits ment of confidential information as well as an MHI guide on how to prevent leakTo guarantee information security, it is age of confidential information. important to continuously assess and CSR Report 2010 36 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Commitment to the Global Environment MHI is working to alleviate the increasing environmental burdens across the globe by providing environmentally friendly products and technologies in diverse fields as well as by deploying environmental preservation activities throughout the product lifecycle, from development and design to procurement of raw materials, production, on-site installation and final disposal. INPUT Business Activities OUTPUT Energy Planning and Greenhouse gases Marketing Total energy input 10,065,623,261 MJ*1 CO2 from energy sources 0.449 million t Purchased electricity 757,335 MWh*2 Other greenhouse gases (CO2 conversion) 0.008 million t Heavy fuel oil A 15,271 kL Water Development and City gas 21,964 km3 Gas oil 3,799 kL Design Wastewater 9.13 million t Heavy fuel oil C 5,173 kL Water pollutants*3 Kerosene 6,232 kL COD 28 t Steam 226,721,295 MJ Procurement Nitrogen 40 t LPG 4,488 t Phosphorus 1t LNG 218 t Jet fuel 1,392 kL Waste materials Gasoline 477 kL Manufacture Generated volume 0.131 million t Recycled volume 0.117 million t Water Trial running Final disposal volume 0.002 million t Usage volume 10.76 million t Repair Air Pollutants*4 Raw materials NOx 169 t Iron, plastics, paper, others Distribution SOx 70 t Other Soot 12 t Chemical substances (PRTR) 3,327 t Other On-site installation Chemical substances (PRTR) 2,040 t *1 1 MJ (megajoule) = 1,000,000 joules Usage *2 1 MWh (megawatt hour) = 1,000,000 watt hours *3 Water pollutants After-sales service Collection and Recycling of Used Products Output shown only for water pollutants subject to total volume control MHI products subject to the Home Appliance Recycling Law: *4 Air pollutants Air-conditioners Disposal Number of units recycled 166,000 units Output shown only for NOx, SOx and soot subject to laws and regulations Weight of recycled units 6,237 t Weight of materials recycled into products 6,882 t 37 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Commitment to the Global Environment Environmental Management MHI established an environmental management structure and is committed to conducting unified environmental management across the MHI Group. Environmental Management and unified environmental management ulation requirements have not been met, Structure for the MHI Group activities for the entire MHI Group. Under we will take thorough preventive measures environmental protection measures, we and implement training and drills for emerconducted environmental audits of works gency response at each division, headFortifying management as planned and achieved the objectives. quarters and works. through a company-wide In situations where any environmental regcommittee and promotion entities at each division, Promoting midand long-term Environmental Management Structure headquarters and works targets for the entire Group The company set up the Environment President The MHI Group formulated the MHI Committee chaired by the director in Director in charge of Group midand long-term environmenthe environment charge of the environment to plan annual tal targets, which set common targets for environmental actions for the entire Company-wide Entities all Group companies in April 2008. Under Environment Committee company. Committee Chairman: Director • Environment Liaison Conference this plan, special focus is on reducing CO2 • Energy Conservation Liaison in charge of the environment The decisions made by the ComConference emission by an average of 3% from 2008 mittee are communicated to the entire to 2012 compared to fiscal 2007; promotSecretariat company and all Group companies. Envi• General Affairs Department ing zero emissions*; and acquiring, mainEnvironmental Management Secretariat ronment Committees set up at each diviSection • General Affairs Department taining and renewing certifications such Environmental Management sion, headquarters and works and other • Technical Headquarters’ Technology Planning Section as ISO environmental management. entities performing environmental promoDepartment In fiscal 2009, we once again explained tion carry out the policy and environmenthese midand long-term targets to Group Technical Headquarters’ tal management activities corresponding Divisions, Technology Planning companies at the Environmental Meeting headquarters and works to the specific features of each division, Department (see p. 39) and other gatherings. Group Environmental Committees headquarters and works. at divisions, Research & companies incorporated these midand Development Centers In fiscal 2009, MHI focused on enviheadquarters and works long-term targets into their individual environmental protection measures, a midand Energy Conservation Liaison Conferences, etc. at divisions, ronmental management promotion plans long-term plan for environmental activities, headquarters and works and will work to achieve the targets. The MHI Group will further strengthen its efforts to work in an integrated manner toward Basic Policy on Environmental Matters (Established 1996) achieving the targets. As clearly laid out in provision 1 of its creed—“We strongly believe that the customer comes first *F or MHI, zero emissions is defined as limiting landfill and that we are obligated to be an innovative partner to society.”—MHI believes its primary purwaste to less than 2% of total waste. pose is to contribute to society through its R&D, manufacturing and other business activities. Accordingly, in the performance of its business activities the company shall embrace the awareness that it is an integral member of society and, in all aspects of its business activities, it will strive to Conducting environmental reduce burden on the environment and shall devote its comprehensive technological capabilities audits at the works to to the development of technologies and products that will protect the environment, as its way of ascertain the status of contributing to the development of a sustainable society. compliance Action Guidelines (Established 1996) Since fiscal 2007, MHI has conducted 1. Accord high priority to environmental protection within company operations, and take steps environmental audits at the works in 13 company-wide to protect and enhance the environment. domestic sites (the divisions, headquar2. Clarify roles and responsibilities regarding environmental protection by developing an orgaters and works). The goal of the audits is nized structure to deal with environmental protection matters, defining environment-related to review the system for ensuring compliprocedures, etc. ance with environmental laws and regu3. Strive to alleviate burden on the environment in all aspects of company business activities— lations and its operation by inspecting from product R&D and design to procurement of raw materials, manufacture, transport, usdocuments and activities on site. During age, servicing and disposal—through pollution prevention, conservation of resources, energy saving, waste reduction, reuse and recycling. the audits, the Environment Section of the General Affairs Department of the Head 4. Strive to develop and provide advanced, highly reliable, wholly proprietary technologies and products that will contribute to solving environmental and energy problems. Office serves as a secretariat, and inspectors dispatched from works other than the 5. Strive continuously to improve and enhance environmental protection activities not only by fully complying with environmental laws and regulations but also, when necessary, by estabaudited works constitute the audit team. lishing, implementing and evaluating independent standards and setting environmental goals The audit, in principle, takes one day, and targets. with a document review in the morning 6. In the performance of business activities overseas and exportation of products, pay full atand a site review in the afternoon. Audit tention to impact on the local natural and social environments and strive to protect those results are reported to the Environment environments; also, become actively involved in technological cooperation overseas in matters Committee and audit information, includof environmental protection. ing corrective actions taken, is to be 7. Take steps to raise environmental awareness among all employees through environmental shared across the company. education, etc., undertake activities to provide environment-related information to the public, In fiscal 2009, the company audited and proactively make environment-enhancing contributions to society. four sites: Nagoya Guidance & PropulCSR Report 2010 38 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Commitment to the Global Environment sion Systems Works, Takasago Machinof its own to promote the introduction of identifying any contamination present in ery Works, Nagoya Aerospace Systems environmental management systems soil or groundwater. Works, and Kobe Shipyard & Machinery across the Group and reduce costs: In fiscal 2009, in conjunction with the Works and confirmed that their environM-EMS and M-EMS EcoAction. Both are land modifications, the Nagoya Aerospace mental management was being properly based on ISO 14001 and EcoAction 21, a Systems Works conducted soil tests at carried out. set of guidelines developed in Japan. the Komaki Minami Plant (Toyoyama-cho, In fiscal 2010, the company also In fiscal 2009, 5 Group companies Nishikasugai-gun, Aichi Prefecture) in April plans to audit four sites: Air-Condition(7 sites) in Japan acquired environmental and at the Oye Plant (Minato-ku, Nagoya) ing & Refrigeration Systems HeadquarISO and other certifications. in July. The testing revealed soil conters, Machine Tool Division, Iwatsuka Out of MHI’s 125 domestic consoltamination from lead. Test results were Area*, and Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinidated Group companies, 99 now have promptly reported to local government ery Works. in place environmental management sysauthorities and publicly released. Although * Iwatsuka Area is the collective name for the Iwatsuka tems as of March 31, 2010. there was no adverse impact on the surArea Management Department of the Machinery & Steel rounding environment, the company took Structures Headquarters, Iwatsuka District of General action by excavating and removing the Machinery & Special Vehicle Headquarters, Iwatsuka Raising environmental Plant of Machine Tool Division, Nagoya Research & contaminated soil. Development Center, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Food awareness among all employees & Packaging Machinery Co., Ltd. and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Plastic Technology Co., Ltd. through environmental education by position Promoting green purchasing MHI developed environmental educaMHI established its internal green purInitiating Environmental tion curricula, including e-learning, to be chasing policy in March 2002. Based on Meetings with Group companies implemented by each works. this policy, MHI purchases environmenEnvironmental Meetings have been held In addition to a semiannual internal tally friendly office supplies and other since fiscal 2007 to unify environmenenvironmental auditor training course orgagoods. In fiscal 2009, the company tal management across the entire MHI nized by the Head Office, the company issued an instruction at the Environment Group with the primary goal of ensuralso conducts special training for employCommittee meeting across the company ing the compliance of Group companies ees who paint or handle hazardous mateto promote green purchasing. and preventing environmental pollurials to learn the proper procedures in daily In fiscal 2010, MHI continues to protion. The meetings identify problems, management and the appropriate actions mote green purchasing across the entire support exploration of improvements for dealing with emergency situations. Group. and exchange information related to the environment. Registered ISO 14001 Internal Auditors State of environmentalIn fiscal 2009, MHI held Environ(as of April 1, 2010) related accidents and mental Meetings at 14 domestic Group FY 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 noncompliance with laws companies that had acquired Japanese Number 497 593 684 687 815 847 standards for environmental management, Intensifying measures to EcoAction 21 (promoted by the Ministry of prevent recurrence across Environment), K-EMS (Kobe EnvironmenControlling and Improving the company, in response tal Management System), and KamakResponse to Potential to noncompliance with ura EcoAction 21. The company received Environmental Impact Risks wastewater standards reports on actions taken for environmental management at each company and colOn June 30, 2009, the company disClarifying the risks at each lected information on best practices while covered that the hydrogen-ion concenworks and addressing them providing guidance for improvement. tration (pH) of wastewater discharged through daily management In addition, the company held the from the comprehensive wastewater Environmental Liaison Conference with 14 The company has prepared and uses treatment facility at the Matsusaka Plant Group companies that had participated an ISO-based manual for each works, of the Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration in the Environmental Meeting in Februencompassing such issues as risk identiSystems Headquarters (Matsusaka-shi, ary 2010 to share best practices and fication methods, daily management proMie Prefecture) exceeded the lower limit information reported at the Environmencedures and contingency plans. of 5.8 by 0.2. tal Meeting across the Group. Starting in At each works, emergency response The Plant promptly carried out neufiscal 2010, the company plans to hold drills are carried out regularly to confirm tralization treatment and returned the pH the second round of Environmental Meetthe effectiveness of response procedures value of the wastewater to a normal level ings for 15 companies, consisting of the for emergencies such as oil spills and and reported the situation to the local govGroup companies that had attended the earthquakes. ernment. The incident was also reported Meeting held from fiscal 2007 to 2009 for In the event of any crisis in any plant, to the President through the in-house Group companies that had independently the company’s in-house crisis managecrisis management information system. acquired environmental ISO certification ment information system is prepared to In response, each division, headquarand other Group companies. quickly convey information to the President. ters and works took measures under the instruction of the Head Office to prevent Establishing and operating the recurrence of such problems, focusRemediation of contaminated an Environmental ing on (1) inspection and review of wastesoil and groundwater Management System Based water treatment facilities, (2) review of on its Own Standards When the company sells or modifies emergency response capabilities, and (3) land, it reports in advance to the relevant implementation of training and drills for local government authorities, local comworkers at these facilities. An environmenEstablishing two unique munities or their associations under the tal audit organized by the Head Office was standards that are compliant Soil Contamination Countermeasures conducted on site to follow up on and with ISO and EcoAction 21 Law and applicable local regulations, review implementation of these measures. MHI created two environmental standards while thoroughly investigating and 39 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Environmental Management Systems Adopted at MHI and Its Subsidiaries As of August 1, 2010 ISO 14001 certification at MHI works and research & development centers MHI Group companies adopting M-EMS (based on ISO 14001) Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Yokohama Machinery Works Oct. 31, 1997 Kensa Kenkyusho Inspection Co., Ltd. Apr. 25, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works May 22, 1998 Domestic Group Ryoin Co., Ltd., Shinagawa Branch Apr. 26, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Jun. 26, 1998 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems Corporation May 13, 2005 Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems Headquarters Nov. 20, 1998 companies General Machinery & Special Vehicle Headquarters May 21, 1999 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Engine Systems Co., Ltd. Jul. 12, 2005 Mihara Area (former Paper & Printing Machinery Division) Sep. 3, 1999 Aomori Daiya Co., Ltd. Jul. 12, 2008 Transportation Systems & Advanced Technology Division (Mihara) Sep. 3, 1999 Kagoshima Daiya Co., Ltd. Jul. 12, 2008 MHI sites Industrial Machinery Business, Technology & Solutions Division (Hiroshima) Sep. 30, 1999 Overseas Mitsubishi Engine North America, Inc Jan. 19, 2007 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works Nov. 24, 1999 Group Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works Dec. 18, 1999 companies MLP U.S.A., Inc. Jan. 19, 2007 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Feb. 18, 2000 MHI Group companies M-EMS EcoAction (based on EcoAction 21) Iwatsuka Area (former Industrial Machinery Division) Mar. 17, 2000 Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Machine Tool Division Dec. 28, 2000 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Sagamihara Branch Apr. 25, 2005 Environmental & Chemical Plant Division (Yokohama) Jun. 29, 2001 Shunjusha Ltd. Apr. 26, 2005 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works Oct. 1, 2003 MHI Sagami High-tech, Ltd. May 9, 2005 Head Office Apr. 6, 2006 Domestic Group companies Ryosen Engineers Co., Ltd. May 10, 2005 Nagasaki Research & Development Center Aug. 21, 2006 Research & Advanced Technology Research Center Nov. 9, 2006 Hiroshima Dia System Co., Ltd. May 11, 2005 Yokohama Research & Development Center Nov. 9, 2006 MHI Marine Engineering, Ltd. May 16, 2005 Churyo Engineering Co., Ltd. May 16, 2005 development centers Hiroshima Research & Development Center (Hiroshima) Aug. 2, 2007 Hiroshima Research & Development Center (Mihara) Dec. 5, 2006 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Minatomirai Branch May 16, 2005 Nagoya Research & Development Center Dec. 26, 2006 MHI Aerospace Systems Corp. Jul. 12, 2005 Takasago Research & Development Center Mar. 9, 2007 MDS Corporation Jul. 22, 2005 Mayryoko Foodservice Co., Ltd. Mar. 25, 2009 ISO 14001 certification at MHI Group companies Ryosei Service Co, Ltd. Jun. 10. 2009 Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Diamond Travel Co., Ltd. Mar. 1, 2010 MHI Solution Technologies Co., Ltd. Aug. 28, 1998 Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Co., Ltd. Jul. 24, 2001 Group companies incorporated into ISO 14001 certification at MHI works or Head Office Nagoya Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Mar. 14, 2002 Date of issue Location or company name (or registration) MHI division or works Nishinihon Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Jul. 12, 2002 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Plastic Technology Co., Ltd. Apr. 1, 2000 Iwatsuka Area (former Industrial Machinery Division) Chubu Jukan Operation Co., Ltd., Head Office Jan. 13, 2004 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Nagoya Branch Oct. 22, 2004 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Work Ryoin Co., Ltd., Printing Division, Tokyo Plant (including Head Office) Apr. 23, 2004 MHI Aerospace Production Technologies, Ltd. Oct. 22, 2004 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Work Ryoin Co., Ltd., Printing Division, Chubu Plant Jul. 22, 2004 Diamond Air Service Incorporation Oct. 22, 2004 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Work Shimonoseki Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Mar. 14, 2005 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Shimonoseki Branch Nov. 22, 2004 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works Domestic Group companies Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Mar. 17, 2005 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Food & Packaging Machinery Co., Ltd. Mar. 17, 2005 Kanmon Dock Service, Ltd. Nov. 22, 2004 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works Seibu Jukan Operation Co., Ltd. Mar. 22, 2005 Shimonoseki Ryo-Jyu Engineering Co., Ltd. Nov. 22, 2004 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works Kusakabe Co., Ltd. Mar. 24, 2005 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Nagoya Nishi Branch Jan. 6, 2005 Iwatsuka Area (former Industrial Machinery Division) Tamachi Building Co., Ltd. Mar. 25, 2005 MHI Machine Tool Engineering Co., Ltd. Feb. 25, 2005 Machine Tool Division Hiroshima Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Apr. 9, 2005 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Kyoto Branch Feb. 25, 2005 Machine Tool Division Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Environmental & Chemical Engineering Co., Ltd. (Head Office and Branch Office) Apr. 12, 2004 MHI Aero Engine Service Co., Ltd. Apr. 11, 2005 Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Environmental & Chemical Engineering Co., Ltd. (Engineering Division) Feb. 17, 2005 MHI Logitec Company Limited Apr. 11, 2005 Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works Ryoju Cold Chain Co., Ltd. Apr. 22, 2005 MHI Diesel Service Engineering Co., Ltd. May 12, 2005 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Precision Casting Co., Ltd. May 11, 2005 Nuclear Plant Service Engineering Co., Ltd. May 12, 2005 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Tokiwa Machinery Works Ltd. May 18, 2005 Sanshin-Tec. Ltd. May 12, 2005 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Jukan Operation Co., Ltd., Head Office Aug. 1, 2005 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Parking Co., Ltd. May 14, 2005 Yokohama Machinery Works MHI Aerospace Logitem Co., Ltd. Jan. 5, 2007 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Yokohama Branch May 14, 2005 Yokohama Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Air-Conditioning & Thermal Systems Corporation, System Production Department Sep. 14, 2007 Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd., Yokohama Branch May 14, 2005 Yokohama Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Printing & Paper Converting Machinery Sales Co., Ltd. Jun. 26, 2008 MHI Energy & Service Co., Ltd. May 14, 2005 Yokohama Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Bridge & Steel Structures Engineering Co., Ltd., Chiba Plant Mar. 25, 2010 Koryo Inspection & Service Co., Ltd. May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries-Haier (Qingdao) Air-Conditioners Co., Ltd. Dec. 14, 1998 MHI Equipment Europe B.V. Nov. 9, 2001 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Plant Construction Co., Ltd., Power Systems Service Headquarters May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Mitsubishi Caterpillar Forklift Europe B.V. Jul. 25, 2002 Koryo Engineering Co., Ltd. May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Climate Control Inc. Jun. 12, 2003 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Takasago Branch May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Mitsubishi Power Systems, Inc., Orlando Service Center Feb. 18, 2004 MHI Automotive Climate Control (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Nuclear Plant Service Engineering Co., Ltd., Takasago Division May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Jul. 11, 2005 Industrial Machinery Business, Technology Overseas Group companies CBC Industrias Pesadas S.A. Dec. 1, 2005 MEC Engineering Service Co., Ltd. Jun. 23, 2005 & Solutions Division (Hiroshima) Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Korea Ltd. Dec. 17, 2005 Industrial Machinery Business, Technology Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Mahajak Air Conditioners Co., Ltd. Dec. 21, 2005 Hiroshima Ryoju Engineering Co., Ltd. Jun. 23, 2005 & Solutions Division (Hiroshima) Mitsubishi Heavy Industries-Jinling Air-Conditioners Co., Ltd. Jan. 24, 2006 Domestic Group companies Industrial Machinery Business, Technology MHI Machine Tool (Hong Kong) Ltd. Mar. 30, 2006 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Plant Construction Co., Ltd. Jun. 23, 2005 & Solutions Division (Hiroshima) Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, (Hong Kong) Ltd. Apr. 5, 2006 Industrial Machinery Business, Technology MLP Hong Kong Ltd. May 25, 2006 Mitsubishi-Hitachi Metals Machinery, Inc. Jun. 23, 2005 & Solutions Division (Hiroshima) Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Jul. 5, 2006 Industrial Machinery Business, Technology MHI-Pornchai Machinery Co., Ltd. Jul. 17, 2006 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Hiroshima Branch Jun. 23, 2005 & Solutions Division (Hiroshima) Mitsubishi Heavy Industries India Private Ltd. Dec. 7, 2006 Sagami Logistics & Service Co., Ltd. Sep. 13, 2005 General Machinery & Special Vehicle Headquarters Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Singapore Private Ltd. Jan. 21, 2007 Choryo Senpaku Kouji Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries America, Inc. Headquarters Oct. 15, 2007 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Nagasaki Branch Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries America, Inc. Tire Machinery Division Oct. 15, 2007 Choryo Inspection Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Caterpillar Forklift America Inc. Dec. 6, 2007 MHI Oceanics Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Dec. 31, 2007 MHI Equipment Alsace S.A.S. Mar. 17, 2009 Kowa Kogyo Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Thai Compressor Manufacturing Co., Ltd. Jun. 27, 2003 Choryo Control Systems Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Choryo Designing Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works EcoAction 21 certification at MHI Group companies MHI Maritech, Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Choryo Software Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Daiya Building Service Co., Ltd. Apr. 21, 2005 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Machine Tool Sales Co., Ltd. Jan. 13, 2006 Machine Tool Division Domestic Group Nuclear Development Co., Ltd. May 30, 2005 Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd., Department of Facilities Management Service Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Ryonichi Engineering Co., Ltd. Oct. 31, 2005 Tamachi Bldg. Co., Ltd., Shinagawa Building Management Center Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office companies Kyuusyuu Jyukan Operation Co., Ltd. Head office Jun. 11, 2008 MHI Personnel Staff, Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Higashi Chugoku Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Oct. 15, 2009 MHI Tourist, Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Hiroji Center Co., Ltd. Jan. 29, 2010 MHI Accounting Service, Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office MHI Finance Co., Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office K-EMS certification at MHI Group companies Dia Food Service Co., Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Daiya PR Co., Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Seiryo Engineering Co., Ltd. Dec. 24, 2004 Domestic Group companies Diamond Air Service Incorporation, Tokyo Office Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Kinki Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Feb. 23, 2005 E-Techno, Ltd. May 12, 2006 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Mechatronics Systems, Ltd. Feb. 23, 2005 Choryo Engineering Co., Ltd. Aug. 21, 2006 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works MHI Nuclear Engineering Co., Ltd. Mar. 24, 2005 Nuclear Power Training Center, Ltd. Mar. 24, 2005 Foods Ryowa Co., Ltd. Nov. 27, 2006 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works MHI General Services Co., Ltd. Mar. 24, 2005 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Bridge & Steel Structures Industrial Machinery Business, Technology Aug. 2, 2007 Engineering Co., Ltd. & Solutions Division (Hiroshima) Ryoin Co., Ltd., Kobe Branch Mar. 24, 2005 Techno Data Engineering Co., Ltd. Feb. 27, 2006 MHI Solution Technologies Co., Ltd. Takasago Branch Apr. 9, 2008 Takasago Machinery Works Energis Co., Ltd. Mar. 23, 2006 Shinryo System Corp. May 1, 2008 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Nagasaki Diamond Staff Co., Ltd. Jun. 16, 2009 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Kamakura EcoAction 21 certification at MHI Group companies Nagasaki Ryoko Service Co., Ltd. Jun. 16, 2009 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd., Yokohama Building Service Department Oct. 19, 2009 Head Office Domestic Group company Shonan Monorail Co., Ltd. Apr. 4, 2007 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Mihara Branch Jan. 20, 2010 Mihara Area (former Paper & Printing Machinery Division) CSR Report 2010 40 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Commitment to the Global Environment Targets and Progress MHI led the way among shipbuilders and heavy-equipment manufacturers as one of the first to establish mediumto long-term environmental activity goals in 2002. The entire organization is pursuing environmental activities to accomplish the target. Progress through fiscal 2009 is summarized below. Targets and progress in FY2009 = Target achieved or progressing on schedule = More effort required X = Target not yet achieved Item Medium or long-term goals Progress through FY2009 Evaluation By FY2010, reduce total generated waste to 170,000 tons (greater Reduced waste generation Total emissions: 131,000 tons than 20% reduction from FY1992 level): to be achieved by and emissions conserving resources and reducing the purchase of materials 39.4% reduction from FY1992 level Zero emissions achieved by Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Reduced landfill waste By FY2010, achieve zero landfill waste disposal at all works through Works (April 2009): Number of works meeting goal disposal reuse and recycling increased to 12 (1 works remaining) • By FY2010, completely eliminate lighting ballasts and high-voltage Elimination of equipment equipment using PCBs • Replacement gradually progressing as planned • Request Japan Environmental Safety Corporation (JESCO) to render the using PCBs and used transformers, condensers and oils harmless now stored or being • Eight MHI works outsourced treatment and disposal of detoxification treatment equipment using high concentrations of PCBs to JESCO. used in MHI, toward completing the task by FY2011 (excluding ballasts, smaller equipment and equipment that uses low-concentration PCB) Zero atmospheric emissions of dichloromethane, trichloroethylene Reduced emissions of Atmospheric discharge: 27.3 tons and tetrachlorethylene by FY2010: to be achieved through total organochlorides management and reduced release of organochlorides 89.6% reduction from FY1996 level More than 30% reduction of atmospheric emission of VOC with focus Total emission of xylene, toluene and ethylbenzene: 1,958 tons Reduced VOC emissions on xylene, toluene and ethylbenzene (reduced by 704 tons from Reduced by 13.7% from the FY2000 level 2,268 tons in FY2000 to 1,564 tons in 2010) 6% reduction of the average CO2 emission amount for the five years CO2 emissions: 449,000 tons from FY2008 to 2012 (from FY1990 level): to be achieved through 4.9% reduction from FY1990 level reduction efforts at all production plants Completed introducing additional 50 kW to Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works in Dec. 2009, 70 kW to Takasago By FY2010, introduce photovoltaic facilities capable of generating a Reduced CO2 emissions Machinery Works in Feb. 2010 and 100 kW to Nagoya total of 2,000 kW Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works in Feb. 2010. Achieved from business activities cumulative total of 2,110 kW against 2,000 kW target. More than 13% reduction of the average CO2 emission amount for Head Office (Shinagawa and Yokohama) reduced by 13.1%* the five years from FY2008 to 2012 (from FY2005 level): to be from FY2005 level achieved through reduction efforts at offices and operations divisions * According to data reported to the Tokyo Metropolitan (Head Office, domestic offices and research & development centers) Government and the Bureaus of Economy, Trade and Industry Reduced energy usage More than 4% reduction of energy consumption in transportation in Transportation energy consumption: (continuing from FY2010 (from FY2006 level) by promoting efforts to reduce and CO2 emissions from transportation energy (unit energy consumption of FY2006: 50.7 FY2008) Exceeded the legal target of more than 1% product transportation reduction per year; also in FY2009 48.7 by FY2010) Reduced fluorocarbon By FY2010, completely replace potentially ozone-depleting HCFCs Emissions in FY2009: 16.7 tons usage with 100% ozone-safe HFCs, etc. Efforts underway toward complete elimination in FY2010 Ongoing renewal of ISO 14001 by 15 domestic works Consolidated environmental Ongoing ISO14001 renewal by domestic works, Head Office, branch (including research & development centers), Head Office and management system offices and research & development centers branch offices Utilization of environmental Promoting effective use of environmental management information management information system systems and disclosure of information Tabulation of environmental performance data, environmental accounting, and so forth was conducted using Promoting collection of environmental accounting data through use the database system leading to the information disclosed in Promotion of consolidated this report of environmental management information system and disclosing environmental accounting information through CSR Report Ongoing issuance of Issuance of CSR Report (Social and Environmental Report) in Ongoing issuance of CSR Report (Social and Environmental Report) Group CSR Report that includes Group company information June 2009. Includes some information from Group (Social and Environmental) companies. Promotion of green Promoting the purchase of environmentally friendly products based Green purchasing rate: 92.6% purchasing on the company’s own green purchasing guidelines • Efforts to develop and provide innovative technologies and products Development and provision that help society reduce environmental degradation through “Basic Efforts made to develop and provide products that address Guideline on Production of Environmentally Friendly Products” global warming; including a wide variety of high-efficiency of environmentally friendly (established in 2005) power generating facilities, photovoltaic facilities, wind power technologies and products • Special efforts to develop and provide innovative technologies and generation systems and CO2 recovery systems products that address global warming and create a low-carbon society 41 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Environmental Accounting MHI quantitatively monitors investments and costs for protecting the environment as part of the performance reviews of the company’s business activities and also calculates the relative benefits of these efforts. The company refers to the Environmental Accounting Guidelines published by the Ministry of the Environment. 6.6 billion yen in investments and 15.6 billion yen in costs Total investments amounted to 6.6 billion while total costs were 15.6 billion yen for fiscal 2009. Both figures represented slight increases over fiscal 2008. Economic advantages valued at 1.6 billion yen were gained during the year, consisting mainly of revenues from recycling and reduced costs for purchasing electricity due to energy savings. Environmental protection costs and economic benefit (non-consolidated) (Millions of yen) Investment Cost Economic benefit Environmental Cost category Activities in FY2008 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 Description protection benefit 1. Production activities 4,656 5,280 5,842 6,723 3,932 1,522 Maintenance and operation of wastewater Reduced emissions of (1) Pollution control 2,157 3,590 3,587 4,051 1 — and flue-gas treatment systems air and water pollutants (2) Global environmental Cost reduction from Energy savings 2,278 1,380 188 510 134 188 Reduced energy input protection energy savings Income derived from (3) Recycling Reduced waste generation, recycling 221 310 2,067 2,162 3,797 1,334 recycling, cost reduction from reduced waste generation 2. Upstream and Recycling of household electrical 0 0 39 10 60 44 downstream costs appliances and container packaging Development of environmental management systems, ISO 3. Management activities Office, publication of MHI Social & Environmental Report 86 22 1,345 1,222 — — Development of environmentally Development of diverse 4. R&D 822 937 7,359 7,204 13 — friendly products environmentally friendly products Support of environmental protection initiatives, 5. Public and social activities 16 6 249 285 — — greening activities 6. Environmental remediation Soil remediation measures 662 398 516 145 — — Prevention of oil and chemical spills Total 6,242 6,643 15,350 15,589 4,005 1,566 * Total capital investments in FY2009: 128.3 billion yen. Portion related to the environment: 6.6 billion yen (5.1%). * Total R&D outlays in FY2009: 104.6 billion yen. Portion related to the environment: 8.1 billion yen (7.7%). Topics Preserving Biodiversity Introduction of e-manifest Under the philosophy of contributIn the course of implementing Reform of Operational Processes related to waste treatment, ing to the development of a sustainMHI focuses on introducing e-manifests (electronic manifests) at the Head Office and all of able society in the Basic Policy on the MHI works over three years (fiscal 2009–2011), thereby supporting the government’s Environmental Matters, MHI propolicy of promoting a wider use of e-manifests. motes programs on biodiversity, The company set fiscal 2009 as the pilot year for this program and designated the Kobe which plays a vital role in conserving Shipyard & Machinery Works as the model works. After completing several preparatory ecosystems and the natural environtasks for introducing e-manifests, such as a one-time registration of all of the works with the ment. For instance, the killifish and Japan Industrial Waste Technology Center, the company began officially using e-manuals in crawfish that live in the factory drain the main plant of the Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works in November 2009. of the Industrial Machinery Business, In fiscal 2010, the company plans to introduce e-manifests at seven additional works. Technology & Solutions Division The introduction of e-manifests to all MHI works will be completed during fiscal 2011 ending in Hiroshima are endangered speMarch 31, 2012). cies. The works ensures that drain water is always clean to protect Conceptual scheme of e-manifest these species. MHI also endorses the Declaration of Biodiversity by Nippon Keidanren. (MHI) Contractor Contractor Contractors collecting and disposing generating transporting of wastes wastes wastes Registration Notice Reporting Reporting with (transportation, completion completed e-manifest disposal, etc.) of transportation disposal MHI Wastes JWNET*2 Information Storage and management Management Processing Center Information EDI*1 version of e-manifest information System *1 EDI: Electric Data Interchange *2 JWNET: Japan Waste Network CSR Report 2010 42 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Commitment to the Global Environment Countermeasures against Global Warming To contribute toward achieving Japan’s target on a reduction in CO2 emissions under the Kyoto Protocol, MHI focuses on further reducing CO2 emissions while continuing to adopt equipment enabling outstanding energy saving and superlative operating efficiency. Promoting Measures to Change in CO2 emissions Greenhouse gas emissions Conserve Energy and (10,000 tons) excluding CO2 emissions from Reduce CO2 Emissions Standard 60.0 value 54.0 Target energy use 52.9 54.9 51.3 value 47.2 44.9 44.3 MHI has been compiling data on greenImplemented additional 40.0 house gas emissions (excluding CO2 reduction measures emissions from energy use) since fiscal at individual divisions, 20.0 2006 under the system enforced in fiscal headquarters and works 0 2006 for calculating, reporting and pubMHI’s CO2 reduction target is set at an 1990 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Average lishing emissions of greenhouse gases. from 2008 average of 6% against 1990 levels for the to 2012 The actual emission record of fiscal 2009 five years from fiscal 2008 to 2012, as (FY) was 8,000 tons, a reduction from the predefined for the first commitment period Change in gross energy input vious fiscal year (13,000 tons). of the Kyoto Protocol. In fiscal 2008, to achieve this tar(TJ*) Breakdown of greenhouse gas get, the Executive Committee formulated 12,000 11,375 10,963 11,659 11,145 emissions (excluding CO2 emissions 10,065 and adopted a CO2 emissions reducfrom energy use) 9,000 tion acceleration and enforcement action Sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) 6.8% plan. In fiscal 2009, based on the plan, 6,000 MHI implemented additional measures 3,000 to reduce emissions, such as installing Hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) 9.0% highly efficient lighting and converting 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 boiler fuel. (FY) * TJ (terajoule) = 1 trillion joules (1,000,000,000,000 J) Dinitrogen monoxide (N2O) 12.5% Further reductions of CO2 emissions from energy use Change in electricity purchases Methane (CH4) 14.0% In fiscal 2009, MHI’s CO2 emissions (MWh) resulting from energy use were 449,000 864,840 857,030 CO2 emissions not resulting from energy use 57.7% 900,000 tons, reduced by 12.5% over the previous 763,947 789,301 757,335 year, as a result of CO2 reduction mea600,000 sures and decreased operation of several Arranging purchase of plants particularly for mass and medium300,000 emission credits lot manufacturing affected by the global recession starting in fall 2008. MHI determined the total emission cred0 In fiscal 2009, we reduced CO2 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 its to be purchased mainly through (FY) emissions by 4.9% compared to the JI (Joint Implementation)*1 and CDM base year (1990), nine years after we had (Clean Development Mechanism)*2 of the achieved such reduction from the base Kyoto Mechanism. This is to offset the 1 M kWh of green power used year in fiscal 2000. Further improvement, increased emissions up to 2012 based each year however, will be required to achieve the on the policy of using emission credits to target of an average 6% reduction over MHI has contracted with Japan Natural compensate for increases and shortfalls the five-year period (fiscal 2008–2012) Energy Co., Ltd. (JNE) to purchase 1 M due to such factors as construction of a from fiscal 1990 levels. The company kWh of wind-generated power from new plant. will continue reducing CO2 emissions by JNE each year for a period of 15 years Purchased emission credits will be thoroughly implementing the CO2 emisstarting April 2002. In fiscal 2009, MHI included in Japan’s greenhouse gas sions reduction acceleration and enforceused 0.495 M kWh of this clean power reduction plan, as they are transferred ment action plan. at its Head Office without compensation from the compaand 0.498 M kWh ny’s own dedicated management account at the Mitsubishi to the redemptive account of the governMinatomirai ment. MHI applied for its own dedicated Industrial Museum. management account and was granted approval in October 2007. *1 S  ystem in which a company invests in greenhouse gas reduction projects in advanced countries and applies the reduced emissions to achieve its own goals. Green power certificate *2 S  ystem in which a company invests in greenhouse gas reduction projects in developing countries and applies the reduced emissions to achieve its own goals. 43 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Measures to Curb Energy Total traffic volume Energy consumption and CO2 Use in Transport emissions (Thousand ton-km) 191,578 (GJ*) (t-CO2) 200,000 800,000 24,500 28,000 Transportation energy 159,810 150,000 19,460 consumption reduced by 119,064 600,000 21,000 1.5% from fiscal 2008 100,000 14,268 400,000 357,181 14,000 283,303 The amended Act Concerning the 50,000 207,823 200,000 7,000 Rational Use of Energy enforced in April 0 2006 requires shippers to reduce energy 2007 2008 2009 0 0 (FY) 2007 2008 2009 consumption in transport by a total of 5% (FY) over the five years ending fiscal 2010. As Total energy consumption Total CO2 emissions a company subject to the Act, MHI set As a result of these efforts, transpor* GJ (gigajoule) = 1,000 MJ (megajoules) the target of reducing annual transportatation energy consumption in fiscal 2009 tion energy consumption by a minimum was reduced by 1.5% from fiscal 2008, average of 1% from each preceding year. and the company was able to achieve its Energy-saving Activities in In fiscal 2009, the company focused target for the fiscal year. Offices on improving transportation efficiency In fiscal 2010, the deadline for achievthrough modal shift, higher loading ing the target under the amended Act In addition to “Cool Biz” in summer (office ratio and “milk runs.” The company also Concerning the Rational Use of Energy, air-conditioning systems set to 28°C, enforced cooperation with cargo receivers we plan to further reduce transportation employees do not need to wear ties) and and promoted mixed loadings of smallenergy consumption by using environ“Warm Biz” in winter (office air condilot cargos by establishing a joint delivery mentally friendly transportation systems tioning systems set to 20°C, employees center. These activities were regularly disand introducing proven efforts at every are encouraged to bring an extra layer of cussed in company-wide meetings and site across the company. clothing), the company has implemented actions taken at each site were shared diverse energy-saving activities, such as across the company. rationalizing the operation of elevators and introducing high-efficiency lighting. Comments from staff at works who are actively engaged Topics in reducing CO2 emissions MHI-brand amorphous solar cell panels were also installed at the works. Everyone at our works is Progress is continuing in our plan to install solar cell panels at our actively involved in energyworks. In fiscal 2009, MHI installed 50-kW panels at the Kobe saving activities. Shipyard & Machinery Works, 70-kW panels at the Takasago Machinery Works and 100-kW panels at the Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works (a total of 220-kW panels installed in fiscal 2009), expanding the company’s cumulative introduction of solar power to 2,110 kW. Consequently, MHI achieved the CSR Action Plan’s fiscal Yusuke Miyaji 2009 target of introducing more than 200-kW photovoltaic facilities Works Technology Section across the company. The company also achieved its medium-term Engineering Department Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works target of installing over 2,000 kW photovoltaic facilities one year in advance of the originally scheduled deadline of fiscal 2010. At the Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works, we take action In addition, MHI installed a total of 33.5-kW photovoltaic facilito achieve energy-saving targets, focusing on two main themes for ties in the company dormitory for unmarried employees, company energy saving: efforts by everyone to save energy in our daily operations nursery school and Mitsubishi Wind Turbine View Park at the and the adoption of equipment enabling outstanding energy saving. Yokohama Machinery Works. To save energy in our daily operations, every employee takes actions such as switching off personal computers during break times and turning off lighting during lunch hour. For the adoption of equipment enabling energy saving, we converted the lighting system in the factory from mercury lamps to high-intensity fluorescent tubes. By replacing the lighting, we saved energy and improved the working environment by reviewing the existing luminance levels to provide well-lit worksites in the factory. In addition, we installed a 100-kW photovoltaic facility on the roof of the factory. We also applied a thermal insulating coating on the roof and walls of the factory to improve the efficiency of factory air-conditioning. As a result of these measures, we expect to reduce future CO2 emissions by approximately 390 tons per year. Solar cell panels installed at the Nagoya Guidance & We will gradually replace aging factory facilities with equipment Propulsion Systems Works that saves more energy, with due consideration for cost-effectiveness and replacement priority. CSR Report 2010 44 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Commitment to the Global Environment Resource Conservation and Waste Management MHI is taking the initiative to achieve zero emissions*1 at all company facilities (the divisions, headquarters and works) by 2010. The company vigorously sorts all recyclables, identifies new recycling contractors and encourages the sharing of information on recycling operators across MHI divisions, headquarters and works, while at the same time holding company-wide meetings on how to achieve zero emissions. *1 For MHI, zero emissions is defined as limiting landfill waste to less than 2% of total waste. Curbing Waste Generation, Waste generation/landfill disposal Water usage and discharge Release and Disposal volumes and recycling rate (10,000 tons) (1,000 tons) (%) 1,500 250 89 100 Achieved target once again 216 79.0 83.3 Target 1,243.2 78.2 1,200 1,120.9 for curbing waste generation 200 170 80 277.0 1,001.9 1,075.9 151 258.8 940.4 226.8 912.7 150 164 159 131 60 900 The target for reducing the volume of the 232.4 56.5 54.4 57.3 40 213.3 185.8 company’s waste to less than 170,000 100 600 tons by 2010 was achieved in fiscal 2009 456.9 886.0 855.4 50 20 945.4 359.0 387.1 15 14 9 with a waste output of 131,000 tons, a 2 0 300 0 1992 2009 fiscal year target we once again reached. 2006 2007 2008 2010 276.9 289.8 276.2 (FY) In terms of its target to achieve zero Generation Landfill disposal Recycling rate 0 2007 2008 2009 (FY) waste emissions at all 13 MHI sites (the volume volume INPUT Water supply Industrial water divisions, headquarters and works) by Groundwater Other 2010, the Kobe Shipyard & Machinery OUTPUT Discharged into public waters Discharged into sewer system Works already accomplished the goal in Waste generation by material April 2009, bringing the total to 12. The Other 2.2% Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works, the Paper usage only MHI site that has not achieved its tarAcid and alkali wastes 2.9% (t) get, is also aggressively looking for new 4,000 3,890 3,863 Sludge 4.6% recycling operators and will meet its target 3,536 in the first half of fiscal 2010. Waste oil 5.2% 3,000 2,950 Waste paper 5.5% Waste wood 5.5% 2,000 Waste plastic 5.6% 1,000 Slag 6.4% Scrap metal 62.1% 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 (FY) Topics *2 Sites that have achieved zero emissions Corporate target in sight as the Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Yokohama Machinery Works achieves zero emissions in fiscal 2009 March 2001 Works March 2004 Takasago Machinery Works With the target to achieve zero emissions in fiscal 2009, the Kobe Shipyard & Machinery General Machinery & Works has taken action to identify recycling operators, more strictly separate wastes and November 2004 Special Vehicle curb waste generation. When the Works started its efforts, the recycling rate was rising Headquarters steadily until high costs for recycling incombustible wastes impeded the achievement of the February 2006 Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works target. To address this problem, the Works set up a Waste Reduction Sectional meeting, Air-Conditioning & consisting of representatives of the August 2006 Refrigeration Systems departments that generate wastes Headquarters and a secretariat and promoted the September 2006 Machine Tool Division, Iwatsuka Area strict separating of wastes at the Paper & Printing Machinery emission source level and the recyDivision (including cling of all recyclables. Through these May 2007 Transportation Systems & Advanced Technology efforts, the Works was able to curb Division, Mihara) the increase in waste treatment costs Shimonoseki Shipyard & January 2008 and achieved zero emissions. It will Machinery Works continue its efforts to maintain zero Industrial Machinery October 2008 Business, Technology & emissions while focusing on curbing Solutions Division waste generation and reducing waste Members of the Waste Reduction Sectional meeting at the Nagasaki Shipyard & Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works January 2009 treatment costs. Machinery Works Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works April 2009 (including Transportation Systems & Advanced Technology Division, Kobe) 45 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Management of Chemical Substances MHI takes every possible action to manage the chemical substances required for its production processes in ways that guarantee safe usage and storage. All works effectively use MSDS to ensure complete safety for both customers and company employees. Efforts are also being taken to curb the use and emissions of organochlorides by developing alternative manufacturing processes and switching to alternative substances. Curbing the Use and Setting targets for reducing Plan for disposal of Emissions of Chemical and controlling VOCs (Volatile equipment using PCBs Substances through Organic Compounds) Proper Management and As of March 2006, MHI had already regisUse of Alternatives MHI has incorporated voluntary reductered the disposal of equipment that uses tion targets for three organochlorides into PCBs (polychlorinated biphenyls), either its mid-and-long-term plan. currently in use or stored at its domesEmissions of substances Emissions of VOC, one of the subtic sites, with the Japan Environmental subject to PRTR stances that cause photochemical smog, Safety Corporation (JESCO), a special In fiscal 2009, MHI released a total of are regulated for facilities that release a entity wholly funded by the Japanese 2,040 tons of substances subject to given volume of the substance under the government. The company also signed PRTR*1 compliance. Air Pollution Control Law. In fiscal 2008, a consigning contract for disposal in Roughly 95% of these emissions in addition to legal and regulatory comJanuary 2007. In fiscal 2009, MHI began consisted of xylene, toluene and ethylbenpliance and to further advance its activiconsigned disposal at 7 sites*2. zene, which are primarily used in paintties for lessening environmental impact, Today the company is systematically ing and cleaning applications. Although the company set a new voluntary target replacing equipment using PCBs to comthe company is working to reduce these for reducing atmospheric emissions of pletely eliminate their use by 2010. emissions, the task is proving to be a sigVOC in 2010 by 30% from the 2000 level, *2 H ead Office, Industrial Machinery Business, nificant challenge, particularly for xylene, focusing on xylene, toluene and ethylbenTechnology & Solutions Division, Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Takasago Machinery Works, which is used for painting ships and its zene, which are emitted in large volumes. Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works, Nagoya use is typically specified by shipowners. In fiscal 2009, as in fiscal 2008, MHI Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works and the Iwatsuka Area. This preference is making it difficult to held a VOC Reduction Promotion Secreduce the use of this substance. tional meeting to explore specific reducThe number of substances subtion plans while sharing information among ject to PRTR increased substantially its divisions, headquarters and works. from 354 to 462 from fiscal 2010 under the amendment to the enforcement rule of the Law enacted in fiscal 2008. MHI has been systematically preparing in fisStatus of PCB Storage cal 2009 to begin including these additional substances in calculation and disclosure starting in fiscal 2010. Actions included notifying the entire company of Atmospheric emissions of organochlorides this change through the Environment LiaiStandard value son Conference and other channels and (t) 262.2 obtaining MSDS sheets from suppliers in 260 55.0 conformity with the new requirement. 54.2 50 *1 PRTR (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) 40 The PRTR system requires publication of the sources 35.8 23.7 and emission volume of toxic chemical substances 30 27.3 and the amounts of such substances removed from 153.0 21.3 23.4 18.6 manufacturing plants. The system is provided for 20 18.2 18.2 20.3 under the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register 16.5 0.6 (PRTR) Law. 10 2.1 Target value 0.5 0.8 0.6 1.2 2.3 2.5 11.5 6.6 0 0 1996 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Reducing organochlorides Dichloromethane Trichloroethylene Tetrachlorethylene The company had reduced emissions of tetrachlorethylene, trichloroethylene and Change in HCFC*3 emissions dichloromethane by 89.6%, up 3.3 points (t) year-on-year, as of the end of fiscal 2009. 40 For dichloromethane, which is used as a removal agent, MHI completed an 30 0.9 5.0 evaluation of replacing its use with non2.0 3.3 dichloromethane removal agents in fis20 1.0 cal 2008. The company implemented 24.0 1.0 22.8 22.6 15.7 the required facility improvements for this 10 15.7 10.1 Target value replacement in fiscal 2009 and will com0.7 0.2 0.1 0.3 0 0.0 0.0 plete conversion in fiscal 2010. 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Dichloropentafluoropropane 1.1 dichloro-1-fluoroethane Chlorodifluoromethane *3 HCFCs (Hydrochloro-fluorocarbons): T  he Montreal Protocol that regulates ozone-depleting substances stipulates that the production of these substances must cease by 2020. CSR Report 2010 46 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Commitment to the Global Environment Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental Impact CO2 recovery system that reduces CO2 emissions from power stations and large plants Thermal power plants account for about two-thirds of the world’s plants in the U.S. and Germany and plans additional large-scale total power output and is expected to play an important role in demonstration operations across the world. At the IGCC (Inteensuring a stable supply of power. Power plants, however, emit grated coal Gasification Combined Cycle) plant in Australia, MHI is a massive volume of CO2. developing a technology for separating and recovering CO2 prior Large industrial plants also emit large volumes of CO2. Given to the combustion of gasified coal fuel by gas turbine. System the emergence of global warming, power stations and large indusoperation is slated to begin in 2015. trial plants are expected to take extensive measures to reduce In addition to these methods, other technologies are being CO2 emissions. developed for use and sequestration of recovered CO2. These Under these circumstances, MHI and Kansai Electric Power include EOR (Enhanced Oil RecovCo., Inc. have jointly developed a technology for recovering CO2 ery), which injects CO2 into an oil generated through the combustion of fuels without releasing it into field and reduces the viscosity of the atmosphere. The companies successfully developed a special crude oil to attain higher fluidity for solvent that chemically absorbs 90% of the CO2 contained in flue increasing the recovery ratio in the gas with high efficiency. MHI has commercialized the process and production of crude oil and a techsystem to separate and recover CO2 while reducing energy connology for the sequestration of CO2 sumption, utilizing characteristics of this solvent. MHI supplied the by injecting it into aquifers, depleted system to seven sites, mainly overseas chemical and other plants, oil and gas fields and coal beds. as a CO2 recovery system. MHI contributes to the prevention of MHI is now commercializing a larger-scale CO2 recovery sysglobal warming through CO2 recovtem with a capacity of several thousands of tons of CO2 recovery ery in collaboration with other comper day. The company has already started operations to demonpanies involved in developing the MHI-delivered CO recovery 2 strate the system’s reliability and operability at coal-fired power related technologies. system in Malaysia Centrifugal Heat Pump ETW produces hot water using only electricity and exhaust heat Hot water at 80–90°C is generally used in such processes as the water temperature that had fallen during sterilization, cleansterilization, food processing and cleaning semiconductors. ing and drying processes, up to a maximum of 90°C using heat The required water is typically produced by boilers using fospump principle. The heat exchanger, centrifugal compressor and sil fuels such as oil and gas. Excess heat generated is often motor that comprise the system are controlled by an inverter not used. In recent years, however, reducing the consumption device to reduce power consumption. Since the system uses of fossil fuels for boilers and effectively using the exhaust heat exhaust heat that usually dissipates and consumes little power generated from boilers have become necessary from the viewduring operation, its COP* (energy consumption efficiency) is a point of preventing global warming. high 4.5. This innovative product can reduce CO2 emissions up In response to these needs, MHI was the first in the industo 71% and reduce operating cost up try to develop a centrifugal compression hot water supply systo 27% compared with oil-fired boilers tem, Centrifugal Heat Pump ETW, which reuses exhaust heat with the same capacity (1 ton/hour). from boilers to produce hot water with electricity alone, using *C OP (Coefficient of Performance) is the value MHI’s heat pump technology. MHI began selling the system in that indicates cooling/heating capacity (kW) per power consumption (kW). May 2009. Heat pumps can produce three to six times the thermal energy of electric energy input and achieve superior energy efficiency. They are widely used in EcoCute and other systems found in ordinary houses and their technology is expected to contribute to the prevention of global warming.Centrifugal Heat Pump ETW extracts heat from exhaust (10–50°C) and heats up Turbo compressor hot water supply system Centrifugal Heat Pump ETW 47 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Offshore wind turbine project to convert offshore wind into energy The wider use of natural energy is eagerly sought for power of offshore wind turbines. sources that produce zero CO2 emissions. In Europe, the U.S. In the U.K. project, for which mass production is targeted and China, where wind power is gaining popularity, wind turto begin in 2015, the company will carry out the project through bines are being constructed in costal areas. Offshore installaseveral stages, including manufacturing and testing a 5–7 MW tions face virtually no obstacles and offer an effective option for demonstration offshore wind turbine; wind turbines due to the presence of stable, strong winds with establishing the Offshore Wind Turlittle turbulence in wind flow. A further advantage allowing for bine Advanced Technology Cenlarge-scale wind turbine installation is the relative absence of ter (tentative name); and designing issues related to scenery or noise. and developing large-scale composMHI therefore focuses on manufacturing offshore wind turite turbine blades. MHI will accumubines and is the first Japanese manufacturing partner with the late experience and expertise in the U.K. in offshore wind turbine development projects. The company design, development and manufachas manufactured and supported wind turbines for power generaturing of wind turbines through partion for more than 30 years. As of the end of December 2009, we ticipation in this project, constructing had supplied 331 units (total output 323 MW) in Japan and 3,705 them where strong demand is units (total output 3,282 MW) overseas. We have also gained valuexpected and thereby contributing able experience and knowhow in manufacturing and constructto the prevention of global warming. Offshore wind turbines ing offshore structures, piers and bridges and are capitalizing on (rendering) these strengths to further promote the technological development CO2 reduction Sector Basis of calculation Remarks (thousand tons) Estimates based on MHI’s actual delivery record in FY2009, compared with FY1990. Thermal plants (combined, conventional and CO2 reduction with MHI product Power plant 98,700 usage (FY2009) Estimate for nuclear power is based on biomass), nuclear plants, photovoltaic, wind actual output generated in FY2009 by plants turbine and geothermal power generation, etc. built by MHI. CO2 reduction Sector Basis of calculation Remarks (thousand tons) Estimates based on MHI’s actual delivery Transportation 1,600 Vessels, transportation systems, etc. Estimates based record delivery with FY1990. actual compared in FY2009, on MHI’s record in FY2009, compared with FY1990. Thermal plants (combined, conventional and Power plant Mass and medium-lot98,700 Estimate for nuclear power Estimates is based based on actual delivery on MHI’s biomass), nuclear plants, photovoltaic, Air-conditioners, windchillers, gas centrifugal 1,000 manufactured machinery actual output generated in FY2009 record in FY2009, by plantswith FY1990. compared engines, power turbine and geothermal etc. etc. generation, forklift trucks, built by MHI. Data for fiscal 1990 is calculated based on the IEA’s (International Energy Agency’s) “World Energy Outlook 2009” Estimates based on MHI’s actual delivery F-2戦闘機 Transportation 1,600 Vessels, transportation systems, etc. record in FY2009, compared with FY1990. Mass and medium-lot Estimates based on MHI’s actual delivery Air-conditioners, centrifugal chillers, gas 1,000 manufactured machinery record in FY2009, compared with FY1990. engines, forklift trucks, etc. Data for fiscal 1990 is calculated based on the IEA’s (International Energy Agency’s) “World Energy Outlook 2009” MHI is working to create a low-carbon CO2 reduction from the 1990 level conduct business by maximizing its colsociety across a broad spectrum of through the use of the company’s prodlective strengths to further reduce the fields, including: large-scale power genucts in fiscal 2009 came to about 100 global environmental load. eration technologies such as thermal million tons. power plants and nuclear power plants, The power generation sector, About renewable energy including that from which accounts for nearly 30% of CO2 4,000 wind turbines and solar power, vessels emissions, has the potential for reducmillion tons and transportation systems for improving emissions by about 4,000 million ing the efficiency of the transportation tons, assuming Japan’s latest technolsector, and heat pumps and forklift ogies at the top international level would trucks that assist energy management be deployed across the world. About Existing 4,000 Latest on the demand side. Going forward, MHI will continue to million technologies technologies tons Existing Latest technologies technologies CSR Report 2010 48 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Commitment to People and Society MHI maintains relationships with diverse populations in various regions and communities in the course of developing and manufacturing products and technologies that are essential for social infrastructures and industry as well as the day-to-day lives of people across the world. To fulfill its corporate responsibility as a social and public entity, MHI has been pursuing its business operations with due consideration for its diverse stakeholders. Customers Machinery & Power Systems Steel Local Structures Shareholders Communities and investors Shipbuilding & Ocean Aerospace Development General Other Machinery & Special Vehicles Business Employees Partners (Suppliers) 49 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Commitment to People and Society Commitment to Our Customers MHI laid out in its creed: “We strongly believe that the customer comes first and that we are obligated to be an innovative partner to society.” To establish production system capabilities and serve as a genuinely global corporation, MHI is contributing to society by offering products and services that place priority on safety and quality. Enhancing Product Safety such as guidance relating to new laws and 2009, members confirmed that the mainregulations. tenance and management of manufacturing instructions and activities related to the Promoting the product safety internal sharing of lessons learned from project Ongoing efforts to ensure the accident have been implemented. The safety at nuclear power plants MHI is reinforcing activities to promote Board also confirmed that suitable safety the product safety throughout the comOn August 2004, a break occurred in management proposals have been put pany. The product safety project is one the MHI-installed secondary piping of forward as a result of sharing information effort that started in fiscal 2005, with the Unit 3 in the Mihama power station of with power companies. Based on these Legal Department and the Technical Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc. MHI set findings, the Board also decided on a polHeadquarters Production System up the Managing Board for Innovation icy for reinforcing interface control and Innovation Planning Office (currently the in the Nuclear Business, chaired by the change control. Production System Innovation Planning President, in December 2004. The comDivision) serving as the secretariat. In pany is striving to implement continuous Comments from a nuclear power this project, the company’s products are internal reforms to prevent accidents and quality control manager grouped into three categories—mass ensure safety at nuclear power plants. and medium-lot manufactured products, Individual works thoroughly inspect and We are striving build-to-order components, and buildcontinuously strive to improve design, for highly reliable quality assurance to-order plants. Individual works conduct manufacturing, and procurement proand control, training activities based on these categocesses as well as the quality manageever-aware of our ries to improve product safety, including ment system. At the same time, the responsibility for risk assessment and improving instruction Managing Board for Innovation in the safe nuclear power generation. manuals. Nuclear Business monitors the progress MHI also shares across the company of improvement. information relevant to product safety, At the Board meeting held in fiscal Koichiro Masumoto Topics Component Quality Control Section Quality Assurance Department Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Accident Exhibit and Materials Room established inside MHI’s Technology Training Center The Component Quality Control Section of —Deeply ingraining the significance of safety and quality the Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works is aing the quality control plans for the design, Safety and quality have the highest priority for the MHI Group, whose very livelihood is based manufacturing and installation of compoon manufacturing. nents and pipes for nuclear power plants. We organized information on past accidents and established an Accident Exhibit and Since the quality control in these facilities Materials Room in April 2010 so all employees involved in development, production and is critical, we all share a desire to improve after-service operations could refresh their awareness of the significance of safety and qualquality and raise the level of danger preity and prevent the recurrence of serious mishaps and failures. diction among all employees to ensure News articles and panels are displayed in addition to video coverage for serious disasthe safety and security of nuclear power ters such as the fire on the cruise ship Diamond Princess. plants. Therefore, our duties go beyond inspecting products to encompass operaMHI wants this archive to serve as a place in which Group employees gain a deeper tional processes, such as monitoring on understanding of the true significance of safety and quality by ensuring that employees manufacturing and analyzing root causes across the company know about the exhibit and incorporating it into the employee training of nonconformance. curriculum. With over 40 years of experience, MHI has established a systematic quality assurance program for nuclear power plants for taking precautions against potential problems. This program is supported by close cooperation with the design and manufacturing departments. We will continue to share information with these departments while striving to improve and pass on the quality assurance and control technology we have gained over the years. Entrance to the Accident Exhibit and Materials Room Displays inside the exhibit room CSR Report 2010 50 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Commitment to People and Society Enhancing Customer Implementing technical Promoting Nuclear Power PA* Satisfaction (CS) support as an aspect of activities preventative maintenance In an effort to deepen its understanding Pursuing products and services Since 1999, MHI has maintained a high about the need for and safety of nuclear that can be trusted from the operational rate for thermal power plants power, MHI has promoted PA activities prioritized customer point of view (gas turbines) delivered both in and outsince 1988, such as accepting visitors in One statement of the MHI creed is: “We side of Japan and provided technical supour works that manufacture nuclear power strongly believe that the customer comes port to prevent problems. This is a paid equipment and publishing the magazine, first and that we are obligated to be an service for observing and supporting the Atom Power. innovative partner to society.” Therefore, operations of gas turbine plants in real The Kobe Shipyard & Machinery the company’s top priority is to always time, around the clock, 365 days a year, Works, where nuclear power equipment place itself in the customer’s shoes and from remote monitoring centers estabis manufactured, offers plant tours at the meet their expectations by providing prodlished in two locations, one in Japan and request of clients and partner compaucts and services with high added value. one outside of Japan. We are working nies. It also provides enjoyable opportuBased on this approach, each headto prevent the occurrence of problems nities for learning about energy through quarters and division listens carefully to by applying monitoring diagnostic capahands-on activities targeting elementary the market and customer feedback and bilities that draw upon over ten years of school students. Approximately 3,000 strives to improve CS in accordance accumulated operational data. Any susguests participated in fiscal 2009, sharwith their respective business operapension of operations is kept as short as ing comments such as, “After touring the tions. In addition, MHI implements basic possible by quickly detecting plant anomproduction sites, I deeply understood how CS and marketing training as well as other alies and immediately implementing troubleadvanced technology is used to manufacprograms with the belief that improvshooting procedures. ture nuclear power equipment.” MHI will ing employee awareness is essential for As of April 2010, we are supportcontinue to offer information and tours to establishing a customer-oriented corpoing three plants in Japan and 25 plants build up trust in nuclear power. rate culture. overseas, thereby safeguarding the sta* Nuclear Power PA (public acceptance) activities Through these activities, MHI will ble power generation operations of our Activities conducted to encourage a clearer understanding of nuclear power continuously work to provide products customers. and services that satisfy customers. Remote monitoring center Basic CS training Nuclear power page http://www.mhi.co.jp/atom/ (in Japanese) Maintaining and Strengthening the Defense Production and Technological Bases Contributing to the peace and safety of Japan through technology With the basic stance of ensuring the peace nation amid financial difficulty and rapid techand safety of Japan through cutting-edge nological progress. Therefore, MHI is focusing technology, MHI, as a leading enterprise in on the technology and systems research to the Japanese defense industry, endeavors deal with new threats and diverse situations. to maintain and strengthen the defense proFor example, we are researching the operation duction and technological bases. We are also and systems of new equipment using modelinvolved in the development, manufacture, ing and simulation facilities and methods.* and operational support for a vast array of On the other hand, we believe we are F-2 jet fighters ©JASDF defense equipment requested by the governalso able to contribute to long-term technoment, such as jet fighters, helicopters, mislogical progress, given the far-reaching nature Ratio of Ministry of Defense siles, destroyers and tanks. of state-of-the-art technology of defense and sales to total sales The defense environment surrounding the expectation for ripple effects to the civilian Amount Japan has been dramatically changing over sector in the fields of materials, components, FY Ratio (%) (100 million yen) recent years. It is now more vital than ever to and process technology. 2008 11.0 3,714 maintain and strengthen the production and * Simulations that use numerical models to acquire decisiontechnological bases to meet the needs of the making data 2009 11.8 3,483 51 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Commitment to Our Shareholders and Investors MHI works to forge relationships of trust with shareholders and investors in and outside of Japan by increasing the soundness and transparency of its management, accurately and promptly disclosing information, and expanding opportunities to communicate with shareholders and investors. Disclosure Principles and Business and planning Inviting investors for plant IR Activities briefings tours In response to demand from investors The company has been conducting semiPromoting IR activities and analysts for greater details on the annual plant tours since March 2005 to to facilitate a detailed overall status and plans of individual busideepen shareholder understanding of its understanding of our business nesses, MHI holds semiannual perforbusiness activities. MHI is striving to assist institutional invesmance briefings as well as other types of During fiscal 2009, we held tours tors and individual investors in Japan and briefings related to business performance at the Hiroshima Machinery Works (curabroad with gaining a deeper understandand plans. rently the Industrial Machinery Business, ing of our business operations. We conducted a briefing on the setTechnology & Solutions Division) in SepWith a Corporate Communication tlement of accounts for fiscal 2008 and tember. Participants closely observed Department dedicated to investor relaemergency measures for fiscal 2009 in the assembly processes of our cuttingtions, we endeavor to disseminate approApril 2009 with 195 participants. In June, edge radiotherapy machine, a centrifugal priate information in a timely manner as business presentation briefings were held compressor and a mechanical drive turwell as provide additional opportunities for the overall Sustainability Energy & Envibine for chemical plants, and body panfor direct communication through a variety ronment Strategic Planning Department, els for aircraft. In March, we held tours at of briefings. We reflect the comments we and nine divisions over three days with a the Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Sysreceive in our ever-expanding IR activities. total of 491 attendees. tems Works to share the production proIn addition, under new efforts, MHI cess for aerospace engines and other took part in briefings held by securities equipment. Participants responded with Actively disseminating firms for individual investors. The comsuch comments as, “I was able to expeinformation through our pany also earned high marks for holdrience firsthand the high level of MHI’s website and other channels ing a briefing combined with a tour of our industrial technology,” and “By participatMHI releases information in accordance exhibition facility, the Mitsubishi Minatomiing in this tour, I was able to understand with laws and regulations as mandated rai Industrial Museum in Yokohama. We how MHI provides cutting-edge products by the exchanges on which the company intend to regularly hold briefings at this to the world.” We intend to further enrich is listed; the company also quickly posts facility as opportunities for communicating the content of our tours in light of particiinformation on the “Investor Relations” with individual investors. pant feedback. section of our website. Information and data not subject to these laws and reguRecent Dividend lations are also posted, along with charts Disbursements and comments on securities terminology, in an effort to release data that is easy-toFor fiscal 2009, a 2 yen per share yearunderstand and accurate. end dividend was distributed. In addition, videos of general shareIn addition to the previously distribholders’ meetings and account settlement uted interim dividend of 2 yen per share, briefings for institutional investors and total dividends for the year were 4 yen per analysts, as well as business presentation Plant tour at the Industrial Machinery Business, share. briefings are posted on our website to furTechnology & Solutions Division, Hiroshima ther enhance understanding. Dividend disbursements over the past five years FY Dividend per share 2005 4 yen 2006 6 yen 2007 6 yen 2008 6 yen 2009 4 yen Plant tour at the Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Investor Relations Systems Works http://www.mhi.co.jp/en/finance/ CSR Report 2010 52 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Commitment to People and Society Commitment to Our Business Partners (Suppliers) As a corporation that strives to be a premier innovator, MHI views its suppliers as key partners who provide the company with materials and services for producing products and who share the same desire for mutual prosperity. To remain competitive in a rapidly changing business environment, the company will work with its business partners to effect improvements throughout the entire value chain. Fair Dealing Global Procurement Manual sized companies. In fiscal 2009, legal compliance was confirmed by an interdesigned to reinforce relations nal audit of all departments involved with Opening a door to new with business partners procurement. suppliers and ensuring fair The Global Procurement Manual (GPM) evaluation and selection was published in fiscal 2009. The GPM Training for employees MHI, which procures various materials was drawn up with the goal of more conengaged in procurement from inside and outside Japan, opens veniently sharing procurement informaactivities the door wide to creative and competitive tion with partners, ensuring that MHI’s suppliers. While complying with related quality management system philosophy is Our procurement departments provide laws and social norms, we evaluate and incorporated into the actual procurement various training programs on procureselect with fairness to establish trust that process. ment as a safeguard against inappropriate leads to mutual prosperity. This concept Looking ahead, we intend to use ordering. In fiscal 2009, as in the preis stipulated in MHI’s Procurement Policy the GPM to reinforce relations with busiceding fiscal year, two compliance train(released in 2002), which is posted on the ness partners in the global supply chain ing programs were conducted targeting “Procurement” page of our website. and offer outstanding service quality to young employees in material procurement This page also includes guidelines for customers. departments—in July at MHI’s Shinagawa applicant companies and contact inforHead Office and in March at the Kobe mation for material procurement for the Shipyard & Machinery Works, with 28 and Internal audits for preventing benefit of companies that are interested in 25 participants, respectively. The program illegal and unfair dealings doing business with MHI. structure and time distribution were reconMHI is striving to prevent illegal dealsidered for both sessions based on the ings, such as fraudulent orders, by havresults of a questionnaire survey of paring departments in charge of the ordering, ticipants in the preceding year. The tworeceiving and use of procured goods proday program included compliance issues vide mutual restraints. At each stage of related to material procurement operaordering and inspection, more than one tions, an explanation of domestic laws, employee reviews the content of a transan exchange of ideas among participants action, and the results are confirmed by based on case studies, and a compreheninternal audit. sion test. The company intends for these Furthermore, MHI is endeavorprograms to further improve employee MHI’s Procurement Policy on the ing to comply with the Act against Delay awareness of compliance. corporate website in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, In addition, we have provided an http://www.mhi.co.jp/en/ company/procurement/ Etc. to Subcontractors and the Cone-learning program on the Act against struction Business Act, which prohibits Delay in Payment of Subcontract Prolarge companies from forcing unfair busiceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors for all ness practices on smalland mediumGroup employees since fiscal 2005. In fiscal 2009, a total of 948 MHI employees and 235 employees from 14 MHI Group companies in which MHI holds a majorMHI’s Procurement Policy ity share participated in this program. We also created a new learning program on 1. Openness import-export procedures for raising the We strive to openly provide business opportunities to suppliers throughout the level of employee knowledge about global world, and welcome creative and competitive suppliers. procurement. By the end of fiscal 2009, 2. Fairness 1,575 MHI employees and six employees We provide competitive opportunities to qualified suppliers, and evaluate and from two Group companies had particiselect suppliers fairly based on criteria such as the suppliers’ product quality, pated in the program. price, delivery schedule, technology and financial conditions. 3. Partnership We regard our suppliers as partners based on the mutual understanding that both parties should benefit from the relationship. 4. Compliance We comply with rules, regulations and social norms based on our compliance management policy, and all information submitted to MHI will be kept and used properly. Compliance training 53 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. MHI will continue to provide prolaboration Meeting with partners in June company from fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2010. grams based on an understanding of 2009 and Shipbuilding and Ocean DevelIn fiscal 2009, we clarified our views on training needs in relation to business opment Supplier Conference 2009 in July, CSR toward business partners with the plans and revised laws while also enhanceach division, headquarters and works goal of promoting CSR throughout the ing content. is striving to share information for further entire supply chain; we are also moving reinforcing collaboration with business ahead with the drawing up of MHI Group partners. Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines. Toward even stronger Preparation of the guidelines involved collaborative ties with selected members from the material probusiness partners curement divisions of each works and At the first Business Partners Conference setting up a CSR Procurement Promoheld in 2008, we declared that MHI will tion Project to reflect the results of the connect business partner comments, dynamic discussions that were held twice requests, and recommendations with in four regions. The discussions surfaced management process reform and costvarious thoughts on activities the comcutting measures. Having established pany has emphasized in procurement a specialized task force in the Material operations, including compliance, qualBusiness Partners Department at the Head Office for this Conference ity, and environmental actions as well as purpose, we are moving ahead with activideas for activities we need to focus on ities to reinforce manufacturing capability. in the future, such as work safety and At the second Business Partners human rights. Referring back to the comConference held in November 2009 with pany creed that states our obligation to be 282 partner companies invited, our presian innovative partner to society, MHI has dent conveyed MHI’s intentions to estabrenewed its recognition of the highly publish a stronger supply chain through lic aspects of our business, the technologmulti-faceted communications. In addiToward Implementing CSR ical capability required by society, and the tion, we presented certificates of gratitude Procurement importance of quality and product safety. to 13 partner companies that have signifiIn fiscal 2010, we will continue to cantly contributed to our business. Among Creation of Supply Chain CSR move forward with these activities toward these companies, three shared presentaPromotion Guidelines completing these guidelines and their distions on their improvement activities. semination both inside and outside the In the course of planning and hosting CSR procurement was identified as a criticompany. similar partner conferences, such as the cal issue for the material procurement divifirst Power Systems Headquarters Colsions in the CSR Action Plan for the entire Topics Activities of the CSR Procurement Promotion Project In fiscal 2009, we held two discussions in each of four regions (Kanto, Chubu, Kinki, and Chugoku/Kyushu). During the first sessions, the practice managers of CSR promotion divisions spoke about more deeply embedding the concept of CSR and basic knowledge of MHI’s CSR activities in the minds of project members. After the lecture, the speaker and members engaged in a lively discussion about efforts to maintain and build trust with partners. At first, there were comments such as, “I don’t understand the relationship between CSR and procurement operations.” Participant understanding of this relationship, however, deepened over the course of the discussions. During the second session, the perception and thinking of members steadily changed as they discussed MHI efforts that are required by society and enthusiastically expressed their ideas on key CSR activities the company should tackle. We believe empathy and cooperation are vital for an essential understanding of CSR. We will continue activities for instilling CSR with this in mind. Participating in a discussion CSR practice manager giving a lecture CSR Report 2010 54 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Commitment to People and Society Commitment to Our Employees Believing that human resources are the company’s most important asset and that their growth leads to the development of the entire company, MHI is actively working to utilize and cultivate diverse human resources and build a better working environment in which employees can fully demonstrate their abilities. Utilizing and Cultivating company is hiring overseas students Expanded job opportunities Diverse Human Resources and foreign students through aggressive for the handicapped recruitment efforts and hired about 30 new graduates in fiscal 2009. Since 1992, MHI has been pursuing efforts Active recruitment and In addition, MHI is actively hiring and to expand job opportunities for handiutilization of mid-career, utilizing female workers. The numbers of capped individuals and create a suitable overseas and female workers new female workers and managers have working environment for all workers by In the course of excelling at manufacturing been increasing each year. In fiscal 2009, establishing a Committee for Promotion large-scale system products that involve approximately 30% of new white-collar of Employment of the Handicapped (see lengthy timeframes, including power genrecruits with bachelor’s degrees were p. 32). eration plants, aerospace equipment women. In fiscal 2009, the company further and marine vessels, MHI’s basic polintensified its efforts to expand employicy for recruiting and developing human ment of the handicapped by utilizing its Promotion of rehiring seniors resources had been to hire new graduwebsite for recruiting handicapped indiacross the Group ates and provide ample in-house training. viduals and partnering with local jobRecently, however, survival in an To provide a place that allows employees placement offices. As a result, the rate increasingly competitive market has to demonstrate their abilities after retireof employment of the handicapped as of required the ability to utilize diverse human ment, the company implements a rehiring April 1, 2010 was 2.01%, exceeding the resources. MHI is therefore actively prosystem throughout the Group that, in prinstatutory employment rate of 1.8%. Those moting the hiring of mid-career workers. ciple, embraces all employees who wish that were hired actively participate in var(In fiscal 2009, approximately 450 midto take advantage of the opportunity for ious workplaces, including white-collar career workers were hired in addition to reemployment up to the age of 65 in both settings and production departments. about 1,500 new graduates.) The comfulland part-time positions. pany treats new graduates and mid-career As of April 1, 2010, MHI alone (excludSkills upgrading through training workers equally. Mid-career workers play ing Group companies) has rehired more an active role in their respective fields as than 1,700 employees. These workers are To be a global company capable of dealmembers of the company, making full use assigned important roles for transferring ing with dramatic changes in the marof the skills they have cultivated. their skills and expertise as experienced ket, MHI is striving to assist employees in MHI is also actively working to hire professionals. MHI is vigorously promotupgrading their skills and enhance trainpersonnel to deploy overseas for the ing their participation in the workplace. ing content in line with the basic policy of global development of its business. The practical human resource development. Basic Data Breakdown of employees by age (FY2009) Number of employees who resigned of own volition (FY2009) Under 30 30–39 40–49 50–59 60 and over Male 8,141 9,592 5,605 7,478 497 Male 201 Female 737 972 661 439 17 Female 88 Total 8,878 10,564 6,266 7,917 514 Total 289 Number of new graduates hired Number of mid-career workers hired Vocational Total University Other than university Total High school, University school and (females in graduates graduates (females in brackets) other brackets) junior college Joined the company in FY2008 547 358 905 (85) Joined the company in April 2009 820 168 817 1,805 (146) Joined the company in FY2009 229 223 452 (23) Joined the company in April 2010 672 124 676 1,472 (136) Number of female managers Number年齢 of rehired employees 自己都合 (section manager and above; excluding medical staff) 男性 from Group companies) (excluding those 201 2006/4 2007/4 2008/4 2009/4 2010/4 2008/4 女性 2008/10 88 2009/4 2009/10 2010/4 142 158 182 219 248 934 計 1,127 289 1,365 1,591 1,720 Use of annual paid holidays Number of employees who took child-care leave Number of paid Number of paid FY 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Usage rate (%) holidays granted holidays used Male 1 3 6 4 8 FY2007 22.0 15.6 70.9% Female 88 99 106 100 115 FY2008 22.0 15.8 71.8% Total 89 102 112 104 123 FY2009 22.0 15.8 71.8% 55 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. MHI has established an array of training also paying attention to their requests and and family life, MHI is working to improve programs, starting from human resource business improvement suggestions. For systems for raising the next generadevelopment based on on-the job training example, for those working in white-collar tions and supporting a healthy work-life (OJT) for new employees to programs tarpositions, MHI adopts an MBO (Managebalance. geting individual levels or functions for curment by Objectives) system with annual The following programs exceed legal rent employees. We are also endeavoring performance targets and progress evalurequirements. to improve training content from the perations twice a year. Blue-collar employees • Child-care leave (until the child is three spective of hardware, such as by aggresand their respective supervisors hold disyears of age) sively digitizing training information. cussions once a year to maintain a com• Child-care work shift (until the child mon understanding. graduates from elementary school) • Family-care leave (in total, within less Efforts to develop junior than one year per family member requirtechnicians 360° research: A program for ing care along with family-care work shift) middle managers Even as more baby boomers retire, the In addition, the company is adding number of young technicians is increasing MHI is carrying out 360° research, involvto its array of unique systems. The Career at MHI. Therefore, fostering technicians ing the assessment of middle-managers’ Return Plan, established in 2007, offers who are active at the forefront of manudaily behavior by their supervisors, colopportunities for employees who have facturing is a pressing need. To this end, leagues and subordinates. Results are left after marriage or childbirth to rejoin we strive to standardize and unify training shared with managers. This program is the company and continue their previous throughout the entire company by holding intended to encourage the further growth career. In fiscal 2009, five individuals (for a skills contests and creating manuals, textand self-improvement of managers by total of 12 individuals since 2007) rejoined books and other materials. We are quickly keeping them better informed of the feedthe company as full-time employees. facilitating the transfer of skills from vetback and evaluation of others while In April 2009, the Work-Life Support eran technicians and steadfastly training enabling them to identify their strengths Group was set up in the Personnel Departjunior technicians. and areas for improvement. The program ment to comprehensively improve work is conducted once every two years, with environment quality from the perspective the next one slated for 2010. of raising the next generations and supCommon training for the porting a healthy work-life balance. entire Group Building a Better Working Looking ahead, this group will lead To reinforce the management and overall Environment our continued efforts to build a better constitution of MHI Group business operworking environment that fully takes workations, we promote training operations life balance into consideration. Supporting a proper balance for the entire Group. In addition to having between work and family life employees of Group companies participate Programs that focus on work-life in MHI training sessions, we are moving forTo create an environment that helps balance ward with the establishment of an e-learnemployees effectively balance their work Child-care leave system ing site exclusively for Group companies Child care and childbirth Using accumulated paid holidays for and have already set up group training. Feedback from employees who child care purposes*1 have used the Career Return Plan Child-care work shift system (shortened work hour system) After leaving my job to have a child, the Work leave to care for a sick child Career Return Plan Special grants for working employees helped me apply my who place their child in daycare*2 experience to return to full-time work. Next generation nurturing support grants*3 Family-care leave system Using accumulated paid holidays for Family care Common training for Group companies family care purposes*1 Michiko Sakurai Family-care work shift system (shortened work hours system) Mutual understanding through Yokohama Power Plant Construction Department Power Systems Plant Engineering & Construction Division dialogue and encouraging Power Systems Headquarters Work leave to care for a family member the enhancement of personal Flex-time system I left the company in 2005 to have a child capabilities Others and for reasons related to my husband’s Paid holiday system by half day MHI is taking action to create a workjob. When I learned about the Career Trips and time off for longtime place in which employees can work diliReturn Plan, I registered. I decided to rejoin employees the company because I would be able to gently, free from anxiety, and to promote *1 Accumulated paid holidays is a system in which up to leave the office at a fixed time, I would retain 50 days paid holidays can be accumulated to use for the enhancement of each person’s capamy rank and salary conditions at the time illness, injury, child care, family care, and other bilities by facilitating mutual understandpurposes. I left, and I could apply my previous work *2 Special grants for working employees who place their ing and trust through dialogues between experience. My daughter was two years old children in daycare provide ¥5,000 per month to working employees who place children in daycare supervisors and subordinates. when I first received the offer in 2008, and it until the end of the fiscal year in which the child By providing opportunities for regular was difficult to work full-time. The company reaches three years of age. (In fiscal 2009, 783 employees received grants.) dialogues between supervisors and subagreed to let me work part-time, four hours *3 Next generation nurturing support grants provide ordinates at their request, MHI ensures a day, three days a week. When my daugh¥100,000 per employee with three or more children. (In fiscal 2009, 473 employees received grants.) the effective sharing of business targets ter entered daycare the following spring, I was able to start working full-time. and a common awareness of issues. Since, unlike before, I am expected to Supervisors communicate with subordifinish work within regular office hours, I can nates about the roles and tasks individfully concentrate on my job with efficiency ual employees are expected to fulfill while at the top of my mind. CSR Report 2010 56 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Commitment to People and Society three commitments: (1) Always hold fast employees on leave to return to the workEfforts for raising awareness to the conviction that life is precious, and place. This enables employees to maintain of human rights in individual carry out safety-first measures approtheir top physical and mental condition. workplaces priate to each position and location; (2) The company also sponsors various Since setting up the Committee for Raising Devote every effort to safety in creating events and provides training to promote Awareness of Human Rights (see p. 31) outstanding products that contribute to sound health and prevent lifestyle-related in 1992, we have been moving ahead the development of society; (3) Maintain diseases. with raising awareness of human rights awareness that sound health is the basis across the company. MHI has promoted upon which all else depends, and ensure Number of participants in mental human rights education and training every that all employees have a comfortable health training year. In fiscal 2009, approximately 1,800 work environment enabling them to be (Number) new recruits and 1,700 newly appointed sound in body. In line with these princi8,000 managers and supervisors participated in ples, we operate an occupational health 6,000 the training program. and safety management system through6,554 Also, MHI is striving to prevent sexual out the company to create safe and 3,093 4,181 4,000 2,491 harassment, such as by establishing a healthy workplaces. 2,669 2,000 contact point for consultation at each 2,283 2,762 2,252 2,062 1,585 workplace and distributing pamphlets Risk management and 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 internally. In addition, the company is training to prevent workOther Managers and supervisors (FY) working to raise awareness by incorrelated accidents and injuries porating related content for compliance promotion trainings. To reduce damage that could result from Promoting communication worker accidents, each office and works between management and is conducting risk assessments and carCreating safe and healthy labor rying out measures based on the results. workplaces centered on a MHI is also focusing on safety training MHI believes that communication between basic policy for employee using videos and simulation equipment for management and employees is crucial for safety and health new employees who are not familiar with carrying out smooth business operations. MHI embraces a basic policy for employee operations. In line with this thinking, the company’s safety and health founded on the following Furthermore, the company is vigorintranet, corporate newsletter and other ously striving to improve equipment and resources are fully utilized to disseminate Industrial accident frequency rate* update outmoded facilities to create a management information and messages comfortable workplace. from top management to all employees as 1.2 1.09 1.12 1.01 1.02 0.99 quickly as possible. In addition, various labor-manage0.9 Maintaining and improving ment consultations provide forums for physical and mental health 0.6 0.40 management to both convey manage0.36 0.28 0.31 0.23 To proactively support employees in ment policies and strategies as well as 0.3 maintaining their physical and mental wellto hear the views of the union to be inte0 being, MHI has established health mangrated into management practices. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (FY) agement departments at each works. MHI Manufacturing industry These departments offer health checkups * Industrial accident frequency rate: number of deaths or and diagnostic screenings, and provide injuries sustained through industrial mishaps per million hours on the job. It is calculated as follows: number of guidance based on the results of tests, deaths or injuries sustained on the job that require one including consultation and treatment by or more days of leave / aggregate number of hours worked × 1,000,000. specialized physicians and support for Topics Established an in-house nursery at the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works to reinforce support for employees with children In April 2010, the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works opened the first MHI in-house nursery, MHI Kira Kids Nursery. Pre-school age children of MHI Group employees at the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works and the Nagasaki Research & Development Center can stay at this facility from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. The nursery operation is a contracted social MHI Kira Kids Nursery welfare entity in Nagasaki City with experience in managing in-house nurseries and providing services equivalent to certified nursery facilities. Its location on the premises of the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works enables employees to come to work with their children, reducing the burden of dropping them off and picking them up. Since employees can pick up a child who has suddenly come down with a fever or become ill, we expect the nursery to be a helpful support service for employees who would like to continue working while raising children. Children playing in a sandbox 57 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Contributions to Society Based on its social contribution policy for communities, MHI is enthusiastically taking part in cultivating local prosperity and nurturing the youth who represent the next generation. Fulfilling our Policy on to be an innovative partner to society” and Expenditures on socially Socially Beneficial “We place importance on relationships beneficial activities Activities with local communities based on mutual trust.” MHI endorses the goals of the “One We then held a series of discussions Percent Club,” a program initiated by Taking action in line with our and studies into what society expects. As Nippon Keidanren (Japan Business social contribution policy we sought the opinions of those outside Federation) in which participating memMHI used the opportunity of publishing the the company, we drew up our policy for bers pledge to use at least 1% of their Social and Environmental Report in 2004 social contribution and have since carordinary profits or disposable incomes to to formulate the basic concepts for social ried out a vast array of activities based fund activities for the public benefit, and contribution, stated as, “We are obligated on this policy. we enthusiastically engage in social contribution activities as a member. MHI has been a member since the Club’s founding MHI policy for social contribution in 1990. The company reports its expenditures for such purposes every year; we Our basic policy is to live together with local communities of branch offices, spent an amount equivalent to 2.12% of overseas offices, and Group companies in foreign countries, building strong ordinary profit in fiscal 2008. relationships based on mutual trust. With this in mind, we undertake various activities suitable for local cultures and contribute to the local development Change in expenditures on socially and activation both in Japan and overseas. beneficial activities (Millions of yen) FY2006 FY2007 FY2008 Local Upbringing of the Academic research 223 138 128 contribution next generation Education 630 665 766 Transfer “the heart of Community activities 126 155 131 Live together with Japanese manufacturing” communities and contribute as well as “the arts of Sports 121 118 112 to their development science and technology” Other 770 276 463 to the next generation Total 1,870 1,352 1,600 Percentage of ordinary profit 3.25% 1.98% 2.12% MHI has developed and produced more than 700 kinds of products in its long history, cultivating “the heart of Japanese manufacturing” and “the *F igures include cash donations, payments in kind, activities by employees, free use of company facilities, arts of science and technology.” To pass its knowledge and skills onto etc., converted into monetary equivalents; activities succeeding generations, MHI has a tradition of organizing educational privately performed by employees are not included. *G roup companies under consolidated accounting are activities such as science classes with experiments for children. included starting with fiscal 2008. *F igures for FY2009 are now being prepared. Robust recovery Major support activities in recent years (Millions of yen) assistance to areas hit by Year Disaster Scale of support Type of support natural disasters China Qinghai Earthquake 10 Cash donation The MHI Group has long embraced a 2010 Chile Earthquake 5 Cash donation humanitarian perspective and offered Haiti Earthquake 10 Donation of lighting towers with generators assistance and support across the world Indian Ocean Earthquake and Tsunami 3 Cash donation in the aftermath of large-scale natural 2009 Damage from Typhoon Morakot 2.54 Cash donation disasters. After earthquakes struck Haiti in January 2010, Chile in March, and Qinghai L’Aquila Earthquake in Italy 2.54 Cash donation in China in April, we donated lighting towChina Sichuan Earthquake 210 Cash donation ers with generators and relief funds to help Cyclone in Southern Burma 3 Cash donation victims recover from the severe damage 2008 Extraordinarily heavy snow in Southern China 1.5 Cash donation following the tremblers. Iwate-Miyagi Nairiku Earthquake 2 Cash donation Niigata Chuetsu-oki Earthquake 10 Cash donation 2007 Noto Hanto Earthquake 1 Cash donation 2006 Mid Java Earthquake, Indonesia 10 Donations of gasoline generators and cash Northern Pakistan Earthquake 5 Cash donation 2005 Hurricane in the southern U.S. 30 Donations of light towers and cash Typhoon in China’s Liaoning Province 0.44 Cash donation CSR Report 2010 58 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Commitment to People and Society Contribution to Communities Matching Gift Program Tag Rugby Clinics Civil Emergency Medical Technician Class Money collected by employees was matched by The MHI Sagamihara Dynaboars rugby club at the company and donated to charitable causes. the General Machinery & Special Vehicle HeadThe Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works held In fiscal 2009, continuing from the previous year, quarters participates in activities with children civil emergency medical technician training for eating utensils manufactured with MHI’s shape in the local community, such as coaching tag teachers at elementary schools in the neighbormemory technology for use by those in special rugby at local elementary schools in Sagamihood in July 2009. MHI employees served as care were donated to welfare facilities in Tokyo hara City. instructors and explained CPR (Cardio Pulmoand Osaka. nary Resuscitation) to teachers and how to use AED devices to prepare for emergencies involving students. Ship Naming and Launching Charity Concert Children’s Sketch Event Ceremonies Opened to the Public The Takasago Machinery Works has been holdSince 2008, the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery To convey the outstanding nature of manufacing charity concerts every year since 2003. All Works has held a sketch event for elementary turing and to help people better understand proceeds of the concert are donated to Taschools around Nagasaki at the city’s Mizubenthe shipbuilding industry, MHI makes naming kasago City to promote welfare and cultural omori Park. Approximately 250 children drew and launching ceremonies for ships open to the programs. For 2009, the concert was held in scenery of Nagasaki Port at the second event, public. In 2009, the Kobe Shipyard & Machinery September with proceeds amounting to 1.59 held under blue skies in October 2009. Works held naming million yen. and launching ceremonies that were open to the public for three large container ships, which are easy on the sea and the Earth due to a variety of equipment that protects the environment. Topics Contributing to a local eco-friendly event by donating photovoltaic facilities As a social benefit conducted through its businesses, MHI donated photovoltaic facilities to a boathouse in Chidorigafuchi Park, Chiyoda Ward, Tokyo, in March 2009. We were responding to a request from the Chiyoda Ward Office, which stated their belief that MHI’s solar panels, with exterior color matching the surrounding environment, would be ideal for a power generation facility that uses natural energy while at the same time fitting in with the Illumination of the Cherry Blossom Festival landscape. The Cherry Blossom Festival is well received by visitors every year. Since Chiyoda Ward considers the illumination of the cherry blossoms at their peak as an eco-friendly event, halogen lamps have been replaced by energy-saving LED lighting since last year. For this year’s illumination, held for 12 days from March 26 to April 6, CO2 emissions were reduced by approximately five tons using power generated by MHI’s photovoltaic facility over the oneyear period since LED lighting installation. MHI earned high marks from Chiyoda Ward for contributing to this environmentally friendly event because the level of reduction is equivalent to the CO2 absorbed by 350 cedar trees in a year. Photovoltaic facility installed on a boathouse roof 59 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Development of Future Generations Endowment of Chair at a MHI Cup Elementary School Science Class University in Vietnam Students Football Competition The Paper & Printing Machinery Division and the Since 1997, MHI has jointly endowed a chair with The Power Systems Headquarters has sponTransportation Systems & Advanced TechnolUNESCO at the Hanoi University of Technology sored the MHI Elementary School Students’ ogy Division held science classes for fifth-gradin Vietnam. In 2009, approximately 100 students Football Championship since 2008. Three repers in Mihara City, Hiroshima Prefecture. In the and researchers participated in lectures on nuclear resentative teams that had won regional tournaclass, children conducted experiments on color power, transportation systems, and marine diesel ments in Yokohama, Takasago and Nagasaki and light and took test rides on next-generation engines for ships. gathered again in 2009 for heated competition at transportation systems, among other activities. Ajinomoto Stadium. Supporting Internships Hands-on Manufacturing Softball Tournament MHI’s works across the nation support internThe Machine Tool Division held a Hands-on The Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works holds ships that enable students, representing future Manufacturing Class for elementary school the MHI Pennant Boys Softball Championship, generations, to concretely consider their career students (grades 3–6) and their parents. MHI in which members of the MHI Nagasaki baseball paths and ascertain their abilities through vocaemployees explained the mechanism of power team take charge of preparations and run the tourtional experiences. In fiscal 2009, the company generation by solar cell batteries by making solar nament. For fiscal 2009, 3,000 players from inside accepted a total of 289 students. cars. We received many comments, such as “I and outside Nagasaki Prefecture and a total of 70 learned a lot since it was so easy to understand.” teams competed for the championship. Topics Annual visitors to the Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum exceed 150,000 The annual number of visitors to the Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum, which marked its 15th anniversary, exceeded 150,000 annual visitors in March 2010 for the first time. Since the opening of the museum, 1.5 million people have visited. The museum was established by MHI to provide opportunities for youth, who represent future generations, to experience the fascination of science and technology. In addition to six exhibition areas that The refurbished Ocean Zone opened in January explain MHI’s cutting-edge products and technology (Space, Ocean, Transportation, Daily 2010. Life Discovery, Environment/Energy, and Technology Quest), experience-based exhibits allow students to learn manufacturing first-hand through simulations of vehicle design, production and operation. We also run the museum so that adults as well as children can enjoy activities such as craft workshops and movies, making it fun for the whole family. Open hours: 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (admission until 4:30 p.m.) Mitsubishi Minatomirai Closed days: Every Monday (the following day if Monday is a Industrial Museum national holiday); at year-end and New Year, and as specified http://www.mhi.co.jp/ Tel: 045-200-7351 en/museum/ Craft workshops are very popular with children, who enjoy the direct, hands-on experience. CSR Report 2010 60 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Commitment to People and Society Socially Beneficial as instructors and explained the mechanisms of global warming and the latest Activities by Group global warming mitigating technology to 70 fourth-graders. Companies After the classes, teachers offered such comments as, “The use of charts MHI Group companies engage and demonstrations made the lesson very in various social contribution easy to understand. It was a good opporRelief supplies bound for Haiti activities in line with the tunity for students to deepen their interest characteristics of their in environmental issues.” aviation-related businesses, enabling the respective businesses and the company to charter a large cargo plane and to establish a much needed transporlocal communities they serve. tation relief route. MHIA also provided vital lighting towers (powered by MHI-manuMitsubishi Heavy Industries factured generators), as well as other cruBridge & Steel Structures cial supplies and equipment. Engineering Co., Ltd. It is gratifying to know that the relief supplied by MHIA was put to good use to Environmental class ease the suffering of earthquake victims Joint experiments for the and to improve their daily lives. regeneration of coral Dia Food Service Co., Ltd. Coral bleaching has emerged as an issue Mitsubishi Caterpillar Forklift due to rising sea water temperatures Offering dishes with bitter melon Europe B.V. caused by global warming. Therefore, harvested from green curtains Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Bridge & Job training opportunities for Steel Structures Engineering Co., Ltd. has Once a week in August 2009, Dia Food students been conducting research and pilot projService Co., Ltd. offered set meals using ects for the regeneration of coral reefs in bitter melons harvested at Takatsu Ward Mitsubishi Caterpillar Forklift Europe B.V. Okinawa Prefecture in collaboration with Office, Kawasaki City at Restaurant Takatsu, in the Netherlands established a company the University of Tokyo and other instituwhich the company operates under conschool that has provided students with job tions and companies since 2004. tract with the Takatsu Ward office. training opportunities since 1997. In the past, the method of transplantThe office has installed green curtains The school offers a one-year training coral grown in a water tank was comusing bitter melons as a measure for preing curriculum to students free of charge mon. In our joint experiments, however, venting global warming. Dia Food Service and two dedicated instructors who teach bases with micro-currents are immersed helped promote the green activities of the welding, painting, assembling and other into tanks. These micro-currents have a office by using the bitter melons grown skills. There are always about ten stusignificant propagational effect on coral. here as an ingredient for set meals. In dents enrolled in the program, and they The company hopes to support the rapid addition, a ¥5 per set meal was donated gain valuable work experience while conregeneration of coral reefs by promoting to “Eco City Takatsu,” Takatsu Ward’s tinuing their academic studies. the implantation and growth of coral. environmental action project. Research in 2009 proved that the bases we developed have a five to seven The company school times higher implantation effect compared to existing bases. Looking ahead, we intend to provide this technology to local fishery cooperatives who are working hard to recover coral reefs. The company school Bitter melon green curtains Mitsubishi Heavy Industries CBC Industrias Pesadas S.A. America, Inc. Plant tours for students Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Since 2006, CBC Industrias Pesadas S.A. Propagational bases for coral reefs America, Inc.’s support activities in Brazil has offered plant tours for stufollowing the Haiti Earthquake Mitsubishi Heavy Industries dents from vocational schools, elementary Air-Conditioning & Thermal Mitsubishi Heavy Industries America, schools, high schools and universities. Systems Corporation Inc. (MHIA), along with Mitsubishi Heavy In 2009, the company hosted 20 Industries, Inc. in Japan, conducted relief students from a Japanese school in Sao operations valued at ¥10 million for the Paulo as well as a total of 116 students Environmental classes for victims of the earthquakes that first struck from other schools. elementary school students Haiti on January 12, 2010. In February 2010, as part of efforts to nurCivil relief activities were extremely ture future generations, Mitsubishi Heavy challenging due to the closing of port facilIndustries Air-Conditioning & Thermal ities and to the widespread devastation Systems Corporation conducted enviand turmoil generally. ronmental classes at the elementary MHIA, however, cooperated with varschool alma maters of our employees. ious NPOs, and took advantage of its own In the classes, our employees served vast resources, including its airplane and Students from a Japanese school on a plant tour 61 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Recognition from Society Commendation List Year Month Award Name Organization/Item Awarded by Awarded Awarded 2009 April Certificate of Appreciation for cooperating in the City of Yokohama Machinery Works, Power Systems Headquarters, City of Yokohama Yokohama’s “1.5 Million Tree Planting Actions” Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Certificate of Appreciation for cooperating in the City of April Ryonichi Engineering Co., Ltd. City of Yokohama Yokohama’s “1.5 Million Tree Planting Actions” Certificate of Appreciation for cooperating in the City of April MHI Energy & Service Co., Ltd. City of Yokohama Yokohama’s “1.5 Million Tree Planting Actions” Chairman’s Commendation for Excellent Company for Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works, Mitsubishi May Aichi Prefecture Explosives Safety Association prevention of Explosion Disasters Heavy Industries, Ltd. The Most Outstanding Office, 26th Fukuoka Prefecture Safe Product Support Group, Kyushu Office, Mitsubishi Heavy Fukuoka Prefecture Safe Driving Management Committee, May Driving Management Committee Traffic Accident Prevention Industries Engine Systems Co., Ltd. Fukuoka Prefectural Police Contest Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Mitsubishi Heavy Nagasaki Prefecture Safe Driving Management Conference June Commendation for Good Office of Safe Driving Management Industries, Ltd. Corp., Nagasaki Prefectural Police Development of Advanced Natural Gas Storage, Project July Engineering Special Encouragement Award Team consisting of the Japan Gas Association and 12 other Engineering Advancement Association of Japan companies July Engineering Special Encouragement Award Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. CO2 Capture Project Engineering Advancement Association of Japan 2008 Ship of the Year, Best Ship Award in Large Cruise July Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. The Japan Society of Naval Architects and Ocean Engineers Ship Category Certification of Appreciation for PR and enlightenment “Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency JAXA Space July activities for Selenological and Engineering Explorer Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Exploration Center” “KAGUYA” (SELENE) August Silver Order of Merit, Japanese Red Cross Society Machine Tool Division, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Japanese Red Cross Society Silver Prize, “No Accident, No Violation Challenge Contest,” September MHI Airport Environment Co., Ltd. Osaka Prefectural Police Department Osaka Prefectural Police Department 2009 Global Environmental Technology Award (for the Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Bridge & Steel Structures Japan Sociey of Civil Engineering Global Environment September construction of an electrodeposition base for coral increases) Engineering Co., Ltd. Committee 2009 Governor’s Commendation for Excellent Business with Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Mitsubishi October Yamaguchi Prefecture Global Warming Countermeasures Heavy Industries, Ltd. Newspaper Advertising Prize Runners-up in Advertisers’ Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. environmental October Japan Newspaper Publishers and Editors Association Planning Category advertisement Non-Accident Record Certificate (Type 1) established by Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works, Mitsubishi Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare Safety Standard October Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare Heavy Industries, Ltd. Bureau Certificate of Appreciation for providing parking at Air Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works, Mitsubishi October Komaki Air Base, Japan Air Self-Defense Force Festival, Komaki Air Base Heavy Industries, Ltd. Certificate of Appreciation for providing parking at Air Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works, Mitsubishi Heavy October Komaki Air Base, Japan Air Self-Defense Force Festival, Komaki Air Base Industries, Ltd. November Environmental Special Prize in 3rd Environment Awards Machine Tool Division, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Japan Solid Cutting Tools Association 29th Takasaki City Award as a contributing company for Materials Department, Paper & Printing Machinery Division, November City of Takasaki, Gunma Prefecture promoting industry Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. 1st Place, Other Products Manufacturing Category, Nikkei November Personal Computing Business Website Rankings, by Website, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Nikkei BP Marketing, Inc. industry 1st Place, Machinery Sector, Best-practice corporate November Website, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Nikko Investor Relations Co., Inc. website 2009, of all Listed Companies in Japan 4th Place, Machinery and Transportation Equipment Category, November Website, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Japan Brand Strategy, Inc. Corporate Communication Website Rankings, by industry 5th Place, IR Information Category, Corporate November Investor Relations website, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Japan Brand Strategy, Inc. Communication Website Rankings, by content Good Office for Trash Separation, Yokohama Environmental Kanazawa Plant, Yokohama Machinery Works, Mitsubishi November Resources & Waste Recycling Bureau, City of Yokohama Action Awards (5th consecutive year) Heavy Industries, Ltd. Good Office for Trash Separation, Yokohama Environmental Honmoku Plant, Yokohama Machinery Works, Mitsubishi November Resources & Waste Recycling Bureau, City of Yokohama Action Awards (4th consecutive year) Heavy Industries, Ltd. Certificate of Appreciation for Cooperation in “Children’s Yokohama Machinery Works, Power Systems Headquarters, Director, Japan Office, World Food Programme, United November Campaign for Energy Savings” Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Nations Grand Prize, Client Category, 19th Nagasaki Shimbun Environmental advertisement, Nagasaki Shipyard & November Nagasaki Shimbun Advertising Awards Machinery Works, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Web Grandprix Award, For Students under 15 Award, 3rd December “Kids Land” website, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. IBM Japan, Ltd. Japan Web Grandprix Award, by Web Grandprix Web Grandprix Nominee, Contents Planning & Writing for “The Story of Manufacturing” website, Mitsubishi Heavy December B to B Award, 3rd Japan Web Grandprix Award, by Web IBM Japan, Ltd. Industries, Ltd. Grandprix Web Grandprix Nominee, Corporate Information & Corporate Website, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. December Citizenship Award, 3rd Japan Web Grandprix Award, by Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industry Museum website, IBM Japan, Ltd. Web Grandprix Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Certificate of Appreciation for Contribution to Economic December Development by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries-Haier Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. City Government of Qingdao, People’s Republic of China (Qingdao) Air Conditioners Co., Ltd. through its business Grand Prize, 13th Japan Stainless Steel Association Awards December Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. and 13 other companies Japan Stainless Steel Association (D runway of Haneda Airport stainless steel lining jacket) 2010 January Certificate of Appreciation for understanding of and Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works, Mitsubishi Komaki Police Station, Aichi Prefectural Police cooperation with police activities Heavy Industries, Ltd. Certificate of Appreciation for Relief Funds for 2004 Indian January Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare Ocean Earthquake and Tsunami, Japanese Red Cross Society Nikkei Business Daily Awards for Superiority in the 2009 February Nikkei Superior Products and Services Awards (Hybrid Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Nikkei Inc. forklift “GRENDiA EX Hybrid”) Fiscal 2009 Good Plant for Energy Management, Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Mitsubishi February Commendation from Director, Chugoku Bureau of Economy, Chugoku Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry Heavy Industries, Ltd. Trade and Industry Shipbuilding & Ocean Development Headquarters, Yokohama February Outstanding Safety Award The Shipbuilding Association of Japan Plant, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. 2009 Award for Urban Landscape in Nagasaki City (Large Nagasaki City Library and Nishinihon Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Nagasaki City Award Conferring Committee for Urban February Structure Category) in cooperation with other companies Landscape Competition Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Mitsubishi March Shimonoseki Pika Pika Grand Prize City of Shimonoseki, Yamaguchi Prefecture Heavy Industries, Ltd. Japan Industrial Technology Awards (for development of the March Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd., 11 other companies Nikkan Kogyo Shimbun, Ltd. HTV/H-IIB launch vehicle) CSR Report 2010 62 Progress Toward a Sustainable Society MHI’s Activities ( Society Environment) Year Major Events in Japan and Abroad ( Society Environment) Japan World 1967 Institution of Basic Law for Environmental 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Pollution Control. 1970 Completion of Japan’s first PWR power plant. 1970 1971 1972 United Nations Conference on the Human Establishment of Environment Agency. Environment convenes in Stockholm. 1973 Inauguration of Environment Management Department. Adoption of Statement for Human Environmental Quality. 1977 Development of “Basic Guidelines for Safety & Establishment of United Nations Environment Health Management.” Programme (UNEP). 1978 Creation of Environmental Manager Conferences. 1976 OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises issued. 1980 Establishment of Committee on Promotion of 1980 1981 Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Training in the Dowa Issue. Discrimination against Women went into effect. 1985 Enactment of Equal Employment Opportunity Law. International Year of Disabled Persons. 1987 Establishment of Export-related Regulations Monitoring Committee. 1988 Enactment of Ozone Layer Protection Law. 1987 Adoption of Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer. 1989 Launch of In-house Conference on CO2 Measures and In-house Conference on CFC Measures. 1990 Institution of Americans with Disabilities Act. 1990 1991 Establishment of Keidanren Global 1992 United Nations Conference on Environment and Environmental Charter. Development (Earth Summit) convenes in Rio de Establishment of Keidanren Charter of Janeiro; adoption of Rio Declaration on Corporate Behavior. Environment and Development and Agenda 21. Enactment of Child Care Leave Law. 1992 Committee on Promotion of Training in the Dowa Issue renamed Committee for 1992 Ministry of International Trade and Industry 1994 Caux Round Table draws up Principles for Business. Raising Awareness of Human Rights. requests Voluntary Plan on the Environment. Establishment of Committee for the Promotion 1995 1st Conference of the Parties to the United of Employment of the Handicapped. Nations Convention on Climate Change (COP1) 1993 Enactment of Basic Environmental Law. convened in Berlin. 1993 Formulation of voluntary plan entitled, 1996 ISO 14001 is instituted. “Our Approach to Environmental Problems.” 1995 Child Care Leave Law revamped into Child Care 2nd Conference of the Parties to the United and Family Care Leave Law. 1996 Formulation of Environmental Policies and Nations Framework Convention on Climate establishment of Environment Committee. 1996 Revision of Keidanren Charter of Change (COP2) convened in Geneva. Corporate Behavior. 1997 Acquisition of ISO 14001 certification by 1997 3rd Conference of the Parties to the United Yokohama Machinery Works, a first for Japan’s 1997 Formulation of Keidanren Voluntary Action Plan Nations Framework Convention on Climate heavy industry manufacturers. on the Environment. Change (COP3) convened in Kyoto. Launch of R410A-compatible air-conditioners. (R410A: new type of environment-friendly 1998 4th Conference of the Parties to the United 1998 Enactment of Law Concerning the Promotion of refrigerant) Nations Framework Convention on Climate Measures to Cope with Global Warming. Change (COP4) convened in Buenos Aires. 1998 Development of system that thermally Enactment of Law to Promote Specified decomposes PCBs contained in industrial Nonprofit Activities. 1999 5th Conference of the Parties to the United effluents. Nations Framework Convention on Climate 1999 Enactment of Pollutant Release and Change (COP5) convened in Bonn. 1999 Delivery of combined-cycle power plant Transfer Register (PRTR) Law. incorporating the M701G gas turbine, featuring the world’s highest efficiency rating. Enactment of The Basic Law for Establishing 2000 2000 a Recycling-based Society. 2000 6th Conference of the Parties to the United 2000 ISO 14001 certification acquired by all Nations Framework Convention on Climate production bases (13 works). Revision of Law for the Promotion of Recycled Change (COP6) convened in The Hague. Resources Utilization. United Nations Global Compact is instituted. Enactment of Construction Material Recycling Issuance of GRI Sustainability Reporting Law, Food Recycling Law and Law on Guidelines Version 1. Promoting Green Purchasing. 2001 7th Conference of the Parties to the United 2001 Establishment of Ministry of the Environment. Nations Framework Convention on Climate 2001 Acquisition of ISO 14001 certification by Change (COP7) convened in Marrakech. Engineering Department. Enactment of Law Concerning Special ISO Council launches feasibility study on Establishment of Compliance Committee. Measures against PCB Waste. establishing international CSR standards. Enactment of Fluorocarbons Recovery and Destruction Law. 2002 World Summit for Sustainable Development convened in Johannesburg. 2002 Establishment of mediumto long-term 2002 Ratification of Kyoto Protocol. 8th Conference of the Parties to the United environmental activity goals. Nations Framework Convention on Climate Enactment of Soil Contamination Countermeasures Law. Change (COP8) convened in New Delhi. Nippon Keidanren revamps Keidanren Charter of GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Corporate Behavior into Corporate Behavior Charter. Version 2 released. First meeting of CSR Standardization Committee held by Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. 2003 First study meeting held to discuss treaty on safety of radioactive waste management. 9th Conference of the Parties to the United 2003 Trial project for trading of greenhouse gas emissions Nations Framework Convention on Climate 2003 Establishment of Construction Business Act implemented by Ministry of the Environment. Change (COP9) convened in Milan. Compliance Committee. Emissions standards for diesel vehicles tightened. 2004 Joined United Nations Global Compact initiative. 2004 Tenth item (on corruption prevention) added to Revision of Waste Management and Public United Nations Global Compact. Establishment of Managing Board for Cleansing Law. 10th Conference of the Parties to the United Innovation in the Nuclear Business. Japan Committee for Economic Development Nations Framework Convention on Climate releases 15th Corporate White Paper, entitled, Change (COP10) convened in Buenos Aires. 2005 Introduction of Executive Officer system. “Evolution of Market and Social ResponsibilityEstablishment of Internal Audit Department. Minded Business Management.” 2005 Kyoto Protocol goes into force. Establishment of CSR Center. 11th Conference of the Parties to the United 2005 Enactment of Act on the Protection of Personal Nations Framework Convention on Climate Establishment of Order Compliance Committee. Information. Change (COP11) and the 1st Meeting of the 2006 Acquisition of ISO 14001 certification by Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (COP/MOP1) 2006 Enactment of New Company Law. convened in Montreal. Head Office (including branch offices). New National Energy Strategy formulated. Establishment of CSR Committee. 2006 GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Establishment of CSR Department. Version 3 released. 2007 21st Century Environmental Nation Strategy 12th Conference of the Parties to the United 2007 Establishment of CSR Action Guidelines. formulated. Nations Framework Convention on Climate Enactment of the revised Consumer Products Change (COP12) convened in Nairobi. 2008 Development of CSR Action Plan. Safety Law. EU announced target of reducing CO2 emissions by 20% compared to 1990 levels by 2020. 2008 Application of internal control report system based on the Financial Instruments and 2007 Fourth Assessment Report released by the Exchange Act (J-SOX) started. United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Holding of the G8 Hokkaido Toyako Summit. Revision of Act Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. 2009 The Green New Deal advocated by the U.S. is embraced by countries across the globe. 2009 Revision of Soil Contamination Countermeasures Law. 2010 15th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 15) convened in Copenhagen. 63 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Third-Party Opinions Masayasu Kitagawa Kumi Fujisawa Professor, The Okuma School of Public Vice President, Think Tank SophiaBank Management, Waseda University I was impressed by the fact that in the Dialogue the President offered This was my first opportunity to read the CSR Report. President an honest account of past mistakes and an analysis of the current Omiya explained in the opening Dialogue that “MHI declares in its status and future goals of the company based on those mistakes. creed that we are obligated to be an innovative partner to society.” The sincerity of this stance has given deeper meaning and weight I agree; this indeed constitutes the essence of a company’s social to MHI’s corporate policy emphasizing the ten principles in the responsibility. At the same time I felt strongly that the very existence four areas of anti-corruption, human rights, labor and environment of a company such as MHI was a source of pride for the Japanese. laid out by the United Nations Global Compact, which MHI has There was a time when the term “CSR”—an imported foreign endorsed. I could sense the company’s spirited commitment to concept—led to praise for activities akin to a penance, in which creating a system of compliance not limited to Japan but worldwide companies directed profits into social contributions that were not based on international standards, in contrast to settling for a passive necessarily connected to their core business. The social purpose of stance of seeking compliance simply because the rules exist. MHI’s core business, however, is squarely presented in the feature Almost without exception, centuries-old companies possess article of this Report, along with the corporate creed. their own creeds that have become deeply rooted internally Having reviewed the corporate creed, I took it upon myself to reand externally. They also possess lofty aspirations that remain read “Zuiji Zuidai (Topics of the Time),” a collection of observations by unchanged over the short-term, deep principles, mechanisms that Koyata Iwasaki, the fourth president of the Mitsubishi conglomerate. dispassionately and objectively reflect current circumstances and a Whenever Mr. Koyata spoke of Mitsubishi’s business, he used the system that keeps them functioning. There is much to learn from words, “society” and “state.” I was impressed that this was indeed the process through which a company becomes a brand in its own a company that has squarely carried the spirit of contributing to right by achieving sales and profit as well as by pursuing social society through its core business. contribution activities that transcend the immediate concerns of Then I came upon this question—why then is it necessary stakeholders, such as supporting local community development and for MHI to publish a report under the title of a CSR Report? The cultivating culture and the arts. company could just as well publish an Annual Report that doubles We are living in times of great upheaval, in which our value as a business report aimed at all stakeholders. If the company’s systems are undergoing fundamental changes, as represented core business is essentially the same as its social contribution, there by the IT Revolution, Energy Revolution, Financial Revolution and should be no difference between the two. degradation of the Earth. A sustainable corporation must maintain Mr. Koyata Iwasaki also repeatedly commented on enhancing an organization and system of execution for its aspirations and the personality and integrity of the people who worked at Mitsubishi. principles to become a brand in its own right. How well does this This Report introduced us to the various initiatives and opinions of CSR Report communicate and encourage understanding of the employees with regard to their contribution to society beyond the principles of top management based on the corporate creed, not core business. However, if the Report had presented us with the only among employees and stakeholders but in Japan and abroad aspirations and sense of social purpose felt by employees in the as well? While the report has steadily evolved over the years, I feel work they do for the company, it would have provided us with a it is still somewhat inflexible. Further improving the CSR Report will greater feeling for the strong connection between the company’s require the company to listen carefully to the broad opinions of core business and its contributions to society. society and collaborate with stakeholders. I hope that will lead to I look forward with great expectation for a Report that provides the next level of improvement in the CSR Report as an opportunity us with a look into the future of working people, precisely because for collaboration. If the Report can go beyond the values of ethics, MHI is a company that is at work building the foundations of future commitment, technological capability, responsiveness, and so forth society, not just in Japan, but around the world. to the extent of emanating a subtle sense of security and reliability, it will enter a completely new dimension and add even more value to MHI as a long-standing company. Acting on Valuable Opinions As a manufacturing company, MHI contributes to the future on MHI’s aspirations to contribute to society through our of people and the Earth through the provision of equipment core business and our concrete efforts in that direction. related to energy and environmental protection as well as Especially in these times of great changes, we hope to meet numerous products and technologies that support social the expectations held of us by focusing once again on the infrastructures. Each year in our CSR Report we disclose the spirit of our corporate creed and maintaining that aspiration company’s newest initiatives as our way of communicating within the hearts of every employee in pursuing our business. our pride in and responsibility toward manufacturing. This To this end, we will consider creating opportunities for Katsuhiko year, in response to the opinions we received last year, collaboration between stakeholders inside and outside the Yasuda we incorporated several new features to make the Report company based on Mr. Kitagawa’s advice and for presenting easier to read and understand. For example, we included employee aspirations toward our business, following Ms. Director, Executive Vice President in a message from the President in dialogue format, provided Fujisawa’s suggestion. charge of CSR more opportunities for presenting the voice of external Going forward, we will continue to accord CSR the stakeholders, introduced comments by employees—who central position within our management structure in order to take the lead in CSR—and added new items for disclosure. achieve growth as a global company that is trusted by its This year, we received positive responses from Mr. stakeholders everywhere. Kitagawa and Ms. Fujisawa to the President’s comments CSR Report 2010 64 Locations (as of July 1, 2010) Head Office 16-5, Konan 2-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan Postal Code: 108-8215 Phone: 81-3-6716-3111 (main number) Fax: 81-3-6716-5800 Yokohama Mitsubishi Juko Yokohama Bldg., 3-3-1, Minatomirai, Nishi-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan Postal Code: 220-8401 Headquarters and Divisions General Machinery & Special Vehicle Headquarters 3000, Tana, Chuo-ku, Sagamihara, Kanagawa, Japan Postal Code: 252-5293 Phone: 81-42-761-1101 (General Affairs Dept.) Fax: 81-42-763-0800 Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems Headquarters 3-1, Asahi, Nishi-biwajima-cho, Kiyosu, Aichi, Japan Postal Code: 452-8561 Phone: 81-52-503-9200 (General Affairs Dept.) Fax: 81-52-503-3533 Machine Tool Division 130, Roku-jizo, Ritto, Shiga, Japan Postal Code: 520-3080 Phone: 81-77-553-3300 (General Affairs Dept.) Fax: 81-77-552-3745 Environmental & Chemical Plant Division Mitsubishi Juko Yokohama Bldg., 3-3-1, Minatomirai, Nishi-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan Postal Code: 220-8401 Phone: 81-45-200-9066 (General Affairs & Labor Group) Fax: 81-45-200-9932 Transportation Systems & Advanced Technology Division 1-1-1, Itosaki-Minami, Mihara, Hiroshima, Japan Postal Code: 729-0393 Phone: 81-848-67-2072 (General Affairs & Labor Section) Fax: 81-848-67-2816 Address all inquiries about this report to: Industrial Machinery Business, Technology & Solutions Division 4-6-22, Kan-on Shinmachi, Nishi-ku, Hiroshima, Japan Postal Code: 733-8553 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Phone: 81-82-291-2112 (General Affairs Dept.) Corporate Social Responsibility Department Fax: 81-82-294-0260 16-5, Konan 2-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan Works Postal Code: 108-8215 Phone: 81-3-6716-3884 Fax: 81-3-6716-5815 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works 1-1, Akunoura-machi, Nagasaki, Japan URL: http://www.mhi.co.jp/en/ Postal Code: 850-8610 Phone: 81-95-828-4121 (General Affairs Dept.) Fax: 81-95-828-4034 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works 1-1-1, Wadasaki-cho, Hyogo-ku, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan Postal Code: 652-8585 Phone: 81-78-672-2220 (General Affairs Dept.) Fax: 81-78-672-2245 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works 6-16-1, Hikoshima Enoura-cho, Shimonoseki, Yamaguchi, Japan Postal Code: 750-8505 Phone: 81-83-266-5978 (General Affairs Dept.) Fax: 81-83-266-8274 Yokohama Machinery Works 1-8-1, Sachiura, Kanazawa-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan Postal Code: 236-8515 Phone: 81-45-775-1201 (General Affairs Dept.) Fax: 81-45-775-1208 Takasago Machinery Works 2-1-1, Arai-cho Shinhama, Takasago, Hyogo, Japan Postal Code: 676-8686 Phone: 81-79-445-6125 (General Affairs Dept.) Fax: 81-79-445-6900 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works 10, Oye-cho, Minato-ku, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan Postal Code: 455-8515 Phone: 81-52-611-2121 (General Affairs Dept.) Fax: 81-52-611-9360 Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works 1200, O-aza Higashi-tanaka, Komaki, Aichi, Japan Postal Code: 485-8561 Phone: 81-568-79-2113 (General Affairs Dept.) Fax: 81-568-78-2552 Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum Mitsubishi Juko Yokohama Bldg., 3-3-1, Minatomirai, Nishi-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan Postal Code: 220-8401 Phone: 81-45-200-7351 Fax: 81-45-200-9902 URL http://www.mhi.co.jp/en/museum/
