Union of forces that generates results Annual and sustainability report 2010 Shareholder’s equity Net income R$ million 13,637 R$ million 804 CAGR = 37.7% 12,996 CAGR: 33.4% 361 321 296 4,111 225 3,226 168 2,105 124 117 970 1,223 673 676 763 54 8 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 EBITDA Shareholder’s payout R$ million R$ million CAGR = 31.7% CAGR = 34.1% 63 2,635 16.8% 41 40 30 29 30 30 30 31 33 14.5% 12.2% 263 8.7% 12.1% 11.6% 10.1% 10.1% 10.2% 5.6% 1,159 1,166 108 100 100 745 803 89 76 595 51 408 385 456 36 35 294 5 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 EBITDA EBITDA Margin (%) Shareholder’s payout Net income (%) Number of employees 113,912 113,614 Production of meat CAGR = 19.4% In thousands of tons CAGR = 19.3% 3,992 3,767 59,008 44,752 2,039 35,556 39,048 1,331 1,483 27,951 31,406 936 984 1,116 1,259 22,377 24,163 816 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (1) Pro-forma 2009 results as if the association with Sadia had occurred on 1.1.09 Social investments* Environmental investments R$ million R$ million 2010 1,221 2010 144 2009 1,050 2009 112 2008 519 2008 35 The changes commented in this report are comparisons of the years 2010 and 2009. Sadia’s results have been incorporated as from July 2009. For this reason, the accumulated results for the year encompass Sadia’s second half accounts. For a better understanding of the businesses, the changes are compared in numbers according to Brazilian corporate law (CL) and on a pro-forma basis, as specified. Mission Values Our values represent the basis for the To be a part of people’s development of our businesses. lives by offering tasty foods, • Integrity as the basis of any relationship with high quality, innovation • Focus on Consumer is a fundamental and at affordable prices ingredient for our success anywhere in the world. • Respect for people makes us even stronger • Developing people is fundamental to sustain our growth • High Performance is what we strive for permanently Vision • Quality in our products and Excellence in our processes • Constant Innovative Spirit To be one of the leading • Sustainable Growth food companies in the world, admired for its brands, • Global Vision, Local Agility innovation and results, • Commitment to diversity and the acceptance of differences contributing to a better and sustainable world. Content 2 BRF 2 Profile 4 Message from the Management 6 Strategy and management 6 Strategic management 8 Investments 9 Competitive advantages 10 Corporate governance 16 Ethical behavior 18 Risk management 20 Economic performance 20 Sectoral scenario 23 Operational performance 32 Economic-financial performance 34 Shares as an investment 38 Social performance 38 Management of people 42 Suppliers 43 Clients/Consumers 44 Society 46 Environmental performance 46 Environmental management 52 About this Report 54 Social report/Ibase 56 Practices aligned with the UN Global Compact 57 GRI Reference Index 60 Corporate information 1 BRF Profile A company with global The product portfolio is made up of more 5 thousand clients in 140 countries on the five than 3 thousand items, in the segments of continents. |GRI 2.3; 2,5; 2.7| and competitive scale, poultry, pork, beef, processed meats, milk, dairy BRF’s workforce of 113 thousand makes it based on commitment to products, margarines, pastas, frozen dishes one of the largest employers in Brazil, exercising and vegetables and other processed products. a major economic and social impact on the growth, efficiency, innovation, The company’s principal brands are Perdigão, regions where it operates. In 2010, it sold 5.7 modernity, governance Sadia, Qualy, Doriana, Becel, Rezende, Batavo, million tons of product and reported net sales Elegê, Wilson, Cotochés, Miss Daisy, Deline, of R$ 22.7 billion, 59.6% of this to the domestic and sustainability. Avipal, Texas Burger, Speedy Pollo, Turma da market and 40.4%, to export market. |GRI 2.8| Mônica, Chester, Fribo and Freski. |GRI 2.2| As a publicly held company, in 2010, it The Company operates 60 plants throughcelebrated 30 years of listing of its shares on A company on a global scale out Brazil and three overseas (dairy products the São Paulo Stock Exchange (BM&FBovespaBRF – Brasil Foods is one of the largest food in Argentina and units of Plusfood in the BRFS3). It is listed on the Novo Mercado, a companies in the world by market capitalizaUnited Kingdom and The Netherlands). With segment of the stock market reserved for tion, leader in the global production of proa solid structure in the domestic market, BRF companies adhering to the highest standards teins, with a 9% share of international trade for is the only company with a chilled and frozen of corporate governance. For the sixth the sector and the largest exporter of poultry product distribution network covering the consecutive year, BRF was selected as a commeat. In 2010, the Company was ranked the entire country. A modern and capillary distriponent of the Corporate Sustainability Stock third largest exporter in Brazil according to bution system allows it to make 500 thousand Index (ISE) recognition of the company’s Ministry of Development, Industry and Foreign monthly deliveries to 150 thousand clients commitment to sustainable growth. For ten Trade statistics, BRF is also one of the leading and serve 98% of the Brazilian population. The years now, the Company’s securities have milk collectors and processors in Brazil. |GRI 2.1| Company operates 24 overseas commercial been traded as Level III ADRs on the New York offices and has a relationship with more than Stock Exchange (NYSE-BRFS). |GRI 2.6| 2 Commitment with growth The current corporate denomination of Perdigão, BRF has as its wholly owned subsidiary Sadia S.A., a company with which it signed an association agreement, currently subject to the scrutiny of the Brazilian anti-trust authorities – the Administrative Council for Economic Defense (CADE). The Transaction Reversibility Preservation Agreement (APRO), signed with the anti-trust organ in 2009, authorized the two companies to integrate the financial area in addition to the areas of risk policies, exports and in natura meat sales to the domestic market as well as the acquisition of some raw materials and services. The project involving the plan for integration and identification of synergies has been successfully concluded and will be implemented once CADE announces its decision. Sadia’s results were consolidated in July 2009, the company becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of BRF. |GRI 2.9| The Company now emerging underscores the position of Brazil as an agribusiness power house with the creation of a company on a global and competitive scale based on commitment to growth, efficiency, innovation, modernity, governance and sustainability. 3 Annual and sustainability report 2010 Message from the Management |GRI 1.1| The performance of BRF Brasil Foods was while we await authorization to conclude the provide support to our clients in their day to marked by consistent advances during 2010 merger, we continued to invest, allocating day activities and maintain an open relationand characterized by efficiency, scale gains R$ 1.1 billion to the expansion and modernizaship channel. In this context, we have also and profitability in both domestic and overseas tion of productive capacity and to efficiency established the long-term internationalization markets. As a consequence, we have been programs in all areas. Such a decision is indicaproject focused on higher added value prodable to report an unprecedented result for a tive of the Company’s soundness, commitucts and distribution in the principal regions Brazilian food company: its ranking as the third ment to our stakeholders and to the execution where we operate. largest exporter in the country with overseas of our growth plans for both domestic and The expansion of the operations strengthsales of R$ 9.2 billion. This position shows that international markets. Our net debt to EBITDA ens an important vocation and strategy of the we are making good on the commitments we ratio fell from 3.6 to 1.4 times given better Company the creation of jobs and income assumed at the time the association between operating cash generation and substantial in small and medium-size municipalities Perdigão and Sadia was announced in 2009 for optimization of investments. A successful throughout Brazil. In this context, the principal creating a company able to compete globally bond issue conducted during the year was inputs and raw materials we use – grains, hogs, and recognized for the value of its brands and instrumental in raising R$ 750 million, at the poultry, beef cattle and milk – are all acquired the quality of its products. same time extending the debt maturity profile from local producers. We ended the year with Our sales volume grew 7% to 5.7 million from an average of two to three years. more than 113 thousand employees, ranking tons. We posted net sales of R$ 22.7 billion, An important part of our success is conus among the five largest employers in Brazil. 8.3% up on 2009. Cash generation according tingent on getting closer to our clients and We are also conscious that the impact of our to the EBITDA concept reached R$ 2.6 billion consumers and improving logistics systems, projects percolates down through the entire and net income, R$ 804 million, a year on year distribution, development and product innocommunity by encouraging the constitution improvement on a pro-forma basis of 126% vation. We monitor the dynamic of the marof new companies, services, projects for and 125%, respectively. EBITDA margin was kets and adjust our portfolio of products and infrastructure, healthcare and education. 11.6%, restoring the Company’s historic levels services to the specific needs of each segment Going forward, we face the challenge of of profitability and this in spite of currency of consumption or region of the country and building a global culture, counting on a team appreciation and spiraling commodity prices the world. To grow and continue to be market of talented and multifunctional people, alert in the second half of 2010. leaders, we shall invest in customized soluto the cultural plurality of our customers and Despite the year being a period of transition tions which add greater value and services, equipped to find solutions that meet their 4 BRF Brasil Foods We are at a unique and special moment, one in which efforts are focused on the consolidation of a company with a vocation and culture for performing the role of global leader in the food business. particular needs. We are conscious that this the Ibovespa stock index rose 1%, we recorded million in replacement of breeder stock. situation requires constant efforts in training, a growth of 21% in market capitalization. Over We shall need the approval of the Adminisupgrading of skills and attracting professionals the past ten years, we have provided an annual trative Council for Economic Defense CADE if to help us expand our business. average return of 31% to our shareholders, a we are to execute these plans and fully achieve We also want to be recognized for our differential which makes the Company one of the growth objectives to which we committed initiatives in protecting and preserving the the most attractive investment options. at the time of the association of the two comenvironment. Our Sustainable Hog Farming In 2010, we took some important steps panies. The Company has been doing its part System which supports and finances the towards the formation of one of the largest in supplying all the analyses and information construction of biodigestors on the properties companies in Brazil. We have been tireless in required of us by the anti-trust authorities and of integrated outgrowers, received United the task of identifying best practices and in the we are hopeful that the organ will announce Nations certification allowing the Company to definition of a new command structure for the its decision on the merger shortly. trade carbon credits and has been recognized Company, drawing equally on manpower from We are conducting one of the largest mergas a successful example of sustainability in Perdigão and Sadia as well as hiring from the ers in the food industry anywhere in the world. rural production. On the same theme of susmarket. The knowledge which has been accuAlthough working under some operating tainability, we also have a particular concern mulated in this process has been invaluable in constraints, we can be proud of the progress with water. Vital to the food industry, it will allowing us to prepare a long-term plan which and the results that have been achieved in become an important competitive element will drive BRF’s growth through 2015, with a 2010. We are convinced that this merger is and key advantage going forward. Given the focus on adding value to the business. pro-competition. The results attained up to seriousness of this theme, we dedicate conOur assumptions for 2011 contemplate the present time show the relevance of the stant vigilance in the preservation, economy growth in our leading markets and the incorCompany to all our stakeholders – shareholders, and reuse of this natural resource. poration of the synergies expected to follow clients, consumers, employees, partners, comThe combination of these initiatives makes from the integration of the businesses with munities, government and society. BRF one of the companies which inspires the Sadia in alignment to the 2011-2015 strategic We are at a unique and special moment, greatest confidence among investors and plan. Based on the macroeconomic outlook, one in which efforts are focused on the conshareholders this translating into recognition we are forecasting growth of between 10% to solidation of a company with a vocation and by the capital markets of the excellence of our 12% in net revenues and investments between culture for performing the role of global leader corporate governance practices. In a year when R$ 1.2 and R$ 1.4 billion in Capex and R$ 400 in the food business. Luiz Fernando Furlan Nildemar Secches Co-Chairman of the Board of Directors Co-Chairman of the Board of Directors José Antonio do Prado Fay Chief Executive Officer 5 Strategy and management Strategic management |GRI 1.2| BRF Brasil Foods aims to for enhancing brand penetration; an increase plans in Brazil as well as overseas with concluin the channels for direct distribution to the sion expected before the end of 2011. move up the ranking of the client; initiatives for attracting and retaining largest global food companies professional manpower committed to the Future vision Company’s long-term projects; and reinforcing BRF wants to be the consumers’ first based on the criteria of sales, the concept of sustainability in all areas of the choice in regions where it has a strong presmargins and markets. business. Strategic management has among ence whether in Brazil or overseas, offering its objectives, the adoption and strengthenproducts suited to local habits and customs ing of sustainable practices along the entire and with the support of a global distribution The alignment of all areas of the Company production chain and in the relationship with platform. The Company invests in the formawith this long-term objective is a priority in its principal stakeholders. |GRI 1.2| tion of an international culture, alert to the the strategic plan for the new corporate conBRF adopts a long-term view permanently cultural diversity of its clients and consumers figuration once CADE authorization has been focused on the efficiency of the entire proto meet their needs and in line with their received for the merger between Perdigão duction chain. This strategy contributes to consumption habits. and Sadia. The Company plans to double its offsetting the impacts of factors affecting Estimates for the domestic market are that sales by 2015 and is preparing to begin a fresh the trading environment at any given time 36 million will migrate to the ABC classes cycle of investments in order to sustain new (currency exchange rates for example) thus over the next five years, representing major projects which will support this expansion. helping to sustain the targets for market share sales potential. In addition to an increase The long-term internationalization project without sacrificing margins. ‘To do more with in the number of consumers with greater for the overseas market has been structured to less’ is the driving behind BRF’s entire busipurchasing power, the change in habits tends focus on higher value-added products and on ness, this having a positive spinoff in terms to favor the acquisition of ready-to-eat dishes distribution to the Company’s prime markets. of return and competitiveness. In the context combining practicality, quality, healthiness BRF’s principal strategic initiatives center of integrating processes, in 2010, BRF began and price competitiveness. In just one year, around: investments in innovation and in the development of a robust technological 2.8 million homes have joined the consumer products with health related attributes; actions platform capable of sustaining its growth category for ready-to-eat dishes while singles 6 ‘To do more with less’ is the driving behind BRF’s entire business. and couples with no children already account Total commitment to sustainability – Promote sustainable consumption – for 27% of total consumption in Brazil. To build sustainability criteria into the organizaTo make significant investment to ensure that tion’s investment decisions and new projects/ the Company’s products increasingly match Sustainability products; to link senior management’s variable health criteria (reducing salt, sugar, trans and Sustainability at BRF is a strategic element of compensation/bonus to meeting sustainabilsaturated fats); to view social inclusion in the the Company. It means more than preserving ity targets; to ensure management conformity consumer market as a business opportunity the environment or creating jobs. Rather it is to with the principal sustainability standards and for the Company. operate in a unique manner in the market place, certifications; to undertake continual auditing Focus on human capital – To train and managing the daily activities and the attitudes of the Company’s operations and those of enhance the importance of local labor; to imof the organization on the basis of a series of its suppliers; to promote the maintenance/ prove management practices for increasing guidelines, practices and actions designed entry of the Company as a component of the the levels of employee satisfaction; to include to achieve positive results simultaneously on principal sustainability indices. education for sustainability in the strategy economic, environmental and social fronts. Increase the focus of sustainability in for organizational development; to provide BRF believes that to contribute to the the value chain – To consolidate the Comguidance to the employees to act as agents development of society is compatible with pany’s position as a catalyst for sustainability for sustainability. its own corporate progress. If it is successful in Brazilian agriculture; to identify and reduce Adaptation to climate change – To in disseminating this sustainability-related the principal social and environmental risks in control and reduce environmental impacts culture, then this will bring gains in efficiency the value chain (from farm gate to the dining (consumption and emissions) of the Comfor the business with opportunities for asroom table); to develop new opportunities pany’s operations, transforming BRF into sociating these improvements in corporate along the value chain. an organization which makes a positive management as a competitive differential of Engagement with stakeholders – To contribution to combating climate change; to the BRF brand. As a result of this vision, the involve stakeholders in making decisions; to participate in sector movements and public Company has selected six key pillars to perimprove accountability in matters involving commitments for offsetting climate change. meate its business strategy, contributing to sustainability, prioritizing transparency and the target of building a global food company. key stakeholders. 7 Annual and sustainability report 2010 Investments BRF invested R$ 1.1 billion demand using the potential in existing plants Information Technology – During the or in those about to go into operation. The year, an integrated systems platform was set in 2010 in the expansion larger part of the investment made in 2010 up to support the merger between Perdigão of production capacity, was allocated to programs for improvements, and Sadia for capturing identified synergies, productivity and new projects. these contingent on a unified system once operating improvements, In early March 2011, a fire affected part the merger is finalized. The project, which will productivity and the new of the installations of the Nova Mutum (MT) take approximately 18 months to conclude, unit. This event was of minor proportions, involves about 200 people in 4 stages: 1) industrial units in Lucas do the unit’s production being temporarily upgrading of the SAP system to increase Rio Verde (MT), Vitória de absorbed by other BRF plants in order not to processing capacity; 2) construction of the compromise supplies to clients and consuminitial platform; 3) development of the Human Santo Antão (PE) and Bom ers. The Company has fire insurance. The Nova Resources SAP system; and 4) the roll-out of Conselho (PE). Mutum unit slaughters 230 thousand head of SAP APO – Advance Planning Optimization. chicken/day and its output (whole chicken All stages are integrated and critical to the and chicken cuts) supplies both domestic creation of a complete platform to support Of this total, 348.9 million was appropriated and export markets. the Company’s expected international expanfor the acquisition of poultry and hog breeder Coopercampos – On April 29 2010, the sion as well as to ensure lower operating and stock. In the past five years, investments Company signed a services agreement with maintenance costs. amounted to R$ 6,058 million, an annual Cooperativa Coopercampos, state of Santa Internationalization Project – To average of R$ 1,211 million in Capex. Catarina, which includes the use of future sustain its domestic and international The reduction in investments when industrial capacity of the plant currently expansion plans, the Company is planning a compared to previous years is due to the straunder construction in the municipality of further investment cycle in 2012 for meeting tegic option of optimizing installed capacity Campos Novos for hog slaughtering. The market demands as from 2013. BRF is to asthrough standardization and improvements, unit is to be equipped for selling its producsess the best opportunities for executing this resulting in more efficient production and tion to the leading world markets. The unit’s expansion, either through the construction of gradual maturation of investments in new slaughtering capacity will be seven thousand greenfield units or the acquisition of overseas industrial units and in the expansion of prohead/day, enabling it to meet the needs of a companies. In addition, the company is cessing capacity. demanding export market. The cooperative maintaining its plans for modernization and Both Perdigão as well as Sadia are emergestimates total investments in the project at improved productivity at all the production ing from an intense round of investments R$ 145 million. Slaughtering operations are units. Funding for these investments will which have enabled BRF to meet market expected to begin in the first half of 2011. come principally from BRF’s own cash flow. Investments* Investments 2010 R$ million R$ 702.9 million CAGR = 17.2% 4,716 Breeder stocks totalled R$ 348.9 million 32.2% Optimization 2,404 24.9% New projects 1,052 857 637 42.9% 280 Productivity 131 101 69 110 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009(1) 2010 * Considering the incorporation of shares of Sadia (2009) and Eleva (2008) (1) Pro-forma 8 BRF Brasil Foods Competitive advantages BRF has advantages which are difficult to the executive level, courses and training are thousand clients. The Company is the only one replicate either in the domestic or internaheld to continually provide updating in manin the country with a nationwide distribution tional market. In centralizing its production agement tools and involving participation in network for chilled and frozen products. platform in Brazil, the Company is able to forums with the presence of world renowned The Company works on the basis of consource an abundant supply of raw materials consultants. BRF also maintains a leadership tingency plans in all areas to ensure absolute for the food industry, the most important development program which fosters the safety in the functioning of the system. The of these being the product of agriculture or exchange of experiences among the leaders product profile demands a continuous operacattle ranching. However, there are other facof various Company units. (More information tion with rigid timeframes, standardized temtors at play which are company-specific and on Management of people on page 38.) peratures and handling methods. All stages in allow BRF to stand out from its competitors. the process are carefully planned and moniInnovation and technology tored by a specialized team and supported by Brands The Company is continually investing in IT systems which are permanently updated innovation and improvement in manageusing the best available solutions anywhere BRF’s brands are one of the ment processes and information technology in the world. pillars to corporate growth to sustain the corporate growth plan. On the Simulations are made to determine what product front, the focus is to develop new is the most costand safety-effective way strategy thanks to consumer items and improve the quality of specialty to pack a cargo or container, the number of recognition and reputation products and industrial processes with a people needed for each one of the stages of view to reducing the cost of production, use the work, and the means of transportation for reliability in both domestic of materials and natural resources. BRF is the chosen for a given product. In 2009, BRF and international markets. first company to invest in animal wellbeing in launched an optimization program for the Brazil in compliance with the most rigorous transportation chain, increasing the Standard international standards. Load Unit (pallet) from 1.7 meter to 2.1 The portfolio is made up of brands which The development of a more robust platmeters with a resulting reduction in costs together cover the full spectrum of consumer form with the capacity to sustain the joint and better use of truck capacity. The aim is profiles – children, adolescents and adults Perdigão and Sadia operation will permit BRF to operate with all that is best and achieve – and product categories, ranging from the to benefit from the greater agility accruing excellence in the way services are rendered popular to the premium and in line with the from the synergies and best practices already with a corresponding improvement in quality evolution in the consumer market. identified, the capture however of which is and reduction in costs besides contributing The companies leading brands are Percontingent on a unified system. In 2011, the to lower fuel consumption and green house digão and Sadia, rated as the most valuable project for unification of IT operations will gas emissions. in the Brazilian food sector according to a be concluded. The area will be restructured In 2010, BRF identified best practices in logisBrandAnalytics/Millward Brown study in to ensure the demands of the company are tics at Perdigão and Sadia and begun to capture partnership with IstoÉ Dinheiro magazine. met more efficiently, with particular focus on synergies between the two for the areas where The survey was based on financial data and the support and development of business. CADE authorizes joint operations – namely, the information raised from the capital markets The project includes the international stanacquisition of raw materials and services in adin addition to a market survey by BrandZ dardization of all the platforms for increasing dition to the international sales operation. which annually publishes the world’s most efficiency in both costs and maintenance. valuable brands. Announced in 2010, the Management ranking reveals that the value of Perdigão and Logistics BRF operates an integrated management Sadia brands together increased from R$ 1.87 BRF has one of the most complex and system anchored in three international billion in 2008 to R$ 3.6 billion 2009. capillarized logistics structures in the country. standards: ISO 14001 (environment), OHSAS The Company operates a fleet of 9 thousand 18000 (health and safety) and ISO 9000 Human capital trucks – the largest in Brazil – and employs 15 (quality). The system has been extended to BRF’s objective is to build an organizational thousand to meet supply chain requirements all operating units in order to standardize culture characterized by the commitment of – involving more than three thousand items. processes, improve performance and conemployees to the long-term plan. During the The system is responsible for the delivery of tribute to the reduction in risks. Nine of the course of 2010, progress was made in this animal feed to the producers’ poultry farms Company’s units carry ISO 14001 certification direction through Training and Development for feeding 6.5 million head of poultry/day and seven, OHSAS 18000. Six of these are activities. A large part of the investment and also 40 thousand hogs/day as well as Integrated Management System certified in this direction was dedicated to the Octransporting animals to the slaughtering units, (SGI – environment, safety and quality). cupational Safety, Health and Environment supplying raw materials to the plants and disprogram (SSMA) which enjoys the committributing the portfolio of products to BRF’s 150 ment at all levels of senior management. At 9 Annual and sustainability report 2010 Corporate governance A widely held company, These commitments cover the issue of economic value recorded in the valuation common shares exclusively, prohibition on report or again, 135% of the issue price of the BRF Brasil Foods shares shareholders and executives obtaining unfair shares of capital increases over the previous are traded on the São advantage due to access to information not 24 months, whichever the highest. |GRI 4.6| yet in the public domain, a trading policy for Since the Company’s securities in the form Paulo Stock Exchange’s securities and disclosure of material facts, and of Level III ADRs-BRFS trade in the United (BM&FBovespa-BRFS3) Novo the use of arbitration as a more agile and speStates capital markets, the financial statecific manner with which to resolve conflicts ments adopt the procedures and internal Mercado, a listing segment of interests. In addition, BRF has adopted a controls required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act’s of the exchange consisting defense mechanism for avoiding sharehold(SOX) Internal Controls System over Financial ing concentration: if a shareholder or group Reporting (SCIRF). of companies committed of shareholders obtains control of more than The Board of Directors and the Board of to the highest standards of 20% of the total stock, it is obliged to make a Executive Officers are responsible for the public offering of shares (POS). In this event, periodic evaluation of the Company. On transparency, full disclosure each acquired share will give its owner the a quarterly basis, the Board examines the and equality of treatment right to an additional remuneration of 35% results, which are published according to on the average value of the quotation for the generally accepted accounting practices to shareholders. 30 days prior to the holding of the offering. (IFRS). The Board of Executive Officers meets The offering price may also be based on the monthly to monitor general performance using economic, social and environmental indicators proposed by Brazilian and international institutions, such as the Social Report of the Brazilian Social and Economic Analyses Institute (Ibase) and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The Company has a Governance, Sustainability and Strategy Committee providing advisory support to the Board of Directors; an Executive Sustainability Committee, consisting of the executive vice presidents and officers; and a Working Group for sustainability, comprising managers with the purpose of evaluating and monitoring performance in addition to risks and opportunities in sustainability. |GRI 4.9| 10 BRF Brasil Foods Agency Rating Outlook Shareholder’s composition Fitch BBBStable Difuse control equal rights Capital stock: R$ 12.6 billion Standard & Poors BB+ Positive Number of common shares: 872,473,246 Moody’s Ba1 Positive Basis: 12.31.10 28.1% Domestic Investors In 2010, for the third consecutive year, BRF Company’s management. They are held with 0.8% was ranked as the Best Company in Corporate quorums in excess of 70% of shareholders. Sabiá Governance in the consumer goods sector Participation is encouraged by a direct ap12.7% and Top 5 in Latin America by IR Global proach to the investors and by the dispatch Previ Rankings Awards. The Company also received of the reference manual in which the reasons 10.0% Transparency in Sustainability in the Ibovespa for the meeting are listed, the importance of Petros Companies, a recognition awarded by Manshareholder participation as well as general 3.0% agement & Excellence (M&E), Razão Contábil guidance on the process. The shareholders’ Valia magazine and the Brazilian Investor Relations meetings approve financial statements, 1.5% Institute (IBRI). The Company was also rated incorporations and other matters, elect the Sistel as the Best Company in Latin America in a Board of Directors and the Fiscal Council, set 7.0% perception study conducted by the United management compensation, among other Tarpon States magazine Institutional Investor, Food issues. |GRI 4.4| 9.3% & Beverages sector (The 2010 Latin America ADRs (NYSE) Investor Relations Perception Study), as well as Novo Mercado 27.6% recognition in the awards for Best CEO, Best BRF listed on BM&FBovespa’s Novo Foreign Investors CFO, Best IR Program and Best IR Team. Mercado on April 12 2006, being bound to 0.1% Governance bodies include the General settle disputesthrough the Arbitration Panel Treasury Shares Shareholders Meeting, Board of Directors, Fisin accordance with the commitment clause in cal Council which performs the functions of its bylaws and in the regulations. an Audit Committee, advisory committees to the Board of Directors and the Board of Executive Officers. |GRI 4.1| Shareholders’ meeting The meetings are the principal channel for shareholders recommendations to the 11 Annual and sustainability report 2010 Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 in the internet, on which all the information 1. Luiz Fernando Furlan Currently made up of 11 necessary for taking a decision is made availCo-chairman members with a two-year able. In 2010, the Board met 16 times. The 2. Nildemar Secches members of the Board of Directors have a term of office, seven fixed compensation contingent on members’ Co-chairman of them independent. participation in the meetings. |GRI 4.5| 3. Francisco Ferreira Alexandre The qualifications to be a member of Vice Chairman the Board of Directors is laid down in the 4. Carlos Alberto Cardoso Moreira In line with the best governance practices, Company’s Bylaws and includes such aspects Member the co-chairmen on the Board do not sit on as: an exemplary reputation and not to hold the Board of Executive Officers. The Bylaws posts on the boards of competitors or those 5. Décio da Silva require that the Board of Directors is made up representing conflicts of interests. The Board Member of 9 to 11 members. |GRI 4.3, 4.2| of Directors is evaluated by a tailor-made 6. João Vinicius Prianti The organ is responsible for defining busiprocess designed and implemented by a Member ness strategy, approving investments and specialized and independent consultancy. appraising the performance of the Company However, there is no tool for evaluating indi7. Luis Carlos Fernandes Afonso and the actions of the executives. Meetings vidual performance of members of the Board Member are held once a month or whenever necesor the committees. The Board of Executive 8. Manoel Cordeiro Silva Filho sary. The directors have access to information Officers is evaluated by an internal process Member on the Company through an exclusive portal validated by management. |GRI 4.7, 4.10| 9. Rami Naum Goldfajn Member 10. Roberto Faldini Member 11. Walter Fontana Filho Member See the short résumé of each member in www.brasilfoods.com/ri 12 BRF Brasil Foods Committees Governance, Sustainability and StratManagement Compensation and BRF adopts a governance egies Committee – This has an advisory role Executive Development – With the in relation to: Company practices of corporate advisory function for monitoring: execution model which prioritizes governance; strategies of the Company; on the Company’s human resources policy; management efficiency strategic guidelines and planning; annual and criteria for compensating the Board of Execumulti-annual investment budgets; opportunitive Officers, including shortand long-term and the professionalism ties for investments and/or divestments into/ incentive plans; targets and criteria for evaluof its managers. out of new businesses; mergers, spinoffs and ating performance of the Board of Executive acquisitions; management system; instituOfficers; monitoring of the Board of Executive tional and socio-environmental responsibility Officers’ succession plan. The committees play a fundamental role in policies and activities; monitoring of the work this structure, integrating the Board of Direcof the Audit Committee and the Sarbanes The Senior Advisory Board tors with the Board of Executive Officers. Oxley-mandated Internal Controls System Members of this board are ex-members The Company maintains three advisory over Financial Reporting Committee pursuant of the Board of Executive Officers. They are committees made up of members of the Board to US Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) professionals that provide specialized advice of Directors and the Board of Executive Offirequirements. to the Company reporting directly to the cers: Governance, Sustainability and Strategies; Finance and Policy and Risks CommitCEO. The compensation of the members of Finance and Policy and Risks; Management tee – Accountable for advising on: corporate the Senior Advisory Board is provided for and Compensation and Executive Development. and financial risk policies; funding policies; the regulated in the internal organizational ruling In addition, the Company has a Disclosure Company’s processes for internal financial and and is equal to 20% of the monthly fixed committee as called for by the Sarbanes Oxley accounting systems; investor remuneration; income received when the executives were regulations, and the Senior Advisory Board. and a suitable capital structure for the Company. active in the Company. Fiscal Council / Audit Committee 1 2 3 The Fiscal Council is made Pursuant with United States legislation, the 1. Attilio Guaspari Fiscal Council also exercises the functions of Chairman and financial specialist up of three independent an Audit Committee. Members of the Fiscal 2. Jorge Kalache Filho members, one of them Council receive a fixed compensation in line Member with their participation in the meetings, this holding the position of amounting to R$ 0.34 million in 2010. |GRI 4.5| 3. Osvaldo Roberto Nieto financial specialist, meeting on Member a monthly basis and whenever necessary, deliberating jointly with the Board of Directors. See the short résumé of each councilor in www.brasilfoods.com/ri 13 Annual and sustainability report 2010 1 3 5 Board of Executive Officers 2 4 BRF’s Board of Executive The Board is responsible for the manageresource maximization and personnel manment of the day to day operations of the Comagement. The monitoring of these indicators Officers is made up of 11 pany and for short-, mediumand long-term is carried out during the entire fiscal year by members, elected by the strategies in line with the guidelines relative to the Financial Controller’s office and Human the management of the business, supported Resources area and then formally validated by Board of Directors, with and guided by the Board of Directors. the Board of Directors following the finalizatwo-year mandates, members In 2010, the Board’s total compensation tion of the annual results. |GRI 4.5| amounted to R$ 18.4 million, including both In March 2010, the shareholders approved being eligible for reelection. fixed and variable portions, linked to targets a long-term stock option plan for executive and performance indicators to be reached officers supported by recently issued shares during the fiscal year. An executive officer’s or those held as treasury stock. The Executive variable compensation is a reflection of perCompensation and Development Committee, formance measured against individual and which supports the Board of Directors in its collective targets in line with the Company’s decisions, analyzes the strategy for fixed and strategic plan and budget. The targets are variable compensation to be adopted, issuing earmarked against general productivity recommendations and policy changes for indicators for BRF and/or the respective area subsequent submission for the appreciation, of operations in addition to indicators for deliberation and approval of the Board. 14 BRF Brasil Foods 7 9 11 6 8 10 1. José Antonio do Prado Fay 6. José Eduardo Cabral Mauro 10. Nilvo Mittanck Chief Executive Officer Vice President of Domestic Market (1) Vice President of Operations and Technology 2. Antonio Augusto de Toni 7. Leopoldo Saboya Vice President of Export Markets Vice President of Finance, 11. Wilson Newton de Mello Neto Administration and Vice President of Corporate Affairs 3. Ely Mizrahi Investor Relations Vice President of Food Services (1) (1) The Vice Presidencies for Food Service and the 8. Luiz Henrique Lissoni Domestic Market will be filled in the event of and 4. Fabio Medeiros Martins da Silva Vice President of Supply Chain contingent upon the terms of the final approval Vice President of Dairy Products of the Concentration Act currently subject to 9. Nelson Vas Hacklauer examination by the Administrative Council for 5. Gilberto Antonio Orsato Vice President of Strategy, Economic Defense – CADE, as well as eventual Vice President of Human Resources Projects and New Businesses approval of the Company’s Board of Directors. See the short résumé for each officer in www.brasilfoods.com/ri 15 Annual and sustainability report 2010 Investor relations other mediums such as one-on-one meetBrasil Foods has an Investor Relations area ings, conference calls and video conferences, responsible for providing a personalized public meetings – with the Association of service to investors and analysts through Capital Markets Analysts and Investment Prothe offer of comprehensive information on fessionals (Apimec) and financial institutions the Company’s businesses and performance. –, road shows and onsite meetings. Through the IR site (www.brasilfoods.com/ In 2010, the number of attendances grew ri) such interested parties have access to an average of 76%. Various conferences were information which is being constantly held in Brazil and overseas including the BRF updated, and through in depth contact via Day in São Paulo and New York. Ethical behavior |GRI 4.8| Trust is the first principle The internal auditing area is responsible for investigating complaints of any nature such and value adopted by BRF as misappropriation, fraud, moral or sexual for operating ethically and harassment. The result is presented and discussed with the Chief Executive Officer and transparently in its activities as with the vice presidents from the areas inthey relate to all stakeholders. volved. Should any infringement of the Code of Ethics and Conduct be identified, the penalty may be the rescission of work or service The Code of Ethics and Conduct undercontracts. The penalties are decided by a mulscores this behavior by establishing guidetidisciplinary team with representatives from lines and orientating decisions and attitudes Human Resources, Legal and Auditing areas of the employees in their relations with together with the vice president of the area. clients, suppliers, co-workers and other stakeIn 2010, the work contracts of 47 employees holders. The Code can be found by accessing were rescinded and the credentials of three the Company’s internet page, through the suppliers cancelled. The Company recorded internet and in the Employee Manual. no legal case of corruption. |GRI SO4| Internal audits are conducted at the units Human rights policies and procedures are – plants, corporate offices, sales branches, set forth in the Code of Ethics and delivered milk catchment points, etc. – for evaluating to all those employees joining the Company the suitability of the internal controls and and taking part in the New Employees Inducdetecting complaints as well as procedures tion Program. In 2010, this translated into 12 or practices contrary to the Code of Ethics thousand hours of training for 40 thousand and Conduct. The frequency and coverage new hires (35% of the payroll). A further 164 of the audits depend on the track record of employees (0.2% of the total) took part in 48 problems, relevance/materiality or degree hours of training with the focus on basic labor of risk represented for each one of the units. legislation, disciplinary measures, moral and Some are audited every year although with sexual harassment and managerial responsiothers frequency may involve intervals of bility (civil, criminal and labor). |GRI HR3, SO3| more than a year. Notwithstanding, all units The Company also has a Material Informashould be audited on a remote basis every tion Disclosure and Share Trading Policy year. The Company maintains various chanwhich is disseminated to all stakeholders. nels available for registering complaints or During the course of 2010, BRF was infringements of conduct such as The Audit sentenced to pay fines amounting to R$ 1.6 Department (11-2322-5060/5059 or 49million for infringing laws and regulations. 8816-0780) and Dial Integrity (DIS –0800 702 Through a Conduct Adjustment Agreement 7014). |GRI SO2| (TAC), which lays down periods for compli16 BRF Brasil Foods ance with certain legally enforceable rulings, Ethos Institute in partnership with the United beef cattle products from the Amazon Basin the Company allocated R$ 160 thousand on Nations Development Program (PNUD), the region and destined for the city of São Paulo. canalization work between the decanting United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime BRF adhered in April 2011. lake of the Rio Verde (GO) plant and Saneago’s (UNODC) and the Brazilian Committee of the Sustainable Pro-Food Initiative (Ipas) (the water and sanitation utility for the state Global Compact, among other entities. Sadia – This is a multi-stakeholder initiative, created of Goiás) water catchment lake responsible has been a party to this initiative since 2007 in March 2007 by Sadia and invited institufor the supply of water to the municipality. and BRF signed up to the commitment in tions. Its objective is to be an agent for proIn the same municipality, R$ 167 thousand March 2011. sustainability in Brazil by developing projects was invested in the construction of a paved The National Pact for the Eradication for food chain innovation from production to area and fencing around the entire perimeter of Slave Labor in Brazil – The fight against consumption. Focus: activities involve memof the source of Rio da Barrinha in addition slave labor is expressed in the Human bers (sharing knowledge and projects) and to R$ 450 thousand in the restoration of the Resources Policy and is the criterion for the market (seeking sustainability in consumer sources of the Ribeirão da Abóbora. |GRI SO8| engaging suppliers and service providers. preference, establishing good pro-competitive The pact is an initiative of the Ethos Institute practices and engagement in government External commitments |GRI 4.12| jointly with the International Labor Orgapolicies directed towards fostering sustainBRF participates in initiatives which supnization (ILO) and the NGO, Repórter Brasil. ability in agribusiness systems). |GRI 4.13| port its commitment to sustainability based Commitment is voluntary and signatories Right Direction Program – A WCF Brasil on the principles of respect for people and are companies committed to the dignity, (World Childhood Foundation) initiative for the environment. Among these, of special formalization, modernization and eradication more effectively combating sexual exploitaimportance are: of degrading work. Sadia has been a signatory tion of children and adolescents on Brazilian Global Compact – BRF is a signatory to since 2007 and Perdigão since 2008 and at the highways. Sadia has been a signatory since the Global Compact which encourages the recommendation of the Pact Committee, BRF 2007 and BRF joined in February 2011. business sector to adopt practices of corporate will become a signatory in 2011. Companies for Climate – In early 2011, responsibility for promoting a more inclusive Choices International Foundation – BRF signed up to the Companies for Climate and sustainable economy. The Pact is an initiaHeadquartered in Brussels, the foundation program, led by the Getúlio Vargas Foundative of the ex-general secretary of the United was responsible for introducing the My Choice tion with the purpose of involving companies Nations Organization, Kofi Annan, in partnerseal. It allows consumers to identify products disposed to operate in a low carbon economy. ship with UN agencies as well as social entities. aligned to the criteria adopted by the dietary It has more than 5.2 thousand signatories recommendations of the World Health around the world. It sets out ten principles to Organization (WHO). The products that bear be respected in the areas of Human Rights, the seal are those which match the criteria Labor Rights, Environmental Protection and defined by the program as to the quantity of Anti-corruption. Adherence to the initiative salt, sugar, saturated and trans fats, which if was initially through the medium of Sadia and consumed in excess, cause chronic disease. is being reconfirmed in 2011 by BRF. BRF signed up to this initiative in 2009. Eight Millennium Development The Brazilian GHG Protocol Program Goals – Aligned to the Global Compact, this – provides an incentive to the voluntary UNO initiative is a list of challenges to be met management of atmospheric emissions with through concrete actions by governments publication of GNG emission inventories. BRF and society by 2015. The declaration was has been a participant since 2010 and Sadia subscribed by 191 countries, among them since 2008. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Brazil, during the Millennium Summit held in is the tool most used by companies and 2000 in New York. The goals are: eradication governments to quantify and manage atmoof hunger and poverty; quality education for spheric emissions. all; non-discrimination; reduction in infant Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) – The mortality; improved maternal health; comproject involves international investors and bating disease; quality of life and respect for is today the largest GHG emissions database the environment; and establishing a global in the world. Through a questionnaire to partnership for development. which 2.5 thousand companies replied on The Business Pact for Integrity and a voluntary basis, the initiative analyzes the against Corruption – A voluntary compositions of major corporations in relation to mitment for ethical behavior in businesses, climate change. BRF has been a signatory to the pact defines standards for corporate this project since 2006 and Sadia since 2007. relationships with government and broaches Cattle ranching pact / Sustainable such themes as tax evasion, corruption of connections – Commitment assumed civil servants, organized crime and money by Sadia in 2008 for financing, production, laundering. The initiative is organized by the distribution and sustainable consumption of 17 Annual and sustainability report 2010 Awards and recognition |GRI 2.10| Awards and highlights Reason Institution Best CEO; Best CFO; Best IR Best Companies in Latin America in the perception study of Institutional Institutional Investor Program and Best IR Team Investor magazine for the Food & Beverages sector (The 2010 Latin America magazine Investor Relations Perception Study) buy side ranking and the 2nd best in all categories – sell side ranking. Company of the Year in the 500 Elected Company of the Year among The Best of Dinheiro 2010. The ranking Istoé Dinheiro magazine Best Ranking contemplates 500 among the best companies that operate in 25 sectors. BRF was also ranked first in the food sector. The most valuable brands in the BRF Brasil Foods’ Perdigão and Sadia brands are the most valuable in Brazil IstoÉ Dinheiro magazine country in the food sector in the food sector. The study was conducted on the basis of financial and BrandAnalytics capital markets data for 2009 in addition to a BrandZTM survey. /Millward Brown Best Company in Corporate IR Global Rankings Awards, as The Best Corporate Governance in MZ Consult Governance the Consumer Goods Industry and Top 5 Corporate Governance Technical Commission: in Latin America, the Company being considered a bellwether in Arnold & Porter, Barbosa, transparency, disclosure, relationship and equality of treatment to its Müssnich & Aragão investors, promoting structured operations which permit the effective Advogados, Demarest e aggregation of value. Almeida and KPMG. 2011 – BCG Global Challengers BRF is of the top Companies in Brazil with potential do worldwide trade BCG-Boston Consulting Group Leader in the ranking of Brazilian M&E’s study evaluated the companies on the basis of 123 criteria of Management & Excellence companies –Transparency in transparency based on actions in Corporate Governance, Sustainability and (M&E) in partnership Sustainability in the Companies of Social Responsibility. with the Razão Contábil the Ibovespa 2010. magazine Industry Trophy 2010 For the investments made by the Company in the state of Paraná as well as Federation of Industries development of projects/social responsibility. of Paraná(FIEP) The 500 Largest in the South Leader in the ranking of the largest companies in the state of Santa Amanhã magazine Catarina. Expomoney 2010 Respect for the individual investor. ExpoMoney 2010 The most recalled brand Sadia: Confidence and credibility together with the consumer. Amanhã magazine in the state of Paraná Most admired in agribusiness Sadia: 9th place in the ranking of the companiesstate of Santa Catarina Amanhã magazine Top of mind Award-Winning Brand: Qualy / Sadia Folha de São Paulo Newspaper Risk management |GRI 1.2| BRF has reinforced its Directors at Board level and employees are risk management; establishes and amends involved in a series of controls and have well selected hedge instruments; approves risk structure and improved defined functions: factor limits; approves all and any modificarisk management controls Board of Directors – Sets out the tion in risk policy. strategic guidelines for risk management; and mechanisms in assesses and approves the policy for financial parallel with the process of integrating Sadia. 18 BRF Brasil Foods Strategy and Finance Committee – thus ensuring even greater security to its Insurance – Property insurance protects Performs an advisory role in relation to risk operations. During 2010, risks were charted all industrial units, product warehousing and policy and to the strategic guidelines for and defined according to different levels of distribution centers with coverage for matemanagement of financial risk and maintains severity. The Company identified risk-related rial damage, loss of profits and civil liability. permanent monitoring of the activities of the processes requiring adaptation and impleFinancial Risk Management Committee. mented as a question of priority at all units, Environmental risks Board of Executive Officers – Estabirrespective of the latter being new, old or BRF propagates a culture of respect for the lishes the Company’s position for each identiacquired. The plan is to adjust all operational environment at all levels of the Company fied risk according to Board guidelines, action risk management processes over four years. in addition to complying with all environplans and risk monitoring. Additionally, a contingency plan for the mental legislation. The Occupational Health, Financial Risk Management Comlogistics area is in place to ensure continuity Safety and Environment program is one of mittee – Proposes improvements to the of operations along the entire product supply the principal mediums for disseminating and financial risk management policy; supervises and distribution chain to the end client. strengthening environmental awareness in all risk management; evaluates and approves In its activities, the Company considers the company activities. hedging alternatives in line with Board of Precautionary Principle, established at the Directors policy; evaluates stress scenarios to Rio de Janeiro Eco92 Conference, according Technological risks be applied in operations. to which the absence of scientific consensus Through continual monitoring of all sysSupporting its governance standards, the should not be used as justification for not tems and the industrial complex as a whole, risk policy is integral to the Company’s regular taking action when there is a threat of seriBRF exercises a policy of risk management publications as for example in the case of the ous or irreversible environmental damage to based on the security of its production reference form, including the detailing of risk the environment or to human health. This and on increased productivity with the use positions, available for consultation on the principle is implicit at all phases of product of equipment and processes aligned to internet (www.brasilfoods.com/ir). development, conception, manufacture and the most modern international standards. distribution. Investments in innovation allows for ongoing Financial Risks Nutritional safety – The Company is portfolio renovation reflecting demands and The financial risks policy clearly establishes equipped to trace all items produced at tendencies of the different consumer profiles. guidelines, situations, limits for authorization its units from breeder stock to the product and responsibility, with operators’ limits delivered to the final consumer including Risks of image and reputation for the Risk Committee and the Board of the control of feed and medications adminThe dissemination of the Code of Ethics and Executive Officers. Any eventual irregularity istered to livestock. All Company suppliers are Conduct is core to BRF’s efforts to propagate is quickly identified and reported with the subject to contractual clauses guaranteeing good corporate governance practice and to immediate adoption of corrective measures. nutritional safety of all items manufactured at contribute to maintaining the Company’s Financial markets and the Company’s posiany industrial unit. principles and values on the basis of confitions are monitored on a daily basis with the Sanitary control – A continuous process dence, ethics and transparency. These pracsupport of management tools. of improvements allows the company to tices emphasize respect for the human being, In 2009, BRF set up an area specifically eliminate or minimize risks of this nature. This repudiation of any form of discrimination, and dedicated to control and risk management also includes the monitoring of integrated responsibility in relation to society and the subordinated to the Vice President for Fioutgrowers practices. Strategically distributed environment. The Vice President’s office for nance, Administration and Investor Relations. in different regions of Brazil, the slaughterCorporate Affairs is responsible for monitoring Currency – BRF enjoys natural protection ing units are geographically dispersed to these aspects and for action plans. from currency fluctuations thanks to the revminimize the impact on performance of the enue flow from export business in volumes businesses in the event of trade bans due to proportional to its currency-denominated sanitary issues on products from a specific financial liabilities. Risk management policy region of the country. allows for the contracting of currency hedgCommodities – Inventory and hedging ing instruments albeit with no financial gain policies are established to guarantee the supin mind. ply of inputs and ameliorate the risk of major Credit – A Credit Committee establishes grain price volatility. Markets are permanently a credit ceiling each branch can extend to monitored in order to anticipate movements clients. Positions are tracked in real time with which can have a positive or negative impact the support of a management system. In on the costs of the operations. The Company addition the diffused client base restricts the has upgraded mechanisms for acquisition of impact of eventual delinquencies. raw materials which are now conducted on a competitive bidding basis. Among the factors Operating risks determining the geographical location of its BRF now has an area dedicated excluunits is the supply of grain and the infrastrucsively to the management of operating risks ture for delivering production. 19 Economic performance Sectoral scenario Domestic consumption While the labor market failed to record the Ukraine). This negative performance in any significant improvement in developed sales value was partially offset by an average is likely to remain strong countries during the period, consumption price increase of 22.9% compared with 2009. throughout the period, indicators such as retail sales and consumer Domestic Consumption – The unemconfidence reported an improvement in ployment rate reported by the Government especially in the case of relation to the third quarter. Statistics Office (IBGE) fell to 5.3% of the non-durables. Brazilian exports – In 2010, the exports Economically Active Population in December, of chicken reported an increase of 6.4% the lowest rate ever recorded for the historical against 2009. Main importing countries were series and boosting consumer confidence Saudi Arabia, Japan, Hong Kong, The Netherlevels to the highest ever according to the lands and South Africa. Worthy of note is the ACSP (the São Paulo Commercial Associaexport performance to South Africa, China tion). This positive trading environment saw and Egypt markets traditionally with a low retail sales in the principal metropolitan percentage share of total overseas sales but regions grow at an average year on year rate which in 2010, expanded significantly. of 9.6% as against an historical average rate of The exports of pork in 2010 were 11% 4.3% between 2000 and 2009. weaker with an across-the-board decline in Raw Materials – Between October and all leading markets (Russia, Hong Kong and December 2010 average corn prices in the 20 Elaborated/processed product sold* Thousand Tons CAGR = 50.53% domestic market rose 34% compared with Perspectives – Social tensions affecting 2010 2,472 3Q10, but during the year posted a decline the countries of North Africa and the Middle of 1.2%. The spike in the final quarter of 2010 East have led to an increase in international was in line with the trend in the international oil prices although not to the point of threat2009 2,341 price which was pushed up due to an inening global growth. However, in developed crease in the demand for animal feed and the countries, macroeconomic indicators are 2008 1,196 production of biofuels and not accompanied positive especially those for the United States. proportionally by supply. The result was In Brazil, the basic Selic rate of interest is 2007 948 a decline in world inventory, leading to a expected to increase from 10.75% p.a. in relatively low inventory/consumption ratio. December 2010 to 12.25% p.a. by December 2006 765 Low productivity levels due to unfavorable 2011, with a consequent deceleration in climatic conditions affected supplies from inflation rates. This hike in interest rates is exporting countries such as Argentina, unlikely to choke off demand as consumer 2005 636 preventing the replenishment of inventory in confidence should remain very positive. An 2011 and maintaining high level prices. Applied Economic Research Institute IPEA 2004 563 Meanwhile, average soybean prices in survey conducted in January 2011 shows that 4Q10 rose 15.8% against 3Q10, albeit 13.5% 64% of families polled expect the economic 2003 517 down on a year on year basis.. situation in Brazil to improve over the next 12 months, indicating that domestic consumption is likely to remain strong throughout the 2002 502 period, especially in the case of non-durables. 2001 459 * Including meat, other processed products and dairy products. (1) Pro-forma 21 Annual and sustainability report 2010 Exports average price (US$/Kg) Poultry Pork 2.2 2.8 2.6 2.6 2.0 1.97 2.4 2.2 23% 2.2 1.8 1.73 2.0 1.6 11% 1.8 1.4 1.6 1.4 1.2 1.2 1.0 1.0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 2009 Source: ABEF, ABIPECS 2010 2009 Source: ABEF, ABIPECS Grains price (R$/bag 60 kg) Corn Soybean 30 55 50 49.09 25 23.26 45 13% 44.06 20 1% 40 15 16.91 35 10 30 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 2009 Source: FNP 2010 2009 Source: FNP Milk price Exchange rate R$/litre (R$ X US$) 0.80 2.6 2.4 5% 0.721 2.2 2.0 13% 0.65 1.8 1.75 0.602 1.71 1.6 1.4 1.2 0.50 1.0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 2009 Source: CEPEA 2010 2009 Source: Bloomberg 22 BRF Brasil Foods Operational performance Production Domestic market Meats The segment posted an increase Production volumes at BRF Brasil Foods of 10.5% in sales and 6.6% in volume. The have recovered to levels prior to the BRF has successfully recovery in in natura meat exports helped 2008/2009 crisis with growth of 6 % against maintained its market to bring back supply and demand for the the preceding year. A total of 1.6 billion head product to equilibrium in the domestic of poultry and 10.5 million head of hogs/beef share for the principal market, sustaining prices and the sale of items cattle were slaughtered, a growth of 3.9% and product categories thanks with greater added value. As a result, average 2.8%, respectively. Other processed products prices remained 3.6% above those registered reported growth of 57.4% on a pro-forma to innovative initiatives, for 2009 on a pro-forma basis while processed basis, most notably in margarines, pastas and product launches and brand products registered an improvement of 6.9 pizzas as well as appetizers following their percentage points for the year. launch by the Company. sustainability campaigns in Dairy Products – Net sales for the dairy Activities at the Cavalhada unit in the addition to the continual product segment in 2010 recovered to 2008 Greater Porto Alegre (RS) region, were levels, ending the period totaling R$ 2.3 biltransferred to the Lajeado(RS) unit. This hands on management of lion. Margins were squeezed by high prices move reflects the ease of integrating the prices and costs. paid to milk producers. Average prices were processes of the two plants, in so doing stable in relation to 2009. The year was not adding value to the product mix as well as characterized by the usual onand off-season optimizing processes, industrial lines and In all segments, including dairy products, movements, a fact that rendered manageproduction costs. In addition, investments BRF has prioritized commercialization margin ment of costs and inventory even more were recently made at the Lajeado plant (value share) over its market share. difficult. Since these problems prevented in expanding capacity and modernization Sales to the domestic market totaled margins returning to historical levels, BRF of the installations. The unit’s slaughtering R$ 13.5 billion, a growth of 11.3% against the pursued a policy of preserving profitability in capacity has been increased from 320 to 470 preceding year. The Company sold 3.8 million the segment which translated into a reduced thousand head of chicken per day, while hog tons of products, 4.9% higher than 2009 on market share for chilled items and UHT milks. slaughtering capacity has been raised from 2 a pro-forma basis. Thanks to these results, Other processed products Highlights to 4.8 thousand head/day. margins were restored to pre-crisis levels. for the year in this segment were Meu Menu, A buoyant domestic market and full a line of ready-to-eat, frozen and individual employment together with the inclusion of dishes for consumers that live alone, and emerging consumer classes, all stimulated Escondidinho, inspired by traditional recipes demand and sales of products to all segments, of Brazilian cuisine and directed towards the more especially lines specific to the year-end family market. The Company ran campaigns holiday period. designed to consolidate the brands, taking Pro-forma production 2010 2009 Ch. % Poultry slaughter (million head) 1,623 1,562 4% Hog/beef cattle slaughter (thousand head) 10,563 10,277 3% Production (thousand tons) Meat 3,992 3,767 6% Dairy Products 1,110 1,044 6% Other Processed Products 469 298 57% Feed and Concentrates (thousand tons) 10,723 10,328 4% 23 Annual and sustainability report 2010 full advantage of events with major popular Exports In 2010, export revenue increased 4.3% appeal such as the World Soccer Tournament. to R$ 9.2 billion on volumes of 2.3 million Overall, market share remained stable – with In accordance with tons (5.9% greater) – pro-forma basis and the exception of margarines where there instructions from the antia growth of 40.2% in sales revenue on a was growth. Total sales for the segment were Corporate Law basis. R$ 2.0 billion, a growth of 25.7% while trust authority CADE, the Meats – During the first half, high inventovolume reached 454.9 thousand tons, a rise merging of international sales ries in world markets depressed prices. In the of 13.1% and 79%, respectively on a pro-form light of this scenario, the Company adjusted and Corporate Law (CL) basis. has allowed the Company to its portfolio accordingly and by the second Food Service – This segment is a strategic achieve gains in synergies and half with supply and demand back in balance, one in BRF’s growth plans with the food service conditions had improved. The devaluation of market benefiting from a change in the habits scale with better price and the US Dollar during the year reflected in a of the Brazilian population, growth in incomes portfolio management. reduction in sales revenue in Reals although and a recovery in employment. According to without sacrificing returns. the IBGE’s Family Budgets Survey, the percentMeat exports amounted to R$ 9.0 billion, age of personal expenditure on food away The Company has repositioned its brands, 5% higher with volumes 6.1% up for the year. from home rose from 24.1% (2002/2003) to benefiting from the segmentation of the The average prices in US Dollars FOB were 31.1% (2008/2009). Thanks to this trend and markets. Sadia has become a premium brand 14% up against 2009.The average foreign exBRF’s investments in products and services, focused on higher added value and innovachange rate impact resulted in price decline the segment posted a year on year increase of tion. Perdix is positioned as a mainstream high in terms of Reals and an overall reduction in 13.1% in sales and 15% in volume. brand, dedicated to the commercialization of export revenues in local currency terms. BRF is the leading player in the Brazilian large volumes and products catering for local Dairy Products The scenario of weaker food service business, supplying the largest tastes. Borella, Halal, Fazenda and others have international demand restricted sales volume food service chains and franchises in the been maintained as brands which compete on the overseas market with shipments country and developing customized soluwith indigenous food product industries. recording a year on year decline of 28%. The tions for enhancing its services and proximity BRF’s international division, Plusfood, with Company is shortly to expand its unit in Arto the customer. This segment is present in all units in The Netherlands and the United gentina – a cheese manufacturer – to make it the major urban centers, BRF using a propriKingdom, is reinforcing its strategy with the self-sustainable and to source of value-added etary and dedicated fleet of delivery trucks manufacture of items destined for the Euroexports. Argentina offers a stable supply of in addition to maintaining high standards of pean market. Examples are Perfect Portions, a quality and competitively priced raw materials quality and reliability. standardized line of items for the food service in addition to enjoying sanitary agreements business as well as specific products geared with European countries making exports to to satisfying European consumer demand. these markets a feasible proposition Market share (%) 50 47 43 38 35 31 32 29 26 15 11 Specialty meat* Frozen meats Pastas Pizzas Dairy products Margarines Perdigão Sadia Source: AC Nielsen * Methodological changes weremade to the Nielsen database preventing comparison with historical data. Accumulated 2010 24 BRF Brasil Foods Industrial units in Brazil 1 1 2 1 1 1 2 1 2 2 1 1 2 1 1 1 4 1 1 2 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 3 1 6 1 2 5 2 4 9 3 2 14 4 4 1 Distribution centers 41 Industrial units (meat) 42 Industrial Units Distribution centers Industrial units (dairy products) 14 Industrial unit (soybean) 1 BRF Brasil Foods BRF Brasil Foods Industrial units (margarines) 2 Sadia Sadia Industrial unit (pizzas, pastas, desserts and processed products) 1 25 Annual and sustainability report 2010 World poultry panorama* Thousand Tons “Ready to Cook” Equivalent Production Exports 2.6% 20,502 3,615 19,126 3,265 19,927 3,514 18,832 2.5% 3,182 13,006 12,206 10,795 12,556 11,905 10,735 950 2,865 2,700 945 440 410 524 300 2,822 2,650 410 380 250 519 USA China Brazil EU 27 Mexico India Others Brazil USA EU 27 Thailand China Argentina Others 20111 20102 20111 increase 20111 decrease 20102  Estimated  Preliminary Source: USDA/oct10 *Chicken, special poultry and turkey World pork panorama Thousand tons equivalent carcass Production Exports 51,500 2,121 50,000 2,027 1,700 1,550 1,175 22,250 1,165 2.4% 22,120 640 12,098 10,204 625 2.8% 11,895 280 10,052 3,260 140 162 2,310 1,900 3,170 250 155 2,270 1,870 130 China EU 27 USA Brazil Russia Vietnan Others USA EU 27 Canada Brazil China Chile Others 20111 increase 20111 decrease 20102 20111 increase 20111 decrease 20102  Estimated  Preliminary Source: USDA/oct10 World beef panorama Thousand tons equivalent carcass Production 16,927 Exports 16,920 8.0% 1,810 11,828 1,675 1,520 2.9% 11,556 1,325 1,482 9,410 1,325 9,145 7,870 1,036 7,850 1,002 5,550 725 5,450 700 530 510 2,920 2,600 525 496 2,850 2,550 USA Brazil EU 27 China India Argentina Others Brazil Australia USA India Canada New Others Zealand 2011 increase 1 2011 decrease 1 2010 2 20111 increase 20111 decrease 20102  Estimated  Preliminary Source: USDA/oct10 26 BRF Brasil Foods Exports by region 2010 (Corporate law) Exports by region 2009 (Corporate law) % Net sales % Net sales 11.3% 11.3% 11.2% 11.2% Eurasia Eurasia Eurasia Eurasia 16.9% 16.9% 16.2% 16.2% Other Other countries countries Other Other countries countries 31.9% 31.9% 31.8% 31.8% Middle Middle EastEast Middle Middle EastEast 20.9% 20.9% 19.4% 19.4% Far Far EastEast Far Far EastEast 19.0% 19.0% 21.4% 21.4% Europe Europe Europe Europe Market tendencies: Europa – The crises in some countries strong especially following the opening of the – Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain – weakCompany’s commercial office in the financial ened the domestic economy in the area and hub of Shanghai. BRF plans to leverage its causing considerable instability throughout business on the back of the major growth the year. Operations benefited from the prespotential presented by the Chinese market. sure on international quotations for the prinEurasia – Demand from countries in the cipal grains (corn and soybeans), permitting region remained strong both for poultry meat an increase in prices to the European market. and pork products resulting in an improveExpansion at Plusfood was instrumental in ment in prices and volumes. BRF enhancing its penetration in the region. Africa, Americas and other countries Capacity at the Dutch unit is expected to be – There was an increase in the African market, doubled by mid2011. Production will be especially for processed products with an sold to such countries as Spain, Germany, improvement in volumes and prices. The Austria and Poland. region presents major growth potential for Middle East – These markets were severely BRF’s products, more notably in countries pressured in the first half of last year due to high such as Algeria, Tunisia, Egypt and Morocco, product inventory. Importers remained cauMozambique, South Africa and Namibia as tious, but resumed business in the second half. well as Angola. The Middle East continues to be BRF’s principal With a proprietary distribution system in overseas market. Among the countries where Argentina, Uruguay, Chile and Peru, sales to there is major potential are Iraq, Jordan and the region have been particularly strong for a Iran. In 2010, 15 new products under the Sadia new line in hams to Argentina and Uruguay, brand were launched in the region, a trend and Qualy light margarine in Chile. which is expected to increase in 2011. Internationalization Project BRF is Far East – The Japanese market reported structuring its Long-Term Internationalization an improvement in prices for imported prodProject focused on its international footprint ucts with consumption remaining steady. In for products with higher added value and China, demand for BRF’s products continued distribution in its main operating regions. 27 Annual and sustainability report 2010 Meat production chain Grains Corn and soybean Feed Poultry and hog storage farms: eggs, parent, piglets Processing Poultry, hog and Integrated Hatcheries cattle slaughtering outgrowers Whole sale Transport Distribution centers Exports Retail Consumers Dairy products production chain Rural Pulp (fruit) Retail property and soybean Milk collection Processing Distribution Consumers point centers Transport Milk Whole storage sale 28 BRF Brasil Foods Sales Thousand tons R$ million Domestic market 2010 2009 % Ch. 2010 2009 % Ch. Meats 1,837 1,722 7 8,668 7,844 10 In natura 400 340 17 1,930 1,306 48 Poultry 255 216 18 1,039 760 37 Pork/beef 145 124 16 891 546 63 Elaborated/processed (meats) 1,437 1,382 4 6,738 6,538 3 Dairy products 1,075 1,001 7 2,292 2,139 7 Milk 873 793 10 1,585 1,437 10 Dairy products/ juice/ others 202 208 (3) 707 702 1 Other processed 455 402 13 2,026 1,612 26 Soybean products/ others 389 454 (14) 529 551 (4) Total 3,756 3,580 5 13,515 12,148 11 Processed 2,094 1,993 5 9,472 8,853 7 % Total sales 62 62 60 58 Thousand tons R$ million Exports 2010 2009 % Ch. 2010 2009 % Ch. Meats 2,278 2,147 6 9,051 8,618 5 In natura 1,922 1,818 6 7,361 6,923 6 Poultry 1,640 1,529 7 5,847 5,532 6 Pork/beef 282 289 (2) 1,515 1,391 9 Elaborated/processed (meats) 357 329 8 1,690 1,695 Dairy products 3 4 (28) 20 22 (10) Milk 2 (92) 1 12 (92) Dairy products/ juice/ others 3 2 45 19 10 96 Other processed 18 18 4 91 120 (24) Soybean products/ others 6 8 (30) 4 29 (85) Total 2,306 2,177 6 9,166 8,789 4 Processed 378 348 8 1,799 1,825 (1) % Total sales 38 38 40 42 Thousand tons R$ million Total sales 2010 2009 % Ch. 2010 2009 % Ch. Meats 4,115 3,869 6 17,719 16,463 8 In natura 2,322 2,158 8 9,291 8,229 13 Poultry 1,895 1,745 9 6,886 6,292 9 Pork/beef 427 413 3 2,406 1,937 24 Elaborated/processed (meats) 1,793 1,711 5 8,428 8,234 2 Dairy products 1,078 1,005 7 2,311 2,161 7 Milk 873 795 10 1,585 1,450 9 Dairy products/ juice/ others 205 210 (3) 726 711 2 Other processed 473 420 13 2,117 1,732 22 Soybean products/ others 395 462 (15) 533 580 (8) Total 6,062 5,757 5 22,681 20,937 8 Processed 2,472 2,341 6 11,271 10,677 6 % Total sales 41 41 50 51 29 Annual and sustainability report 2010 Brand and products line |GRI 2.2; 2.5| Domestic market Becel’s products are made, commercialized and distributed by UP Alimentos, joint venture created in 2007 by BRF and Unilever. Becel’s royalties belong to Unilever. 30 BRF Brasil Foods Exports 31 Annual and sustainability report 2010 Economic-financial performance Net Sales – During the year, net sales Operating expenses – In 2010, operataccounting principles has allowed significant totaled R$ 22.7 billion, 8.3% up in terms of the ing expenses amounted to R$ 3.9 billion, reductions in net currency exposure. As result result on a pro-forma basis and 42.6% in CL 11.2% higher on a pro-forma basis and 37.7% substantial benefits have accrued from the terms considering the incorporation of results according to CL criteria, considering improvesynchronization of currency liability flows with for Sadia as from July 2009. ments to the IT system and disbursements export shipments in addition to a reduction in Cost of Sales Costs of sales were with respect to consultancy work on the the monthly volatility of financial expenses 11.9% higher in 4Q10, the increase being integration process and new executive hires. Net debt for December 31 2010 was 13.3% proportionally less than sales revenue. This Operating Income and Margin – Opless than reported in 2009, supported by permitted a gain in gross margin despite cost erating profit before other results, equity operating results despite disbursements for pressures from the principal raw materials income and financial expenses was R$ 1.8 investments in assets (Capex), marketing and (corn and soybeans) due to the highly volatile billion, 396.3% up in CL terms and a growth of for synergy projects. scenario for these commodities. 378.1% on a pro-forma basis. There was a 6.4 Net debt/EBITDA ratio fell from 3.6x to 1.4x For the year as a whole, costs of sales were percentage point gain in operating margin due to the improvement in cash generation 1.4% higher on a comparative pro-forma ba(pro-forma) reflecting the gradual post-crisis posted in the year and the equilibrium besis and 33.2% up on a CL basis, although also recovery from the adverse situation afflicting tween the Company’s net debt in relation to permitting margin gains in the light of even global markets in the preceding year. operations. Consolidated currency exposure stronger proportional growth in net sales. Financial Results – BRF reported a reducwas US$ 76 million (asset position), contemGross Profit and Gross Margin – For fistion in the average cost of debt as well as a plating the implemented hedge accounting cal year 2010, gross profits amounted to R$ 5.7 longer average debt maturity profile thanks policy, against US$ 1.1 billion (liability posibillion – 35.8% higher on a pro-forma basis and to the financial discipline adopted in the debt tion) for the preceding year. 80.4% higher on a CL basis, reflecting a gradual restructuring plan. The use of non-derivative On a pro-forma basis for the year, there was and consistent recovery in performance. instruments (currency debt) for foreign exa net financial expense of R$ 483.1 million change protection in accordance with hedge against a net financial income of R$ 617.3 million in 2009. Meanwhile on a C L basis, financial income was R$ 262.5 million in 2009 due to the incorporation of Sadia’s results in July 2009. The restructuring of the Sadia subsidiary’s debt was secured with the funds raised from Breakdown of net sales (%) the primary share issue totaling R$ 5.3 billion in July 2009. Of this amount, a total of R$ 3.5 By product By market billion was transferred to Sadia in 2009 via an Advance for Future Capital Increases (AFAC) 9.3% and an intercompany loan, for anticipating Other processed payments, and thus reducing short term bank borrowings. A further R$1.2 billion was 3.2% transferred during 2010. Dairy 59.6% On January 21 2010, with a view to extendproducts Domestic ing the debt profile and reducing costs, BRF 7.0% market issued ten-year bonds totaling US$750 milMilk* lion maturing January 28 2020 on a coupon of 7.250% per annum yield to maturity of 2.4% Others 7.375%, which shall fall due and be payable in semi-annual installments as from July 28 2010. 40.4% 30.4% Exports The offering allowed the Company to increase Poultry its average debt maturity by one year. Other Operating Results –In 2010 the 10.6% operating results totaled R$ 393.9 million Pork / for the year, 41.2% higher on a pro-forma Beef 37.2% Processed products * Includes UHT, pasteurized and powdered milk 32 BRF Brasil Foods Debt profile As of 12.31.10 As of 12.31.09 Debt R$ million Current Non-current Total Total % Ch. Local Currency 1,536 1,680 3,216 4,570 (30) Foreign Currency 675 3,296 3,970 4,544 (13) Gross Debt 2,211 4,975 7,187 9,114 (21) Cash Investments Local Currency 955 104 1,059 2,787 (62) Foreign Currency 2,219 274 2,493 2,134 17 Total Cash Investments 3,174 378 3,552 4,920 (28) Net Accounting Debt (963) 4,598 3,634 4,913 (26) Exchange rate exposure US$ million 76 (1,066) Breakdown of EBITDA R$ million 2010 2009 % Ch. Net Income 804 123 554 Non-Controlling Shareholders 1 (4) Income Tax and Social Contribution 196 221 (11) Net Financial Income 483 (262) Equity Income/Other Operating Results 311 249 25 Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization 840 545 54 = EBITDA* 2,635 871 203 * Reclassification in the calculation of EBITDA between depreciation and other results with the objective of demonstrating the effect of depreciation, depletion and amortization as shown in the cash flow. basis and 30.1% up on a CL basis. This item on a pro-forma basis and 202.6% on a C L baCombination of the Businesses – The largely reflects the costs of idle capacity – due sis. Principal factors driving this increase were: goodwill arising from the combination of to the pre-operational phase of the new the larger volume of processed products sold businesses with Sadia has been allocated to industrial units in: Bom Conselho (PE), Lucas in the domestic market, a gradual recovery the assets and liabilities in line with prevailing do Rio Verde (MT), Vitória de Santo Antão (PE), seen in some important export markets, the accounting practices (IFRS). The remaining Mineiros (GO) and Três de Maio (RS). reduction in production costs and commercial balance of goodwill will be subject to annual Net Income and Net Margin – BRF postexpenses and the synergies from the merging evaluation using the impairment test (noned a net income of R$ 804.1 million, a 125% of those processes already authorized by CADE recoverability). increase on a pro-forma basis and 215.3% up such as in export business and the domestic IFRS – BRF has adapted its procedures in on a CL basis based on the adjusted result of market for in natura meat and the acquisition full for evaluation of balance sheet items, R$ 255 million reported for 2009 (including of some raw materials and services. changes in requirements for disclosure of an additional R$ 132 million, reflecting the Shareholders’ Equity – Shareholders’ information, and analysis of the economic incorporation of Perdigão Agroindustrial in Equity as of December 31 2010 stood at essence of the migration to IFRS rules in accorthe first half of 2009). R$ 13.6 billion against R$ 13 billion on dance with the accounting pronouncements EBITDA – Operating cash generation for December 31 2009, 5% higher with a return CPCs. As a result, quarterly earnings reported 2010 as measured by EBITDA (operating income on equity of 6.2% when calculated on the net during 2010 are being republished with the before expenses, taxes and depreciation) was accumulated result for the year in relation to incorporation of the new procedures as well R$ 2.6 billion, a year on year growth of 126.1% initial shareholders’ equity. as the comparison with fiscal year 2009. 33 Annual and sustainability report 2010 Cash flow R$ million 2010 2009 Cash Flow from Operating Activities Net Income 804 123 Adjustments to Reconcile Net Income Cash Provide By 1,332 195 2,136 318 Variation Trade Accounts Payable, Net -402 119 Inventories 168 245 Suppliers 155 -29 Other Assets and Liabilities 1,175 -1,647 3,232 -994 Cash Flow from Investments Activities Cash Investments 252 Investments in Fixed Assets 38 66 Business Acquisition -1,139 -367 -1,101 -49 Cash Flow from Financial Activities Loans and Financing -1,429 -3.319 Capital Increase 5,290 Dividends and Interest Over Capital Paid -153 -25 Others -2 -91 -1,584 1,855 Exchange variation effect on cash and cash equivalents -135 -147 Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash 412 665 Shares as an investment In 2010, the Company held BRF Day (American Depositary Receipt) program was effected on August 27 2010 (R$ 0.061136430 for the twin purpose of intensifying the also approved, equating the ADRs similarly per share) and on February 24 2011 relationship with the capital markets as well such that each share corresponds currently (R$ 0.24010772), in the form of interest on as commemorating its listing on the stock to one ADR. shareholders’ equity, with income tax withheld exchanges 30 years on BM&FBovespa Shareholder Remuneration – The Board at source pursuant to the current legislation. and 10 years on the NYSE – New York Stock of Directors approved the distribution of The amount distributed to the shareholders Exchange. In São Paulo the event began with R$ 262.5 million to shareholders, correspondwith respect to fiscal year 2010 represented an Apimec National meeting followed by the ing to R$ 0.30124415 per share – payout 32.6% of net earnings in the period. opening of the trading day at the invitation of BM&FBovespa. This was repeated on November 23 at the NYSE also with presentations Market Value to investors and followed by management R$ million ringing the Opening Bell. Both events were 25,000 attended by investors and selland buy-side 23,853 investment analysts. 20,000 The Company’s shares and ADRs have outperformed the leading stock indices and 15,000 13,637 market players. The average daily financial 10,000 volume traded on the Bovespa and the NYSE – New York Stock Exchange amounted to 5,000 US$ 46.6 million, 18.1% higher than in 2009. Stock Split – The Annual General Meeting and Extraordinary General Meeting of March Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec 31 2010 approved a stock split at a ratio of 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 100% with the issue of 1 new for each existing share. The change in the ratio for the ADR Market value Book value 34 BRF Brasil Foods Shares X Ibovespa ADRs X Dow Jones (Basis 100 Dec 05) (Basis 100 – Dec 05 – 5 years serie) 300 300 BRF 296 BRFS3 208 IBOV 207 150 150 Dow Jones 108 Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec 05 06 07 08 09 10 05 06 07 08 09 10 BRFS IBOV BRFS Dow Jones Performance on the BM&FBovespa Performance on the NYSE 2009 2010 2009 2010 Share price (R$)* 22.69 27.34 Share price US$* 13.09 16.88 Traded shares (volume) million 637.5 558.7 Traded ADR (volume) million 275.4 286.9 BRFS3 Performance 52.6% 20.5% BRFS Performance 98.5% 28.9% Bovespa Index 82.7% 1.0% Dow Jones Index 18.8% 11.0% IGC (Brazilian Corporate Governance Index) 83.4% 12.5% * Closing Price ISE (Corporate Sustainability Index) 66.4% 5.8% * Closing Price Monthly Traded Volume 2010: US$ 46.4 million/day 18.1% higher than 2009 1,600 20 1,400 1,200 15 Volume (US$ million) 1,000 Price (US$) 800 10 600 400 5 200 0 Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec 05 06 06 06 06 07 07 07 07 08 08 08 08 09 09 09 09 10 10 10 10 BRFS BRFS3 Price BRFS3 (US$) 35 Annual and sustainability report 2010 Oosterwolde, The Netherlands Specialty and frozen meats Wrexham, UK Meat Processing plant 3 industrial units abroad Growing activity abroad Carlos Casares, Argentina Cheese Countries to which we exported in 2010 Americas Martinique South Korea Guinea Europe Luxembourg Anguilla Netherland Antilles Vietnam Guinea-Bissau Andorra Malta Antígua and Barbuda Panama Ivory Coast Austria Marshall Islands Argentina Paraguay Africa Liberia Belgium Monaco Aruba Peru Angola Libya Bulgaria Montenegro Bahamas Saint Kitts and Nevis Algeria Mauritania Croatia Poland Bermuda St. Marteen Benin Mauritius Cyprus Portugal Bolivia Suriname Cameroon Mayotte Czech Republic Romania British Virgin Islands Trinidad &Tobago Cape Verde Morroco Denmark Slovakia Canada Uruguay Central African Republic Mozambique Estonia Slovenia Cayman Islands Venezuela Chade Namibia Finland Spain Chile Comores Islands República do Benin France Sweden Cuba Asia Congo São Tomé and Príncipe Germany Switzerland Curaçao China Democratic Republic Senegal Gibraltar The Netherlands Dominican Republic Hong Kong of the Congo Seychelles Great Britain United Kingdom Equador Japan Djibuti Sierra Leone Greece Granada Maldives Equatorial Guinea South Africa Hungary Middle East Guadalupe New Caledonia Gabon Togo Ireland Bahrain Guyana Philipines Gambia Tunisia Italy Egypt Haiti Singapore Ghana Latvia Iran 36 BRF Brasil Foods More than 140 importing countries 24 offices abroad Iraq Kazakhstan Offices in South America Oosterwolde The Netherlands Israel Kirguistan Buenos Aires Argentina Wrexham England Jordan Kosovo Santiago Chile Worcester England Offices abroad Kuwait Macedonia Montevideo Uruguay Frankfurt Germany Lebanon Moldavia Neede The Netherlands Oman Russia Offices in Central America Istambul Turkey Exports Qatar Tajikistan Saudi Arabia Turkey Cayman Islands Cayman Islands (2) San Ignacio Venezuela Offices in Middle East Industrial units Syria Ukraine United Arab Emirates Uzbequistan Dubai UAE (2) Yemen Offices in Europe Jebel Ali Free Zone UAE Budapest Hungary Eurasia London England Offices in Asia Afeganistan Moscow Russia (2) Singapore Singapore Albania Hertogenbosch The Netherlands Tokyo Japan (2) Armenia Verona Italy Xangai China Azerbaijan Viena Austria (2) Bosnia and Herzegovina Madeira Island Portugal (2) Croatia Quimper France Georgia 37 Social performance Management of people the Accident Frequency Rate with time off teams travel to different locations where The aim of BRF is to build an work a 35% decline. Additionally, BRF seeks the Company has job vacancies in order to organizational culture in which to maintain competitive salaries and benefits improve hiring processes and at the same as well as a working environment conducive time, promoting diversity. the employees are committed to the engagement of its in-house stakeholdThe first trainee program was launched to the long-term plan. ers. In this way it is able to attract and retain in 2010 the BRF Generation 2011. Approxithe professionals which will help it meet its mately, 15 thousand candidates enrolled for growth plans. 30 places. Thanks to this initiative, BRF was In 2010, progress was made in this direcIn order to ensure the necessary labor for able to tap the market for the best potential tion through training and career developits operations at all levels, BRF has adopted of the new generation. The trainee development initiatives and quality of life at work such initiatives as the Operational Attraction ment plan involves exposure to all sectors programs. At the end of 2010, the Company and Retention Plan which awards employees of the Company on a rotational basis for ten had a workforce of 113 thousand employees. for assiduity and productivity. months to be followed by a further 24-month The Company has elected as priorities the BRF has launched its ‘I Recommend’ formation spell in his/her area of interest. development of the BRF culture, and the program for stimulating existing employees During this period, the trainee is constantly formation of leaders in order to grow the to indicate others interested in working in the assessed, participating in workshops and Company and instill managers with a global Company and thus maintaining its work force discussions with executives and the Chief vision, together with the consolidation of the at appropriate levels. At some units, about Executive Officer of the Company as well as culture of Safety, Health and Environment 25% of manpower has been hired in this way. being required to design a strategic plan. (SSMA). One of the results of this initiative in Similarly, the Itinerant Recruiting project is 2010 has been a reduction from 7.1 to 4.6 in a scheme whereby attraction and selection 38 Total workforce |GRI LA1| Work force by region |GRI LA1| 16.8% Type of Employment Contract 2009 2010 Southeast Own Employees (1) Indeterminated period 113,912 113,614 0.2% North Fixed period 147 96 Apprentices (Specific period) 300 (2) 551 3.9% Outsourced (3) 15,147 13,267 Northeast Interns 298 454 22.8% Total 129,804 127,982 Midwest (1) Data adjusted, since in 2009 the apprentices had not been included 0.5% (2) Out-sourced hirings are restricted to work-specific activities such as cleaning, janitorial and industrial restaurant services Abroad 55.8% South Turnover – monthly average |GRI LA2| Total number of labor contract Turnover terminations Male Female Less than 30 Between 30 and 50 Over 50 2.33% 33,996 1.45% 0.88% 1.54% 0.75% 0.04% 39 Annual and sustainability report 2010 Diversity indicators (1) |GRI LA13| Up to 30 years Function Number Male Female of age From 30 to 50 Over 50 Officers 55 46 9 0 38 17 Managers 381 323 58 8 329 44 Assistants 11 11 0 0 9 2 Supervisors/ Coordinators 1,698 1,434 264 239 1,373 86 Administrative 21,389 14,041 7,348 9,029 11,712 648 Operational 89,621 53,160 36,461 43,086 42,619 3,916 Apprentices 551 314 237 551 Total 113,706 69,329 44,377 52,913 56,080 4,713 % 100% 61% 39% 46.3% 49.6% 4% (1) Data for employees in Brazil only, excluding the 555 employees located overseas. Generation and Distribution of Value |GRI EC1| Health and safety More than 90% of the employees are represented on formal safety committees, R$ million 2010 2009 assisting in the monitoring and advising of Human Resources 3,164 2,180 occupational safety and health programs. Taxes 3,530 2,637 These committees encompass: the General Interest 1,535 1,386 Committee with the participation of senior Interest of Shareholder’s Equity 263 100 management, Regional Occupational Safety, Health and Environment Committees (SSMA); Retention 542 23 SSMA Corporate Operational Committees; Minority Interests 1 -4 SSMA Unit Committees; the Internal Accident Total 9,034 6,323 Prevention Commission (CIPA); and the Ergonomics Commission. |GRI LA6| The SSMA plays a fundamental role in the reduction and elimination of accidents and Safety indicators |GRI LA7| work-related illnesses through the dissemination of information and the monitoring of the implementation of its norms and principles. Indicators BRF consolidated Introduced in 2006, the SSMA is strategic and Accident Frequency Rate – with time off work (1) 5.01 represents a critical process in establishing Frequency Rate – occupational illnesses (1) 0.96 a culture of prevention in health and safety Severity Rate (1) 473 questions at a fresh enhanced level. Thanks to this work, in 2010 there was an Absenteeism percentage (2) 3.38% average reduction of 40% in the Accident Fatalities (absolute numbers) (3) 4 Frequency Rate with time off work, including Accidents with time off work 1,078 accidents on the way to and from work: rates Accidents without time off work 2,693 fell to 5.01 compared with 7.05 in 2009 and 8.61 in 2008. The goal is to achieve an annual (1) Frequency and severity rates relate to each 1,000,000 (one million) man/hours worked in accordance with the NBR 14.280. (2) The absenteeism rate relates to absences of employees be it as a result of misdemeanor or delay due to some reduction in excess of 10%. intervening motive. (3) 2 on the way to or from work and 2 typical. 40 BRF Brasil Foods Matters relating to occupational health Training Relations with the Company and safety are central to the majority of labor In 2010, the Company focused on executDue to the nature of the business, the union agreements. Among them are the suping the annual training plan whereby all the majority of the employees are represented ply of and guidance on the importance of the activities at the non-managerial levels of BRF by the labor union of their category, either use of individual protection equipment (IPE), are organized using an educational approach, the meat packing or food industry workthe operations and the composition of the both technical and behavioral. At the executive ers. The Company’s full recognition of the internal accident prevention commissions level, attention is on modern management legally constituted union entities provides (CIPA), training and educational processes practices and concepts. The trainees program the grounds for dialog and conciliation with with a focus on occupational safety and was revised indicative of the importance with due compliance with the current legislation health, participation of worker representawhich the Company views the formation of its – involving ethical principles and respect betives – labor union officials and members of future leaders. |GRI LA11| tween capital and labor. Collective bargaining CIPA – in safety and health inspections, audits During 2011, customized solutions will covers 99.4% of the workforce, this based on and accident investigations. |GRI LA9| be developed on the basis of relationships respect, responsibility and transparency, The right to refuse unsafe work, while and partnerships. Emphasis will be given to reconciling interests in an authentic manner not a part of the collective agreements, is individual career development plans coverwith autonomy and freedom. |GRI LA4| respected by the Company and is integral to ing all levels of company hierarchy. The In its desire to continually improve its relathe SSMA policy. alignment and standardization of actions for tions with labor, and based on the principles The focus of the area is on the implementatraining and development will be crucial to of labor union/company harmony, BRF sees tion of SSMA Management, with stimulus for BRF as well as the focus on the designing and the right to free association as fundamental adopting safe behavior and correction of implementation of new policies, processes and vehemently repudiates anti-union certain situations and workplace risks, with and programs to provide the support for practices or conversely, union-inspired a high degree of operational discipline for future corporate growth. discriminatory ideology. It also demands that achieving the excellence required of world BRF periodically undertakes appraisals 100% of its suppliers fully comply with the class companies. During the year, 7,087 of performance and career development labor legislation and the right of employees people (20,245 in 2009) took part in health, reviews of its executives in order to demto exercise freedom of association. |GRI HR5| safety and environmental (SSMA) training onstrate method and transparency in the an investment of R$ R$ 3.4 million (R$ 5.5 succession process at senior levels of the million in 2009). Company. The analysis is carried out using Various programs are run for ensuring tools and structured data which permit the optimum conditions of health and safety. visualization of the career curve and idenExamples are prevention of and education tification of potential. In 2010, 2,636 leaders on chemical dependence, professional rehawere involved in this process, 2.33% of total bilitation, participative ergonomics, health and headcount. |GRI LA12| safety dialogs, in addition to legal mandatory requirements with respect to such aspects as medical controls and occupational health. In addition, the Quality of Life at Work Program Hours of training |GRI LA10| (PQVT) seeks to make the working environment more agreeable through activities such Função BRF Sadia Consolidated as workplace gymnastics, physical fitness cenManagerial 5.15 6.72 5.93 ters and professional rehabilitation. |GRI LA8| Supervisory/Coordination 4.81 15.71 10.26 Administrative 4.97 1.42 3.19 Operational 4.02 5.78 4.9 Commercial (1) 12.00 12.00 (1) In 2010, Sadia controlled the average hour/training of the commercial team separately (branch regional managers, supervisors/coordinators, sellers and promoters). From 2011, the information will be consolidated based on a single criterion. 41 Annual and sustainability report 2010 Suppliers BRF has launched its World long as the requisites of the Company are met. of public information, notably the Slave Labor In 2010, 39.4% of the amount spent on suppliBlack List published in the internet (www.reClass Supply Chain program ers took place in regions close to the Company’s porterbrasil.org.br), and the list of embargoed based upon five pillars – principal industrial units. This compares with areas published by the Federal Environmental 44% in 2009. The ratio is 100% in the case of the Protection Agency (IBAMA, in siscom.ibama. people, processes, innovation, integrated outgrowers (poultry and hog breedgov.br/geo_sicafi). |GRI HR7| environment and information ers), beef cattle ranchers and milk producers. In Another Company initiative is the Two Ways relation to grain supply, other factors affect deciProgram, a chemical dependence prevention technology. sions, negotiations depending on harvests, level project for raising awareness among truck drivof demand, prices, etc. The Supply Chain area ers transporting BRF’s products as to the risk The project seeks to identify and adopt the has structures in place to facilitate acquisition of these substances. The aims are to provide a best global supply chain practices for excelfrom locally-based suppliers. |GRI EC6| better quality of life, establishing a safe and relence in execution at the point of sale and in sponsible means of transportation, minimizing the purchase of raw materials and supplies to Monitoring of the supply the risks and preserving the company image as assure leadership in the management of client chain |GRI 1.2| well as the lives of other highway users. costs and services. Supplier Chain Monitoring Program is a set In 2010, the In the Right Direction Program This approach implies the migration of the of Company policies, practices and procedures was intensified to increase the awareness of supply chain area from a formal model of transfor operations designed to enhance sustaintruckers and their assistants as to the sexual actional negotiations (purchases) to a concept ability along the value chain. The program is exploitation of children so making them agents of procurement that is the development of currently at the implementation stage and has for protection and co-responsible for the elimibusinesses and suppliers. The latter involves the objective of consolidating BRF’s position as nation of the problem. The Program was notified negotiators becoming business managers by a catalyst for sustainability in Brazilian agriculto all BRF logistics suppliers which have been inseeking to understand raw material trends ture by providing incentives to sustainable and structed to report any occurrences. Each regional as well as the indigenous and international certified suppliers, identification of the main office has groups which organize meetings with economy and the needs of domestic and oversocial and environmental risks and reduction truckers to discuss the matter. During the year, a seas clients, thus becoming direct participants in environmental impacts. total of 3,214 In the Right Direction primers were in the development of the overall business. Measures have already been taken to handed out to trained drivers. The project is to be Routines for analysis of data on performance improve control and auditing to avoid disreexpanded during 2011. |GRI HR6| of equipment, products and processes, and spect for human rights, forced labor or labor BRF also requires that all employees of the monitoring of the competition thereby analogous to slavery and child exploitation. companies providing janitorial services undergo become key to purchasing decisions. In this context, the Company has charted and training certified by the National Security PerThe Company selects its suppliers on the identified the supply chain, meal, oil, grains, sonnel License (CNV). Prepared by the Federal basis of commercial viability, cost competitivebeef cattle, dairy products and logistics as areas Police, the Program includes a section on Huness, technical capacity, economic-financial representing significant risk. man Rights. Additionally, all outsourced workers status and alignment to social policies and In order to eliminate the possibility of ocbeginning their activities with BRF receive two guidelines. In spite of not having a set policy currences, action has been taken to reinforce hours of training covering the Code of Ethics, as to preference for locally-based suppliers, in initiatives for the control of suppliers and the Occupational Safety, Best Practice Standards practice in certain segments – those of services raw materials production chain through the (GMP – Good Manufacturing Practices), the 5S and investments involving smaller values for adoption of more rigid contractual clauses. BRF Program, among others. |GRI HR8| instance – priority is given to this category as supports its work in this direction with the use Participation of locally-based suppliers |GRI EC6| State % of amount São Paulo 60.5 Rio Grande do Sul 50.8 Santa Catarina 48.1 Mato Grosso 41.7 Minas Gerais 38.8 Paraná 34.0 Goiás 25.0 Rio de Janeiro 24.3 42 BRF Brasil Foods Suppliers contracts screened for human rights |GRI HR2| Auditing/technical Relationship Nr. of suppliers Contracts Self-appraisal visit guidelines Grains 2,000 100% 45% 30% 70% Integrated products 20,000 100% 100% 100% Não Aplicável 10 account for 90% of Meal and oil the volume 100% 100% Not applicable 100% Supplies 1,525 29% 6% (1) 32% (1) 57% Transportation 995 100% 60% 50% (1) New suppliers of direct materials (inputs and packaging etc.) Clients/Consumers All BRF’s products are subject their expectations had been exceeded. Batavo Communication reported a similar result, 99.86%. |GRI PR5| In line with the Company’s ethical printo evaluation of health and BRF received 373,682 consumer maniciples, BRF practices a communication and safety impacts during the festations in 2010, 125,084 with respect to marketing policy in accordance with the Perdigão, 132,978, Sadia and 115,620 related National Advertising Self-Regulation Council various phases of their life to dairy products. The majority of contacts (CONAR) and the Consumer Protection Code cycle from the conceptual with the Company was made by telephone (CDC). BRF uses publicity campaigns and (70%), followed by internet (28%) and letter marketing initiatives to highlight values such stage to the phase of research (2%). Inquiries were responsible for 46% of as diversity and adopts rigid guidelines in and development of the consumer contacts followed by requests for relation to messages to its infant audience. recipes (34%) and sundry themes (11%). |GRI PR6| product and the packaging, Complaints about products and criticisms Since 2009, the Company made a public and manufacture, production, accounted for only 6% of the total. The rest was voluntary commitment with the Brazilian Food divided between allegations and suggestions Industry Association (ABIA) and the Brazilian warehousing, distribution (1% each) and compliments and thanks, 1%. Advertisers Association (ABA) to establish rigid and supply. criteria in communicating with children. Labeling The labeling on all BRF’s products carries In the case of dairy products, the analysis standardized information on packaging and also includes the stages of certification, marservices, content – especially items which can keting and promotion. Tracking is conducted have environmental and social impacts – safe through a specific checklist for monitoring use of the product as well as instructions as each one of these items. |GRI PR1| to post-consumption disposal and eventual impacts. |GRI PR3| Satisfaction The Company adheres strictly to the legislaAs part of its policy of getting closer to the tion and anticipates solutions which enrich conconsumer, BRF has run satisfaction surveys sumer information. The carton-paper packaging focused on the Perdigão and Batavo brands, is certified by the Forest Stewardship Council polling a total of 31,176 people. Out of this total, (FSC) testifying that the paper is produced from 28,224 were questioned on Perdigão, 99.81% forests planted in a sustainable manner. responding that they were satisfied or that 43 Annual and sustainability report 2010 Society |GRI SO1| BRF’s community initiatives The Company’s social investment is tion for supplying nearby cities and income directed towards projects in the public interenhancement. The program’s aim is to increase are aligned to the principle est, priority being given to educational and agribusiness activities in these communities of playing an important environmental themes. In 2010, it allocated in addition to establishing two nurseries for R$ 2.2 million to projects of this nature. the cultivation of native, forest and fruit tree role as an agent for seedlings for use in restoring the region’s biodisocial development in Socio-environmental projects versity and as a source of additional income for Socio-environmental projects involve the rural producers and their families. the locations where it local development of the municipalities where Digital Concórdia – Seeks to introduce operates its businesses. the Company has a presence on the ground. information technology into the classroom Projects are prepared and/or chosen on the in an innovative way, helping students and In so doing, it assumes basis of needs and local potential as well as professors to build up their wealth of knowlresponsibility for introducing their degree of alignment to the Company’s edge. The project is the result of a partnership social investment criteria. between BRF (Sadia Institute), the Municipal preventive, mitigating and Public call – 32 socio-environmental projGovernment of Concórdia (Education Secrecompensatory solutions ects were chosen from among an enrollment tary) and the Jaborandi Institute and entered of 160, 24 of which already concluded. The its final phase in 2010, denominated Profesfor its negative impacts work is focused on initiatives for improving sors on Line. A total of 12 municipal schools as well as maximizing and infant/adolescent and adult education, the participated in the pilot project. However, the social inclusion of people with special needs, plan is to transform the program into public managing its positive impacts, environmental awareness and preservation policy under the municipality’s Education assuming co-responsibility and the fostering of socio-environmental Secretary, the computer being used as a tool business, among others. A total of 27 in the formation of citizens able to assess for the development of the thousand people benefited either directly or their own attitudes and choices as well as the municipalities in which indirectly, representing 70% of the planned world in which they live. targets. Project monitoring is the responsibilDigital Station – Also focusing on digital it is located. ity of the social investment committees while inclusion, developed in Bom Conselho (PE) community relations are in the hands of voland training 120 students monthly in partnerunteer employees of the Company acting on ship with the Universidade de Pernambuco. an integrated basis with the corporate area in Since its inception in 2008, it has qualified 642 the planning and installation of initiatives. adolescents and adults to join the labor market. Time to act – An association between BRF Educational Center for People with (Sadia Institute), Camargo Corrêa Institute, Special Needs – The course includes classes Sebrae and local partners, the project develops in Braille (a form of writing to allow the visuinitiatives contributing to the sustainable ally handicapped to read) and Libras (Brazilian development of the Lucas do Rio Verde, Nova Sign Language for those with hearing handiMutum and Tapurah regions in the state of caps) in addition to elementary teaching. Mato Grosso. The project is divided along two In 2010, 59 students (against 47 in 2009) in axes, operating in urban and rural areas. The To Videira (SC) were trained in elementary teachDo Works Out was launched in Lucas do Rio ing (literacy, 2nd to 5th grade and 6th to 9th Verde, training 150 adolescents in sustainable grade), high school teaching, art workshop, entrepreneurship. In the rural area of Nova digital education through the Learn to Click Mutum and Tapurah, the project involves course and skills training to enter the job marinvestments in diversified agricultural producket. In Marau (RS), 49 students were trained 44 BRF Brasil Foods (57 in 2009) in elementary teaching (literacy Sport 1. Athlete for the Future – Partnerships and 2nd to 5th grade), Libras, Braille, digital with SESI (Social Service for Industry) in seven education and art workshop. The Company sees sport municipalities which have industrial units Actions with trash scavengers – The as an instrument for with a focus on “to work sport beyond sport”, Company participated in the constitution of developing complementary concepts such as the Trash and Citizenship Institute involving promoting the quality of life, health and education. This initiative currently trash scavenger entities from all over the state development of values and attends about 7,100 children. of Paraná. The activity began in April 2010 with 2. Launch Yourself into the Future – duration of a year, also operating in alignment social inclusion. Support to the Launch yourself into the with the State Solid Waste Policy. The project Future project attending annually about 600 supports the setting up of new scavenger children, adolescents and young people in cooperatives dedicated to collecting post-conathletics. Begun in 2010, this sponsorship sumption packaging (PET bottles, glass bottles, Consequently, it invests in actions such as includes a specific training program for adocarton packaging, etc.). Once processed, the 5 km Perdigão, a program launched in 2007 lescents and young people with potential to material collected is sold to the recyclers. to increase employee and community awarebe top class athletics. Social Action – The project is designed to ness of the importance of practicing physical 3. GR Program – Partnership with SESI and facilitate access to health services (medical and exercise for achieving quality of life. In 2010, 6 Toledo City Government (PR), has as its core dental attendances), citizenship (receipt and/or thousand registered for the event, 50% more interest the development of children, adolesregularization of documents, legal advice, etc.) than in 2009. The event was held at Videira cents and young people through rhythmic and education in addition to activities involving (SC), Carambeí (PR), Rio Verde (GO), Marau gymnastics, including top class athletes in the culture, leisure and sport. This initiative is aimed (RS) and Lajeado (RS). sport. In 2010, approximately 1.2 thousand at improving the quality of life of the population BRF also invests in the development of children benefited from the program. The living in the communities residing close to the children, adolescents and young people by project currently includes 29 athletes in the Company’s industrial units. BRF, in partnership supporting programs for stimulating sport on high performance team. with institutions and local companies, works three fronts as an agent for local change by putting into practice the project’s elected activities. Since its creation in 2003, the program has been responsible for more than 300 thousand attendances, 68,377 of these in 2010 alone. 45 Environmental performance Environmental management BRF is continually investing in Investments in 2010 amounted to R$ 144.1 The Company adopts measures for the million, a year on year increase of 29%. The preservation of natural resources especially environmental management majority of resources (51.3%) were applied in water -, the reduction of greenhouse gases, as part of its commitment disposal, treatment of waste and mitigation energy, biodiversity, recycling and environof impacts and reforestation (31.8%). Reforesmental education. These actions permeate to sustainability. tation areas consist of pinus and eucalyptus, the entire operation and the communities the wood from which is used to generate where the production units are sited. In this steam at the industrial units in substitution way, BRF contributes towards consolidating for fossil fuels, a strategy which diminishes a culture alert to sustainable development in the impact of greenhouse gas emissions on relation to all segments of its activities and all the environment. stakeholders. Environmental investments Consolidated BRF (R$) |GRI EN30| 2009 2010 Prevention and Management 21,130,781 24,325,726 Disposal, Treatment and Mitigation of Impacts 66,487,836 74,013,278 Investments in Forest Plantations 24,222,354 45,796,104 Total 111,840,971 144,135,104 46 Water consumption BRF treats the rational use of water as an stable in relation to 2009 (20.2%). However, The priority given to capturing surface waabsolute priority for the investments it makes during the year there was an increase of 6% ter is another important measure contributin technologies and environmental managein production, implying a greater level of ing to rational use and reducing the impact of ment processes. Water is an essential input for efficiency in the use of water for activities in the industrial operation on the environment. the food industry and vital to the production which there is no contact with the production This helps the Company avoid using groundof its raw material and rural operations as process – for example, the cleaning of floors, water sources and the public utility system in well as the processing and finalization of the bathrooms and in the irrigation of green competition with the local population. As a products. The industry’s expansion is a direct areas. In industrial units such as Capinzal (SC), result of this strategy, there was a reduction function of this input and water shortage is the reuse ratio was as high as 47% in 2010. of 582,574 cubic meters in water withdrawn one of the constraining factors on sector Among the actions planned for 2011, the from the public utility system. This decline growth. This issue is a concern that goes beuse of recycled water will continue to increase. reflects both a reduction in consumption yond the frontiers of the Company itself and The installation of a reused water treatment and the discontinuation of BRF’s Porto Alegre finds support in global awareness campaigns plant in Serafina Correa (RS) will permit a plant. The target in 2011 is to reduce water and initiatives for preserving natural resources reduction of 300 thousand cubic meters of capture from public sources by 300 thousand and the planet as a whole. water withdrawn from the public supply cubic meters. |GRI EN8| Despite an increase in production, BRF’s system, a volume equivalent to the supply In 2012, the Company plans a water water usage remained unchanged from of a city of 5.5 thousand inhabitants. The resource study to measure the affect of 2009 thanks to initiatives and projects for plant at Teutônia (RS) created a hydro-team, water withdrawal on the regions where it has improving excellence in usage. The Company a multidisciplinary team which evaluates and operations. The objective is to evaluate the invests in processes for the reuse of water proposes improvements in processes for the impact of water capture and whether there at its operations and as a result reuse ratios rational use of water, contributing to a saving are conflicts or possible emergency situations have been growing year after year. In 2010, of 14% of the total used at the unit, equivalent which could compromise future supplies. the reuse ratio stood at 20.4%, apparently to 113.5 thousand cubic meters. |GRI EN9| 47 Annual and sustainability report 2010 Water consumption (m3/year) – BRF Consolidated |GRI EN8, EN10| 2009 2010 % of total Ch. Total 61,226,432 61,202,360 100.0 0.04% Surface 41,693,856 41,139,557 68.3% 1.33% Underground 17,350,531 17,486,230 29.0% 0.78% Public utility supply 2,136,939 1,554,365 2.6% 27.26% Rainwater 45,105 32,154 0.1% 28.71% Total of reuse 15,506,752 15,701,346 1.3% % of reuse 20.2% 20.4% 0.2 pp Disposal of effluent |GRI EN21| 2009 2010 Superficial 52,758,568 52,233,375 Soil 1,050,429 862,317 Total 53,808,997 53,095,692 Effluents Energy consumption caused by the extraction and processing of All BRF’s industrial units have Effluent Three working parties with members energy, these initiatives have allowed BRF to Treatment Plants (ETPs). Water is returned to drawn from the various manufacturing areas cut costs in product processing and increase the environment according to parameters were set up to study the consumption of eleccompetitiveness. Examples of improvements required by the legislation and in conditions tricity, the use and consumption of steam and during the year were: updating of technolwhere it can be reused and absorbed without increasing the efficiency of reforestation to ogy, improving the efficiency of refrigeration causing damage to nature – an additional obtain greater productivity from wood used systems; standardization and training of company commitment to the environment. as a source of power. The teams’ diagnosis reoperators, with operational improvements All effluent is treated through flotation provealed opportunities for increasing energy efin chilling and freezing processes, increased cesses, discharged into anaerobic or aerated/ ficiency of both equipment and processes to efficiency in steam generation and a reducaerobic lakes or activated sludge. Effluent ensure better natural resource management. tion in losses from steam distribution. In 2011 volume fell year on year by 1.3%. |GRI EN21| Based on the studies, plans were prepared the Company’s target is to save a further 250 for each industrial unit and reflected in 420 thousand GJ of electric energy. |GRI EN5| actions of either an operational or investment Direct Energy – BRF’s use of direct energy nature. Action plans not requiring investment increased 3.8% in 2010 although this was were immediately put into practice and for concentrated in energy from renewable those requiring investments, allocation of sources (a further 4.6%), while a decrease of resources was approved with execution to be 8.6% was recorded in energy generated from concluded by April 2011. fossil fuels. During the year, 94.89% of all enAs a result of this work, BRF was able to ergy consumed by the Company came from record a saving of 341,496 GJ of electricrenewable sources. However, the variation ity in 2010 compared with the preceding in consumption came in at below producyear, a reduction of 4.78% in total indirect tion increases for the year, an indication of energy consumption. Hence, in addition reduced demand for energy as a result of to reducing the environmental impacts improvements in efficiency of systems. 48 BRF Brasil Foods Consumption of direct energy (GJ) |GRI EN3| 2009 2010 Ch. (%) Renewable energy Ethanol 1,358.93 735.24 -45.9% Rice Briquettes 9,635.33 Wood chips 5,374,267.59 11,441,207.14 112.9% Fire wood 9,952,549.27 4,978,860.14 -50.0% Vegetable oil 260,727.81 404,915.22 55.3% Off cuts 460,016.81 Sawdust 2,202,912.66 2,247,976.38 2.0% Subtotal 18,251,833.07 19,083,329.47 4.6% Non renewable BPF 476,228.56 478,347.06 0.4% Diesel 110,671.97 77,472.64 -30.0% Gasoline 1,943.96 2,571.67 32.3% LPG 271,794.62 266,035.74 -2.1% Kerosene 212.97 334.28 57.0% Shale 117,002.54 102,018.39 -12.8% Natural gas 147,244.79 101,287.13 -31.2% Subtotal 1,125,099.42 1,028,066.91 -8.6% Total 19,376,932.48 20,111,396.38 3.8% The larger part of direct energy was used Calculation of direct energy consumption Consumption of direct energy for steam generation in the boilers from is based on all the industrial meat and dairy biomass in the form of wood chips, firewood product processing plants (95% of direct from tree trunks or timber offcuts (sawmill energy consumed). Neither the agricultural waste). Due to the importance of this resource units (feed, incubators, poultry farms, etc.) nor in its energy matrix, BRF’s target is to increase the logistics installations were included except productivity from its reforestation projects 5.1% when physically part of the industrial units. Non by 25%. This will be done by using more Indirect energy – Electricity is the only renewable advanced technologies which reduce the reindirect energy source used by BRF. Wher94.9% quired area under forests. In processes where ever possible, the Company buys energy from Renewable the use of biomass is technically unfeasible, small hydroelectric plants due to the latter’s the Company employs BFP oil, shale, natural lesser environmental impact. In 2010, there gas or LPG. Diesel oil is consumed to operate was an increase of 1.1% in the use of indirect generators during National Interconnected energy, 89.8% of it from renewable sources System (SIN) peak hours. and matching the national energy matrix The target for 2011 is to increase the (National Electrical System Operator– ONS consumption of direct energy to 95% from data). The Company’s 2011 target to use 2% renewable energy sources with consequent more renewable energy than the national gains in efficiency. average includes the contracting of a larger quantity of energy from renewable sources to supply the industrial complex. |GRI EN4| 49 Annual and sustainability report 2010 Indirect energy consumption (GJ) |GRI EN4| 2009 2010 Ch. (%) Renewable source Hidroelectricity 6,182,550.41 6,287,132.78 1.7% Biomass 331,941.30 107,271.12 -67.7% Wind power 21,623.09 Photovoltaic 2.08 1.97 -5.3% Subtotal 6,514,494.79 6,416,029.96 -1.5% Fonte não renovável Gas 262,467.94 374,717.01 42.8% Oil 119,654.50 137,861.90 15.2% Nuclear 108,075.03 213,204.85 97.3% Coal 62,620.69 Subtotal 552,818.16 725,784.76 31.3% Total 7,067,312.95 7,141,813.71 1.1% Waste Collection of packaging |GRI EN27| In 2010, only 3.86% of all BRF’s waste was generated from industrial processing is stored In October 2010, BRF signed a partnership discharged into landfills. The Company’s goal at purpose-built locations to be subsequently agreement with TerraCycle, a global leader in is to further reduce this percentage through collected and transported for final disposal. the collection and reuse of post-consumption reuse and recycling. Only a small part of the All stages are covered by federal state and waste, with the objective of engaging conwaste is processed internally in accordance municipal legislation and by the Brazilian sumers in a campaign to reuse frozen food with current legislation. The rest is sent for Association of Technical Standards (ABNT). product cartridges and margarine tubs. This is recycling or external processing through third Waste is classified according to NBR 10.004 one more step in the Company’s commitment parties licensed by environmental protection and controlled at the corporate level. Nearly to contribute towards avoiding uncontrolled agencies to exercise this activity. In addiall (99.8%) pertains to Class II (not dangerous) disposal. The partnership’s target is to reach tion to complying with this determination, and basically originates from the productive 400 waste collection brigades. BRF adopts a rigorous selection process of process, an example being organic waste. To take part in the campaign, consumers licensed third parties, controls the licenses The remainder is Class I (dangerous), such as must register through the website (http://www. which have been granted and undertakes aulamps, flashlight batteries, vehicle batteries terracycle.com.br) and the Perdigão Brigade dits for monitoring conformity of processes. and waste produced from existing first aid will collect the material, subsequently sending After segregation and classification, waste medical posts at the units. |GRI EN22| it to TerraCycle for being transformed into ecoWaste Disposals 1.55% Incorporation in soil 3.86% Landfill 8.80% Recycling 0.01% Incineration 85.78% Composting Coopercampos 50 BRF Brasil Foods friendly products. The company has a catalog Sustainable Hog Farming of recycled items – lunch boxes, watches, bags System |GRI EN18| etc. – for retail commercialization. This is one of the Company’s most emThe measure contributes to the goal of reThe Brigade is already active in 20 states blematic sustainability projects, combining ducing carbon dioxide emissions (CO2) along with 238 signatures, 37% from schools and social, economic and environmental projects. the entire production, supply and distribution 30% from families, and has collected 1,947 BRF is developing a structured program for chain. Based on the projects already implepackages in three months. The initiative reducing greenhouse gas emissions to be mented and UNO methodology, the potential complies with the National Solid Waste Policy expanded to the entire hog supply chain – by is for an annual reduction of 591,418 tonnes approved in 2010. supporting the construction of biodigestors of CO2eq. In 2010, the reduction amounted on the properties of the integrated outgrowto 137,870 tonnes of CO2eq. The process for Atmospheric Emissions ers. As a result of this project, the latter are verification of the emissions will be conducted During 2011, the Company is to draw up its adopting the Clean Development Mechathroughout 2011 and following substantiation emissions inventory for 2010 in accordance with nisms (CDM), reducing the impact of manure of the reduction by the Designated Operating the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative (GHG). from hog farming activities. Entity (DOE), a request will be made to issue The inventory will give BRF a more detailed This project is a voluntary one aligned to the ERC (Emissions Reduction Certificate) picture of its emissions allowing it to diagnose Kyoto Protocol guidelines and operated by by the UNFCCC (United Nations Framework existing processes and systems and establish a the Perdigão Institute for Sustainability and Convention on Climate Change). long-term GGE management strategy. the Sadia Sustainability Institute in partnerThe project is one of a list of 50 private Reflecting the results of its policies for ship with the integrated outgrowers and sector global initiatives for reducing poverty reducing emissions, BRF was included in AgCert. It was the first project for a food comand improving living conditions included in BM&FBovespa’s Carbon Efficient Stock Index pany anywhere in the world to obtain United the United Nations Development Program’s (ICO2), established in 2010, to encourage Nations Organization registration, adopting (UNDP) report ‘Creating values for all – Stratecompanies to migrate to a low carbon the Programme of Activities methodology for gies for doing business with the poor’. production system. Trucost international the trading of carbon credits. consultancy was engaged by BM&FBovespa to assist in the structuring of the ICO2 and to estimate total emissions in the first year of the index. On the basis of 2009 figures, (BRF’s) emissions were estimated at 410,507 tonnes of CO2eq as scope 1 of the Greenhouse Gas Greenhouse Gas Emissions (t) |GRI EN16, EN17| Protocol (direct emissions) and 53,858 tonnes of CO2eq as scope 2 (indirect emissions). 2009(1) In addition to continuously monitoring the Scope 1 (direct) 410,507 status of its delivery fleet, BRF endeavors to Scope 2 (indirect) 53,858 build its distribution centers close to areas of consumption and supply, thus ensuring (1) Estimated emissions that its trucks are always operating with full loads and eliminating waste and reducing the impact on the environment. In 2010, the Company was recognized by the Depollution Project, the government of the state of Santa Catarina’s Environmental Program for Transportation designed by the National Transportation Confederation (CNT-SC). Inspections of the Company’s fleet showed that 87% of all vehicles was operating in accordance with the legislation and standards of quality. 51 Annual and sustainability report 2010 About this report This is the third year that BRF This report consolidates the economicby KPMG Auditores Independentes. Sociofinancial, social and environmental environmental information was based on Brasil Foods is publishing its information with respect to the period from corporate standards and verified internally. BSD performance according to January 1 to December 31 2010. Prepared Consulting has verified the level of application annually, the last document was published in of GRI Guidelines (version 3) and has declared Global Reporting Initiative March 2010. |GRI 3.1; 3.2; 3.3| full conformity with Level B. |GRI 3.6; 3.7; 3.8; (GRI) guidelines. The financial indicators cover all the 3.9; 3.13| operating units and subsidiaries in Brazil, Argentina, the United Kingdom and The Engagement |GRI 3.5, 4.14, 4.15, 4.16| Netherlands, while the information of a social Content definition was based on a process and environmental nature is restricted to of stakeholder engagement consisting of two the operations in Brazil and, in large part, workshops in which 40 people took part, 21 consolidate the indicators for BRF and Sadia. The representing external stakeholders (academia, financial statements are shown in accordance sectoral associations, shareholders, suppliers, with Brazilian accounting standards and the employees, civil society organizations) and 19 International Financial Reporting Standards internal stakeholders (managers). In parallel, – IFRS as determined by CVM (the Brazilian a further 20 individuals were consulted by Securities and Exchange Commission) e-mail from among representatives of the instructions 457/07 and 485/10, and audited internal and external stakeholders, including Materiality matrix Degree of importance for the stakeholders 01 05 02 12 11 08 06 03 13 23 16 09 07 04 2114 15 10 26 24 25 27 22 17 18 30 29 28 20 19 37 31 32 34 43 35 36 33 44 42 38 45 41 39 48 46 40 49 47 Degree of importance for the Company 52 BRF Brasil Foods board directors, vice presidents, executive identification of the themes covered in the issues situated above and close to the red line officers, clients and consumers. The particiGRI’s sectoral food supplement. This list of (from 1 to 5) are considered as having the pants evaluated the relevance of 49 themes, topics was authorized by BRF’s Sustainability highest degree of relevance. indicating what should be highlighted in the Committee prior to conducting the stakeEventual reformulations of information in report content and with greatest relevance to holder consultation process. previous documents are shown and justified the Company’s strategy and management. The matters raised formed the basis for throughout this publication. There have The panels were chaired by BSD Consulting the preparation of a materiality matrix, this been no significant changes compared with which was responsible for guiding particigraphically illustrating those issues deemed preceding years with respect to scope, limit pants on the process of evaluating materiality of greatest importance in the consultation or methods of measurement applied in the in the context of the GRI, the importance of process. The matrix is comprised of two axes: Report. |GRI 3.10; 3.11| the process of engagement as well as presentone which represents relevant topics from Doubts or requests for additional information ing the methodology for evaluation of susthe internal point of view (Company) and the may be sent to e-mail acoes@brasilfoods.com tainability issues. Subsequently, doubts and other which consists of those issues raised by or alternatively by contacting telephones – (55) questions were clarified and the questionnaire the external stakeholders. In the graph, those 11 2322-5061/5048/5051. |GRI 3.4| completed individually with the classification of each theme according to importance. The participants also assessed the application of the GRI principles in the 2009 report, and were given the opportunity to suggest improvePrincipal concerns |GRI 4.17| ments to be included in the 2010 version. In addition to enhancing the participation Themes deemed of critical importance by stakeholders of the strategic group in the validation of 1. Nutritional safety, quality of the products and packaging matters previously identified as well as the 2. Suitable working conditions and human rights inclusion of new issues for the 2010 report, 3. Compliance with environmental legislation the panels represented an opportunity for stakeholder dialog and involvement in the 4. Compliance with the social and environmental legislation on the part of integrated outgrowers and suppliers management of sustainability and in the preparation of BRF for the way it approaches 5. Relations of a long-term, transparent and ethical nature with mutual respect the treatment and disclosure of its perfor6. Ethics and mechanisms for combating corruption mance with respect to these themes. 7. Management of effluent, emissions and waste While not obligatory at the level of Ap8. Cleaner production, pollution prevention, reduction of negative impacts, plication B, in undertaking this activity, BRF operational efficiency increases the transparency and the seriousness with which sustainability is handled by corpo9. Occupational health and safety rate management. In adopting this initiative, 10. Company performance and the generation of value the Company takes one more step towards a 11. Sustainability policy higher application level in forthcoming reports. 12. Environmental protection in the areas surrounding the plants The process was initiated on the basis 13. Traceability along the supply chain of a survey of BRF’s key stakeholders, the criterion being their representativeness and 14. Policies and criteria for selecting and evaluating suppliers relationship with the main issues relating 15. Relationship with integrated outgrowers to the sustainability of the organization. In 16. Enhancing the importance of human capital addition, matters were raised for inclusion in 17. Health, nutrition and healthy food the report, having as their base the process of engagement undertaken for the 2009 report, 18. Rational and efficient use of water, materials and energy sectoral surveys of sustainability issues and 19. Responsible communication, labeling and information on products 53 Annual and sustainability report 2010 Social Report/IBASE 1. Basis of calculation 2010 (amount in R$ thousand) 2009 (amount in R$ thousand) Net sales (NS) 22.681 20.937 Operating results (OR) 1.001 733 Gross payroll (GP) 3.525 3.155 Amount (R$ Amount (R$ 2. Internal social indicators thousand) % of GP % of NS thousand) % of GP % of NS Food 128.10 3.63% 0.56% 156.95 4.97% 0.75% Mandatory payroll taxes and benefits 836.30 23.72% 3.69% 629.97 20.00% 3.01% Private pension plan 11.53 0.33% 0.05% 11.21 0.36% 0.05% Health 85.41 2.42% 0.38% 100.16 3.18% 0.48% Workplace health and safety 14.29 0.41% 0.06% 21.63 0.69% 0.10% Education, Training and Professional development 3.66 0.10% 0.02% 6.08 0.19% 0.03% Transportation 90.99 2.58% 0.40% 32.67 1.04% 0.16% Culture 0.00 0.00% 0.00% 14.4 0.46% 0.07% Day care or allowance for day care 1.28 0.04% 0.01% 1.15 0.04% 0.01% Profit sharing 23.13 0.66% 0.10% 26.76 0.85% 0.13% Other 26,50 0.75% 0.12% 47.41 1.51% 0.23% Total Internal social indicators 1,221.19 35% 5% 1,048.38 33.32% 5.01% Amount (R$ Amount (R$ 3. External social indicators thousand) % of OR % of NS thousand) % of OR % of NS Education 0.85 0.08% 0.00% 1.34 0.18% 0.01% Culture 0 0.00% 0.00% 0.01 0.00% 0.00% Health and sanitation 0.03 0.00% 0.00% 0.00 0.00% 0.00% Sports 1.20 0.11% 0.01% 0.59 0.08% 0.00% Hunger relief and food security 0.01 0.00% 0.00% 0.07 0.02% 0.00% Other 0.14 0.00% 0.00% 0.00 0.00% 0.00% Total contributions to society 2.23 0.22% 0.01% 2.00 0.27% 0.01% Taxes (excluding payroll taxes) 2,966.58 196% 13.08% 3,019.85 312% 14.42% Total – External social indicators 2,968.81 197% 13.09% 3,021.85 312.26% 14.43% Amount (R$ Amount (R$ 4. Environmental indicators thousand) % of OR % of NS thousand) % of OR % of NS Related to company operations 144.14 14.40% 0.64% 111.46 15.21% 0.53% External projects 0.00% 0.38 0.05% 0.00% Total invested in environment 144.14 14.40% 0.64% 111.84 15.26% 0.53% Regarding the establishment of ( ) does not establish targets ( ) does not establish targets annual targets to minimize waste and ( ) attains 0 to 50% targets ( ) attains 0 to 50% targets consumption during production/ ( ) attains 51 to 75% targets ( ) attains 51 to 75% targets operation and to improve the use of (X) attains 76 to 100% targets (X) attains 76 to 100% targets natural resources, the Company: 54 BRF Brasil Foods 5. Employee composition indicators 2010 2009 # of employees at the end of the period 113,710 114,059 # of hires during period 37,099 31,025 # of apprentices 551 300 # of outsourced employees 13,267 15,147 # of interns 454 298 # of employees over 45 11,206 11,680 # of women working at the Company 44,134 42,467 % of management positions occupied by women 15,55% 16.21% # of Afro-Brazilian employees working at the Company 18,491 17,012 % of management positions occupied by Afro-Brazilians 4.73% 4.35% # of employees with disabilities or special needs 1,154 1,044 6. Information relating to the exercise of corporate citizenship 2010 2009 Ratio of highest to lowest compensation at the Company 49.8 times ND Total # of accidents at the Company 1,078 949 (-12%) Social and environmental projects developed by the Company ( ) top level executives (x) top ( ) top level executives (x) top were selected by: level executives and mid-level level executives and mid-level management ( ) all employees management ( ) all employees The Company’s standards for safety and cleanliness in the ( ) top level executives and mid-level ( ) top level executives and mid-level workplace were set by: management (x) all employees + CIPA management (x) all employees + CIPA Concerning freedom of association, the right to collective ( ) is not involved ( ) follows ILO ( ) will not become involved ( ) bargaining and employee representation in unions, the standards (x) encourages and will follow ILO standards (x) will Company: follows ILO encourage and follow ILO The Company pension plan covers: ( ) top level executives ( ) top ( ) top level executives ( ) top level executives and mid-level level executives and mid-level management (x) all employees management (x) all employees The profit-sharing program covers: ( ) top level executives ( ) top ( ) top level executives ( ) top level executives and mid-level level executives and mid-level management (x) all employees management (x) all employees In the selection of suppliers, the same ethical standards and ( ) are not considered ( ) will not be considered standards of socio-environmental responsibility adopted by ( ) are suggested ( ) will be suggested the Company: (x) are required (x) will be required On the participation of employees in volunteer work, the ( ) is not involved ( ) supports it ( ) will not be involved ( ) will support Company: (x) organizes and encourages it it (x) will organize and encourage it Total number of consumer complaints and criticisms: to the Company: not informed Not informed to Procon: 52 to the Law Courts: 77 % of complaints and criticisms answered or solved: by the Company: 100% by the Company: 100% through Procon: 10% through Procon: not informed through the Law Courts: 11% through the Law Courts: not informed Total added value to be distributed (in R$ million) In 2010: R$ 9,035 In 2009: R$ 6,323 Distribution of Added Value (DAV) 39.1% government / 35.0% 41.7% government / 34.5% employees / 17.0% third parties/ employees / 21.9% third parties / 2.9% shareholders/ 6.0% retained 1.5% shareholders / 0.4% retained 7. Other information • IBASE data – BRF and Sadia pro-forma figures • Item “6 – Relevant information on the exercising of corporate citizenship” relates to BRF only since data between companies is still not consolidated due to some CADE and management-related restrictions. • Economic sector: Food industry – Registered Offices: Santa Catarina • This Company does not employ child labor, degrading or analogous to slave labor, is not involved with prostitution or sexual exploitation of children or adolescents and is not involved with corruption. The Company values and respects diversity both internally and externally. 55 Annual and sustainability report 2010 Practices aligned with the UN Global Compac UN Global Millennium Compact Principles Development Goals Actions Human Rights • Code of Ethics and Conduct • Mission, Vision and Values • Clauses incorporating human rights issues in goods and services supplier contracts • Monitoring of the supply chain • Investment of R$ 1.4 million in social projects • Local development projects (Community Development Committees) • Income generation projects (Time to Act, Trash and Citizenship Institute) • Education and social inclusion programs (Digital Concórdia, Digital Station) • Social action with 68,377 attendances in 2010 • Membership of the National Pact for the Eradication of Slave Labor in Brazil • Membership of the Right Direction Program (fighting the sexual exploitation of children) • Participation in the Choices International Foundation (products made according to the World Health Organization’s nutritional recommendations) • Signatory of the Cattle Ranching Pact / Sustainable Connections Labor Rights • Code of Ethics and Conduct • Mission, Vision and Values • Professional training and development Programs • Confidential channels for making complaints of irregularities • Human Resources health, safety and quality of life projects • Health, Safety and Environment System (SSMA) • OHSAS 18000 certification • Labor union relations • Retirement preparation program Environment • Code of Ethics and Conduct • Mission, Vision and Values • ISO 14001 certification • Clauses incorporating human rights issues in goods and services supplier contracts • Health, Safety and Environment System (SSMA) • Membership of the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program • Participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project Anti-Corruption • Code of Ethics and Conduct • Mission, Vision and Values • Corporate Governance • Governance, Sustainability and Strategy Committee • External audit for validation of economic and financial data • Internal audit • Adherence to the Corporate Pact for Integrity and Against Corruption 56 BRF Brasil Foods GRI Reference Index Global Compact Principle Page / Comment Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement on the significance of sustainability 4, 5 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 6, 7, 42 Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization 2 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 2, 30, 31 2.3 Operational structure 2 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 60 2.5 Countries and regions where the organization operates 2, 30, 31 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 2 2.7 Markets served (regions, sectors and types of clients/ beneficiaries) 2, 36, 37 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 2 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period in relation to size, structure, or shareholding 3 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 18 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided 52 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 52 3.3 Reporting cycle 52 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 53, 60 Scope and limit of the Report 3.5 Process for defining report content 52 3.6 Boundary of the report (countries, divisions, subsidiaries, suppliers) 52 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 52 3.8 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations 52 3.9 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports 52 3.10 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 53 3.11 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 53 3.12 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations 57, 58, 59 Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 53 Governance, commitments and engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 1 to 10 11 4.2 Statement on whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 1 to 10 12 4.3 Independent or non-executive members of the highest governance body 1 to 10 12 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations to the highest governance body 1 to 10 11 4.5 Linkage between compensation and performance 1 to 10 12, 13, 14 4.6 Processes in place to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 1 to 10 10 4.7 Processes for determining the qualifications and knowledge of the members of the highest governance body 1 to 10 12 4.8 Statements of mission and values, codes of internal conduct and principles relevant to economic, environmental 1 to 10 Cover and social performance, as well as the status of their implementation 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management 1 to 10 10, 13 of economic, environmental and social performance, including significant risks and opportunities, as well as compliance or conformity with internationally agreed norms, codes of conduct and principles 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance including economic, environmental 1 to 10 12 and social performance Commitments to external initiatives 4.11 Precautionary approach or principle 7 19 4.12 Externally developed charters, principles or other initiatives subscribed or endorsed 17 4.13 Membership of associations and/or national/international organizations 17 Engagement of stakeholders 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 52 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 52 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 52 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 53 Confirmation of the Application Level for the BRF ‘s Annual and Sustainability Report, 2010 has shown a highly comGRI-G3 Guidelines prehensive coverage in the list of indicators required by the GRI for Level Annual and Sustainability Report, 2010 B reports. BRF Brasil Foods It was not within BSD’s remit to verify the content and veracity of the BSD Consulting has verified the application level of the guidelines for the replies given to the indicators. Sustainability Reports of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI (version São Paulo, April 14 2011 G3) in this edition of BRF’s Annual and Sustainability Report, 2010. Based on verification of content provided, we can confirm that the application B BSD Consulting level of the GRI-G3 was successfully reached in this version. Marcelo Aversa, Partner, BSD Consulting Joyce Fernandes, Projects Manager, BSD Consulting 57 Annual and sustainability report 2010 ES Essential indicator AD Additional indicator Global Compact Performance Indicators Principle Page / Comment Economic Performance Indicators Management approach 1, 4, 6, 7 6, 7, 42 Economic Performance ES EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 40 e IBASE ES EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 7 ND ES EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations BRF has defined benefit plan obligations. ES EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government ND Market presence AD EC5 Ratio of lowest wage to highest wage 1e6 ND ES EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers 42 ES EC7 Procedures for local hiring 6 ND Indirect economic impacts ES EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided for public benefit ND AD EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts ND Environmental performance indicators Management approach 7, 8, 9 46 51 Materials ES EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 8 ND ES EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 8, 9 ND Energy ES EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 8 49 ES EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 8 49, 50 AD EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 8, 9 48 AD EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient products and services 8, 9 ND AD EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 8, 9 ND Water ES EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 8 47, 48 AD EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 8 47, 48 AD EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 8, 9 47, 48 Biodiversity ES EN11 Location and size of land owned by the organization in protected or high biodiversity areas 8 ND ES EN12 Description of significant impacts on biodiversity 8 ND AD EN13 Habitats protected or restored 8, 9 ND AD EN14 Strategies for managing impacts on biodiversity 8, 9 ND AD EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species 8 ND Emissions, discharges and waste ES EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 8 51 ES EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 8 51 ES EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 7, 8, 9 51 ES EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 8 ND ES EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 8 ND ES EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 8 48 ES EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 8 50 ES EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 8 ND AD EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported and disposed waste deemed hazardous 8 ND AD EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats affected by water 8 ND disposal and drainage Products and services ES EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services 7, 8, 9 ND ES EN27 Percentage of products and packaging materials that are reclaimed 8, 9 50 Conformity ES EN28 Monetary value of fines and total number of sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and 8 ND regulations Transport AD EN29 Environmental impacts of transporting products, goods, materials and members of the workforce 8, 9 ND General AD EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 7, 8, 9 46 Labor practices and decent work Employment 1, 3, 6 38 41 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region ES LA1 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 39 ES LA2 Benefits provided that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 6 39 AD LA3 Relations between the workforce and governance ND Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ES LA4 Minimum prior notice period for disclosure of operational changes 1, 3 41 ES LA5 Workplace health and safety 3 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal health and safety committees AD LA6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and death 1 40 58 BRF Brasil Foods Global Compact Performance Indicators Principle Page / Comment ES LA7 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs 1 40 ES LA8 Programas de educação, treinamento, aconselhamento, prevenção e controle de risco 1 41 AD LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 1 41 Training and development ES LA10 Average hours of training per year, per employee, by employee category 6 41 AD LA11 Programs for skills management, lifelong learning and career ending 41 AD LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance reviews 41 Diversity and equal opportunities ES LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees by gender, age group and ethnic origin 1, 6 39 ES LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 1, 6 There is no discrimination according to gender, race, etc. Any differences are due to aspects such as experience in the role, qualifications, ability and performance. Human rights performance indicators Management approach 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 42 Investment and purchase process practices ES HR1 Description of policies and clauses incorporating human rights concerns in investment contracts 1a6 ND ES HR2 Suppliers that have undergone screening on human rights 1a6 43 AD HR3 Employee training on human rights issues 1a6 16 Nondiscrimination ES HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 1, 2, 6 None registered Freedom of association and collective negotiation ES HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association may be at risk 1, 2, 3 41 Child labor ES HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor 1, 2, 5 42 Forced or analogous to slave labor ES HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or analogous to slave labor 1, 2, 4 42 Security practices AD HR8 Security personnel trained in aspects concerning human rights 1, 2 42 Indigenous rights AD HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people 1, 2 No violations were registered Society performance indicators Management approach 10 16, 44 Local community ES SO1 Programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on local communities 1 44, 45 Corruption ES SO2 Total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 10 16 ES SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 10 16 ES SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 10 16 Public policies ES SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 1 a 10 ND AD SO6 Financial contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions 10 ND Anti-competitive behavior AD SO7 Number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Compliance ES SO8 Description of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and 17 regulations Product responsibility Management Approach 1, 8 43 Customer health and safety ES PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed 1 43 AD PR2 Compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety 1 88 incidents relating to product quality were registered by the Legal Department, but no case impacted on consumer health. Product and Service Labeling ES PR3 Type of product and service information required by labeling procedures 8 43 AD PR4 Description of incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning information and labeling 8 22 incidents were registered, but no decision was reached in any of the cases. AD PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys 43 Marketing Communications ES PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications 43 AD PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications 3 incidents were registered, with 2 relating to promotional campaigns and 1 for supposedly incorrect information on butter labeling. Customer Privacy AD PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 1 ND Compliance ES PR9 Fines for non-compliance in the provision and use of products and services ND 59 Annual and sustainability report 2010 Corporate information Head Office |GRI 2.4| Stock Exchange Ticker Symbols Rua Jorge Tzachel, 475 BM&FBOVESPA 88301-600 Itajaí – SC – Brazil BRFS3 – Common Shares – New Market New York Stock Exchange – NYSE Corporate headquarters BRFS –Level III ADRs Rua Hungria, 1400 – 5th floor 01455-000 São Paulo – SP – Brazil Official Newspapers Phone: (55 11) 2322-5000 Diário Oficial do Estado de Santa Catarina Fax: (55 11) 2322-5747 Diário Catarinense www.brasilfoods.com Valor Econômico Investor Relations |GRI 3.4| Independent Auditors Leopoldo Viriato Saboya – Vice KPMG Auditores Independentes President of Finance, Administration and Investor Relations Elcio Ito – Director of Finance and Investor Relations Edina Biava – IR Manager Rua Hungria, 1400 – 5th floor 01455-000 São Paulo – SP – Brazil Phone: (55 11) 2322-5052/ 5061 / 5048 Fax: (55 11) 2322-5747 E-mail: acoes@brasilfoods.com www.brasilfoods.com/ir Depositary Banks In Brazil Banco Itaú S/A Av. Engenheiro Armando de Arruda Pereira, 707 – 9th floor 04344-902 São Paulo – SP – Brazil Tel: (55 11) 5029-1908 Fax: (55 11) 5029-1917 In the USA The Bank of New York Mellon Investor Services P.O. Box 11258 Church Street Station New York NY 10286-1258 USA Phone: 1-888-269-2377 E-mail: shareowners@bankofny.com www.bankofny.com 60 Credits General Coordination The results for 2010 consolidate the CompaFinancial, Administration and Investor nies BRF Brasil Foods S.A. and Sadia S.A. Relations Department (wholly owned subsidiary). Sadia’s results have been fully consolidated since July 2009 Collaboration pursuant to the Association Agreement and Domestic Market, Export Market, Food Shareholder Meetings for the merger of shares Services, Dairy, Operations, Corporate which took place in July and August 2009. Affairs, Human Resources, Supply Chain, The merger between BRF and Sadia is Strategy and New Business and Technolcurrently under analysis by the Brazilian System ogy. for Protection of Competition and its implementation depends on the approval of Design the Administrative Council for Economic A10 Defense CADE. On July 7 2009, an Agreement was signed with CADE (APRO – Transaction Text Reversibility Preservation Agreement) which Editora Contadino ensures the reversibility of the operation, BRF Team authorizes the preparation of synergetic Paul Steele (translation) studies and the adoption of joint management initiatives with respect to treasury activities. GRI Consulting The statements contained in this report with BSD Consulting respect to the outlook for the Company’s businesses, to the forecasts and results and the Images potential for the Company’s growth, constitute BRF collection mere projections and were based on management’s expectations in relation to the Printing Company’s future. These expectations are Leograf extremely dependent on changes in the market, on the general economic performance We would like to thank all who have of the country, the sector and the international worked in the preparation of this report: markets, being subject to changes. www.brasilfoods.com/ir
