CENTRAL WAREHOUSING CORPORATION (A Government of India Undertaking) Central Warehousing Corporation (CWC)’s Commitment in Support of UN’s Global Compact Programme Central Warehousing Corporation (CWC) is a Central Public Sector Enterprise (CPSE) under the administrative control of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Government of India. CWC is engaged in the business of warehousing, total logistics management and allied activities. Warehousing activities of CWC include storage of foodgrains, agricultural inputs and produce, other notified commodities, running of custom bonded warehouses, Container Freight Stations, Inland Clearance Depots, Air Cargo Complexes, etc. CWC is an ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001: 2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007 certified service organization and has established an Environmental Policy that specifies its concern and commitment for the environment. The maintenance of the systems is being continuously monitored through internal as well as third party audits. As a CPSE, CWC is obliged and committed to enforce various laws relating to the principles of the Global Compact Programme (GCP) as well as various/relevant legislations of the country. For this, CWC had initially formulated the Social Obligation Scheme (Corporate Social Responsibility), akin to GCP, as per which amount upto 1% of the post tax profit of the previous financial year was spent for developmental activities towards the society. However, during 2010-11, CWC has adopted the guidelines on CSR for CPSE’s issued by the Department of Public Enterprises, Ministry of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises, Government of India and has decided to provide 2% of the post tax profit for the previous financial year subject to a minimum of Rs. 3 crores for various CSR activities. Some of the possible areas of activities under CSR scheme are enumerated below:1 (i) Drinking Water Facility (ii) Education (iii) Electricity Facility (iv) Solar Lighting System (v) Health and Family Welfare (vi) Irrigation Facilities (vii) Sanitation and Public Health (viii) Pollution Control (ix) Animal Care (x) Promotion of Sports and Games (xi) Promotion of Art and Culture (xii) Environment friendly technologies (xiii) Promotion of livelihood for economically weaker sections through forward and backward linkages (xiv) Relief to victims of Natural Calamities like earth-quake, cyclone, drought & flood situation in any part of the country (xv) Supplementing Development Programmes of the Government (xvi) Non-conventional Energy Sources (xvii) Construction of Community Centres/Night Shelters/Old Age Homes (xviii) Imparting Vocational Training (xix) Setting up of skill development centres (xx) Adoption of villages (xxi) Taking action on points suggested by Ministry of Forest and Environment pertaining to Charter on Corporate Responsibility for Environment Protection for 17 categories of Industries. (xxii) Scholarships to meritorious students belonging to SC, ST, OBC and disabled categories (xxiii) Adoption/Construction of Hostels (especially those for SC/ST and girls) (xxiv) Skill training, entrepreneurship development and placement assistance programmes for youth (xxv) Building of Roads, Pathways and Bridges (xxvi) Entrepreneurship Development Programmes (EDP) 2 (xxvii) Disaster Management Activities including those related to amelioration/mitigation (xxviii) Activities related to the preservation of the Environment/Ecology and to Sustainable Development. The list is indicative and not exhaustive. CWC is also a founder member of Global Compact Society, New Delhi, now renamed as Global Compact Network (GCN). The ongoing activities and progress made by CWC on various principles of GCP is available on CWC’s web site: www.cewacor.nic.in and is also uploaded on UNGC web site www.unglobalcompact.org. A resume of different developmental activities during the fiscal year 2010 under the Global Compact Programme/Corporate Social Responsibility has also been published in CWC’s Annual Report for 2010-11. The CoP for the year 2010 is attached. Central Warehousing Corporation is deeply committed to the furtherance of principles of Global Compact Programme of the UN. (B.B. Pattanaik) Managing Director 3 CENTRAL WAREHOUSING CORPORATION (A GOVT. OF INDIA UNDERTAKING) Communication on Progress(CoP) for the year 2010 in respect of Central Warehousing Corporation, New Delhi, India, under the Global Compact Programme (GCP) Financial assistance has been provided during 2010 for following socially relevant developmental activities: S. Organization Purpose Amount Sanctioned Thrust area of GCP No. 1. Parichay Foundation, Sponsorship of Rs. 2,00,000/Promotion of New Delhi Cultural Event “Shanti Culture 5 Grand” 2. ISKCON Food Relief 6 Delivery vehicle for Rs. 30,00,000/Community Foundation providing mid-day meal Development programme to school children 3. District Collector For construction of Rs. 16,30,500/Community Cuddalore, Tamil Nadu Road pavement & other Development Development work at Cuddalore Distt., Tamil Nadu 4. BACE Marketing, New Workshop on CSR Rs. 3,62,135/Promotion of Delhi alongwith Department Education of Public Enterprises 5. SRM University, Sponsorship for child Rs. 2,00,000/Promotion of Chennai science Congress Education 6. Maratha Lancers, For sponsorship of Rs. 5,00,000/Promotion of Nagpur Nagpur International Sports Marathon 7. World HRD Congress Sponsorship of World Rs.3,00,000/Promotion of HRD Congress Education 8. Hindustan Prefab Ltd. Construction of 5 Rs. 18,75,000/Community houses in cloudburst Development areas of LEH Distt. 9. Basanta Memorial For construction of Rs. 1,00,000/Community Trust, West Bengal room in school Development 10. Farmers Training Scientific storage of Rs. 40,85,632/Promotion of Programme in various agricultural product Rural states of country Storage Technology 11. Engineering Davison, Creation of 48 Rs. 1,43,51,821/Community CWC, CO, New Delhi Rainwater Harvesting & structures & 11 Development Community bases for interest in Marketing ground water infrastructure canal 12. Sports Cell, CWC, CO, Scholarship of talented Rs. 5,22,607/Promotion of New Delhi student sport persons sports & payment of sports kit TOTAL Rs. 2,71,27,695/Rounded off to Rs. 271.28 lakh. 4 Summary of Activities of the above table S.No. Activity/Thrust Area Amount Paid (Rs. in lakh) (i) Community Development 66.05 (ii) Creation of rain water harvesting 143.52 structures & Rural based Marketing infrastructure (iii) Promotion of IT, Culture, Sports, 20.85 Education (iv) Training of Farmers on scientific storage 40.86 and distribution of metal storage bins Total: 271.28 Details of achievements on the principles of Global Compact Programme A. Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights CWC as a business organization, all the way, supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights also which are more or less akin to the principles of fundamental rights enunciated in the Constitution of India. Principle 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses 5 In businesses due to various errors & omissions one is always amenable to any type of administrative/economic grievance. Such employees have full and free access to the CEO or the concerned in-house authority for solution. For redressal of grievances, a well-established grievance handling mechanism is also in function, under the control of Director of Public Grievances. In such processes, the employee is given full opportunity to protect himself, by following the laid down investigation mechanism, as per the need of natural justice. A large number of warehousing services/operations are carried out manually and are out-sourced. The CWC, while protecting interests of its own employees, also emphasizes protection of legitimate rights of such work-force as a Principal Employer, under Contract Labour (Abolition & Regulation Act) 1970 and Rules 1971 made thereunder. The Contractor makes the payment of wages to the Contract Labour in the presence of an authorized representative of the Principal Employer. The very objective is to ensure payment of minimum wages without fail. In addition, the labourers have the facility of canteen, safe drinking water, rest room, first aid, etc. The Constitution of India and the other laws of land ensure noncomplicity to all the human right abuses. CWC is no exception to it. Businesses in Other Action/Activities undertaken during 2010 for internalizing GCP principles • Under the Farmers Extension Service Scheme, which is being operated since 1978-79 as a part of its wider social responsibility, trained technical experts in scientific storage of foodgrains visit the villages and educate the farmers to save their hard earned produce from various enemies in storage by adopting simple and scientific methods for which practical inputs are given, addressing the principle of “Promotion of Education/Technology”. 6 • During the year, through 292 Rural Based Warehouses, 5325 villages were visited by technical experts and 2,30,684 farmers were contacted/ educated on safe storage of foodgrains at farm level and post harvest loss minimization. • The scheme for providing rebate of 30% towards storage charges was introduced to the farmers for keeping their stocks in Warehouses, in keeping with the principle of “Promotion of Education/ Technology”. • Warehousing (Development & Regulations) Act, 2007 (WDR Act, 2007) The new Act “Warehousing (Development & Regulations) Act, 2007” (WDR Act, 2007) has been notified in the Official Gazette of the Government of India which provides that the Warehouse Receipt issued by a registered warehouse will enjoy status of a fully negotiable instrument and will increase liquidity in rural areas. Scientific warehousing of foodgrains/pulses/cereals etc. will be encouraged and will result in higher returns to farmers and better services to customers. The Act also has provisions for regulating of Warehousing activities, liability of warehousemen, setting up of a Warehousing Regulatory/Advisory Authority/Committee, Accreditation of Warehouses etc. The Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Govt. of India has accredited Central Warehousing Corporation as a nodal Training Agency to organize Training of Trainers to create a strong grid of resource persons/experts by imparting extensive training to them on the Act and to farmers on the awareness of WDR Act, 2007. Programmes on Warehousing (Development & Regulation) Act, 2007 During the year under report, the Corporation also organized : Training-of-Trainers” (TOT) programmes to equip the participants with adequate knowledge and information for disseminating the provisions, 7 benefits, implications of the Warehousing (Development & Regulation) Act 2007 further down the line. Besides farmers training programmes were also organized for creating awareness among the farming community about the benefits under this Act. The details are as under: S. No. Training of Trainers (ToT) FARMERS No. of Programmes No. of No. of No. of Officers Programmes Farmers trained trained 1 09 196 127 3802 Under CSR on 1710 Post Harvest Technology Total 5512 • Providing metallic storage bins free of cost to the farmers after giving proper training and educating farmers about the storage of their produce on post harvest technology was taken up, addressing the principle of “Promotion of Education/ Technology”. During this year, 4860 Storage Metal Bins were provided to the farmers. Commitment Next year 2,35,000 farmers will be trained under Farmers Extension Service Scheme(FESS) on scientific storage of foodgrains and following Awareness programme for Stakeholders and General Beneficiaries of Warehousing (Development and Regulations) Act, 2007 for officers and farmers will be organized:S.No. Training of Trainers(ToT) FARMERS No. of No. of No. of No. of Farmers Programmes Officers to Programmes to be trained be trained 1 04 100 171 6000 8 • Metallic storage bins will be provided free of cost to all the farmers after giving proper training and educating farmers about safe storage of their produce, on post harvest technology to help them to reduce losses in their produce stored at farm level, addressing the principle of “Promotion of Education/Technology”. B. Labour Standards Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. This year, the Corporation has conducted the membership verification through Secret Ballet. After election, one federation has been recognized at all India level & three Unions including the Federation have also been recognized at regional levels and one Union has also been recognized at Corporate Office level. The Management settles/resolves the issues pertaining to wage revision and fringe benefits of the employees through collective bargaining with the apex body of Trade Unions/Federation at Corporate level. There is no man days loss. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour The Corporation has fixed the norms of the working hours in its Corporate Office as well as Regional Offices. All the employees of the Corporation follow the same working timings. However, in case any employee stays beyond office hours during emergency, an overtime allowance is paid as per the Govt. rates. The Corporation is providing the facility of Casual Leave, Earned Leave, Medical Leave etc. besides Govt. Gazetted holidays, which can be availed by the employees, if required by them. Thus, employees are not forced / compelled to work. 9 Principle 5 The effective abolition of Child Labour The Corporation has its own service conditions duly approved by the Government and notified in the Gazette of India. As per the staff regulations, the minimum recruitment age of an employee has been fixed as 18 years. No employee is recruited below 18 years. In addition to this, various service providers are also instructed not to engage any labourer, below the age of 18 years, in order to observe strict compliance of abolition of child labour. Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation The Corporation recruits its employees as per the rules and procedure stipulated under the CWC (Staff) Regulations, 1986 and no laxity/discrimination is observed in filling the vacancies in any cadre. The Corporation selects a suitable candidate by conducting written test/interview and after thorough examination of the attitude and conduct of the candidate. C. Environment Principle 7, 8 and 9 ¾ Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental changes ¾ Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility ¾ Encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies 10 CWC has developed and implemented Environmental Management System (ISO 14001: 2004) and Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems (OHSAS 18001: 2007). Both the standards strongly prescribe the adoption of EHS Policy which takes into account, its objectives including the legal and other requirements. The EHS Policy states that:CWC is committed to ensure healthy and safe working environment and also ensure that all activities are carried out in a manner that ensures environment protection’. To meet this commitment, the Corporation has implemented systematic and pro-active management systems of ISO: 14001 and OHSAS: 18001, and strive to: ¾ Comply with applicable legal and other requirements. ¾ Provide adequate resources and implement controls necessary to comply with Environmental, Health & Safety requirements. ¾ Minimize environmental impact arising from activities by preventing/minimizing pollution and efficient use of natural resources. ¾ Monitor performances to achieve effective controls and Environmental, Health & Safety goals. ¾ Ensure Continual Improvement in EHS objectives and targets. ¾ Educate and ensure awareness to all concerned, with respect to EHS requirements through the process of ‘Kaizen’. The EHS Policy of CWC, based on its vision and mission, has clearly spelt out the EHS Objectives, which are as under:11 (i) To focus on conservation and optimum utilization of resources, such as water, electricity, paper, diesel etc., (ii) To reduce pollution levels related to air, water, soil and noise and enhance environmental performance. (iii) To reduce consumption of insecticides / pesticides in storage as decided from time to time by using Best Management Practices. (iv) To ensure safe working conditions, to reduce accidents/incidents. (v) To focus on ensuring occupational health and safety in all activities of the organization. (vi) To dispose all types of waste generated within the organization in an eco-friendly manner. (vii) To comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations including statutory obligations, to which the corporation subscribes by drawing the system boundaries. (viii) To enhance awareness with reference to EHS Management System amongst the employees on regular basis. (ix) To encourage plantation on vacant land and mitigate impact of loss of green cover by planting trees. (x) To ensure continual improvement in all EHS processes. It is further stated that the Corporation has been certified for different locations addressing the principles on “Environment” under various Management Systems Programmes as per the details given below:QMS ISO 9001: 2008 373 Units EMS ISO 14001: 2004 373 Units OHSAS 18001: 2007 373 Units 12 It includes Corporate Office, 17 Regional Offices, 4 Construction Cells and 351 Warehouses.  The Corporation built 52 Rain Water Harvesting structures out of which 33 were built in business premises and 19 were built in community schools. Commitment • Project on rain water harvesting at 30 different locations in the country will be implemented to conserve water and increase ground water level. • The EHS Management Systems, in vogue, have not only motivated the workforce of CWC but also put a positive impact on the overall productivity of the Organization. Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms including extension and bribery. Corporate Vigilance Division headed by Chief Vigilance Officer has the responsibility for vigilance administration. This includes preventive vigilance, punitive vigilance, surveillance and detection. Chief Vigilance Officer has the responsibility of collecting intelligence about the corrupt practices committed or likely to be committed by the employees of the Corporation for appropriate action. It deals with investigation of verifiable allegations having vigilance angle, handling of complaints, processing of vigilance cases for consideration of the Disciplinary Authority concerned for disciplinary action. Besides, appropriate steps are taken to prevent commission of improper practices/ misconduct. Preventive checks have been conducted from time to time to exercise vigilance on functional areas. Vigilance Division also sends advisory to the concerned Divisions of the Corporation for system improvement wherever considered necessary to 13 bring transparency and accountability. A close liaison is maintained by CVO with Central Vigilance Commission and Central Bureau of Investigation on vigilance matters. Vigilance Division is also endeavoring to improve vigilance administration through leveraging of technology in functional areas of the Organization. The following transparency measures are being taken in preventing corruption in the organization to achieve the objective. (i) E-tendering system has started; all tender documents are made available on our website. (ii) By making contract process more transparent. (iii) Training programme on administrative vigilance are organized from time to time for the employees of the Corporation. Every year Vigilance Awareness Week is organized to bring awareness amongst employees of the Corporation to prevent corrupt practices. Vigilance Awareness Period during 2010 was organized from October 25 – November 01, 2010 at Corporate Office and Regional Offices/ Construction Cells to sensitize the employees on vigilance matters. During this week, various activities such as; debate & quiz on vigilance issues were also arranged. A booklet titled ‘Vigilance – An overview’ was also released in a special function organized during the week wherein besides material on vigilance matters, selected case-studies on vigilance were also published to bring awareness amongst the staff to take necessary precautions. Commitment • Next year a training programme on vigilance will be conducted and the Vigilance Week will be observed to create vigilance awareness amongst the employees so that corrupt practices are discouraged at all levels. 14 As regards the impact of GCP, it is informed that the projects of community development, which are extension activities, take years to produce the quantifiable / measurable results. The Central Warehousing Corporation is thus deeply committed in furtherance of principles of Global Compact Programme of the UN. (B.B.Pattanaik) Managing Director 15
