Anahtar ve Elektrikli Ev Aletleri Sanayi A. Ş. Velibaba Mah. Ankara Cad. No: 188 Dolayoba Pendik 34896 İstanbul Türkiye Telephone: +90 216 307 74 01 pbx Fax: +90 216 307 74 04 Page 1 Content Message from General Manager ........................................................................................... 2 About the Report ..................................................................................................................3 Company Profile ................................................................................................................... 4 Targets................................................................................................................................. 10 Dialog with Stakeholders ..................................................................................................... 11 Financial Performance ......................................................................................................... 12 Environmental Responsibilities ........................................................................................... 14 Quality Management ........................................................................................................... 19 Employees ...........................................................................................................................20 Ten Principles of UN Global Compact..................................................................................28 Contact Information ............................................................................................................29 Page 2 Message from General Manager Our valuable Stakeholders, We are very pleased to share with you our first Communication on Progress (COP). With this report we present you our activities realized within the last one year. Despite the recognition of our brand with 40 years of history, we know the necessity for being able to move forward by creating a difference to our competitors manufacturing similar products and we know that it is necessary to make all activities by being aware of our social responsibility in today's circumstances. Therefore by remaining within the framework of corporate social responsibility we adopt a style of management in consideration of social, environmental, economic and ethical issues. Today, we do not only meet the customers demand, also it became more important to take into account the needs of all stakeholders in our field of activity. We support that our stakeholders consider the social, environmental, economic and ethical rules as being important as we do. Being aware of our global role, rather than eliminate the negative effects which are caused by our activities, we organize production activities which do not constitute a negative effect so we do reflect our efficiency to all our processes. We endeavor to constantly evolve by using the advanced technology with an ecofriendly and innovative approach. Our approach as a sample for our stakeholders is also welcomed by our customers. Besides strengthening our image, it creates a positive impression for our country. Training and activities are carried out to develop our corporate culture and also our employees. The most important cause of the increase in productivity is the successful and important work in the field of occupational health and safety of our employees. Peaceful, safe and participatory work environment leads to the formation of innovative ideas. Our management supports all activities that enhance the performance. In this report corporate information, our activities and goals on global compact are presented to our valuable stakeholders. We kindly await your support to achieve our goals and appreciate your feedback to ensure your participation. We thank you for everything what you did for the planet and for everything what you are going to do. Inanç Erdogan General Manager Page 3 about the Report We have considered “10 Principles of United Nations Global Compact when preparing our first Communication on Progress. Our goal in the near future is to present a report which is in accordance with Sustainability Reporting Principles of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) to provide an appropriate measure of activity. Therefore we are working on our data collection system to work according to these criteria. Over the years, the next reports will be able to provide a comparative data for previous periods. Page 4 Company Profile About AN-EL Co. was established in 1972 in order to meet house appliance producer's demands for electrical components. AN-EL is producing Rotary Switches, Rocker Switches, Slide Switches and Neon Indicators. Furthermore demands for small plastic and metal parts can be fulfilled by the production technique and experience. Our products are being presented to meet our customer’s expectations at the highest level of quality and service. Our references and products show that, being a supplier which can adapt to the developing sector has brought us to the current status and we are proud of this. We have established long term cooperation with the industry's leading companies. 75% of our products are exported directly or indirectly. 50% of this is being realized through the direct sales to the white goods producers. With 40 years of activity we have provided service to the national and international manufacturers of household appliances. Today we produce more than 20 million pieces of components per year. We provide our clients with a wide range of alternatives with growing diversity of products. Production Volume by Years 10.000.000 8.000.000 6.000.000 4.000.000 2.000.000 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Rotary Switch Rocker Switch Neon Indicator Page 5 Distribution of Signal Lamp Production to Major Customers (2010) ARÇELİK 11% VESTEL 11% OTHER ELECTROLUX 56% 13% INDESIT GDHA 4% SIMECO 4% 1% Regional Distribution of Net Sales South America Other 4% Africa 2% 5% Middle East 9% Turkey 52% Europe 28% Page 6 Our products are VDE certified and our system is certified to EN-ISO 9001:2008. Our environmental activities are in accordance with EN ISO 14001, occupational health and safety activities are in accordance with OHSAS 18001 standards. Also we are a participant of United Nations Global Compact initiative. Our enterprise is located in Pendik District of Istanbul City (Asian Side). It is 70 km of distance to Ataturk Airport and 3 km of distance to Sabiha Gokcen Airport. Our production plant has a covered area of 2,100 m². High quality production activities are carried out in our environment-friendly facility with high level of safety and health conditions with approximately 110 employees. Location of Our Plant Outside of Turkey we have dealers in Germany, Italy, France, Syria and Colombia. Page 7 History 1972 First activity has started with rotary switch production. 1976 At own building in Istanbul-Cevizli District activities continued to grow. Bakelite, porcelain and melamine rocker switch production started. 1978 Starting of Indicator lamp production with Bakelite body. 1980 Beside of Bakelite raw materials first indicator lamp with plastic body has been produced by using the plastic materials in production. 1984 Silk screen printing technique started to be implemented. 1985 Start of production for plastic parts with plastic injection machines at own plant. 1991 Silver contact production started with know-how support of Japanese Chugai Company. AKS Ltd. Co has been founded after joining a partnership with Mr. Konas. 1994 Purchase of Arburg branded machinery. 1995 AKS Ltd. has moved to its plant in Pendik District. 1996 BEYSAD (WHITE GOODS APPLIANCES ASSOCIATION) membership. 1997 First participation to the International Fair Domotechnica in Cologne-Germany. First export realized, VDE certification process started. 1998 Cooperation and Turkey Representation of BAR Electrowerke GmbH. 1999 Export grew after VDE certifications. 2000 Moved from Cevizli Facility to Pendik Facility. Page 8 2003 After a partnership with Mr. C. Arslan ANC Mold Machine Ind. Ltd. has been founded. 2004 Audit performed by VDE Testing and Certification Institute and awarded certification to ISO 9001: 2000. 2005 Our export rate has exceeded 1/3 of our total sales. 2008 AKS has moved to the new facility in Pendik District. The whole 2100 m² facility has started to be used by AN-EL. 2010 As a result of the audit performed by VDE Testing and Certification Institute, upgraded to ISO9001:2008 version. Participation to the United Nations Global Compact Initiative is realized. Share transfers to Mr. C. Durmaz at the joint venture of AKS Switch and Contact Industry. UYUMSOFT ERP Software has started to be implemented. 2011 New products have been introduced. Website has been updated. Especially tool and mass production studies about new special projects have been completed. Effectiveness of the ERP software has been achieved. Commissioning of automation projects started. Investment in machinery was started to increase production capacity. Occupational Health and Safety as well as our environment activities are continuing to develop. Page 9 Targets We are aware of our corporate citizenship responsibilities for a sustainable world. When fulfilling these responsibilities, we try to reduce the negative impact on environment and to increase the positive effects which are resulting from our products. By supplying quality, innovative, economical and reliable products we execute our role as sub-industry effectively and efficiently. Especially we try to meet the expectations of our customers and other stakeholders and we would like to be a part of a common development. We would like to create more employment with our increasing product range and capacity and would like increase qualification of our employees. We want to achieve these together with all stakeholders. We support practices that are open to innovation, give environment a high priority and lead to energy saving. We support the use of renewable energy sources. We execute a transparent and accountable management in accordance with ethical rules and we care about the needs of our stakeholders. We are working to create a workforce that enriches our corporate culture and social environment by improving human resources, experience, knowledge and ability. We evaluate our national interests in parallel to the global interests and we consider it important that we live in the same world. We are determined to move the activities, which increase our brand and corporate awareness with our service and products, to a higher level. For this reason, we apply a management style that conforms to system and standards. We have the key of quality. All of us must contribute to make a high quality life sustainable Page 10 Dialog with Stakeholders Our stakeholders are entities or individuals that can be significantly affected by our activities and products; and whose actions can affect our ability to successfully implement our strategies and achieve our objectives. We are trying to be in contact with our stakeholders. We determine and measure expectations by means of questionnaires and interviews mutually. We run a suggestion and award system which facilitates the participation and motivation. We provide information on various topics through our corporate web site, newsletters, print ads, articles and news stories. We are in full compliance in accordance with the requirements of laws, regulations and by-laws in regards to our contacts with local and central governments. We strive to contribute to the country's promotion and to the sectorial development by considering our national values in our relationships with our stakeholders in Turkey and abroad. Our Stakeholders: • Employees; they take active roles in our activities as their duties, powers and responsibilities are defined. Meetings, training and various motivational activities are our communication tools. Sustainability of communication is provided starting with job application interviews, performance evaluation system and suggestion system. • Shareholders; Board of directors of the company come together are monthly / yearly meetings. At these meetings necessary information exchange is made, strategic decisions are taken on the future of the institution. Regular communication is established through these meetings with our shareholders. • Customers; Objectives are defined by means of continuous communication, thus to meet the expectations and so efforts are being made to maintain a high level of satisfaction. We would like to take part in activities of our stakeholders that will allow us to progress as a corporate. We respect property rights related to design and private information. • Our Dealers; they are in the same position as our customers, however due to their relations with our customers they are also in a similar position as our employees. Therefore they are informed about representing our company in accordance with our policy and targets. They represent our company in the best way owing to up to date technical and corporate information. • Our Suppliers; they are our stakeholders with whom we try to ensure long-term cooperation due to their contribution to our activities with ontime delivery, high quality products and services. We share necessary information in all areas that we plan to progress. Page 11 • Neighbors and local community; they are our stakeholders that we strive to make them aware of in particular our sensitivity to environmental issues and the economic value we create in our region. • Official institutions and organizations; Official institutions and organizations that we are a member of or we are in contact with – Istanbul Chamber of Industry (Registration No: 13831) – Istanbul Chamber of Commerce (Registration No:182359) – Istanbul Association of Minerals and Metal Exporters (Registration No:8833) – KOSGEB (Small and Medium Enterprises Development Organization) – United Nations Global Compact Office – Municipality of Pendik – Pendik Industrial Vocational High School – Yakacik Industrial Vocational High School – Labor Office • Memberships in Associations / Foundations – White Good Suppliers Association (BEYSAD) – Ermenek and Surroundings Culture and Social Solidarity Foundation (ERÇEV) Page 12 Financial Performance The capital of our enterprise is 750.000 TL and the structure is an incorporated company. After starting the activity in 1972, direct export sales started in 1997 and grew rapidly up to 50% share within the total sales. Distribution of Net Sales by Year (%) 100 75 50 25 0 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Export Domestic Total Due to the export of products manufactured by our customers we can state that 75% of our total production represents our brand outside of Turkey. Our target is to be a global supplier performing export in a higher rate in the future. Page 13 Environmental Responsibilities Environmental Management Our approach to environmental issues is focused on reducing and taking control of the environmental effects of our activities and products. Raw materials and wastes are stored properly, chemicals are kept under control. The use of less material, creating less waste, water and energy consumption reduction, prevention of chemicals and wastes from polluting the nature are among our environmental improvement activities and goals. ‘Switch off Global Warming’ Campaign Primarily to raise awareness of our employees and to increase sensitivity of our customers in this topic, we started a campaign with ‘Switch off Global Warming’ slogan in 2007. ‘Switch off Global Warming’ slogan has been adopted as a criterion for R&D works. 35% energy saving was achieved during the first production of the first product we developed in the studies carried out according to this criterion. Name of the product is F1C (fastoneconnect), it is an indicator light. This product design by An-El, which has an interchangeable lens structure, allows for easy and rapid application. A user that has more than one indicator lamp in their appliances could only put F1C lamp body in stocks instead of storing from each Page 14 type separately. Almost all type of lamp lenses can easily be applied to the F1C lamp body. The application is extremely easy and fast. And the cable’s connection to the indicator light can easily be provided economically without requiring a specific terminal. AN-EL, with the decades of experience, supports the realization of special projects with R&D works provided to customers by using the capacity and production capability of its subsidiaries. In 2006 (SBL) thermostat production has started for the French firm Cotherm. Molds of plastic and metal components of this product and the production of this product are completely carried out by ANEL. Plastic parts are combined by the ultrasonic welding machine and control of the product is carried out by control robots made by AN-EL. Projects on WM16 and WM24 models are completed, 16 or 24-position rotary switches are going to be used as the program selector of washing machines. These projects are owned by Turkey’s leading white goods manufacturer and have been developed entirely according to the customer requirements. The switches are designed and certified according to the latest version of European Norm (EN) Device Standards. Today, criteria that stand out like efficiency, cost and environmental awareness are effecting the conditions of competition and we are aware that success will be of those who give importance to these criteria. Being aware of this, from 2012 we’re going to start to use renewable energy. Our supplier of electrical energy is going to be “Fina Enerji” which generates electrical energy from wind farms (100%). (http://www.fibaholding.com.tr/en/sirketler.php?gid=4&sid=68) Renewable energy is produced from sustainable sources such as wind, rain, sun, tidal and geothermal energy. And it is an environmentally friendly energy which does not produce any GHG emissions like carbon monoxide and methane. Page 15 SWITCH OFF GLOBAL WARMING CAMPAIGN POSTER Reduce the environmental Make your freezers leak temperature proof Not much, reduce only 1ºC and you can save some energy. Freezers work with high productivity when they are leak Even it is a low possibility, if it is cold, you can put on your proof, so they don’t need to work too much to freeze the air. pullover or sweat-shirt. Drive your automobiles Do not leave your electrically when you really need operated items at stand-by position Please prefer to walk or use public transport. In any case try Even if you leave your TV or similar items at stand-by not to use your car. This will be good for your health. position, they spend some unnecessary energy. Instead of switching off from remote control, you should stand up and shut down from the switch. Don’t warm up the sky Insulate your roof, walls, hot water lines and boiler against the heat loss. Check doors and windows for air leaks. Keep Don’t leave the chargers on your house mild and not warm and so you can cool our planet the plug a little bit. Please do also not leave your charger for mobile phones or laptop computers on the plug if you don’t charge any batteries or if the batteries are full. Reduce the washing temperature Instead of washing your textiles at 40-60ºC, wash at 30ºC, so Do not boil more than you can save energy and your textiles will still be shining enough white. Kettles spend more energy than you need for coffee or tea. If you will drink only one glass, put only one glass of water and We as AN-El Staff declare that we not more. individually take as a goal to do our best for preventable increasing of global warming in our social and business life. We also kindly ask you to be sensitive in this Turn off too bright lamps matter and raise the awareness in your Please turn off them if you really don’t need them because surroundings for yourself and your loved they spend too much energy. ones. Use the shower During a shower you spend only the half of energy for your bath and it requires less energy for heating the water. SWITCH OFF GLOBAL WARMING Use more productive bulbs Low energy bulbs can provide you the light you want and spend 3 times less power. If you don’t live in a night club please change your bulbs. Page 16 Other environmental activities: Waste management is carried out in accordance with the legislation. • Hazardous wastes are collected separately according to their codes and are disposed of through a licensed company. • Waste batteries are collected separately and waste batteries employees bring from their homes are also accepted. • Packaging wastes are sent to recycling within the scope of the system of Pendik Municipality. Gatings from injection machines are grinded to be reused in production process. These materials are used without disturbing the product properties and in acceptable proportions as specified by the raw material manufacturers. Safety Data Sheets of all chemicals in use are examined and the necessary information about chemicals is given to employees. Any new chemical which will be supplied is started to be used after it is approved in terms of environmental and occupational safety. Chemicals are kept in containers which carry a label including the name and the hazard sign. As a result of the examination by the authorities, it has been determined that our facility is not subject to Emission Permit requirement. We do not have an industrial wastewater discharge. Municipal (tap) water is purified by reverse osmosis system for obtaining drinking water. Energy efficiency activities: • The use of high efficiency lighting fixtures and bulbs. • The use thermal insulation jacket on injection machines. • Analyzing the down times of injection machines, improvements of energy efficiency according to the analysis results. • The use of air pistons which consume less compressed air in pneumatic processes. Maintenance and repairs performed to prevent leakage and losses. • Increase in efficiency with planned and periodic maintenance activities. • As a result of room temperature controls, closing the unnecessary radiators. • Bringing radiators closer to employees in large areas, to provide comfort and savings. • Reduction of lighting with fixtures in areas that benefit from the daylight. • Use of the lighting system with motion sensor in areas that are not occupied all the time. Page 17 Compliance with Legal Requirements RoHS In 2000, in line with customer demand, our activities about restriction of using lead, cadmium, mercury and bromine-containing flame retardants has began. In 2004, informing all suppliers about this subject has been completed. With the tests carried out, the use of raw materials that do not contain these substances has been achieved. Thus, the production is compatible with RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) Directive. As a result of harmonization efforts in Turkey, Regulation on the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment has been published in the Official Gazette on 30.05.2008 and entered into force on 30.05.2009. REACH – Substances of Very High Concern (SvHC) Substances of very high concern are the substances that are candidates to REACH regulation’s “Authorization List”. These substances are cancer-causing (carcinogenic), mutagenic, toxic to reproduction, persistent organic pollutant and bio accumulative substances. This category also includes chemicals that have equivalent risk like “endocrine system disruptors”. There are already 53 substances in the list of SvHC. Our products do not contain these substances. We are able to follow this by the declarations of conformity we receive from our suppliers. Environment Indicators (Year 2010) Amount of Domestic Waste 8.750 kg Average Water Consumption 3,5 m3 / day Average Water Consumption per Employee 0,032 m3 / day x employee Energy Consumption (Electricity – Natural gas) 306.250 kWh / year • Natural Gas (Heating purposes) 7000 m³ 95.900 kWh/year • Electricity (Pressurized Air, Production, 210.350 kWh / year Lighting, Heating, Cooling, etc.) Page 18 Quality Management ISO 9001:2008 Quality management system standard has been implemented as reference. It is provided that all departments and employees at all levels participate to the policy and practices. The efficiency of the quality system, decrease in customer complaints and increase in product reliability, technological development and productivity will be maintained; quality targets will be determined and will be recorded. Important topics of our quality policy; • Certification of design work by patents • Increasing the customer satisfaction and reducing the customer complaints • Compliance to relevant laws, regulations, legislation and standards • Reducing the non-conforming products / semi products and waste • Increasing the market share • Reducing the circulation of human resources and increase the staff training • Continue to expand the product range Our Quality Policy and targets will be continuously reviewed for providing communication within the company, being understood and being in line with the corporate goals. Our quality system will be developed continuously; its effectiveness will be continuously improved and reviewed. Thus it will be kept constantly dynamic with the participation of all employees. We respect our brand and the values we produce. We respect the Industrial Property Rights and we fulfill our right for the production, use, sell or export with the patents we have. Page 19 Employees Human Resources Management Our approach to the recruitment process Applications are evaluated in terms of education, experience, knowledge and skills by considering at first the ethical principles during the recruitment and assignment process. Each candidate is provided an equal opportunity. Information is given about our company's culture, structure and activities. Being our obligation, the number of employees with disabilities is always taken into consideration. Occupational safety and ability of the employees is considered in order to employ more. Applicants to the fixed-term employment are being informed. Besides the expectations from the candidates, we inform them about improvement opportunities to be provided and about changes in the horizontal or vertical position. Performance Evaluation The attendance, relationships with other employees, development status, presentation of creative ideas and suggestions, awareness on duties and responsibilities, adaptation to the general discipline rules and occupational health and safety rules by employees are being monitored by the top management and co-workers by survey and appraisal interviews. Successful staff are being honored and if necessary rewarded. Total Training Hours 2011 First 9 Months 2010 0 200 400 600 800 1.000 1.200 1.400 Page 20 Training Topics and Durations in Year 2010 Training Topic Hours Participant Total Hours SOLIDWORKS 60,00 1 60,00 BASIC LEVEL PLC AND ITS APPLICATIONS 64,00 1 64,00 NEW PERIOD IN THE CUSTOMS 9,00 1 9,00 CUSTOMS LEGISLATION IN FOREIGN TRADE 9,00 1 9,00 CRYSTAL REPORTS REPORTING 27,00 2 54,00 INITIAL QUALITY CONTROL 0,50 4 2,00 IDENTIFICATION OF TECHNICAL DRAWINGS 0,50 3 1,50 ENTRY OF PRODUCTION AND WASTE 0,50 16 8,00 TRANSFER PROCESSES 9,00 2 18,00 MAN. OF SMALL RECEIVABLES & EFFECTIVE COLLECT. 9,00 1 9,00 DEALING WITH DIFFICULT CUSTOMERS AND CRM 9,00 1 9,00 WRITTEN COMMUNICATION & REPORTING TECHNIQU. 9,00 1 9,00 GENERAL HEALTH AND SAFETY RULES 0,50 108 54,00 DUTIES & RESPONSIBILITIES OF SAFETY COMMITTEE 0,50 9 4,50 HEALTH AND SAFETY LABELS AND SIGNS 0,50 88 44,00 ACCIDENTS AND OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESSES 0,50 90 45,00 H&S PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT 0,50 85 42,50 H&S LEGISLATION 0,50 88 44,00 INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 0,50 9 4,50 EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUES 0,75 9 6,75 HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS 0,50 23 11,50 EMERGENCY MEASURES 1,00 9 9,00 TECHNICAL AND LEGISLATIVE ASPECTS OF SAFETY 18,00 1 18,00 HOUSEKEEPING 0,50 108 54,00 FIRE, FIRE PROTECTION & FIRST AID 0,30 77 23,10 H&S REFRESHER TRAINING 1,00 20 20,00 ACCIDENT INVESTIGATION 0,50 13 6,50 CODING 0,50 24 12,00 QUALITY POLICY AND QUALITY TARGETS 6,75 93 627,75 ISO 9001:2008 QMS TRANSITION TRAINING 9,00 1 9,00 TOTAL 863 1.288,60 Training Topics and Durations in Year 2011 (First 9 months) Training Topic Hours Participant Total Hours SOLID EDGE 45,00 3 135,00 BRAND CREATION AND PROMOTION 18,00 1 18,00 ENTRY OF PRODUCTION AND WASTE 1,00 9 9,00 SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT 3,00 3 9,00 PROCESS CONTROLS 3,00 4 12,00 GENERAL HEALTH AND SAFETY RULES 1,00 13 13,00 HEALTH AND SAFETY LABELS AND SIGNS 1,00 13 13,00 ACCIDENTS AND OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESSES 1,50 15 22,50 EYE WASH USAGE 0,50 8 4,00 OHSAS 18001 9,00 1 9,00 FIRST AID 18,00 3 54,00 ISO 9001:2008 QMS TRANSITION TRAINING 8,00 3 24,00 ISO 14001 INTERNAL AUDIT TRAINING 18,00 1 18,00 TOTAL 87 340,50 Page 21 Distribution of Employees (2010) 25 White Collar Blue Collar 86 Distribution of Employees by Education Level University College High School Primary School 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 Page 22 Distribution of Employees by Gender Male Female White Collar 12 7 Blue Collar 32 61 Total 44 68 Distribution of Employees by Years of Service 8 53 < 1 year 1 4 years 23 5 14 years >15 years 28 Years of Service Activities completed on Health and Safety: We conduct an activity that is in compliance with laws and legislation related to Health and Safety in our organization. Health and Safety Committee has been established and risk assessments have been completed. Health of our employees and business continuity has been secured by meeting the health and safety requirements in our facility and work equipment. Supply and usage of personal protective equipment are audited. Periodical checks of equipment are done by Page 23 authorized and accredited organizations. Conditions that contribute to efficiency, such as thermal comfort and ergonomics, are continuously observed. Periodical health checks of all our employees are tracked by a contracted institution. Employees receive necessary Health and Safety training. Health and safety activities: • Posting warning signs and labels on machines and departments according to Regulation on Safety and Health Signs • Posting Evacuation plans for each department • Modifying machine guards so that they will provide 360° protection • Having an emergency exit door for Rotary Switch department • Having controls in locations where visual display units are used in scope of Regulation on Health and Safety Precautions for work with Display Screen Equipment • Guarding for crimping machines • Translation of button identifications that are not in Turkish • Providing an insulated ladder for electrical work • Preparation of the list of Restricted Chemicals • Strengthening of hoist support structures • Providing eye wash stations • Participation in first aid course Health and Safety Indicators 2010 2011 (March – (January – December) September) Training Hours (Health and Safety) 380,6 hours 61,5 hours Accident Frequency Rate 0 0 Accident Severity Rate 0 0 Lost Days due to Injuries 0 0 Number of First Aids 41 24 (Accident Frequency Rate = Total Number of Accidents / Total Hours Worked x 1000000 Accident Frequency Rate = Number of Days Lost due to Injuries / Total Hours Worked x 1000 http://osha.europa.eu/fop/turkey/tr) Page 24 Our Activities: We displayed our products in Domotechnica Trade Fair (April 22-25, 2010 – Istanbul). 2010 New Year Meeting Our mascots Balto and Ceyna are 3 years old now. Page 25 Social Responsibility and Our Role in Society Our cooperation with educational institutions which train skilled technicians, by providing internship opportunities, is contributing to the vocational education and work discipline of students and teachers. White Goods Suppliers Association (BEYSAD); BEYSAD, White Goods Suppliers Association, is an association created jointly by firms providing services to white goods main industry firms as supply industry for the purpose of voicing their common issues more effectively and obtaining more tangible results in comparison with individual efforts. Within this framework, BEYSAD; – Organizes meetings and other events that ensure exchange of opinion occurs between its members and their local/foreign customer, – Supports its members in expanding their customer portfolio and increasing export volume by attending both national and international fairs together with its own members, – Takes initiatives before public institutions to ensure decisions are made to the benefit of its members and represents the overall sector, – Makes public aware of its members' opinions and informs its members about developments via its magazine published periodically, – Contributes to cooperation platforms to carry out projects in collaboration with other non-governmental organizations and universities, and – Advises its members of developments brought about by new regulations and decrees. We became member of BEYSAD in 1996. Our corporate partner, Mr. Murat FIRAT is a Member of the Board of Directors since 2004. Culture and Social Solidarity Foundation of Ermenek and Surroundings (ERÇEV); Culture and Social Solidarity Foundation of Ermenek and Surroundings, in short ERÇEV is established officially on 31.01.1999. The purpose of ERÇEV is: “Ensuring the economic, cultural and social development of Ermenek, Sarıveliler and Başyayla districts as well as all municipalities and villages connected to them, providing material and moral solidarity among the members of the foundation” (Foundation Deed Article 3/1). The Foundation's principal objectives and specific service topics are: – Provide grants, scholarships and support to students for meeting all their needs such as accommodation and nutrition in Ermenek, Sarıveliler, Başyayla districts or students who moved to other regions for completing their education and training at every level in accordance with basic principles of modern republic, democratic, secular and social state of law within framework of Kemalism. Page 26 – Material and spiritual support for poor, needy, sick or elderly people living in towns and villages of Ermenek, Sarıveliler and Başyayla districts or who migrated to other regions, – Study and protection of historical, cultural values, traditions and customs of Ermenek, Sarıveliler and Başyayla districts, – Financial and moral support to scientists, researchers, bureaucrats and artists of Ermenek, Sarıveliler and Başyayla districts and surroundings, – The establishment of communication, friendship and the practice of helping each other between local people of Ermenek, Sarıveliler and Başyayla districts with their fellow countryman who live in the other regions as well as with the members, – Uncover, protect and maintain the historical buildings, natural beauties, monuments, trees, natural and cultural assets in Ermenek, Sarıveliler and Başyayla districts; to identify and organize the set-up, maintenance and promotion of specific areas of forestation and natural beauty. The birth place of our company’s founder Fırat family is Ermenek; therefore they are voluntary supporters since the day ERÇEV has been established. Mr. Murat FIRAT was member of the board of directors for 3 years. Page 27 10 Principles of UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact's ten principles are derived from: The Universal Declaration of Human Rights The International Labor Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development The United Nations Convention Against Corruption The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption: Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 28 Contact Information Please forward any questions, views or suggestions to Inanç Erdogan on 2011 Communication on Progress. e-mail: inancerdogan@an-el.com.tr Telepone: 0 216 307 74 01 Fax: 0 216 307 74 04 This report has been prepared with support of UZD Çevre ve İş Güvenliği Danışmanlık Ltd. Şti. and participation of all our units. UZD Çevre ve İş Güvenliği Danışmanlık Ltd. Şti. is an organizational stakeholder of GRI. www.uzd.com.tr Page 29 ANAHTAR VE ELEKTRİKLİ EV ALETLERİ SAN. A.Ş. Velibaba Mah. Ankara Cad. No:188 Dolayoba Pendik 34896 İstanbul Türkiye Telefon : +90 216 307 74 01 Faks : +90 216 307 74 04 anel@an-el.com.tr Page 30
