United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress JUL10 – JUN11 Statement of continued support 15th June 2011 An integral element of Commercial Bank of Dubai (CBD)’s mission statement is its commitment to contribute to the society as a responsible corporate citizen. As one of the related endeavours in order to achieve this, the Bank became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in June 2010. One year on, CBD reaffirms its support of the principles of the UNGC in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption, and continue to embed the principles into its standards, policies, behaviours and values. In December 2008, CBD became the first financial institution in the Middle East and Northern Africa region to achieve the Social Accountability (SA8000) certification. The elements of the standard are based on the principles of International Human Rights, norms as delineated in International Labour Organization (ILO) Conventions, the United Nations (UN) Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. CBD’s SA8000 Manual is accessible by all employees through intranet, and audited by an independent third party, twice a year. The Bank’s Social Accountability Policy has been displayed on the Bank’s website, and in prominent areas on its premises. As part of our annual Communication on Progress in respect of the UNGC principles, we commit to continually improve the integration of the principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours Commercial Bank of Dubai, 15JUN11 Page 1 of 7 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress JUL10 – JUN11 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Policies: 1. CBD’s SA8000 Manual, accessible by all employees through intranet, has exclusive sections on the Bank’s adherence to the international norms on human rights. 2. Human Resources Policies & Procedures Manual (HRPPM), with separate section on grievance escalation and handling procedures, is also displayed on the bank’s intranet so that all the employees are aware of their rights as well as the related HR policies. Progress: 1. CBD is SA8000 compliant since December 2008, and has successfully been re-certified in December 2010 by an external accredited body (Det Norske Veritas). The last external audit was in February 2011 (5th Surveillance Audit). 2. In the SA8000 Audit reports, CBD does not have any unresolved non-conformities related to Human Rights. 3. For 2010, employee grievances related to Performance Management System ratings were handled through this policy/procedure and all issues amicably settled. 4. The HRPPM is reviewed periodically by the HR Department and the latest version is communicated and made available on the intranet. All policies governing Human Rights are reviewed fortnightly by the HR Committee. ‘CSR’ and ‘Compliance’ form an integral part of the Bank’s Balanced Score Card which is reviewed quarterly by the senior management. Commercial Bank of Dubai, 15JUN11 Page 2 of 7 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress JUL10 – JUN11 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association & effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Policies: 1. CBD’s SA8000 Manual, published on the intranet, has exclusive sections on its adherence to international norms on Child Labour, Forced Labour, Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining, and Discrimination. Brief definitions of the principles as adopted by CBD and published in its SA8000 Manual are as follows: a. Child Labour: To ensure that child / young labour is not engaged in the activities of the Bank and to respect the ILO conventions on child Labour. In case any child / young labour is found to be working, to ensure that suitable remediation measures of such children are undertaken. b. Forced Labour: To ensure that there is no forced or compulsory labour under any conditions (i.e. bonded, forced, and/or compulsory prison labour) and to respect the ILO conventions on forced labour; also, to ensure disclosure of all the terms and conditions related to recruitment, preemployment or employment periods. c. Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining: To permit the employees without any direct or indirect impediments or negative consequences for collective bargaining through parallel means of communication with senior management; also, to respect the ILO conventions on freedom of association and collective bargaining. d. Discrimination: To provide equal treatment to all workers in all the matters like employment, training, promotion and compensation on the basis of their capability to perform the jobs regardless of race, caste, national origin, religion, disability, gender, sexual orientation, union membership or political affiliations or age; also, to respect the ILO conventions for eliminating discrimination. 2. Human Resources Policies & Procedures Manual has specific sections on Recruitment Policy, adherence to regulations laid down by the local Ministry of Labour, Disciplinary Actions, Remuneration, Benefits/Allowances etc. 3. Documented policies and procedures covering fire and safety, and evacuation procedures in the event of emergency are accessible from the home page of the intranet as well as displayed in prominent areas on the premises. 4. The Bank’s supplier selection procedure has separate sections to review the suppliers’ conformity with international norms on Child Labour, Forced Labour, Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining, and Discrimination. Commercial Bank of Dubai, 15JUN11 Page 3 of 7 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress JUL10 – JUN11 Progress: 1. The above sections in CBD’s SA8000 manual were audited by DNV in February 2011 (5th Surveillance Audit). 2. The non-management representatives of the SA8000 (i.e. the Social Accountability Representatives SARs) are ‘elected’ in CBD through an open and transparent voting procedure through the intranet. 3. Besides the SARs, all employees have direct channels of communication with the senior management; ‘Ask the CEO’ section on the intranet is a popular means of direct communication for all employees to seek opinion and feedback from the CEO. 4. As a consequence to the adoption of the SA8000 principles, changes were made to the HRPPM, especially in case of discrimination. Now, all employees (male and female, irrespective of nationality) are eligible to avail all benefits (esp. allowances). The only discrimination practiced is a positive one, i.e. preference to UAE nationals in recruitment, training and career development as per the labour laws of UAE, and permitted by SA8000. 5. Due to stringent monitoring of suppliers’ conformity with international labour norms, we have been able to influence some suppliers (service providers) to adhere to improved working hours and conditions for their employees. We propose to continue monitoring suppliers and enforce more adherence to UNGC and SA8000 principles. 6. Health and safety of employees is a primary concern and accorded high priority. CBD has partnered with an internationally certified body to conduct ‘First Aid’ & ‘Fire Marshal’ courses for CBD employees. Representatives from every department and branch are trained as Fire Marshals and First Aid Specialists. Periodically, fire evacuation drills are conducted. 7. In order to promote/develop a healthy workplace, all CBD premises have been declared as no smoking areas for staff and customers, and all computer monitors have anti-glare screens. 8. CBD has insurance cover for its customers on loans taken by them. This insurance covers death and disability. Staff members and their dependants are also well covered for their medical expenses and treatment. 9. The HRPPM is reviewed periodically by the HR Department and the latest version is communicated and made available on the intranet. All policies governing Labour are reviewed fortnightly by the HR Committee. Employee welfare and compliance are integral components of the Bank’s Balanced Score Card and reviewed periodically by the senior management. Commercial Bank of Dubai, 15JUN11 Page 4 of 7 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress JUL10 – JUN11 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Policies: 1. Through the Bank’s internal credit guidelines, relationship managers are encouraged to seek credit proposals from commercial entities that use environmentally friendly technologies in their manufacturing processes. 2. Fair pricing is an integral part of CBD’s credit policy. To the extent possible, the Bank levies the minimum floor rate on credit lines advanced to green projects, or those using environmentally friendly technologies. 3. An integral part of CBD’s strategic CSR objectives include creating awareness about the preservation of the environment. Through the CSR initiatives, the Bank intends to give back to the society and community. CBD's CSR policy, which has its roots in its Vision and Mission statements, focuses equally on supporting the causes of the environment, society and the culture. 4. Policies governing the maintenance of the Bank’s premises promote protection of the environment and conservation of energy. 5. The ‘No Smoking’ policy for staff and customers is strictly deployed in all premises of the Bank through prominent notices. Progress: 1. CBD has extended funded and non funded credit facilities to commercial establishments whose core business and manufacturing processes involve: a. Recycled waste paper (we have advanced sizeable funded credit line to a company that is believed to have brought paper recycling technology to the region; the interest rate applied for this credit line is the minimum floor rate) b. Recycling plastic c. Re-refining engine oil, and d. Landscaping. 2. Effective June 2010, CBD is a corporate member of the Emirates Environment Group. This group is dedicated to protect the local environment of the UAE. CBD encourages the re-use and recycling. As part of its efforts towards reducing environmental degradation from the disposal of used materials, it has taken the following measures: Commercial Bank of Dubai, 15JUN11 Page 5 of 7 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress JUL10 – JUN11 a. CBD has partnered with the Emirates Environmental Group (as a corporate member) and an external imaging technology company in order to successfully conserve the environment by collecting empty printer cartridges for re-cycling. b. As part of its efforts towards reducing environmental waste, CBD has signed an agreement with an external recycling agency for recycling of paper in the Bank. c. There is a recycling cage for waste management at all branches and the head office. d. Internal correspondence and all management information are, largely, on the electronic mail. e. CBD installed an advanced and sophisticated system enabling the Bank to automatically scan all cheques related to the customers’ accounts. The installation of this system has equipped CBD to shift from a paper-based environment to an image-based environment incorporating the electronic clearing system as suggested by the Central Bank of the UAE. f. CBD ATMs do not automatically print paper receipts. The user is given an option to choose the printed receipt if required. g. CBD introduced the ‘Green Tray’ concept in order to reduce printed paper (printing both sides), as well use black and white cartridges, as much as possible. h. All the water taps in the HO building & Branches have automatic censors, thereby helping in rationalising water usage. i. All offices and restrooms have electric lights equipped with automatic light censors, which work only if occupied, thereby eliminating electricity wastage. j. All the computer monitors in the Bank are flat screen with anti-glare and low radiation. 3. Plants and greenery are generously placed in all offices so that a soothing and healthy work atmosphere is created. 4. CBD pledged to make the UAE a greener place at a corporate event called “Green Day” in 2009 and 2010, during which over a 100 employees volunteered to be committed to the improvement and sustenance of the environment, by planting saplings in and around the Head Office premises. 5. CBD was the main sponsor of the “Clean Up UAE” campaign in Abu Dhabi in 2010. The 9th edition of the event was conducted by the Emirates Environmental Group all over UAE, covering more than a 100 cleanup sites where over 20,000 volunteers removed over 91 tonnes of waste in a single day. 6. CBD’s CSR initiatives, including those related to environmental causes, form an integral part of the Bank’s Balanced Score Card and is reviewed quarterly by the senior management. Commercial Bank of Dubai, 15JUN11 Page 6 of 7 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress JUL10 – JUN11 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Policies: 1. CBD’s Anti Money Laundering policy is published on the Bank’s website and intranet. 2. Policies enforcing strict action against all forms of unethical behaviour and actions, including those related to IT and internet usage, are documented and published through the intranet. 3. Human Resources Policies & Procedures Manual (with separate sections on Professional Ethics/ Code of Conduct, Disciplinary actions, Whistle Blowing etc.) accessible by all employees through intranet. Progress: 1. A special Department was established for monitoring Anti Money Laundering and compliance in all transactions and activities of the Bank, performed by both customers and staff. The Department closely works with the Central Bank of the UAE and other regulatory authorities in disclosing suspicious activities, and taking appropriate actions as applicable. 2. The Bank exercises zero tolerance in handling cases related to corruption and any form of unethical behaviour or transactions. 3. Compliance and anti-corruption are regular items on the HR Committee’s agenda that meets every fortnight. As stated earlier, the Bank’s Balanced Scorecard that is reviewed periodically includes a chapter on ‘Compliance and Society’. Commercial Bank of Dubai, 15JUN11 Page 7 of 7
