Building values worldwide Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Letter to the stakeholders Since Salini’s first sustainability Our achievements of energy security and climate change facing developed and developing economies alike. Profile and report, published last year, the Beyond the integration of Todini, I am very Group has continued to make proud of the Group’s many achievements over strategy However, we also have an opportunity to raise excellent progress on the the last 12 months. These include: standards for the communities that live around measurement and implementation – Increasing our work in hand to a value of our major projects. Our commitment to sourcing of initiatives in a period of extensive €14.7 billion (+€8.7 billion in comparison both employees and materials from local organisational change. 2010 has with 2009); communities can fundamentally affect the been a significant year for our regional economies in which we operate, – Becoming a signatory of the UN Global especially in developing countries, often resulting Governance Group and employees, as we Compact, committing the Group to aligning in higher levels of skill, better infrastructure, healthy have integrated colleagues and its business operations and strategies with its ecosystems and a sustainable legacy around expertise from Todini into our universally accepted principles; our projects – which themselves are built to business to create the third‑largest deliver economic, social and environmental – Sourcing 78% of the services and materials Italian construction company. benefits long into the future. needed for projects from local suppliers; – Maintaining a high percentage of employees Earning stakeholder trust hired from local community (90%); through improved performance Creating – Decreasing considerably the severity index To capitalise on this opportunity, we must profitability through of employee injuries (–38%); continue to earn the trust of stakeholders responsibility through a continued commitment to – Investing over €2.8 million into community understanding what they want from our projects, and leaving a legacy worth much projects. Our ever-advancing social and more through roads, schools, housing and environmental management systems, including power grids – created for operational needs our Code of Ethics, help us to identify, manage and then left to the local community; and mitigate in an adequate way key impacts. Social – Increasing number of training hours to personnel dimension We want to be a Group respected for its by +17% and launching a new e-learning ongoing commitment to sustainability and platform to employees in all operating sites. transparency in conducting business and But perhaps the most powerful examples of reporting performance. The effectiveness and our recent successes are those that have clear reliability of this year’s report are shown through business benefits, and that also deliver have its certification as a level A+ GRI G3 report by a positive environmental and social impact. our auditors, KMPG. Environmental This is where I believe we have real potential On behalf of the Board of Salini, I would like to to make a difference to the sustainable thank all our employees for their contribution to performance development of communities around the world. our progress in 2010. Great progress made in this area and our positioning make me very Our opportunities confident about exciting future goals. As explained later in this report, Salini’s leading position in hydropower makes the Group wellpositioned to exploit the growth in renewable Future energy over the world. The contracts won by the Group during 2010 and those in the pipeline will commitments not only generate profitable growth for Salini and for neighbouring communities, but will also help Pietro Salini CEO tackle the complex, interconnected challenges Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Appendix GRI data and verification report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Chapter 1 Profile and strategy 1.1 Group profile 03 1.2 Strategy and approach 04–05 1.3 Group structure and organisation  05 1 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Profile and strategy 1.1 Group profile Profile and We operate in over 40 countries across four continents, employing 12,873 strategy people of about 60 different nationalities. We have over 40 ongoing projects. 02 03 We have a presence in the following Governance countries around the world: Albania Kazakhstan Algeria Liberia Argentina Libya Azerbaijan Malawi Belarus Malaysia Brazil Morocco Bulgaria Nigeria Chile Poland China Portugal Czech Republic Romania Denmark Saudi Arabia Creating Ethiopia Sierra Leone profitability Gabon Somalia Georgia Sudan through Ghana Tanzania responsibility Greece Tunisia Guinea Turkey Hungary Ukraine Ireland Uganda Italy United Arab Emirates Jordan Zimbabwe Social dimension Environmental performance Future 2010 work in hand commitments 11.2% Civil building 13.3% Asia construction 52.4% 59.7% Appendix Portfolio of Portfolio of work in hand by Dams and Africa work in hand by 13.1% area of expertise hydroelectric plants geographical area 27% Europe Roads and motorways 23.3% Railways GRI data and verification report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Profile and strategy continued Salini Costruttori (hereafter also ‘Salini’ or the 2010 Key Performance Indicators ‘Group’) is a private industrial group specialising Africa Europe Asia Total* in the construction of major works. It is the third Italian General Contractor and is Revenues €/000 445,143 438,680 238,544 1,222,823 considered to be one of the four most Workforce Units 9,794 1,041 2,036 12,873 important worldwide players in the Local workforce % 95.0 95.0 63.0 90.0 hydroelectric sector. Injury freq. rate IR 18.27 40.66 2.23 17.18 Inspired by the principles of sustainable Local purchases % 53.0 98.6 83.6 78.4 development, the Group employs innovative Energy consumption GJ/000 1,329 390 553 2,272 technologies and organisational capacities, making use of highly-qualified employees to Water withdrawals m3/000 13,060 1,176 446 14,682 develop construction methods and solutions CO2 emissions t/000 97 31 41 169 capable of contributing to economic and Community invest. €/000 2,105 729 51 2,885 social development. * Data on Revenues and Workforce include South America too. Salini’s particular focus on the local context allows us to apply the core values of business with ethical principles, social Areas of expertise and environmental sustainability. Dams and hydroelectric plants Roads and motorways 1.2 Strategy and approach Salini Costruttori today is present in over 40 countries across four different continents. Operating in such a wide variety of contexts and geographies means the Group is required to meet the expectations of foreign countries, Salini is a global leader in the construction of The expansion of road networks is essential clients, local communities, and consumers as dams and hydroelectric power plants, with for economic growth and the social well as technical-operational counterparts who projects of significant scale and complexity development such growth enables. A range all have different histories, cultures and completed across three continents. of studies provide empirical evidence of the backgrounds. The Group has addressed this New works, with an installed capacity positive relationship between investment challenge by working towards a united vision of almost 8,000MW of clean, affordable in infrastructure and good economic and subsequent business model focused on energy – an essential prerequisite for outcomes. However, in many parts of the the value of people. economic growth – are currently underway. world, environmental conditions make construction of roads and motorways, Salini is committed to the overall concept extremely challenging. Salini has proven of ‘sustainable development’, which is an its capacity to complete projects of varying inherent feature of the Company’s business. scale and complexity in locations as In fact, the economic crisis of 2008 and diverse as Sierra Leone, Kazakhstan the recovery trends in place today have and central Dubai. resulted in a number of openings and opportunities in a variety of business sectors, countries and regional areas. Railways Civil building construction In view of the above, in 2008-2009, the Group formulated a plan based on two complementary goals: – to play a key role in the consolidation process of the Italian construction industry; – to expand the markets and sectors in which Whilst it is inconceivable to imagine a future Working in partnership with many renowned the Group operates, in order to maximise in which motor vehicles play no part in the architecture and design practices, Salini the opportunities resulting from the global transport mix, it is also undeniable continues to play a significant role in the diversification process. that as road usage increases dramatically, creation of innovative, iconic civil buildings rail transport offers a more sustainable around the world; significant undertakings, alternative or addition. Salini is an active including hospital complexes, university participant in the current urban transport campuses, government buildings and other ‘renaissance’ underway across Europe structures, which meet both a practical through projects such as the new B1 Metro social need and frequently also providing line in Rome and the Cityringen Metro for a key cultural focus within a community. Copenhagen. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 In fact, shortly after an increase of share capital 1.3 Group structure and Revenue Profile and (€/000) in 2009, the acquisition of Todini Costruzioni organisation strategy Generali S.p.A., a sizeable Italian company with The Group’s international vocation is reflected 1,122,823 a strong presence in Italy, Eastern Europe and in its presence in over 40 countries. Business Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), development activities focus on various target was finalised in early 2010. markets as well as strategic potential and 04 As a consequence, during FY 2010, the Group business opportunities. was able to achieve significant growth (up by 736,930 05 Furthermore, the Group has established in 653,954 71.7% of revenues compared to 2009) by Governance some cases ad hoc legal entities to carry bringing together, without overlapping, the out its projects, often in partnership with technical skills of two big Italian companies other companies. with a shared heritage of culture and values, with individuals from dozens of different Salini Costruttori S.p.A. (hereafter also nationalities. Synergy has been achieved with the ‘Company’) is the holding Company no overlaps or structural redundancies, with and performs the activities of direction, regard to geography and sources of revenue. coordination, management and control 2008 2009 2010 The new Group has a great development for all companies belonging to the Group. Creating potential for both sectors of intervention and These companies mainly operate in the profitability penetration capacity into international markets. construction sector and ensure, in Italy and through responsibility The governance model adopted in the Group’s abroad, development and management of new structure encourages relationships with contracts. Many projects are directly carried the various stakeholders, the respect for rights out by Salini Costruttori S.p.A., through its and the cultural identities of all employees in subsidiaries and permanent structures present the organisation, frequent and systematic in the countries of operation. investments in health, safety and the In order to ensure an effective and efficient Social environment, and a commitment to the local management of the procurement process dimension communities in areas where the projects of materials, plants and machineries needed take place. to execute the projects, Salini has set up When implemented the main features of the an ad hoc company, Co.Ge.Ma. S.p.A., sustainability strategy adopted by the Group that guarantees centralised management consist of maximising benefits generated in of purchasing and logistics for the entire Group. the areas of intervention, all to the good of the The Group also operates in real estate industry. Environmental local communities. These benefits include job Zeis S.r.l. is the main company in this sector creation, sharing know-how and improving and provides management and development the professional skills of the local workforce, of the Group’s real estate activities, either performance the growth of regional economies by directly or through its subsidiaries. employment of local suppliers, contractors and subcontractors, and investing in public utilities infrastructure and partnerships with local institutions and communities. Future commitments Uganda: Bujagali Hydropower Project Bujagali is a public-private Appendix partnership project between the Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development, Sithe Global and the government of Uganda. The project, now under completion, will have an installed capacity of 255MW and aims to produce over 40% of the total current electric power demand GRI data and in Uganda. verification The project represents a report concrete possibility of growth and development for the country. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Chapter 2 Governance 2.1 Corporate Governance 06–07 2.2 Integrating Sustainability into business 08–09 2.2.1 Code of Ethics 09 2.2.2 UN Global Compact 10 2.2.3 Corporate policies 11 2.2.4 Internal Control System 11–12 2.2.5 Management systems and certifications 13–14 2.3 Stakeholder dialogue and engagement 14–15 2 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Governance 2.1 Corporate Governance The Board of Directors plays a central The Chairman is the legal representative of the role within the organisation. It bears the Company and acts on behalf of the Company Profile and Salini Costruttori S.p.A. and the Group’s companies voluntarily adopt a corporate responsibility for the strategic and in engaging with Public Authorities and other strategy governance model which is consistent with organisational policies of the Company, external organisations. the following Italian and international principles: including verification of necessary controls in The CEO is responsible for the Company’s order to monitor the performance of the Group – Code of Conduct for Listed Companies operational management and is vested with Companies. The Board of Directors is invested stated by the Italian Stock Exchange the powers of ordinary and extraordinary with all powers for the Company’s ordinary and (Borsa Italiana S.p.A., July 2002); administration, except those that cannot be extraordinary management. More specifically, delegated (in accordance with art. 2381 Italian Governance – Recommendations issued by the Italian it is granted all instruments to implement and civil code), and those reserved to the Executive Commission for Stock Market and achieve the corporate objectives that are not Committee. The current Board of Directors of Companies (CONSOB); strictly reserved for the shareholders’ meeting the Company consists of seven (7) members, by law or by-laws. The Board of Directors – Other recognised best practice, such as the three (3) in charge of particular roles and four (4) Sarbanes-Oxley Act (US, July 2002) and the also has oversight of overall management performance, with a particular attention being non-executive members. The Board will 06 Combined Code on Corporate Governance (UK, July 2003). to preventing potential conflicts of interest, be in office until the approval of the financial statements for the year ending on the 07 by taking into particular consideration the 31 December 2011. Creating The effort to run the Group in line with information received by the Executive profitability international best practices upholds the strong Committee, the CEO and the Internal Control The remuneration policies of the top through commitment to continuous improvement, and Corporate Governance Committee, and management have been determined by a responsibility embraced throughout Salini from the top comparing periodically the results achieved thorough benchmarking survey of fees paid by management. The Company’s governance against those planned. leading national and international companies structure is shown below. operating in the building industry, in compliance with Salini’s Corporate Governance rules. Currently, there is no mechanism to connect the remuneration system to environmental and Social social indicators. dimension Environmental Shareholders’ meeting performance Composition: all shareholders with voting rights or their representatives Approves the financial statements Elects the Board of Directors and the Appoints the External Auditors Approves amendments to the by-laws Statutory Auditors Integrity Board Board of Directors Statutory Auditors External Auditors Composition: one non‑executive Composition: Chairman, CEO, Composition: Chairman, Provider: Reconta Ernst & Young Future Director and two external one executive Director and four two permanent Auditors, S.p.A. commitments independent members non‑executive Directors two alternate Auditors Verifies the adequacy of the 231 Defines the Company’s strategic and Monitor the compliance with the law On the base of the Audit assignment Model and supervises, develops and organisational policies and the by-laws and supervise the they perform the audit of the promotes its continuous update; Company’s operating performance Company’s financial statements supervises the functioning and Ensures the implementation and and perform quarterly reviews observance of the Code of Ethics achievement of the Company purposes of its accounting records Supervises the Company’s overall management performances Executive Committee Remuneration Committee Internal Control and Corporate Appendix Governance Committee Composition: Chairman, CEO Composition: three independent Composition: three independent and one executive Director non‑executive Directors non‑executive Directors Decides about the participation Proposes to the BoD schemes for Evaluates the adequacy of the internal to tenders and the out-of-Court management incentive pay systems control system and supervises the settlements and the annual remuneration of the observance and the periodic update Chairman and the CEO, as well as of the corporate governance rules reviews the remuneration criteria of the top management GRI data and verification report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Governance continued Corporate Governance (data at 31.12) Unit 2008 2009 2010 Overall BoD no. 5 7 7 Executive Directors in the BoD 1 no. 3 3 3 Independent Directors in the BoD no. 3 3 3 Women present in the BoD no. 0 0 1 Average age of the BoD members years 59 57 54 BoD meetings no. 7 9 8 Average participation of Directors at the BoD meetings % 85.6 97.6 95.0 Meetings of the Executive Committee no. 8 16 14 Average participation of Directors at the meetings of the Executive Committee % 100.0 100.0 100.0 Meetings of the Internal Control Committee no. 3 5 4 Average participation of Directors at the meetings of the Internal Control Committee % 89.0 100.0 100.0 1 The President and another Director are considered executive due to their participation in the Executive Committee. The Company’s communication policy aims 2.2 Integrating Sustainability Recently, a Sustainability Team has been to establish an ongoing dialogue both with its into the business established to coordinate and assist corporate shareholders and with the market to ensure Salini is firmly committed to combining divisions and operating sites in: the timely distribution of comprehensive business values with the principles of ethics – organising a professional internal information on its activities. In accordance and long-term success when it comes to the sustainability network; with the provisions of the Company’s Selfmanagement of ESG (environmental, social Regulatory Code, the Chairman and the and governance) issues. For this reason, the – assessing compliance against our CEO communicate with shareholders in full Group has established an integrated system of defined principles; compliance with the procedures for disclosure policies, procedures, in accordance with major – implementing the procedures and guidelines of documents and information concerning the recognised international standards of reference. necessary in sustainability-related activities. Company, limited only by confidentiality requirements where applicable. The following diagram shows the overall The Sustainability Team operates within the framework adopted by the Group to manage Internal Audit Division (see 2.2.4). sustainability in our day-to-day operations, allowing Salini to be aligned with the best practices of the constructions’ sector. In general, the Group adopts the precautionary principle in the management of issues related to economic, social and environmental sustainability. In fact, thanks to the policies and management systems and controls implemented, Salini is able to identify aspects that could expose the organisation to potential risks, classifying them according to their significance and treating them appropriately in accordance with existing procedures. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Mission Developing construction methods and solutions capable of enhancing the territories’ resources thereby contributing to the economic and social growth of nations Profile and strategy Corporate Code Code of Ethics External Principles UN Global Compact embraced Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption Governance Corporate Policies Sustainable Development and Social Responsibility Policy Human Resources Occupational Health and Quality Assurance Policy Environmental Protection Management Policy Safety Policy Policy 08 Management and Control Systems Internal Control System 09 Health and Safety Management Environmental Management Quality Management System Organisational Management and System (OHSAS 18001) System (ISO 14001) (ISO 9001) Control Model Creating profitability through responsibility 2.2.1 Code of Ethics The Code of Ethics is binding, without exception, The Integrity Board’s duties Supported by the corporate Code of for corporate bodies, top management, The Salini Integrity Board checks compliance with the Code of Ethics and, to this end, Ethics, Salini Costruttori S.p.A. has formally employees, consultants and associates. it ensures: adopted the principles of legitimacy, fairness, Compliance with the provisions contained in – the widest possible dissemination of and transparency and verifiability as baseline compliance with the Code of Ethics the Code of Ethics is considered an essential Social standards of the entire Group’s conduct. component of Salini employees’ contractual to recipients; The Code of Ethics applies to all worldwide dimension obligations. Breaches of the Code are addressed – regular extension and upgrading of the Code operations and was drawn up to account for of Ethics in order to reflect evolving social through legal procedures, as described in the the cultural, social and economic diversity of contracts in force, with penalties proportionate norms and relevant regulations; the different countries in which Salini operates. to the gravity of the violation and to the extent – the provision of appropriate learning and explanatory tools for the interpretation and All Group companies require that anyone that of the breach. implementation of the Code of Ethics; enters into a direct or indirect relationship – that mechanisms are in place to carry out with them act in line with these principles. With regard to trading partners and external inspections promptly, in case of news or In accordance with the Italian Legislative consultants who are bound to the Group by Environmental suspicion of breach of the Code of Ethics, Decree no 231/2001, in 2003 an Integrity a non-subordinated employment relationship, and the according application of appropriate Board was established to ensure the breaches of the Code of Ethics may cause performance sanctions; circulation of the Code within the Group, termination of, or withdrawal from, the – the protection of anonymity of persons who agreed contract, according to any specific provide information regarding possible as well as to control its implementation breaches of the Code of Ethics. by all of the Group companies. contractual clauses. Future commitments UAE – Dubai: Ras Al Khor Crossing Recently opened to the public, the Ras Al Khor Crossing is one of the solutions to the city’s traffic Appendix congestion, one of Dubai’s biggest challenges, allowing free traffic access in all directions. GRI data and verification report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Governance continued 2.2.2 UN Global Compact Todini has joined the UN Global Compact In December 2010, Salini Costruttori S.p.A. since 2004 and it confirms its commitment to became a signatory of the UN Global implementing the principles in its operations. Compact, which represents another important Every year we will communicate the progresses milestone in its firm commitment to sustainable reached by the two companies against the development. The Compact is the world’s Global Compact Principles in our Sustainability largest initiative for sustainable development Report. The following table shows the actions and, by joining, Salini has committed itself to and systems already implemented by Salini aligning its business operations and strategies and Todini to monitor and manage processes with ten universally accepted principles relating related to Global Compact Principles. to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Salini recognises the need to A comparison table – available at the end collaborate with governments, civil society, of this Report – links the Global Compact employees, suppliers and the United Nations principles with the Group’s performance to help advance UN Global Compact priorities. in each category1. UN Global Compact Category Principle Corporate systems and activities Human Rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the – Code of Ethics, Sustainable Development and Social Responsibility protection of internationally proclaimed Policy, Human Resources Management Policy, Occupational Health human rights and Safety Policy – Training on Ethics for all new hired, continuous training on Health and Safety for all employees, Health and Safety Management System in place at every operating site and at headquarters 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not – Fair HR procedures complicit in human rights abuses – Steady monitoring and engagement of workforce and subcontractors – Interaction with local communities, mainly carried out in collaboration with clients Labour 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of – Communication, negotiation and consultation policies in place association and the effective recognition of the right – C  ollective bargaining ensured to all Group’s personnel, at national to collective bargaining or at site level – Prompt notification in advance of significant changes 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all – Compliance with the ILO Labour Standards, the Countries’ forms of forced and compulsory labour Labour Laws, the collective agreements 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of – Compliance with the ILO Labour Standards, the Countries’ child labour Labour Laws, the collective agreements 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of – Full respect of local cultures and traditions discrimination in respect of employment and – Extensive employment of local workers occupation – Creation of an equitable working environment, open to all cultures Environment 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary – Environmental Protection Policy approach to environmental challenges – Environmental Management Systems in place at every operating site and at headquarters – Environmental Impact Assessments 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote – Minimising of resources use, recycling of waste greater environmental responsibility –G  reat attention to protect water resources and biodiversity – Periodic training and information for workforce and subcontractors 9 Businesses should encourage the development – Core business of the Group is the construction of hydroelectric and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies plants, sources of clean and renewable energy – Periodic replacement of fleets and plants in order to maintain high-level environmental standards in terms of energy consumption and related emissions Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its – Organisational Management and Control Model forms, including extortion and bribery (Italian Decree 231/2001) – Internal Auditing system – Training for all new hired, periodic training for all workforce with sensitive tasks 1 In accordance with ‘Making The Connection – Using GRI’s G3 Guidelines for the COP’, United Nations Global Compact Office, May 2007. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 2.2.3 Corporate policies – at an operating site level, Salini is committed Every year, the Internal Audit Division draws In order to align and improve individual and in the evaluation of the potential impacts of up an audit and monitoring plan based on Profile and collective behaviours, the Company has corporate activities in the project design and potential risks and gaps detected through strategy adopted corporate policies that define construction phases, looking specifically at risk assessment and compliance analysis principles and priorities to be followed by all, health, safety and environmental challenges, concerning the Italian Legislative Decree starting with the Company’s top management. monitoring the Group’s performances in no. 231/2001 (see box below). The results Corporate policies relate to key areas, including these areas; of the audit activities are communicated to Occupational Health and Safety, Quality, the the CEO, to the Group’s top management – at supply chain level, Salini is committed to Environment, Human Resources management and monitored by the Internal Control and setting up a reliable control system of its Governance and Sustainable Development. Corporate Governance Committee and by suppliers and subcontractors’ sustainability the Integrity Board (for activities related to Specifically, a Sustainable Development and performances; and Decree no. 231/2001). In the last three years, Social Responsibility Policy (in place since – in its relations with local communities, the the Internal Audit Division has carried out 2007) commits the Group to contribute towards sustainable development by means of Group aims to act with integrity and honesty, valuing the richness of local cultures and 43 audits on all business processes, both at corporate and at operating site levels. 10 environmental protection, economic growth, social progress, employee engagement and respecting human rights. The audits’ purpose is to monitor the adequacy 11 of the applicable procedures that define roles training, and supplier engagement. 2.2.4 Internal Control System and responsibilities, and the compliance of Creating profitability Salini is committed to implement the following The Internal Control System is the central the processes with the local and international through sustainability programmes across the value chain: element of the Corporate Governance System regulatory systems. During this three-year responsibility and it plays a key role in identifying, minimising period, 12 inspections were undertaken at – at an organisational level, the Group is and managing business risks to which the the request of the Integrity Board to assess engaged in the development of human Group companies are exposed. The Internal the effectiveness of the Organisational capital to build the skills required to manage Control and Corporate Governance Management and Control Model. sustainability, and in the implementation Committee, consisting of three non-executive of an internal and external sustainability and independent Directors, evaluates the communication network to maintain open Social adequacy of the Internal Control System and transparent dialogue with stakeholders; through the activities carried out by the Internal dimension Audit Division (in charge of internal control). Environmental performance Future commitments Organisational Management and Control Model On 25 June 2010, the Board of Directors of Salini Costruttori S.p.A. adopted a new release of the Appendix Code of Ethics and of the Organisational Management and Control Model. The Model provides compliance with the Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/2001, which introduces into the Italian legal system a corporate administrative liability deriving from crimes committed by employees. A company may be held liable for offences listed in the Decree no. 231/2001, committed in its own interest or advantage, including categories as: crimes against the Public Administration, corporate offenses, crimes against individuals, offences related to protection of health and safety in the work place, offences of receiving stolen goods, money laundering and use of money, goods or benefits from unlawful sources – committed by a person who holds a representative, administrative or managerial position in the Company or in one of its organisational units (‘apical’ subjects), or by a person subordinated to the management or supervision of one of the apical subjects (‘persons subject to supervision’). GRI data and The Salini Model is compliant to the Confindustria (Italian employers’ federation) and ANCE’s (Italian verification Contractors’ association) guidelines. It consists of a general section – describing the contents of the report decree, the objectives and functioning of the Model, the Integrity Board and the disciplinary system – and a special section, that identifies sensitive activities and the resulting control standards for each crime category provided by decree. Salini has also voluntarily agreed to adhere to the principles laid down by the Italian Stock Exchange for companies listed in the ‘Segment Star’. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Governance continued Following an inspection, the Internal Audit We believe that the effective implementation of Since the beginning of 2011, the Internal Audit Division defines gaps between the existing the Code of Ethics is shown by the absence of Division – with the support of the Sustainability controls and the best practice control cases of corruption identified through internal Team – has started to carry out specific audits standard and identifies related action plans. audit and through checks by judicial authorities. about sustainability issues, assessing the The execution of suggested action plans is effective application of the Sustainable Following the acquisition of Todini, in 2010 the periodically monitored through follow-up audits. Development and Social Responsibility Policy, Internal Audit Division focused its action on and encouraging the corporate divisions to The Group pays close attention to the business activities aimed to integrate the Internal integrate the principles of sustainability into their processes exposed to corruption risks and Control System of Todini with that of the day-by-day operations. The main frameworks the Internal Audit Division focuses its activities Group. To do this, we focused on specific used in these activities are: OECD Guidelines on these areas. In the period 2008-2010, activities in business areas and divisions of for Multinational Enterprises, UN Global 36 audits were performed on business Todini exposed to higher potential risks. Compact, ISO 26000 (Guidance on social processes exposed to corruption risks, To achieve full integration and consistency responsibility) and GRI-G3 (Global Reporting covering 60% of them in 2009 and 80% in of Group-wide systems, new procedures Initiative) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 2008 and 2010. Ten of the 36 audits related are being implemented in Todini. to the Group’s Rome headquarters while Although not yet required by Decree no. the other 26 concerned operating sites 231/2001, Salini has started a special project in Italy, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Uganda, the United to identify and assess sensitive activities Arab Emirates, Kazakhstan and Ukraine. exposed to risks of environmental crime, Furthermore, in the last two years over in order to update the Organisational 200 employees from the central corporate Management and Control Model with offices, new hires and expatriate employees specific control standards. The project will (EU employees working outside Italy) have be completed by the end of 2011. been trained on anti-corruption policies and procedures. In addition, a new worldwide e-learning tool will be available for all Group employees by the end of 2011, designed to keep employees’ knowledge up-to-date on the Code of Ethics and the Group’s policies and procedures. Ethiopia: Gibe III Hydroelectric Project Energy scarcity is perhaps the greatest single issue facing Ethiopia today – with profound consequences for social and economic growth in the country. Utilising innovative Fast Track techniques developed within our Group, we are currently constructing Africa’s highest roller-compacted concrete dam – Gibe III, for EEPCO. On completion, the 240 metre high dam will provide water to power 10 Francis turbines, generating a total of close to 6,500 GWh/year. The project will increase the generation capacity of Ethiopia by 234% and makes the power export programme of the country viable. Thus, the project is expected to have a great socio-economic contribution by feeding the Ethiopian grid, and creating regional integrations among the neighbouring countries through the interconnected system. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 2.2.5 Management systems and certifications provided. These management systems are composed of operational procedures and Profile and In recent years Salini has developed specific systems in order to manage Health, Safety instructions, monitoring programmes and strategy and Environmental (HSE) issues, at corporate periodic audits, training plans and staff training and at operating site levels. These systems activities. Annually, a review system is carried follow the Quality Management System, out by top management in order to assess implemented over ten years ago in order to system’s strengths and weaknesses and achieve effective management and control of consequently undertake all needed corrective the elements affecting the quality of services actions and plans for continuous improvement Governance of performances. Certificated Management Systems Standard Company Scope Status of certificates 12 ISO 9001 Quality Management System Salini Costruttori S.p.A. A First release: 1997 Last three-yearly update: 2009 13 First release: 1999 Creating Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. B Last three-yearly update: 2008 profitability through ISO 14001 responsibility Environmental Management System Salini Costruttori S.p.A. A First release: 2010 Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. B First release: 2008 OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System Salini Costruttori S.p.A. A First release: 2009 Social A: Designing, management and construction of civil buildings, major transport and hydraulic infrastructures, technological plants. B: Designing, construction, maintenance and management at worldwide level of major works of civil engineering, infrastructures for mobility, hydraulic and technological dimension infrastructures. Quality and HSE activities at operating site level 2008 2009 2010 Quality audits performed by Quality and HSE Division 3 16 8 HSE audits performed by Quality and HSE Division 9 8 6 Environmental HSE audits performed by operating site organisations 32 76 27 HSE meetings within the Company wherein the Management took part in 322 121 70 performance HSE meetings with subcontractors wherein the Management took part in 14 5 15 Other meetings related to HSE issues 75 153 146 HSE training hours delivered to employees 16,261 24,931 29,770 Future commitments Appendix GRI data and verification report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Governance continued Prossy Mirembe sponsorship, Uganda Although the certificates have been granted 2.3 Stakeholder dialogue and only to Salini Costruttori S.p.A. and Todini engagement In Uganda, where we are the key player in the construction of major hydroelectric projects, Costruzioni Generali S.p.A., the procedures Salini is aware that dialogue and transparency including one at Bujagali, we sponsored Prossy of management systems apply to all are key elements of its work. For this reason Mirembe, a young kayaker with great natural Group Companies. ability who required funds to fulfil her ambition it is committed to building opportunities for of participating in the 2010 Olympics. The Quality and HSE Division (DQS) is involvement and collaboration with all its We contributed sufficient funds to buy Prossy in charge of defining and delivering the stakeholders. The purpose of this effort is to a kayak and enable her to train properly. We management systems, in accordance with understand their views, and to integrate these are proud to say that she went on to compete the international standards adopted by the views into the Group’s activities. in South Africa, winning a gold medal. To share her success she later opened a school for Group. Furthermore, the Division supports Considering the business sector and the wide kayakers. We are continuing our support for the CEO in defining Quality and HSE policies range of Salini’s stakeholders, engagement her as she prepares for the London 2012 and targets. At operating site level, a Quality Olympic games. practices are flexible and diversified, and vary and HSE organisation is set up in order to according to differing needs and specific implement and manage these systems. interests. In general, at a corporate level, The Quality and HSE Division performs engagement activities involve stakeholders regular audits on operating sites, aimed with Groupwide interests, such as investors, to assess the compliance of their systems clients, governments and media. At an to the corporate procedures. operating site level, engagement relates In 2010 the Quality and HSE Division focused to a project’s features and considers local its activities on Todini’s operating sites, in order communities, suppliers, contractors and to ensure integration of the Todini’s systems subcontractors, clients, local authorities, with Group ones. This activity resulted in a and other organisations, such as NGOs. reduction of audit numbers during the year, According to Global Compact guidelines2, as in the previous page. Salini has defined its ‘sphere of influence’ Participation of Management in HSE meetings relative to its various stakeholders groups. was higher in 2008/2009 than in 2010. This This activity has led the Group to revise the is because in 2008/2009 the Management stakeholder map provided in the Sustainability Systems were in the process of being Report 2009. The new map, as shown below, implemented within the Group, while in 2010 describes in more detail the level of influence data the fully-functioning of HSE systems in the relationship between Salini and its resulted in a lower rate of participation. various stakeholders. Audit activities performed in 2010 show that The following table summarises, for each adequate implementation practices for HSE stakeholder category, the communication and Quality systems have been undertaken. channels established by Salini and related Where areas of improvement were identified, issues of interest. specific action plans and future targets have been defined. The following chapters of this report provide more extensive descriptions of engagement activities carried out during the reporting period. 2 ‘After the Signature – A Guide to Engagement in the United Nations Global Compact’, United Nations Global Compact Office. Nigeria: Millennium Park, Abuja The Millennium Park in Abuja has become a family gathering place, a place to spend leisure time, a place to meet friends. Salini Nigeria ensures the maintenance of this beautiful park donated to the capital city of Abuja in 2003 by Salini Nigeria Ltd. The park’s natural beauty is enhanced by water fountains. In addition the park is equipped with an automated and sophisticated irrigation system, sports facilities and a special play area for children. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Stakeholders dialogue and engagement Profile and Employees and Clients Shareholders and Suppliers, Local communities Public Governments, Staff Investors Contractors, and NGO’s Administrations Institutions, Trade strategy Subcontractors and associations and Business partners Media Communication channels Regular meetings, Stable and continuing Shareholders’ Selection processes, Meetings with Stable relations with Participation in trade internal training relationships with meetings, reports and regular meetings, community host countries’ associations activities, activities, trade union clients, in all project’s accounts, investor training activities, representatives and authorities and systematic press meetings, intranet phases relations, stable feedback systems, NGO’s, sponsorships, local institutions review activities, Governance relations with financial stable relationships social contributions (often clients) press releases, institutions and with partner firms, activities, website, organisation insurance companies in all project’s phases communications’ of events carried out activities by the External Relations Office Issues of interest Working environment, Quality performances, Corporate Governance Quality performances, Project-related Projects management, Project awareness, 14 health and safety, security, skills development, fair technical support in planning and implementation of system, financial performances, competitiveness, technical enhancement, shared management of HSE concerns, transfer of know-how, social services and facilities, anti-corruption, auxiliary services infrastructures development, renewable energy, 15 evaluations and projects, capacity shareholders’ value local development job creation, safe compensations building’s activities supports workplaces Creating profitability through responsibility Social dimension Environmental performance Employees and staff Business Local Trade partners communities associations Shareholders Suppliers and Public Governments Clients subcontractors administrations Future Media Investors NGO’s commitments Appendix Core business activities Supply chain Community interactions Public policy and advocacy + Salini’s influence on stakeholders – GRI data and verification report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Chapter 3 Creating profitability through responsibility 3.1 Opportunities and challenges 18 3.2 Generating and distributing value 18–19 3.3 Customer satisfaction 20 3.4 Innovation and research for continual improvement 20 3.5 Contributing to local growth 20–21 3.6 Economic data sheet 22–23 3 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Profile and strategy Governance Creating profitability through responsibility 16 17 Social dimension ‘CITYRINGEN’ COPENHAGEN, DENMARK Environmental The challenge: performance Copenhagen, which already has one of the most advanced and cohesive public transport systems in Europe, plans to create a new circular metro line – Cityringen – to maximise the potential of existing transport infrastructure. Future The solution: As leader of the Copenhagen Metro Team we commitments will manage a four year project worth €1.7 billion. This will involve the construction of 17.54km of tunnels and 17 new stations at a depth of 30 metres below the ground in a city that effectively stands level with the sea. Our client is Metroselskabet a company founded in 2007 and based in Copenhagen, Denmark, with Appendix the overall objective to design and build a cityring and to operate and maintain new and existing metro lines. 130 million When complete the advanced driverless GRI data and verification report Cityringen will operate 24 hours a day, carrying an estimated 130 million passengers a year. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Creating profitability through responsibility Revenue by geographic area 3.1 Opportunities Finally, energy and environmental policies (€/000) will have an increased influence on global and challenges The construction sector is essential to the economic growth and construction activities. 725,601 functioning of society, because it provides the According to the IEA (International Energy physical infrastructures in which we live, work Agency)5, climate change and energy security and socialise – our homes, our schools, our are two of the major challenges which workplaces, our hospitals, our roads, and governments have to tackle. For this purpose, 595,550 our broader service infrastructure3. renewable energy sources will play a central 550,941 role in moving the world onto a more secure, Today, construction represents a €5.4 trillion reliable and sustainable energy path. market accounting for 13.4% of world output. Renewable-based generation is forecast to The recent global financial crisis has been triple between 2008 and 2035; this increase 397,222 exceptionally severe and it has affected the will come primarily from hydropower and wind, construction sector. However, according to with hydropower expected to be dominant ‘Global Construction 20204’ forecasts, in the by 2035. 141,380 103,013 next decade construction will experience a new expansion, led by fast growth of the 3.2 Generating and 2008 2009 2010 emerging markets. distributing value Revenue abroad Revenue in Italy In the economic context outlined above, Population change is one of main factors that Salini has substantially improved its economic Revenue 2010 by sector drives medium-term economic forecasts for performance, reaching a consolidated revenue % the construction sector. While major developed equal to €1.123 billion in 2010 (an increase of over countries are likely to see little or no population 70% compared with 2009 ) – though it should 6.4% Civil building growth, emerging countries are predicted to have more significant population growth which will require more energy, better infrastructure be noted that this result is closely linked to the acquisition of Todini fully consolidated in 2010. construction and higher living standards. In 2010, the most substantial revenues came from transport infrastructure projects, followed Another key factor that influences the sector by hydropower projects and civil building forecasts is government budgetary policies, construction, although hydropower remains which are very different between developed the predominant sector in terms of the work and emerging countries. Public debt in portfolio (52.4%) and work to be carried out. developed countries will constrain government Shown in the next page are the main economic 54.8% spending on infrastructure for many years. ratios reached by the Group. In contrast, many emerging markets are able 8.8% 30% to invest, and equally likely to face strains on Moreover, in 2010, the Group confirms some Roads and motorways existing infrastructure as a result of rapid of the most solid capital ratios for the sector. Railways Dams and economic and demographic growth. In particular, the ratio Net Debt/Equity 6 is +0.99 hydroelectric plants better than the industry average equal to +1.25. Ethiopia : Beles Hydroelectric Project Beles is the largest underground hydroelectric plant completed to date in Ethiopia which started to generate electricity in May 2010. Approximately 4,000 workers 3 ‘Building prosperity for the future of Europe’, from over 34 different European Construction Forum, 2010 countries helped to achieve 4 ‘Global Construction 2020 – A global forecast for the the completion of the project. construction industry over the next decade to 2020’, Power generation from Global Construction Perspectives and Oxford Beles together with Gibe II, Economics, 2009 another hydroelectric plant 5 ‘World Energy Outlook 2010 Factsheet’, International completed in 2010, now Energy Agency, 2010 represent almost 50% of the country’s current power 6 For more detail please refer to the Consolidated generation capacity. Financial Statements closed on 31.12.2010 and published on the website www.salini.it. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 EBITDA Economic generated value A widely applied measure of the wealth Profile and €/000 generated by organisations is the direct 168,054 1,011,252 economic value generated and distributed, strategy which offers an overview of the Group’s added value generated and distributed to various stakeholders. 116,978 Most of the economic value distributed to 660,397 101,728 stakeholders is represented by operating 582,875 costs €793.1 million, composed mainly by the Governance payment of suppliers (for materials), contractors and subcontractors (for services) and other providers of goods/services (e.g. leasing of equipment). After this, employee costs 15.9% 15.6% 15.0% represented an expenditure of €158.8 million 123,060 and included wages, social security taxes, 79,904 79,528 leaving indemnity during the period and other 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 costs related to the personnel (e.g. training). €/000 Margin Creating Distributed value Withheld value Moreover, payments to lenders were equal to profitability €25.6 million in the period, and were related to through EBIT Economic distributed value in 2010 bank interest paid. Payments to governments responsibility % as taxes7 were €17.9 million. The return to 72,405 0.3% shareholders is made up by the part of profits 18 Community investments distributed like dividends and was equal to €12.9 million in 2010. Finally, community 19 investments in 2010 amounted to €2.9 million; 47,936 1.3% Return to this includes the direct donations for €778,000 and voluntary services made available to Social dimension shareholders local communities in the period, such as the 1.8% 39,403 direct construction of social infrastructures (e.g. schools, hospitals) and the direct support Payment to of social initiatives; this amounted to €2.1 million government in 2010. Beyond that, there are many other 6.5% 6.0% 6.5% 78.4% Operating costs social activities that did not entail direct expenses for Salini but that positively affect Environmental local communities (e.g. free use of the Group’s 2008 €/000 2009 Margin 2010 15.7% 2.5% Personnel wages Payments clinics, wells, access roads and facilities at the end of projects, etc.). These initiatives clearly performance and benefits to lenders describe the Group philosophy to share its assets with the host communities. Further Net result details are provided in section 4.3. Future 31,052 commitments 27,757 20,484 Appendix 2.8% 4.2% 2.8% 2008 2009 2010 €/000 Margin GRI data and verification report 7 For the allocation of current taxes on the basis of the countries where the Group operates, please refer to the note ‘22) Income tax’ of the explanatory notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ending 31.12.2010 and published on the website www.salini.it. In addition, we report that the taxes paid by the Branches in their respective countries in which they operate are considered, coherently with current Italian tax legislation, tax credits for business incomes generated abroad, through a permanent organisation. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Creating profitability through responsibility continued 3.3 Customer satisfaction – the Ulu Jelai Project (Malaysia), a new Salini develops innovative technologies Salini is committed to enhancing its reputation hydroelectric project on the Bertam River in and construction methods based on close as a client-centric business, and to putting the Pahang State, which will include an over partnerships with the world’s most renowned clients’ needs first. To do this, the Group 80 metres high dam to be built with the professionals and engineering companies, adopts an approach based on the application technique such as RCC (Roller-Compacted analysing clients’ needs, and producing of advanced technologies and construction Concrete), 26 kilometres of tunnels to be high quality and bespoke project proposals. methods that ensure high quality, and safe and excavated mainly by TBM (Tunnel Boring This strength makes the Group competitive sustainable performance. Moreover, to meet Machine) and an underground powerhouse. across the world, even in the most clients’ varying requirements efficiently, Salini challenging contexts. Client satisfaction is a key element of the has developed a business model based on: Group’s business strategy. Salini constantly Salini’s most recent achievement in the field of – maintaining a high degree of flexibility in order interacts with clients to ensure that its services innovation is represented by the Fast Track to enter or enhance the Group’s presence in meet the highest quality standards and Implementation, a construction method based emerging markets; measure up to clients’ expectations. on starting all the most important operating Group companies adopt a client satisfaction phases of the project at the same time, – operating within different contractual management system, in place at every allowing a drastic reduction in completion models, from performing a single service operating site, which ensures that regular times. This technique, developed and refined (e.g. construction) to providing a full service feedback is gathered, in line with the by Salini for the construction of large-scale, for the execution of complex projects requirements of the quality standard ISO 9001. turnkey hydroelectric plants, can be adopted (e.g. EPC – engineering, procurement and for many types of projects that require rapid construction); and Salini guarantees the confidentiality of the completion times anywhere in the world. information in its possession and refrains from – maintaining strategic relationships with seeking out, using or disseminating confidential Salini supports research also financing some clients, which go beyond the execution information, unless expressly authorised by the academic initiatives. In 2010 the Group has of single project to share experience and owner of such information, and in compliance sponsored the second International Conference knowledge, as well as identifying business with current standards. In Italy, when on Sustainability Science held in Rome. opportunities of common interest. processing clients’ data, the Group complies The event involved several academic Thanks to its business approach and its with the Code on Personal Data Protection8 institutions, including the United Nations internationally recognised reliability, Salini has by drafting an annual Programmatic Document University, the Arizona State University, the achieved significant results in terms of its order on Security (PDS) which describes the University of Tokyo and the University of Rome book. In the short period between the last organisational and technical criteria adopted for La Sapienza. quarter of 2010 and the first quarter of 2011, the protection of sensitive and non-sensitive the Group has been awarded the construction personal data processed with IT tools, as well 3.5 Contributing to local growth of three important projects worldwide: as the training plan for the technical personnel Building infrastructure and major works means in charge. It should be noted that there were no deploying ideas, people, knowledge, and – the Grand Renaissance Dam (Ethiopia), the claims relating to breaches of privacy or loss of investments that aim to enhance a given largest hydropower plant in Africa, which will customers’ data during the last three years. territory’s capabilities. The delivery of a Salini be built on the Blue Nile with an installed project benefits several stakeholder groups, in capacity of 5,250MW and with a generating In the field of marketing communications, the terms of job creation, local skills enhancement, capacity equal to six medium-sized nuclear Group ensures accuracy, clarity and integrity of the communications released to the local supplier growth, increase of revenues for reactors; governments and voluntary contributions for stakeholders. The Group has never received – the Cityringen Project (Denmark), a new complaints for violation of laws or regulations local communities. circular line in Copenhagen city centre, which related to marketing or communications. For these reasons, Salini plays a key role in the will guarantee efficient transport for 130 development of countries where the Group million metro passengers a year, thanks to a 3.4 Innovation and research companies operate, in line with the Group’s fully automated driverless metro system that for continual improvement Mission. will operate 24 hours a day, with a minimum Research is a strategic activity for the frequency of 100 seconds between services; The first measure of the Salini contribution to construction industry and in recent years has local growth is job creation in host countries. been enriched with new insight that goes beyond the issues related to the technologies The Group adopts a strategy oriented towards of materials, components and their physical the use of local workforce in areas where behaviour involving also the optimisation of projects are located. In 2010, 90% of Group the activities related to the production process. staff consisted of local employees – the In the area of major works, several factors equivalent of 11,558 full-time employees. exponentially multiply the level of innovation Group policies require that management roles required to achieve the final result. The most in operational sites are primarily undertaken by important ones are: the mass of resources expatriate Italian employees. needed, the uniqueness of each project, the In addition to salaries paid, job creation plays different environmental contexts, the time an important role in enhancing the capabilities frame required to ensure the profitability of of developing countries, thanks to the provision the projects, the parameters of safety for of skills and competencies, training, health personnel, local communities and final users. surveillance and high quality standards of the work carried out. 8 Italian Legislative Decree 196/2003, Attachment 8, point 19 – Technical Guidelines. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Proportion of hiring of local personnel Proportion of spending on locally-based providers Furthermore, studies have shown that for every Profile and % Proportion of hiring of local personnel of goods and services % % worker employed in the construction sector two further jobs are created in other industries9. strategy 90 90 Finally, when Salini concludes its projects 90 90 many employees are able to start their own 76 enterprise in the building sector, helping create 78 76 new jobs and new business opportunities for local people. Governance 59 58 Salini also provides opportunities for economic development to the providers of goods and services based in countries where the Group operates. The Group’s supply strategy aims to satisfy the project’s requirements as much as possible within the territories in which projects are located, according to local availability of 2008 2009 2010 needed goods and services. 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Creating In 2010, Salini’s links with local providers of Hiring of local personnel in 2010 by continent profitability % Hiring of local personnel in 2010 by continent Spending on locally-based providers of goods goods and services – considered as suppliers, through % and services in 2010 by continent % contractors and subcontractors in the country responsibility where the project is implemented – have been 95 95 99 strong. In fact, in 2010 the percentage of 20 95 95 84 spending on local-based providers of goods and services was equal to an average of 78%. 21 The potential to satisfy at local business needs Social depends primarily on the capacity for local dimension 63 63 providers of goods and services to ensure 53 supply in the quantities and qualities necessary for the implementation of each project, as shown by the data on local purchases by continent. In monetary terms, the total amount of Salini’s spend on locally-based providers of goods and services was €591 million10 in 2010, of which €272 million was in Europe, Environmental performance Africa Europe Asia €179 million was in Asia and €139 million was Africa Europe Asia Africa Europe Asia in Africa. 9 ‘The competitiveness of the construction industry’, European Commission, 1997. Future 10 Data include only the supplies for operational sites, excluding headquarters and other offices. commitments Salini’s commitment well-recognised by clients The extraordinary volume and range of contracts awarded to Salini confirm the Group’s technical ability and expertise, which enable it to compete in global markets. In recent times, socioAppendix environmental factors have become increasingly important for clients’ choices. For the assignment of the Cityringen project, the client (Metroselskabet) has recognised Salini’s strong commitment to using a local workforce and local suppliers, upholding the highest standards of health and safety, and minimising the impact on the daily lives of communities. Salini has always privileged quality and focused on the needs of the city’s people. GRI data and verification report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Creating profitability through responsibility continued 3.6 Economic data sheet GRI Performance Indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Todini reference Economic generated and distributed value EC1 Revenues €/000 680,579 630,388 1,061,911 – Other incomes €/000 53,531 25,055 57,363 – Financial income €/000 6,192 6,960 15,038 – Total economic generated value €/000 740,301 662,403 1,134,312 – Operating costs €/000 523,898 459,338 793,100 – Personnel wages and benefits €/000 93,313 90,890 158,783 – Payments to shareholders €/000 10,829 10,829 12,995 – Payments to lenders €/000 9,503 10,177 25,639 – Payments to Government €/000 20,113 9,644 17,850 – Community investments €/000 2,741 1,997 2,885 – Total economic distributed value €/000 660,397 582,875 1,011,252 – Amortisation, depreciation and adjustments €/000 66,815 60,343 89,655 – Auto financing €/000 9,616 16,841 20,100 – Provisions and reserves €/000 3,473 2,344 13,306 – Total economic withheld value €/000 79,904 79,528 123,060 – Significant financial assistance received from governments EC4 Investment grants1 €/000 484 387 4,649 4,202 Tax relief2 €/000 1,350 – – – Total financial assistance received from governments €/000 1,834 387 4,649 4,202 Proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers by category3 EC6 Europe Materials % 100% 100% 100% 100% Subcontracts, consultings and shipments % 100% 100% 99% 98% Leasing and rentals % 100% 100% 83% 78% Capital assets (amortisation on charges) % 100% 100% 100% 99% Total local supplies in Europe % 100% 100% 99% 98% Africa Materials % 44% 51% 56% 98% Subcontracts, consulting and shipments % 59% 38% 58% 80% Leasing and rentals % 40% 16% 23% 47% Capital assets (amortisation on charges) % 44% 31% 37% 23% Total local supplies in Africa % 49% 41% 53% 83% Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Profile and GRI strategy Performance Indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Todini reference Asia Materials % 98% 98% 84% 79% Subcontracts, consulting and shipments % 85% 87% 87% 86% Governance Leasing and rentals % 66% 58% 36% 34% Capital assets (amortisation on charges) % 93% 84% 92% 97% Total local supplies in Asia % 88% 87% 84% 82% Total Materials % 53% 65% 76% 94% Subcontracts, consulting and shipments % 68% 58% 85% 91% Creating Leasing and rentals % 46% 32% 45% 59% profitability Capital assets (amortisation on charges) % 58% 47% 76% 95% through responsibility Total local supplies % 59% 58% 78% 90% 22 Employees hired from local community Europe no. 313 347 1,242 897 EC7 23 % 100% 100% 95% 96% Social Africa no. 9,657 8,870 9,031 644 dimension % 95% 95% 95% 99% Asia4 no. – – 1,285 955 % 0% 0% 63% 96% Total employees hired from local community no. 9,970 9,217 11,558 2,496 % 76% 90% 90% 97% 1 The important increase of the financial assistance in 2010 is related to tax deductions received by Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. These deductions are granted to a part of Environmental performance the investments made in the fiscal period (01/01/2010 – 06/30/2010), according with the provision of the Italian fiscal law (Tremonti Ter). 2 2008 data is referred to exemptions from customs duties on imported machineries and spare parts in Ethiopia. 3 Data include only the supplies for operational sites, excluding headquarters and other offices. 4 In 2008 and 2009 the Group’s activities in Asia were carried out only in UAE (Dubai), where there is an insufficient availability of local workers. For this reason, the Group has hired non-local workers. Future commitments Appendix GRI data and verification report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Chapter 4 Social dimension 4.1 Our people 26 4.1.1 People development 26–28 4.1.2 Securing health and safety at the workplace 28–29 4.1.3 Respect of human rights 29–30 4.2 Our supply chain 30 4.3 Local communities 30–31 4.4 Social data sheet 32–35 4 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Profile and strategy Governance Creating profitability through responsibility Social ‘MILLENNIUM PARK’ AbUJA, NIGERIA dimension The challenge: To regenerate a run-down area used as an open landfill site in the central area of Abuja, integrating it with the other urban development’s projects and 24 preserving the biodiversity of the area. 25 The solution: Environmental Besides the realisation of the Cultural Centre and the Millennium Tower, two structures that will host museums, hotels, auditoriums and performance recreational areas, Salini Nigeria contributed to the development of the Abuja city centre designing, constructing and donating the park in 2003. The park was created exploiting the terrain of the existing sites and remodelling by undertaking some limited earthworks. Existing trees were preserved, including an old and very tall cotton Future commitments tree, and local flower species were used. Measures to protect the Wupa River banks have been put in place to control water floods and prevent destructive erosion, thus preserving the trees along the existing river. The park’s natural beauty is enhanced by water fountains. In addition the park is equipped with an automated and sophisticated irrigation system, sports facilities and a special play Appendix area for children. 26 hectares of green space available for all the Abuja’s GRI data and verification report inhabitants. The maintenance and the waste collection is guaranteed by Salini Nigeria, which employs local technical staff. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Social dimension Group personnel Salini is committed to building strong relations 4.1.1 People development (no.) with its stakeholders, both internal and external, Salini recognises the importance of a focused 13,035 2,580 and to communicating to them transparently Human Resources Management System – on its social performance. a clear process for administrative and legal With regard to developing people, Salini invests human resource management across the 10,193 10,293 in youth, focuses on enhancing skills and entire working cycle at the Group. This looks know-how, avoiding any kind of discrimination. specifically at planning, recruiting, selection, Moreover, wherever Salini operates, it has a hiring, training, performance and potential particular responsibility to contribute to the evaluation, administration and remuneration. socio-economic development of communities Salini believes its human resources are a living near operating sites. Thanks to this fundamentally important strategic asset approach, Salini’s commitment has always for its development, since they make a led to the Group having excellent reputation significant contribution to achieving the Group’s among local authorities and communities. objectives. To manage the complex processes Social responsibilities are primarily managed of personnel recruitment, management and by the procedures governing the Human development in an organised and structured 2008 2009 2010 Resources and Organisational Development manner, the Group has implemented a specific Group’s personnel without Todini Todini’s personnel Division, which are linked to the Corporate Human Resource Management policy since Management System and other people 2007. Equal opportunity, non-discrimination, Group personnel by workplace in 2010 management processes. The Internal Control physical and moral integrity, fairness, honesty Committee and Top Management are involved and professional enhancement guide the Group % 8.1% in reviewing management systems. with regard to human resources management. Personnel management is undertaken by the Europe 4.1 Our people Rome headquarters for all Group employees. At the end of 2010, the Group employed With regard to personnel administration, the 12,873 people worldwide, of which about 90% headquarters manages all the employees were hired from the local communities around operating in Europe, as well as European business operations. The Group saw employee management and technical-administrative numbers increase by 2,680 people (+26%) in staff or TCN12 operating outside of Europe. 2010, mainly due to the integration of Todini into In non-EU sites, administrative management 76.1% Africa the Group. In 2010, the vast majority of Salini employees of local personnel is undertaken directly by site management and it is mainly focused on 15.8% recruitment, administration, theoretical and had permanent contracts. Salini considers the field training, evaluation, and compensation. Asia number of employees on fixed-term contracts and part-time contracts to be immaterial to its overall operations11. Group personnel by category in 2010 % 0.7% Middle managers 13.8% Employees 84.8% 0.7% Workers Executives 11 Supervised workers are not present. 12 For the Group is considered TCN (Third-Country National) the employee of non-EU nationality working in a non-EU country that is not his country of origin (e.g. A worker of Indian nationality working in the UAE). Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Training hours by workplace To safeguard its competitive market Salini is committed to evaluating performance (no.) positioning, Salini aims to attract and hire and potential of personnel based on a Profile and 1,750 the best candidates and individuals with the Performance Management system. strategy 30,792 highest professional standards during the The Performance Management system 1,512 recruitment and selection process. The Group measures and evaluates competencies, 26,244 identifies candidates in a number of ways, for performance objectives, behaviours and instance through annual career days at several potential of the Group’s employees according 596 key Italian and foreign universities to source to their role in a defined period with the aim of: 2,086 graduates to join the Group. – Linking an individual’s achievements and Governance 17,419 The central role of the individual is performance to an appropriate role profile demonstrated by the commitment towards and benefits; employees’ professional growth, which gives – Monitoring and updating records on an them the scope to enhance their knowledge individual employees’ professional and awareness, particularly regarding health, development; safety, human rights and anti-corruption policies and procedures (in line with the Italian – Differentiating performance levels and having 2008 2009 2010 Legislative Decree 231/2001). a basis for the salary; Creating Operating sites Headquarters profitability The Group staff management policy, both – Providing information that feeds into action through in Italy and abroad, makes provision for plans for individuals’ training and responsibility Training in 2010 by topic employees to receive adequate training for development; and % assigned duties in order to strengthen core – Planning room for improvement, job rotation competencies and develop individual skills. and career growth paths. In doing this, Salini creates a working environment that facilitates the exchange The evaluation process is closely linked to the of knowledge and interaction between all remuneration system. For each organisational Social cultures. The Group is committed to the division, the Division Manager is in charge of development of local resources through monitoring performance and competencies dimension specific training courses that provide both of employees. The evaluation process is 0,000 theoretical and practical training, which helps formalised by an evaluation form, filled out to create a sense of identity and of belonging by the Division Manager for each individual. 26 to the Group. As mentioned, fairness is the principle 27 96.2% An office dedicated to Organisational that guides the Group’s human resources 3.8% Health, Safety and Environment Development issues management was established in 2009 to define a structured management. Compensation policy ensures, in respect of an individual’s merits, Environmental performance Others system for tailoring training and development that high and robust competitive standards activity. Training needs are specifically identified are maintained externally, in order to avoid following a gap analysis between employees’ conflicts among employees. Salini’s policies current competencies and those required for comply with statutory and regulatory each organisational position. However, to requirements for the payment of wages support development on specific issues of and benefits. The Group is 100% compliant Future general importance, training through e-learning in the payment of minimum wages required was launched in 2010; reaching out to by relevant authorities. The remuneration commitments employees around the world in an easier and system is primarily composed of a fixed more efficient way. salary, supported by a variable bonus (una tantum) related to the individual and/or Hours spent on training activities were corporate performance. In addition, Salini considerably increased during the reporting provides various benefits to all employees, period. Data on training hours is based on depending on their role and level. These activities carried out at the operating site level benefits include additional insurance and Appendix on the HSE issues. Data does not include health care, a complementary pension on-the-job training. system, accommodation, a company car, Besides HSE, training was also delivered on economic support for their children’s role-specific issues, languages, administration, education, a contribution to relocation the Code of Ethics and organisational model expenditure and company loans. (Legislative Decree 231/2001), and privacy. GRI data and verification report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Social dimension continued Salini is committed to avoid any gender Group implemented a Health and Safety Security at operating sites discrimination, ensuring to women the same Management System designed to minimise the Salini is committed to ensuring the security of its working places, in order to protect opportunities provided to men concerning risk of accidents in all workplaces (offices and the integrity of the Group’s tangible and employment, compensation and careers. operating sites). Appropriate management intangible resources. The issue of equal opportunities has been procedures ensure the effective management To this end, Salini always assesses the mainly tackled at the headquarters in Rome, of safety; these include risk assessment, potential risks faced in countries with security where women represent 35% of total planning and implementation of training, problems and, if needed, implements specific workforce. It should be noted that, in the an employee engagement activity and plans to properly protect its sites. Moreover, many projects are considered ‘sensitive construction industry, the issue of equal performance monitoring. assets’ by governments and local authorities opportunities tends to be less significant The Group’s main health and safety and are therefore protected by them. in regard to purely operational activities, as objectives are: In both circumstances, Salini sets up specific the vast majority of workers in this category mitigation actions, based on prevention, are men. Considering the issue of equal – eliminating or reducing to a minimum the risk protection and information. Security managers compensation – the understanding that men of accident by adopting a prevention and at operating sites are committed to training security personnel in respect of both and women of an equal level receive the same protection system applicable to all operating employees’ and local communities’ salary – in 2010 the overall ratio between activities, following to the principle that all human rights. women’s salaries and men’s is equal on accidents can be prevented; and average at 83%13. The gaps are generally – complying with relevant regulatory or other accounted for by the higher seniority of men requirements subscribed to and/or adopted compared to women. Moreover, it should be by Salini, applying the strictest standards underlined that management posts, which wherever possible. account for the highest level of Group management tasks, are made up In 2010, injury performance for Group predominantly of men. At the end of the employees shown a reduction in the severity chapter, data shows the male/female salary index (LDR) of 38%, while the number of ratio detailed by employee category. accidents14 increased, causing a 9% increase in the Injury Frequency Rate. Currently, there are no mechanisms to connect the remuneration system to environmental and The nature of Salini’s industry means social indicators. Salini has set itself the goal to careful measures are required to safeguard develop a Management by Objective (MbO) employees’ health and welfare in the system reflecting the increased prominence workplace. There are currently no formal of environmental, economic and social agreements in place with trade unions or other performance, in order to support the workers’ representative organisations on the Salini’s commitment to the health of achievement of ‘sustainable efficiency’ issue of health and safety, but only general employees’ families and communities objectives. An incentive system is currently agreements regarding some issues among Salini is aware that health is a fundamental active in the operating sites and it is which HSE ones. Nevertheless, Salini stresses right of all people, not just its employees. connected to the site and individual employee the need to integrate these concerns in its For this reason, Salini made its health performance (defined by the efficiency of work active model of trade-union relations. facilities available to employees’ family undertaken, and workplace behaviour). members at operating sites outside Europe, Salini applies current Italian legislation in all its as well as to local people for any acute and 4.1.2 Securing health and safety at worldwide operations, establishing workers’ serious casualties. safety representatives (RWS) at every operating the workplace Beyond this, doctors responsible for the site; these representatives also take an Salini recognises the importance of operating sites regularly offer local personnel advisory role on the Group’s activities on training courses and provide information to occupational health and safety, and the managing workers’ health and safety risks. local communities on improving environmental protection of employees and third parties sanitation, preventing the spread of endemic The RWS often are union representatives. during all activities undertaken on its premises. diseases (like malaria) and sexually transmitted The Group’s commitment to this issue is diseases (HIV and hepatitis). The Group also monitors the safety conditions shown through the adoption of a dedicated and performance of subcontractors present Image below: Uganda: Laboratory clinic at Bujagali Hydropower Project construction site corporate policy in July 2009 and updated at its operating sites, in order to ensure in April 2011. The policy, which clearly compliance with Salini’s procedures. In the emphasises that ‘the health and safety of reporting period no subcontractor accidents personnel and third parties always comes first’ were attributable to Salini. when delivering projects, also states the In Italy, a Company health service is in charge commitment to actively promote initiatives for of performing all monitoring activities required employees, clients, suppliers, authorities and by the current legislation on employee health interested parties to help us attain the highest and safety, both for headquarters and for health and safety standards. operating sites. In particular, the service The Group’s commitment in this area was organises and carries out regular health recognised in 2009 by OHSAS 18001 surveillance campaigns, based on the specific certification. To gain accreditation, the labour-related risks affecting its people. 13 Calculation is made on the base of the gross wages Furthermore, the Group provides an additional paid, instead of minimum wages required by law for level of medical care by offering employees each category. and their families access to public and private 14 It should be noted that 2010 has also reduced the health facilities. number of fatalities, down from 8 in 2009 to 5. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Injury frequency rate (IR) In each operating site outside of Italy, medical In countries where malaria is endemic, special facilities are in place in order to provide 24-hour attention is paid to the prevention protocols Profile and medical advice and ambulance service and suggested by the World Health Organisation. strategy guarantee that each work shift has access Furthermore, a thorough programme of to medical staff. The teams working in these drinking water purification is guaranteed at 17.18 14.82 15.73 facilities consist of expatriate and local doctors, the sites. It is regularly monitored by the site’s nurses, laboratory technicians, ambulance medical staff through periodic chemicaldrivers, environmental sanitation staff and physical checks on the quality of drinking cleaning staff. water, using the external official laboratories Governance in the host country. 2008 2009 2010 Moreover, all operating sites have a pharmacy that provides access to urgently required Each year, all expatriate employees (Italian, medicines and those needed for the treatment EU and non-EU) working at the operating sites Severity Index (LDR) of chronic diseases that may affect workers. outside Italy are subject to checks on their ability to carry out specific tasks. Additionally, in each operating site outside Italy, 2,275.59 the Company health service holds a list of Activities carried out by Salini do not expose 1,975.02 reference hospitals to be contacted in cases personnel to high risk of specific diseases. of greater seriousness or urgency, according Creating In consideration of the particularly serious profitability 1,220.05 to the specialist services available in every environmental pollution present in Kazakhstan through hospital and the needs of the individual responsibility the existing legislation provides for an increase casualty. In the case of acute casualties, the in pay to local employees working in the role of the existing on-site health facilities is 2008 2009 2010 concerned areas. The Group’s activity fully to stabilise patients and ensure their safe respects said legislation. transport to appropriate facilities where they can receive first and second level examinations 4.1.3 Respect of human rights and specialised therapies. Salini is firmly committed to preserving Social The Company health service runs inspections fundamental human rights while conducting dimension on operating sites at least once a year, to business. The Group is aware that in some ensure that all health surveillance protocols geographical areas in which it operates – are respected. In addition to this, the service regularly visits local hospitals to assess their especially outside of Europe – the risk of human rights violation cannot be 28 quality and accessibility. totally excluded. For this reason, Salini 29 has implemented specific policies and At the non-EU operating sites all personnel Environmental procedures aiming at promotion of the receive prophylaxis information, which also respect and protection of employees’ human performance informs about disease prevention and control rights, ensuring no discrimination of any sort procedures. Employees are also given a (including that based on political or religious booster vaccination prior to their departure for belief, race, gender, language reasons or for the site. If not possible before departure, the trade union affiliations), in accordance with vaccination cycle is made up at the arrival in the the provisions of the Code of Ethics. operating site. Future commitments Local personnel management Local personnel at the operating site level can be employed as a permanent worker or temporary worker. The latter status is only permitted for a limited period, according to the local legislation, and only for particular needs and circumstances, such as loading and unloading trucks, bush clearing or other site-specific jobs. Salini ensures information Appendix and training about Health and Safety site-specific risks to these workers. For permanent workers, employment relationships are linked to the skills required to deliver the contract. Recruitment is carried out with the support of local agencies (for medium-low profiles), advertisements on local newspapers and in local universities (for high-medium profiles), as well as through Company records on people who have already worked for Salini in a particular region. To avoid any irregularities or violations of laws, local Human Resources offices check applicants’ documents with the help of local lawyers, in order to detect possible falsifications, mainly related to the age of applicants. Salini does not hire under-age employees, even in GRI data and countries where it is allowed by local legislation. verification To reduce the potential of being implicated in human rights abuses, the report Group avoids using labour from agencies and pays all wages directly to the employees, and does not pay them by means of third parties. Local workers’ representatives are in place at every site in order to ensure adequate information sharing and good relations with the management team. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Social dimension continued The Group rigorously applies legislation Communication, negotiation and consultation The purchasing process is governed by concerning employment contracts, thus policies cover all employees. The minimum corporate procedures, including qualification guaranteeing the respect of human rights set notice period for communicating significant (before a contract is signed) and performance out by the ‘Universal Declaration of Human changes in Salini’s assets is a legally fixed evaluations (during and after the execution Rights’ wherever we operate, and in particular period, recognised in the collective and local of contract). Salini supports and monitors its in relation to the exercise of freedom of negotiation contracts of reference. Special suppliers in order to improve their performance association and collective bargaining, communication relating to organisational regarding quality, health, safety and the and the elimination of forced, compulsory change is primarily required in the building environment. Specific training activities for and child labour. industry with regard to the completion of subcontractors are regularly delivered on contracts for which personnel have been HSE and quality issues. In this context, Salini formally joined the Global specifically recruited. In such cases, the period Compact in December 2010, an initiative Salini is committed to sharing its of notice is based on resource’s employment launched by the United Nations through which knowledge and skills with local suppliers category and length of service16. companies undertake to observe and promote and subcontractors in order to develop ten universal principles in the fields of human Information is provided through the publication strong partnerships based on fairness rights, labour rights, respect for the of special documents on corporate intranets, and honesty, promoting their growth and environment and anti-corruption measures. as well as on public notice boards, both at technical improvement. headquarters and at the operating sites. During In order to identify potential risk situations relating to human rights at all the Group the reporting period, no cases of discrimination 4.3 Local communities or violation of workers and local communities’ The Group aims to create opportunities for operating sites, Salini analyses local human rights within the Group’s activities the countries in which it operates, respecting employment regulation, working hours, were recorded. local cultures, needs and expectations and, contractual conditions and facilities (accommodation, health structure, canteens, moreover, creating and strengthening etc.) during the tender process. 4.2 Our supply chain development drivers of the socio-economic Salini is aware that building strong relations system of each host country. Salini’s legal and economic relationship with its with its business partners is a key element employees aims to guarantee the respect for Salini’s approach towards local communities to sustain its growth in the global market. individuals and their rights under the provisions In selecting its suppliers, contractors and varies depending on the type of contract and of national and international law, in all the sites. subcontractors, the Group is committed to the client’s requirements. Specifically, Salini During the reporting period 2008-2010, all directly interacts with communities when it transparency and fairness, firmly prohibiting Group employees have contractual recourse to any form of inequitable business transaction operates as a general contractor in EPC a form of collective agreement15, which ensures and bribery. To make this happen, Group (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) equal rights and treatment on equal conditions. companies require that their partners comply contracts, while it interacts through the client Contractual relations are managed as follows: with specific rules and standards, including when it performs only some phases of the project, under the client or work’s supervision. – Italian personnel working at headquarters Salini’s ethics, HSE and human rights-related and operating sites in Italy are covered by the principles. With regard to procurement The main characteristics of the Group’s local National Collective Labour Agreement for processes, the Group has the duty to assure approach are as follows: Building Companies and Related (employees, the reliability, integrity and professionalism – dialogue and engagement with local middle managers and workers), and by the of the third parties (suppliers, contractors communities and authorities before, National Collective Labour Agreement of and subcontractors) before establishing during and after the execution of projects; Managers in Industrial Companies; relationships with or contracting them. There are specific clauses in the contracts for the – adaptation of the work to diverse local – labour relations for Italian and EU personnel supply of goods and services which specify contexts, in consideration of local or working abroad are governed by individual that third parties are committed to adhere to client requirements; labour contracts specific for overseas Salini’s Code of Ethics principles and to refrain employment that guarantee the employee – initiatives for socio-economic development, from behaviours that may lead to the risk of comprehensive rights not less than those carried out directly or by means of clients. committing crimes defined by the Italian established by the national collective Legislative Decree no. 231/2001. The violation Salini pays great attention to the needs of the negotiation contract for each specific region; of this obligation, including the undertaking socio-environmental context of the territories – regulatory conditions for non-EU personnel of or attempting to undertake acts that in which it works, preparing detailed plans for are based on, and therefore, similar to those contravene the Italian Legislative Decree no. managing and monitoring its most significant for EU personnel, with the key differences 231/2001, is in effect a serious breach of impacts. These activities are carried out in the being that leaving indemnity is not provided in contract and may be penalized with design phase of projects, in accordance with all countries, and taxes and contributions are cancellation of the contract. the legislative and contractual requirements. linked to the region in which employment is During the project execution phase, the Group For major procurement of bulk materials carried out. is contractually responsible for all relevant (e.g. cement, steel, etc.), preference is given environmental impacts of building site activities, to larger, more reputable companies, both at 15 If the local legislation do not provide for national such as management of rocks and soil from international and at local level. For other types collective agreements, bargaining is undertaken at the excavation, air emissions, etc. of procurement, preference is accorded operating site between the Company and the unions. wherever possible to local vendors that meet 16 In Italy, the minimum notice period ranges from one week (for workers with seniority of less than 3 years) the Group’s technical requirements, material to 16 weeks (for executives with families), as required availability and budget. 17 The total annual cost of the maintenance, carried by the National Collective Labour Agreement of out directly by Salini Nigeria Ltd., is equal to about reference. In some cases of staff reduction for €600.000. However in this calculation it has been completion of works, both in Italy and abroad, the worked out on only half of total expense, because the notice period is directly paid to the workers. remainder part is considered as a commercial cost. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Community investments by continent in 2010 Every operating site establishes a public In short, Salini evaluates local communities’ Profile and % relations manager in charge of maintaining needs and provides them with the means to 1.8% Asia relations with local communities and authorities, giving them information about the progress of the project and managing address sanitation, housing and recreational requirements. Because of the high rate of poverty and corruption in many countries in strategy complaints. The requests received by the which Salini operates, the Group prefers to public relations manager are reported to the intervene directly on local communities’ behalf site management, who seek to identify better instead of giving money to people. The only solutions to local needs. financial donations made are granted to wellGovernance recognised associations, foundations and Salini’s attention to the needs of local religious bodies primarily involved in social communities becomes apparent through a welfare, followed by sponsorships to support 73.0% wide range of programmes and activities. They can be classified depending on: cultural and sport initiatives. 25.3% Africa The community investments made by Salini in – type of intervention – either long-term the reporting period (2008-2010) were equal to Europe (e.g. construction of a school) or one-off €7.6 million. The most part of these funds went (e.g. organisation of a cultural event); and to Africa, followed by Europe and Asia. In the Creating Community investments by sector in the – nature of the intervention – voluntary or reporting period, data on these community profitability reporting period 2008–2010 % resulting from contractual agreements. interventions shows that most investments through related to the Group’s work are in the dams responsibility 6.6% In last years, the Group has assigned and hydroelectric plants sector. In relation significant resources to establishing buildings, to hydropower projects, the majority of Corporate schools, hospitals and roads, and has also investments were made on infrastructure for secured the distribution of energy, water and local communities. healthcare to host communities. Besides donations and contractual requirements, these Figures on community investment reported Social structures may also result from the reuse or in this paragraph and in the third chapter reallocation of Group facilities, such as access (economic distributed value), do not include dimension roads to sites, offices and workers’ houses, the infrastructure developments carried out used by Salini in the implementation phase by Salini for project-related needs that remain 60.5% Dams and of projects and which are made available for the community once the project has been available for communities after a project completes. These facilities granted to 30 31 hydroelectric plants completed. During the delivery of projects, local communities are considered as in-kind 25.2% 7.6% communities can also access some of these engagement that positively contribute to the facilities, such as on-site clinics, training rooms, development of areas where this type of Environmental Transport performance Civil building wells, roads and bridges. investment is almost entirely absent. The infrastructures construction estimated value of this infrastructure is equal to over €2 million in the reporting period alone, and it is calculated using only the construction costs incurred by Salini (materials, use of machinery and work performed by Salini employees). Main local communities initiatives Future In 2010 data was influenced by two main initiatives, undertaken by the Group in Ethiopia commitments and in Nigeria. In Ethiopia, Salini completed the construction of a mental health centre, in Gerfesa. It was donated to the community in May 2010. The centre provides physical and psychological help to over 200 people with mental illness, and was built on Appendix an area of about 5,000 square metres, for a total cost of approximately €1.1 million. In Nigeria, Salini promoted and organised celebrations for the 50th anniversary of the country’s independence. An event took place on 30 September 2010 at the Cultural Centre and Millennium Tower work site, involving about 300 Salini workers and about 10,000 people. Moreover, in Nigeria, Salini ensures the maintenance of the Millennium Park in Abuja, a 26-hectare green space designed, constructed GRI data and and donated to the Nigerian capital by Salini verification Nigeria Ltd. in 200317. report In 2010, the other main interventions carried out related to rehabilitation of roads, construction or maintenance of hospitals and schools, and construction of wells, water pipes and electrical grids. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Social dimension continued 4.4 Social data sheet GRI Performance indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Todini reference Total personnel by category LA1 Executives no. 57 62 85 24 Middle managers no. 68 66 88 25 Employees no. 1,415 1,145 1,778 554 Workers no. 11,495 8,920 10,922 1,977 Total no. 13,035 10,193 12,873 2,580 Total personnel by workplace LA1 Europe no. 321 364 1,041 675 Africa no. 10,158 9,340 9,794 908 Asia no. 2,556 487 2,036 997 America no. – 2 2 – Total no. 13,035 10,193 12,873 2,580 Total personnel by workplace LA1 Europe % 2% 4% 8% 26% Africa % 78% 92% 76% 35% Asia % 20% 5% 16% 39% Total % 100% 100% 100% 100% Total personnel by workbase LA1 Italian Headquarters no. 153 162 218 61 Italian Operating sites no. 160 185 684 486 Foreign Operating sites (personnel managed centrally) no. 534 495 665 93 Foreign Operating sites (personnel managed locally) no. 12,188 9,351 11,306 1,940 Total no. 13,035 10,193 12,873 2,580 Total personnel by gender 1 LA13 Men % 93% 93% 92% 89% Women % 7% 7% 8% 11% Total % 100% 100% 100% 100% Total personnel by age group1, 4 LA13 <30 years % 8% 7% 9% – 30-50 years % 52% 53% 52% – >50 years % 40% 40% 39% – Total % 100% 100% 100% – Members of the BoD by age group LA13 <30 years % – – – 30-50 years % 40% 29% 43% >50 years % 60% 71% 57% Total % 100% 100% 100% Total personnel by minority group membership2 LA13 Invalid no. 1 2 4 2 Orphan no. 2 2 5 2 Total no. 3 4 9 4 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Profile and GRI strategy Performance indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Todini reference Employees hired by category2 LA2 Executives no. 5 8 4 3 Middle managers no. 7 3 4 3 Employees no. 21 14 52 36 Governance Workers no. – – 73 73 Total no. 33 25 133 115 Employees left by reason2 LA2 Resignations no. 15 10 118 110 Retirements no. 3 4 4 – Contract expiries no. 2 6 5 – Dismissals due to project phases3 no. – 1 117 117 Creating Dismissals due to disciplinary causes no. 3 – – – profitability Resolutions by mutual consent no. 2 – 5 – through responsibility Total no. 25 21 249 227 Rate of employee turnover by gender2 LA2 Men % 7.2% 4.3% 8.0% 8.2% Women % 2.6% 1.9% 8.0% 0.6% Total % 9.8% 6.2% 8.6% 8.8% Social Rate of employee turnover by age group 2 LA2 dimension <30 years % 2.6% 1.2% 0.4% 0.4% 30-50 years % 5.9% 4.3% 3.4% 3.5% >50 years % 1.3% 0.6% 0.4% 0.3% 32 33 Environmental performance Future commitments Appendix GRI data and verification report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Social dimension continued GRI Performance indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Todini reference Personnel injuries rates LA7 Hours worked (WMH) hours 32,245,768 34,006,772 40,155,891 6,805,921 Fatalities (FTL) no. 7 8 5 1 Injuries with permanent disability = 100% no. 1 – – – Injuries with temporary disability (LTI) no. 471 527 685 127 Lost working days (LWD) dd 13,378 7,164 11,492 2,852 Injury frequency rate (IR) 14.82 15.73 17.18 18.81 Severity Index (LDR) 2,275.59 1,975.02 1,220.05 1,521.03 Personnel injury rates by sector LA7 Dams and hydroelectric plants IR 16.98 18.74 19.60 54.95 LDR 2,766.32 1,932.24 1,153.99 565.20 Transport infrastructures IR 8.92 5.43 12.90 16.66 LDR 1,028.89 2,149.91 1,434.44 1,578.17 Civil building construction IR 21.34 – 10.19 – LDR 85.37 – 112.05 – Personnel injury rates by continent LA7 Europe IR 107.11 66.66 40.66 39.51 LDR 4,996.79 2,648.68 1,589.47 1,319.66 Africa IR 16.84 17.91 18.27 28.79 LDR 2,751.82 2,045.51 1,386.78 3,857.22 Asia IR 2.75 1.18 2.23 1.29 LDR 39.37 1,546.88 68.88 88.39 Hours of absence by motivation1, 4 LA7 Sickness pro–capite hours 56 60 52 – Accident pro–capite hours 11 6 8 – Individual Permits pro–capite hours 18 14 15 – Unexcused absence pro–capite hours – – – – Total hours of absense pro-capite pro–capite hours 85 80 75 – Absentee rate (AR) by workbase 1, 4 LA7 Italian Headquarters % 7% 6% 8% Italian Operating sites % 11% 9% 9% Foreign Operating sites % 3% 3% 2% Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Profile and GRI strategy Performance indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Todini reference Total number of training hours by employee category4 LA10 Executives hours 364 280 276 – Middle managers hours 143 228 297 – Employees hours 2,061 1,633 1,464 – Governance Workers hours 16,937 25,615 30,505 – Total number of training hours hours 19,505 27,756 32,542 – Average number of hours of training per employee by employee category4 LA10 Executives pro-capite hours 6.4 4.5 4.5 – Middle managers pro-capite hours 2.1 3.5 4.7 – Employees pro-capite hours 1.5 1.4 1.2 – Creating profitability Workers pro-capite hours 1.5 2.9 3.4 – through Average number of hours of training responsibility per employee pro-capite hours 1.5 2.7 3.2 – Training hours by topic4 LA10 Corporate Management and Quality hours 70 329 196 – Health, Safety and Environment hours 18,615 26,195 31,310 – Code of Ethics, Italian Legislative Social dimension Decree 231, Privacy hours – 223 110 – Languages hours 598 860 250 – Administration hours 150 36 212 – Specialised hours 72 113 464 – 34 Total hours 19,505 27,756 32,542 – 35 Male/Female salary ratio by employee Environmental category5, 6 LA14 performance Executives % 65% 64% 73% n/a Middle managers % 85% 90% 92% n/a Employees (Level 7) % 75% 82% 85% n/a Employees (Level 6) % 85% 78% 79% 76% Employees (Level 5) % 78% 73% 80% 87% Employees (Level 4) 7 % – – 70% 102% Employees (Level 3) % 88% 73% 60% 78% Future Workers % n/a n/a n/a n/a commitments Average % 71% 69% 83% 88% 1 Salini data does not include personnel managed locally. 2 Salini data concerns headquarters personnel. 3 These dismissals are related to the completion of the project or of its phases. Data concerning 2010 is influenced from the completion of two Todini projects in Italy. Appendix 4 Todini data is not included. 5 Data does not include personnel managed locally. Nevertheless, ratio can be considered as representative of the Group reality because these workers are almost entirely men. 6 In absence of women the ratio is reported as not applicable (na). 7 In category Employees (Level 4) of Salini there are not men. GRI data and verification report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Chapter 5 Environmental performance 5.1 Renewable energy for a more sustainable world 37 5.2 The key role of hydropower 37 5.3 Reducing environmental impacts 38–39 5.3.1 Careful use of resources 40 5.3.2 Ecosystem protection at operating sites 40–42 5.3.3 Waste and GHG emissions management 43–45 5.4 Environmental data sheet 46–49 5 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 5.1 Renewable energy for According to IEA forecasts19, renewable Furthermore, among all types of energy energies will have to play a central role infrastructure, hydropower plants have the Profile and a more sustainable world Energy security, climate change, pollution and in tackling the challenges outlined above. longest lifetime. Many hydropower plants strategy energy poverty are the four major challenges These sources are becoming more built over 50 years ago have fully recouped the which the global community will have to face in competitive, due to the increased maturity initial infrastructure investment and still operate coming years. of technologies and the rising prices of fossil efficiently today. Today, equipment manufacturers fuels. The most mature and used renewable are striving for higher efficiency, reliability and Considering firstly the reliability of energy technology is hydropower, which supplies longevity through design based on computational sources, supply capability is decreasing 16% of the world’s electricity demand. fluid dynamics, advanced manufacturing Governance in many regions due to increasing energy processes and new materials. R&D is also demand and the rising energy prices of 5.2 The key role of hydropower driven by IT innovations, such as automation, fossil fuels, putting particular pressure on Hydropower is currently being used in over remote control and diagnostic systems. developing countries’ balance of payments. 160 countries. According to data from the In addition, the damage caused by massive Hydroelectric projects must be investigated IHA (International Hydropower Association), on a case-by-case basis, due to the unique use of fossil fuels on the global climate is installed hydropower capacity is about accelerating rapidly, as are related costs. nature of each potential site. The main technical 874 GW globally, derived from some 11,000 parameters to take into account are: the project The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate stations. Worldwide hydropower actually Change (IPCC) and International Energy scale (i.e. small, medium, large), the project Creating produces about 3,200 TWh/yr, while the location, the presence and size of reservoirs, profitability Agency (IEA) estimate that in order to limit overall technical potential is estimated to the use of the electricity for base load, peak through the rise of global temperature to 2°C it will be be more than 16,000 TWh/yr20. responsibility necessary to cut at least 50% of global GHG load or both, and other possible benefits emissions by 2050, compared with 2005. All major studies forecast that hydropower besides power production, such as flood Furthermore, burning fossil and other traditional will maintain its primary role in the future control, irrigation, fresh water supply, etc. fuels has many adverse effects on human of renewable energy. Hydropower is also Beyond this, the interests of local communities health. In Africa, South-East Asia and Western well-positioned to meet twin challenges have to be considered in carrying out feasibility Pacific – where a large majority of households of increasing electricity production while studies. The main issues which could positively reducing carbon emissions and dependency and negatively affect the communities include Social prepare their meals by using traditional fuel appliances – indoor air pollution is ranked as on fossil fuels. Added to this, hydropower’s increasing access to electricity, the protection dimension the largest environmental contributor to health potential to satisfy both base load and peaking of local people and properties from floods and problems, after unsafe drinking water and requirements makes it uniquely positioned droughts, the rights of citizens with respect to lack of sanitation. Recent studies show that to balance the supply variability of the other lands expropriation and the management of about 1.4 billion people currently are lacking renewable energies. This flexibility will assume waters for multiple uses (e.g. irrigation, drinking access to electricity. In developing countries, greater importance as the use of renewable water, ecosystem conservation, etc.). expanding access to energy is a central energy expands more generally. With 70 years’ experience in this sector, Salini Environmental challenge. Reliable and modern energy is well-aware that communities’ needs should services help to reduce poverty, and to be factored into a project’s feasibility study, in performance encourage economic and social initiatives, order to maximise benefits and to manage education and health improvements18. and mitigate any negative impacts. For each Hydropower development potential project, necessary impact assessment 36 (TWh/yr) 5,823 studies provided for applicable laws are carried out by proponents in order to obtain 37 3 all needed approvals. Future commitments 2,843 2,762 2,416 Appendix 1,834 1,023 694 644 715 277 96 22 Africa North Latin Asia and Europe Middle America America Pacific East Production Potential GRI data and 18 ‘Towards a Green Economy – Pathways to verification Sustainable Development and Poverty Eradication’, report United Nations Environment Programme, 2011. 19 ‘World Energy Outlook 2010 Factsheet’, International Energy Agency, 2010. 20 Data at end-2008 – ‘2010 Survey on Energy Resources’, World Energy Council, 2010. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance 5.3 Reducing environmental works that in other industries might be The Group actively assist its clients to impacts called ‘prototypes’. development Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs), providing engineering The construction sector is very different from For these reasons, each project requires knowledge and expertise. ESIAs take into other industries in geographical, temporal bespoke planning activities, development account the relevant local and international and operational terms. Geographically, its solutions and delivery techniques. regulations, as well as the environmental and work is closely connected to the environment Salini is committed to the highest standards social requirements of international financial in which projects are developed; each project of environmental protection when designing, institutions (such as the World Bank – has a finite and fixed duration (compared to constructing and commissioning its projects. International Finance Corporation). These other industries, such as manufacturing); and operationally, each project is unique By adopting the most advanced tools available, assessments, which are an integral part of the the Group assesses all the potentially harmful planning design phases of the projects, are and the output is a one-off piece. In other words, the construction sector creates unique impacts related to its activities, with the aim of usually made available for public consultation eliminating or minimising them. by proponents, to provide the necessary information to interested parties. The typical ESIA process is shown below. ESIA procedures ESIA stage Action Stakeholders involved Screening 1 Preparation of project profile Environmental Protection Agencies 2 Decision on whether or not the project requires an ESIA Scoping of the ESIA 3 Developing Term of References Environmental Protection Agencies 4 Initiating initial public consultation Funding agencies (if there are any) Environmental Consultants Local communities Environmental 5 Impact assessment Environmental Protection Agencies Impact study 6 Design of mitigation and benefit enhancement measures Funding agencies (if there are any) 7 Design monitoring and audit plan Environmental Consultants 8 Public Consultation Proponent Local communities Reviewing the adequacy 9 Review contents and provide comments for necessary revisions Environmental Protection Agencies Funding of the ESIA agencies (if there are any) Decision-making 10 Summary evaluation made available to public Environmental Protection Agencies 11 Decisions and conditions for approval made public Local communities Systematic ESIA 12 Ensuring implementation of agreed mitigation measures Private Contractors Follows ups 13 Periodic review and alteration of management plan if required Environmental Protection Agencies Funding agencies (if there are any) Uganda : Bujagali Hydropower Project Clinic The clinic at the Bujagali construction site is one of the many on-site clinics which extend health care facilities also to the local communities. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 As shown before, the ESIAs are subject to Environmental data reported in the next Purpose and content of ESIAs evaluations and reviews by stakeholders that paragraphs relates to the major operating Profile and The Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) is an in depth evaluation include government authorities, funding sites of the Group that were active at the end strategy of the context in which a proposed project agencies, clients and communities. of 201021. Specifically, the data relates to will be realised. It is aimed at assessing the 22 operating sites, of which ten are Salini relationship between the proposed project On the basis of the impacts identified in the projects and 12 are Todini projects. and the environment, which helps decisionapproved ESIA, an Environmental and Social makers to determine whether and under what Salini projects concern mainly dams and Management Plan (ESMP) is prepared and conditions the project will proceed. hydroelectric plants, while Todini projects submitted to the client for its review and The ESIA, drawn up by the project’s concern mainly transport infrastructure. approval. The ESMP describes the proposed Governance proponent, contains a clear description on the For this reason, the environmental indicators nature of the proposed project, including the measures that the contractor, the client and can vary significantly between Salini and Todini. impact of technology and processes; the other institutions will have to implement during content and amount of pollutants that will be construction and operational phases of the It should be noted that at the beginning of 2010 released during implementation and operation, project, to ensure compliance with all the there was an unexpected geological accident and their effects on local communities; the at the plant Gigel Gibe II, in Ethiopia, caused by socio-environmental requirements identified nature and duration of all the estimated impacts, whether direct or indirect, positive or in the ESIA. the fall of material inside the headrace tunnel negative; the measures proposed to eliminate, that channels water to the plant. The problem minimise, or mitigate negative impacts; a In the execution of projects, as explained has been resolved during the year and currently Creating contingency plan in case of accidents; and, previously, Salini implements specific the plant is regularly producing electricity. profitability finally, specific procedures of internal Environmental Management Systems through monitoring and auditing during implementation consistent with the requirements of ISO 14001. During 2010 Salini was involved in some responsibility and operation. At operating site level adequate procedures criticisms concerning the Gibe III project, on monitoring and reporting activities are a hydroelectric plant currently being built established for internal and external on the Omo River in Ethiopia. In particular, communications. Top management some NGOs have raised concerns about the periodically reviews the performance of the potential environmental and social impacts of the project. As extensively described in the Social systems and assigns the targets to ensure ongoing performance improvements. 2009 Sustainability Report, the Group promptly dimension provided support to the client in providing The activities of Salini can be classified into answers and explanations to the NGOs by two major groups: dams and hydroelectric issuing several press releases and responding plants works, which include hydropower plants on its website, as well as through a blog, and multipurpose projects; and transport providing open ground for discussion and infrastructural works, that include roads, criticism. Salini’s approach in these cases is motorways, railways and subways. The chart aimed to provide clear and timely information Environmental below shows the links between resources, to the interested parties in order to create impacts, and mitigating actions for the a positive climate for dialogue and to build performance Group’s activities. mutual trust. 38 Resources used —— Raw materials —— Consumables (chemicals, explosives, spare parts) 39 Future —— Energy consumption —— Water consumption commitments —— Lands and soils Significant environmental —— Waste impacts —— Greenhouse gas emissions —— Effluents —— Lands changes (quarries, deforestation, reservoirs) —— Noise and vibrations (related to blasting activities) Mitigation actions undertaken —— Integrated environmental and safety management system Appendix —— Water efficiency and wastewater treatment —— Recycling of waste —— Reuse of excavation materials —— Restoration of areas affected by the project GRI data and verification report 21 The boundary of the environmental data include all the major operating sites of the Group chosen by 2010 revenues. The operating sites excluded by the boundary represents the 10% of total 2010 direct revenues from construction projects. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance continued 5.3.1 Careful use of resources Energy use 5.3.2 Ecosystem protection at operating sites Use of materials The Group’s energy use consists primarily of Biodiversity the direct consumption of diesel and gasoline The use of materials is an essential component According to ESIA procedures (see paragraph fuels used to power machinery, and diesel fuel of the construction industry. Salini is committed 5.3), a project’s potential impacts on to generate electricity at operating site level. to reducing the material intensity of projects ecosystems are analysed during the planning Others residual fuels are: aviation gasoline, and to increase the efficiency of the resources phase, with the results taken into account natural gas and coal oil. used. To achieve this goal, a Cost Control in the construction process. The Group is office is in place at every operating site. These Indirect energy consumption (electricity committed to preserving and protecting offices constantly perform analysis of resource purchased) is particularly relevant for Todini’s biodiversity in the areas surrounding its consumption as the work advances, in order European operating sites, which mainly have operating sites, continually monitoring to prevent the unnecessary use of materials, access to a power grid, while Salini’s primary its potential impacts. Salini works closely and maximise the efficiency of materials electricity consumption is linked to the Metro with local authorities to achieve legal or warehousing and operational functions. B1 project, in Rome (Italy). regulatory compliance. Local flora and fauna is protected by a careful management of water, The consumption of raw materials and Water use construction areas, quarries and landfills. semi‑manufactured goods in the reporting Salini uses a significant amount of water for its period is shown below. activities, which is withdrawn from a variety of Total water withdrawal (m3) (000) The data does not include materials derived sources according to local availability. Water is from the quarrying processes, which in 2010 withdrawn from rivers, basins and wells built at 16,241 was equal to over 5 million of tonnes and the operating sites, or purchased by means of 1,152 was primarily used by Todini in its road tankers or aqueducts if available. Water is used 13,747 13,530 projects (e.g. to produce asphalt and build mainly in the production processes (crushing embankments). In addition to this quarried plants, concrete batching plants, washing of material, excavated for in the delivery of plants and machinery, wetting of tracks and the project, rocks and soil were the most site areas to reduce dust), followed by nonfrequently-handled materials during the production uses (offices, canteens, houses construction phase. If these materials were and irrigation). not reused in the project process, they When setting up an operating site, the Group were managed and disposed with as waste. analyses local water availability in order to Salini has developed a specific system to achieve a well-balanced mix of sources and to classify and store the rocks and soil excavated avoid significant stress on a single source. during its activities, in order to reuse them in the Thanks to this approach, no single water 2008 2009 2010 construction processes. In 2010, this method source has been significantly affected by enabled the reuse of the 43.6% of the volume Salini’s activity in this reporting period22. Group’s consumption without Todini Todini’s consumption of the whole rocks and soil handled (equal to about 3 million m3). Total water withdrawal by source in 2010 Raw materials and semi-manufactured goods used* % (000 tonnes) 1,345 3.2% Groundwater well 1,466 1,445 75.1% 1,251 River 4.9% 16.8% Aqueduct Lake 2008 2009 2010 Group’s consumption without Todini Todini’s consumption Raw *Datamaterials does notand semi-manufactured include goods used quarry’s materials. (tonnes) 1% Others 43% 22 According to EN9 Indicator Protocol of GRI-G3, is considered as ‘significant’ the withdrawal that account for an average of 5% or more of the annual Ready-made average volume of a given water body. concrete 0,000 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 65.2% 2008 2009 Group’s consumption without Todini 2010 29.9% 8 Diesel for electricity 13 Diesel for 14 traction Todini’s consumption generation 2008 2009 2010 Direct Energy consumption (GJ) Direct Direct Energy consumption by continent in 2010 IndirectEnergy Energyconsumption consumptionby(GJ) category in 2010 Profile and (000) Group’s consumption without Todini % (000) % Todini’s consumption strategy 762 4.6% 87 Gasoline Indirect Energy consumption by workplace in 2010 % 24.9% Asia 2.4% for traction 1,679 Headquarters 1,409 1,315 Governance 65.2% 60.8% 29.9% Diesel for 14.3% Africa 97.6% 8 13 traction 14 Diesel for electricity Europe generation 2008 2009 2010 Operating sites 2008 2009 2010 Creating Group’s consumption without Todini Direct Energy consumption by continent in 2010 profitability Todini’s consumption % Group’s consumption without Todini through Todini’s consumption responsibility Direct Indirect % (000) Energy consumption Energy by(GJ) consumption category in 2010 % 24.9% Indirect Energy consumption by workplace in 2010 Asia Indirect Energy consumption by continent in 2010 % 4.6% 87 Gasoline 2.4% Headquarters 8.8% Africa for traction Social dimension 60.8% 65.2% 14.3% Africa Europe 97.6% 78.0% 29.9% 8 13 Diesel for traction 14 Operating sites 13.2% Europe Environmental performance Diesel for electricity Asia generation 2008 2009 2010 40 Direct Energy consumption by continent in 2010 Indirect Energy consumption by continent in 2010 % Group’s consumption without Todini % 41 Todini’s consumption 24.9% Indirect Energy consumption by workplace in 2010 8.8% In the reporting period, Salini has not carried out projects in protected areas, and only three infrastructure projects (motorways) were located % Asia Future adjacent to protected areas. These projects are situated in Tunisia, Albania and Italy,Africa which represents a total area of around 2km2. 2.4% Albania Headquarters Italy Tunisia commitments Project name Levan-Dames Cagliari-Capo Boi La Marsa Sector Transport infrastructures Transport infrastructures Transport infrastructures Location South-West Albania, South Sardinia, in Quartu North-East Tunisia, between Fier prefecture Sant’Elena area Tunis and the coastal town (adjacent to Cagliari) of La Marsa Environmental context 60.8% Agricultural area 78.0% Coastal area Urban area Appendix 14.3% 97.6% 13.2% Main activities carried Africa Construction of a motorway, Construction Europe of a motorway Construction of a motorway, out in the area Europe with in situ excavation of and galleries, with use of without in situ excavation Asia quarries’ materials existing quarries as landfills of quarries’ materials Operating sites of rock and soils Size of operating site 1.2km2 0.7km2 0.04km2 Position in relation Adjacent to protected areas Adjacent to protected areas Adjacent to protected areas Indirect Energy consumption by continent in 2010 to protected areas % GRI data and Name and typology Frakulla, Madhe, Ada, Varibopi, Settefratelli-Monte Gesis – regional Sebkhet Ariana – wetland zone verification of protected areas 8.8%Cakrani, Gjonca and Hekali – archeological areas Africa park (under establishment) of national importance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance continued Environmental impact assessments carried Noise and vibration management Environmental restoration out on these three projects have not identified Noise and vibration issues are important both Salini is committed to restoring all areas significant impacts on the biodiversity of the in terms of workers’ health, and in terms of affected by its plants, facilities, quarries and protected areas adjacent to the operating sites. impact on the environment and on local landfills during or after a project, in order to Besides the projects mentioned above, it communities. As part of its management leave these areas in a condition to facilitate should be noted that Salini has provided systems, Salini constantly monitors and natural re-vegetation, prevent pounding and significant levels of care to protect the evaluates these issues by adopting appropriate erosion, improve slope stability and return environment surrounding the operating measures to safeguard workers and the affected areas to their original landscapes. site of Gibe III, in Ethiopia. Although the surrounding environment. Restoration activities are mandatory or operating site is neither part of, nor in close To minimise the potential impacts of noise, agreed with clients, and planned by Salini proximity to, with any protected areas, Salini usually measures the noise caused by in partnership with local authorities and careful analysis has been carried out in its activities and, where necessary, installs communities, with the aim of understanding order to adopt a specific Environmental specific soundproofing devices to protect their needs for the area’s future use (e.g. and Social Management Plan (ESMP), workers, communities and local fauna. For farming, grazing, etc.). Where possible, Salini which identifies the best mitigation actions instance, in the Beles Multipurpose Project arranges the donation of these areas to local to implement during the construction phase. (Ethiopia), excavation activities performed to farmers after restoration, again in partnership This ESMP is available at www.gibe3.com/et. build the intake manifold23 were carried out with local administrations. This good practice, in an area (Tana lake) where a family of nine adopted mainly in Ethiopia, is well-appreciated Water management hippos had made their home. The work was by local communities and authorities, given Salini carefully controls and treats its performed using special devices in order to that they can obtain a direct advantage from wastewater in order to minimise negative minimise the noise of the machinery, and Salini’s presence beyond a project’s delivery. impacts on the environment and local to avoid the migration of the animals. communities. Water used in the construction In 2010 alone, the Group has restored process is collected in settling tanks and With regards to vibration, the Group performs 200,000m2 of former quarries and landfill treatment facilities, where sediments and preliminary analyses of any areas and buildings areas, and has carried out over 315,000m2 oils are filtered out. Where applicable, water that may be affected by blasting activities or of reforestation activities. Reforestation is analysed before its release to check that by the passage of tunnel boring machines activities were undertaken using native levels of BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand), (TBMs), monitoring the potential impact on plants grown in the nurseries at expatriate COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) and SS any geological phenomena at throughout, accommodation. Any restoration activity has (Suspended Solids) do not exceed statutory and performing any necessary restoration concerned protected areas or areas of high limits. The same kind of treatments are work once the tunnel has been created. biodiversity value. carried out for drainage water collected In the reporting period, these activities were during excavation activities. performed mainly for the Metro B1 project (Italy), where Salini promptly restored some Water that is intended for domestic use is damage made to buildings and pavements filtered and purified in special treatment near the excavation area. facilities available at all operating sites. After use, this domestic wastewater is collected in septic tanks, and then discharged as waste by authorised agencies. When the site is located in an urban context, the domestic wastewater is discharged to public sewers, complying with the qualitative and quantitative limits provided by the sewers companies. Nigeria, Gurara Dam The Gurara dam multipurpose project is part of Nigeria’s plan to move towards self sufficiency in power. Gurara will provide the capital city of Abuja with water supply for the next fifty years. Apart from using Gurara for power generation (30MW) and agriculture the water body of the dam can further serve as a tourist attraction. 23 Part of the plant that channels water from the Tana lake to the power house. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Total HSE expenses HSE expenses and investments Rocks and soil represent the primary type of Profile and (€/000) In line with the HSE management systems, the waste (over 900,000 tons in 2010), but disposal 2,866 Group annually invests sufficient resources at regulation and clients’ requirements relating to strategy operating site level to protect the health of these materials vary from country-to-country, 10,086 workers and the surrounding environment. and sometimes vary within the same country as well. For example, rocks and soil excavated 8,969 In 2010, Salini invested about €11.8 million at the Italian Metro B1 project (Rome) are into HSE initiatives, of which €7.7 million was treated as waste, while the same materials spent on environmental management (waste excavated at the Variante di Valico project Governance 6,160 treatment and disposal, emission treatment, (Tuscany) are not. In order to avoid misleading land restoration), €1.5 million was spent on reporting, data reported in the charts above Health & Safety protection and the remaining does not include rocks and soil, while data €2.6 million was spent on HSE prevention and reported in the tables at the end of this chapter management activities (management systems, does include them, in accordance with the training, etc.). specific requirements of each project. The high quantity of waste produced in 2008 came 5.3.3 Waste and GHG emissions management 2008 2009 2010 mainly from materials excavated from galleries Disposal and recycling of wastes at the Beles Multipurpose Project in Ethiopia; Creating Group’s expenses without Todini profitability Large-scale construction works produce this work was undertaken to channel water Todini’s HSE expenses through huge amounts of waste, primarily composed from the Lake Tana to the powerhouse. responsibility Total weight of waste* (tonnes) of rocks and soil, containers for construction (000) It should be noted that in 2010 Todini materials, waste oil, filters, used tyres, formalised an agreement with the Tuscany 643 lubricants and hydraulic fluids. Waste Region (Italy) to close a legal disagreement management plans represent one of the around payment of a special tax for the most important elements of the Salini’s disposal of solid waste on the Variante di Valico environmental management systems and project. The disagreement arose in 2009, when Social they are developed as of the design phase dimension 58 Todini did not belong to the Group, and it has of a construction project. 399 397 been closed with a fine of around €347,000. These plans are set up to manage waste in a The Group’s approach towards authorities’ proper manner, complying with all applicable control activities is always of absolute regulations. According to these plans, collaboration, aimed at determining actual construction waste must be collected in course of events. specific areas and recycled wherever possible, Salini has implemented effective spill control Environmental while the remainder is sent to agencies with measures to eliminate or contain any spill of appropriate waste disposal facilities. Mainly in chemicals, oils, fuels and hazardous waste, performance Africa, some scrap materials (steel, wood) are 2008 2009 2010 aimed at preventing any adverse impact on the also donated to local communities. Since environment and the sub-soil. Waste oil and Todini’s waste 2008, the Group has annually calculated the 42 Group’s waste without Todini used batteries are sent to external agencies total amount of waste produced by category 43 Total weight of waste by type* (tonnes) which carry out the recycling and disposal (000) and by destination. of these materials. 1 Future 643 commitments 8 2 446 397 Appendix 2008 2009 2010 Non-hazardous waste Hazardous waste GRI data and verification report *Data does not include rocks and soils. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance continued Greenhouse gases emissions Salini is firmly committed to fighting climate change and to this end the Group has recently started to measure and monitor its global emissions. Main climate change-related risks and opportunities at Salini Opportunities Financial implications Risks Financial implications Greater demand of Higher business opportunities in the Increase of extreme Material damages to structures renewable energy field of hydropower constructions weather phenomena and asset Greater revenues from Dams and Increase of facilities maintenance hydroelectric plant activities activities Higher insurance expenses Increase Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions of claims during the guarantee period (tonnes CO2 000) of projects Need of buildings and Higher R&D investments to New regulations 65 on Higher costs to comply with new infrastructures capable to develop new solutions for adapting energy efficiency regulations related to energy efficiency resist to a harsher climate the conditions of constructions to the of buildings new climate context Need of modifying the construction 126 Higher economic value of the models in order to deal with building projects carried out adopting the 108 energy-related aspects (e.g. more new technologies and solutions 100 climatising, more renewable energy, Higher business opportunities from more insulation) refurbishment and improvement of existing infrastructures Improvement of processes Lower supply costs, due to efficiency New regulations in Higher prices of raw materials and at the operating site level improvements in the use of materials the raw materials fossil fuels, due to effects of emission (decrease of scraps/increase of supply-chain trading systems recycling) Lower energy costs, due 2008 2009 2010 to replacement of overage equipment and machinery Group’s gas emissions without Todini Todini’s gas emissions Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions by source in 2010 (tonnes CO2 000) % 65 6.8% Indirect CO2 emissions – Electricity 126 108 100 0,000 90.8% 2.4% Indirect CO2 Direct CO2 emissions emissions – 2008 2009 2010 Business flights Group’s gas emissions without Todini Todini’s gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions by source in 2010 % 6.8% Indirect CO2 emissions – Electricity 0,000 90.8% 2.4% Indirect CO2 Direct CO2 emissions emissions – Business flights Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Total weight of goods transported (tonnes) Total weight of goods transported by modality in 2010 (000) % Profile and 46,128 0.9% Air shipment strategy 2,631 28,189 27,413 Governance 94.4% 4.7% Road transport Sea shipment 2008 2009 2010 Creating Group’s shipments without Todini Todini’s shipments profitability through Total weight Total of goods weight of transported by goods transported by destination country in the period Total 2008–2010 weight of goods transported by destination responsibility % modality in 2010 country in the period 2008-2010 % % 1% 2% 0.8% 0.6% 1% 1.9% Air1.3% shipment Sierra Leone Kazakhstan Others Tunisia 1% Tunisia Social Sierra Leone Kazakhstan dimension 0,000 0,000 48.3% 1% 0,000 Ethiopia Others 8.9% 9% 94%33.7% 48% 1%4.6% Nigeria 5% 33% Sea shipment Nigeria Uganda Ethiopia Environmental performance Road transport Arab Emirates Arab Emirates Uganda In the construction industry, emissions are As reported above, Salini usually carries out As anticipated in the section 1.3, planning directly linked to working phases, which vary reforestation of any areas affected by its work. and carrying out of the shipping process is 44 enormously from year-to-year; this being the case, trend analysis does not always Planted trees are able to partially offset the total emissions generated during a project’s managed by Co.Ge.Ma., that is in charge of sourcing, purchasing and shipping materials 45 accurately show progress in reducing construction phase. In future years, specific for all worldwide project requirements. greenhouse gas emissions. analysis will be undertaken to estimate Future Salini is aware that the major environmental commitments emissions absorbed by plants. The Group’s main emissions derive from use impact of its shipping activities is related of direct fuels at operating sites level (91%), Transportation and shipment management to greenhouse gas emissions. while the remainder are represented by The Group is committed to reducing the As reported in the economic chapter, Salini indirect emissions (electricity purchased impact on climate change derived from aims to purchase the materials needed for and business travel). its shipping activities, using sea shipments projects locally in order to contribute to a for transportation wherever possible, since In order to reduce its direct emissions, region’s economic development. Despite this Appendix this is the method with the lowest associated Salini periodically replace its plants, goal, materials, equipments and services are carbon-emissions. Data below shows how machinery and fleet with more efficient and not always available in proper quality and this policy is put into practice. ecologically friendly models. However the quantity in some regions, especially in Africa. main opportunity to reduce emissions comes In fact, African procurement figures show that Destination figures show that the majority of from linking the Group’s plants and facilities only 53% of the total materials spend is made shipments are addressed to African countries, to power grids, reducing the use of diesel with locally-based suppliers. The remainder is mostly by sea. Road transportation is more generators. For this reason, Salini actively spent in other continents and then shipped frequent in those countries that have no seeks ways to connect its sites to power grids. to the operating sites. access to the sea, such as Kazakhstan. In addition to this, it should be noted that the GRI data and Group has recently switched its Ukrainian verification asphalt plants from diesel to gas, deriving report significant cost and emissions reductions. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance continued 5.4 Environmental data sheet GRI Performance indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Todini reference Materials used by category EN1 Non-renewable raw materials Cement t 236,458 148,398 183,078 23,037 Bentonite t 593 583 433 262 Bitumen t 1,321 921 232,310 215,867 Aggregates t 945,832 741,992 915,391 115,183 Quarry’s material (except aggregates) t 7,631 262,100 5,129,379 4,626,181 Metallic material t 42,760 39,843 62,320 9,116 Woody material t 6,530 4,803 10,575 6,556 Total non-renewable raw materials t 1,241,125 1,198,641 6,533,485 4,996,201 Renewable raw materials Total renewable raw materials t – – – – Semi-manufactured goods or parts from external suppliers Prefabricated elements of reinforced concrete1 t 20,740 31,435 70,865 24,188 Ready-made concrete t 206,691 279,555 1,196,313 928,186 Ready-made asphalt t 3,557 2,332 106,126 11,191 Metallic structures t 1,342 918 6,886 6,125 Others t – – 5,094 5,094 Total semi-manufactured goods or parts from external suppliers t 232,330 314,239 1,385,285 974,784 Associated process materials Lubrificant – Motor oil l 509,293 436,165 569,476 90,516 Lubrificant – Hydraulic oil l 378,165 357,775 492,159 155,132 Lubrificant – Grease Kg 104,534 94,531 62,774 21,316 Tyres no. 15,155 16,212 17,217 2,272 Explosives t 778 359 1,277 900 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source EN3 Non-renewable energy sources Gasoline for traction GJ 24,108 22,541 99,784 49,418 Diesel for traction GJ 1,058,138 742,833 1,415,804 525,763 Diesel for electricity generation GJ 592,135 543,022 649,123 186,753 Kerosene GJ 579 31 731 – Natural gas GJ 0 0 77 77 Aviation gasoline GJ 3,900 6,092 5,172 – Total non-renewable energy sources GJ 1,678,861 1,314,520 2,170,692 762,010 Renewable energy sources Total renewable energy sources GJ – – – – Total direct energy consumption GJ 1,678,861 1,314,520 2,170,692 762,010 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Profile and GRI strategy Performance indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Todini reference Indirect energy consumption from external suppliers EN4 Electricity purchased from non-renewables sources GJ 6,314 10,586 83,470 72,377 Electricity purchased from renewables sources GJ 1,504 2,005 17,491 15,003 Total purchased electricity GJ 7,817 12,591 100,961 87,380 Governance Water withdrawal by source EN8 Groundwater well m3 301,860 236,450 476,719 147,041 River m3 7,476,999 10,136,290 11,030,636 803,100 Lake m3 5,594,148 5,549,796 2,462,424 2,400 Sea m3 – – – – Aqueduct m 3 373,721 317,991 712,447 199,679 Total m3 13,746,728 16,240,527 14,682,227 1,152,220 Creating Water withdrawal by use EN8 profitability Production use m3 11,184,621 14,045,468 13,058,776 980,509 through responsibility Civil use m3 2,562,107 2,195,059 1,623,451 171,711 Total m 3 13,746,728 16,240,527 14,682,227 1,152,220 Position of operating sites in relation to protected areas EN11 In the area % 0% 0% 0% 0% Social Adjacent to the area % 0% 0% 14% 25% dimension Containing portions of the area % 0% 0% 0% 0% Not involved in the area (neither adjacent to) % 100% 100% 86% 75% Total % 100% 100% 100% 100% Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by primary energy source EN16 Gasoline for traction t CO2 1,673 1,565 6,926 3,430 Diesel for traction t CO2 76,711 53,853 102,641 38,116 Environmental performance Diesel for electricity generation t CO2 42,928 39,367 47,059 13,539 Kerosene t CO2 42 2 53 – Natural gas t CO2 0 0 4 4 46 Aviation gasoline t CO2 282 441 375 – 47 Purchased electricity t CO2 967 1,781 11,830 10,146 Future Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions t CO2 122,604 97,009 168,887 65,234 commitments Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions by source EN17 Business travels t CO2 3,139 2,955 4,177 185 Appendix GRI data and verification report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance continued GRI Performance indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Todini reference Wastewater by use EN21 Production use m3 10,829,934 13,822,870 12,784,158 945,954 Civil use m3 2,562,107 2,195,059 1,623,451 171,711 Total m3 13,392,041 16,017,929 14,407,610 1,117,665 Wastewater by destination EN21 Sewers m3 235,609 210,150 331,532 171,000 Lands/surface waters m3 13,156,432 15,807,779 14,076,077 946,665 Total m3 13,392,041 16,017,929 14,407,610 1,117,665 Waste by type EN22 Non-hazardous waste Rocks and soils t 752,303 752,445 915,625 175,180 Cement 1 t 1,351 426 9,613 591 Cutting materials t 523,981 336,674 317,884 35,904 Construction mixed waste1 t 113,855 55,786 105,627 11,911 Metallic materials t 618 923 4,057 1,557 Wood t 432 551 1,728 19 Used tyres t 1,009 1,145 1,205 164 Absorbent materials t 6 6 15 2 Plastic and rubber t 110 165 148 39 Paper and carton t 146 319 368 2 Compost heap t 77 121 177 13 Urban mixed waste t 228 229 368 8 Others non-hazardous waste t 735 227 4,866 959 Subtotal – Non-hazardous waste t 1,394,852 1,149,017 1,361,681 226,348 Hazardous waste Asphalt, tar and bituminous products t – 12 4,045 3,844 Waste resulting from the treatment of wastewater t – 616 2,252 1,999 Oily water t – 8 12 – Contaminated soil t – 116 45 11 Others contaminated waste t – 43 6 – Oil’s scraps and grease t 800 714 875 141 Oil filters t 3 10 13 5 Paint t 1 12 9 1 Additives and solvents t 11 35 484 473 Batteries and accumulators t 127 161 322 20 Others hazardous waste t – 251 284 13 Subtotal – Hazardous waste t 941 1,979 8,348 6,506 Total waste t 1,395,793 1,150,995 1,370,028 232,855 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Profile and GRI strategy Performance indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Todini reference Waste by disposal method EN22 Incineration t – 98 67 8 Recycling/Reuse t 6,739 13,007 79,118 3,410 Landfill t 821,454 676,819 817,862 57,117 Governance Temporary on-site storage2 t 567,600 461,072 472,982 172,320 Total t 1,395,793 1,150,995 1,370,028 232,855 Significant spills of chemicals and oils EN23 Spills < 5 litres no. 6 21 21 – Spills between 5 and 100 litres no. – 7 21 – Spills > 100 litres no. – 1 35 34 Performed samples no. – – 45 – Creating Contaminated material removed m 3 1 15 41 – profitability Significant spills of chemicals and oils by continent EN23 through responsibility Africa no. 6 29 77 34 Asia no. – – – – Europe no. – – – – Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations EN28 Social Significant fines 3 no. – – 3 3 dimension €/000 – – 387 387 Non-monetary sanctions no. – – – – Total HSE protection expenditures and investments by type EN30 Health and Safety protection costs €/000 624 570 1,546 777 Waste management, emission treatment and Environmental remediation costs €/000 8,771 4,825 7,708 775 Prevention and HSE management costs €/000 692 766 2,581 1,314 performance Total HSE expenditures and investments €/000 10,086 6,160 11,835 2,866 48 1 The important increase of data in 2010 is related to the works at the MetroB1 project (Rome), where they have been carried out excavation of galleries and laying of prefabricated elements of reinforced concrete, with production of construction mixed waste. 49 2 The main material temporarly stocked on-site is represented by rocks and soils. Part of these materials will be reutilised next year. For this reason, this data will be updated in Future the next Sustainability Report and the reutilisation rate will be reported. 3 The fines have been imposed to the Todini projects of Valico, in Italy (2 fines) and South-West Roads, in Kazakhstan (1 fine). The main fine (€347,000) is described in the paragraph 5.3.3 ‘Disposal and recycling of wastes’. commitments Appendix GRI data and verification report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Chapter 6 Future commitments 6 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability area Commitments Next steps Profile and Corporate Governance Maintaining the highest standards – Establish a process for reporting sustainability performance to the strategy and Sustainability in term of ethical responsibility and BoD by means of one of its committees moral integrity – Update the parent company Organisational Management and Control Model to include the risks associated with environmental crime – Adopt Organisational Models and establish Integrity Boards for the most relevant Group companies Governance – Launch of the new e-learning tool aimed at training employees about the Code of Ethics and the Organisational Model worldwide – Carry out specific audits about sustainability issues Health and Safety Improving safety conditions – Strengthen the H&S organisational structure, increasing the number in the workplace, including of dedicated staff at headquarters and at operating sites subcontractors and local – Improve safety performance in the workplace, in particular reducing communities the accident frequency index to 2009 levels Creating – Arrange specific training courses at every operating site on primary profitability H&S risks through responsibility – Implement an audit plan at every operating site in order to carry out H&S audits on subcontractors Environment Ensuring protection of natural – Progressively extend the environmental management system resources and biodiversity, to all Group companies enhancing employees’ awareness – Strengthen the environmental organisational structure, increasing about environmental issues the number of dedicated staff at headquarters and at operating sites Social – Enhance the management of specific environmental issues, such dimension as rocks and soil, hazardous materials and waste – Arrange specific training courses at every operating site on key environmental issues – Implement an audit plan at every operating site in order to carry out environmental audits on subcontractors Human Resources Creating a working environment – Complete the mapping of employee competencies and implement Environmental performance management capable of attracting the best an annual training plan talent, in which knowledge, – Extend the use of e-learning tools to more training issues beyond the motivation and teamwork Code of Ethics and the Organisational Model spirit are recognised – Complete the implementation of the Human Resources management system, with the release of a process for careers management and the adoption of a MbO system Future – Improve internal communication processes and tools, especially between headquarters and operating sites – Establish a centralised security management system for operating commitments sites, in order to guarantee sites and personnel’s safety and protection, ensuring respect for human rights 50 Local communities Maintaining constructive – Maintain excellent relations with the local communities, ensuring 51 and human rights relationships with local they receive support to meet their own health and social needs Appendix communities, ensuring direct – Continue implementation and development of the model to calculate support and protection of the social benefits of Salini projects in local communities human rights – Work with other Italian multinational companies within the Global Compact Network Italy in order to develop a common Human Rights assessment tool to be used in every operating site GRI data and verification report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Chapter 7 Appendix 7.1 Membership and awards 53 7.2 Methodological note 53–55 7.3 Glossary 56–57 7 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 7.1 Membership and awards Materiality Boundary of the Report In order to define the contents of the Report, The Sustainability Report 2010 contains the Profile and Membership a materiality analysis has been carried out description of the initiatives and the activities strategy – Associazione Grandi Imprese (AGI) in accordance with the Part 1 of the GRI carried out by the Group in the 2010, as well – Italian Committee on Large Dams (ITCOLD) guidelines. Materiality has been analysed as the performance data from the period according to two main factors: the relevance 2008-2010. The information provided in the – National Association of Italian Contractors of issues in the construction industry and their Report refers to Salini Costruttori S.p.A. and (ANCE) importance for Salini and for its stakeholders. the consolidated companies. – Comitato Leonardo – Italian Quality Committee In order to define the relevance of issues, an Governance In 2010, following the acquisition of Todini analysis of the internal and external context – Chamber of Commerce Tunisia-Italy Costruzioni Generali S.p.A., the dimensions of has been carried out. The internal context the Group have significantly increased both in – National Industrial Safety Council of Nigeria analysis has taken into account the values, quantitative terms and of geographic presence. the strategies and the management systems – Global Compact Network Italy The data reported in the Report includes Todini adopted by the Group (Code of Ethics, for 2010 only. Awards and acknowledgements Policies, Organisational Management and Control Model, HSE and Quality management Unless otherwise specified in the Report – ‘Premi ad personam per i comportamenti systems); the external context analysis has and/or in the GRI Content Index, the boundary virtuosi’ – awarded to 65 Todini workers Creating taken into account the main sustainability of the report has been established as for their great attention to the issues of profitability frameworks of reference (GRI-G3, Global described below: through workplace health and safety (award promoter Compact, ISO 26000, DJSI) and the responsibility – Autostrade per l’Italia S.p.A., project – – financial and social data refers to the requirements of the major international Variante di Valico) boundary of the 2010 Consolidated institutions for the construction industry Financial Statements; – Acknowledgement of Salini Nigeria Ltd. (UN, World Bank, NGOs, etc.). by the Police Community Relations – environmental data refers to a boundary The relevance of issues and their importance Committee (PCRC) for its contributions established based on the materiality of the for Salini and for its stakeholders has been Social to security matters operating sites during the 2010; specifically, defined by the management through an the Report environmental data refers to all – Acknowledgement of Salini in Ethiopia by 23 analysis based on a three-level scale of dimension major operating sites on the basis of 2010 institutions for the social support provided to assessment: low, medium and high. revenues, achieving a total coverage of 90% them (project – Beles Multipurpose Project). The high-medium issues derived from the of 2010 revenues from construction projects. analysis are showed in the materiality matrix This covers 22 operating sites. The operating 7.2 Methodological note below. This analysis will be updated every year, sites excluded from the boundary are The Sustainability Report as of 31 December in order to take into account the outputs of the considered as not material. 2010 (hereinafter also ‘Sustainability Report stakeholder engagement activities. 2010’ or ‘Report’) aims to provide reliable, Environmental complete, well-balanced, accurate and performance Materiality matrix Importance for Salini’s stakeholders comparable information regarding Salini’s Rhu values, strategies and performances during Fpe Hse Epr the reporting period. High Eus Ibu The Sustainability Report 2010 of the Spo Cec Sen Aco Group Salini Costruttori has been drafted in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Sch Future Bio Cch Ama Csa Guidelines provided by the Global Reporting Dhu Medium Inn Cgo commitments Initiative (GRI) in 2006. On the basis of the Sop Qco information reported in the GRI Content Index, Pri Iau we are compliant with the A+ requirements of Medium High these guidelines. In addition to this, the Report Potential or actual impacts on Salini’s activities contains references to the 10 principles of the Global Compact, showing the actions and the Aco Anti-corruption Hsa Health and safety systems implemented by the Group in order Ama Assurance of management systems Inn Innovation Appendix to integrate those principles in the corporate Bio Biodiversity Ibu Integrity in business management strategies and day-to-day activities. Csa Client’s satisfaction Iau Internal audit The Sustainability Report is published annually Cch Climate change Pri Privacy and it is presented at the Board of Directors of the Company. Cec Contribution to economic growth Qco Quality control 52 To assure the reliability of the information Cgo Dhu Corporate Governance Development of human resources Rhu Respect of human rights 53 provided in the Report and to improve the Sop Security at operating sites reporting process, KPMG S.p.A. has been Eus Efficient use of resources Spo Sponsorship GRI data and commissioned to review this document. Epr Environmental protection verification Sen Stakeholder engagement An assurance statement is available at the Fpe Financial performances report Sch Supply chain monitoring end of the Report. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Appendix continued Comparative data (2008 and 2009) corresponds to the data reported in the 2009 Sustainability Report, with the exception of environmental data. For setting the boundary of this data, starting from the 11 operating sites reported in the 2009 Sustainability Report, two sites were excluded (Gibe II and Parallel Roads) because their 2010 revenues were not material and 13 sites were included. Shown below is the list of operating sites included in the boundary of the environmental data for the Report 2010. Number Country Company Sector Project name 1 Albania Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Transport infrastructures Levan-Dames 2 Algeria Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Dams and hydroelectric plants Collettore di Algeri 3 Azerbaijan Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Transport infrastructures Baku-Samachi 4 Azerbaijan Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Transport infrastructures Baku-Samur 5 Azerbaijan Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Transport infrastructures Kurdamir-Ujar 6 UAE Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Transport infrastructures Svincolo autostradale Dubai Ras al Khor* 7 Ethiopia Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Dams and hydroelectric plants Beles Multipurpose Project* 8 Ethiopia Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Dams and hydroelectric plants Gibe III* 9 Italy Metro B1 S.c.a.r.l./RI.MA.TI. S.c.a.r.l. Transport infrastructures Metro B1* 10 Italy Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Transport infrastructures Cagliari-Capo Boi 11 Italy Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Transport infrastructures Metrocampania-Secondigliano Alifana 12 Italy Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Transport infrastructures Terni/Corso del Popolo 13 Italy Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Transport infrastructures Autostrade/Valico 14 Kazakhstan Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Transport infrastructures South-West Roads projects (Lots 1–5) 15 Kazakhstan Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Transport infrastructures South-West Roads projects (Lots 9–14) 16 Nigeria Salini Nigeria Ltd. Dams and hydroelectric plants Gurara Dam* 17 Nigeria Salini Nigeria Ltd. Transport infrastructures Idu Industrial Area* 18 Nigeria Salini Nigeria Ltd. Civil and industrial building Millennium Tower – Cultural Centre* 19 Sierra Leone Bumbuna Power Gen. Co. Ltd. Dams and hydroelectric plants Bumbuna (O&M)* 20 Tunisia Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Transport infrastructures La Marsa 21 Ukraine Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Transport infrastructures Kiev-Chop 22 Uganda Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Dams and hydroelectric plants Bujagali Hydro Power* * Projects already reported in the Sustainability Report 2009. Other exceptions to the boundary are specified directly in the Report and/or in the GRI Content Index. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Calculation methods Ratio of salary of men to women Water withdrawal and discharge Data and information included in the Report Data on the relationship between women’s Water that is not withdrawn from aqueducts Profile and is taken from the information systems used and men’s salaries is calculated as the ratio nor bought via tanks is estimated based on the strategy for the general management and accounting between the average annual gross salary of working hours of the draining pumps used and of the Group’s operations, as well as from women and the men, by each employment the capacity of these pumps. Wastewater is a specific sustainability reporting system category. In turn, the average annual gross estimated as a percentage of the total water established in accordance with the GRI salary of each employment category is withdrawn, depending on the specific use of requirements. Some data and information calculated as the ratio between the total the water (production or domestic). Rainwater, comes from public sources made available annual gross salaries paid and the number although collected and stored, is not reported Governance by recognised institutions. of employees placed in that category. because it is considered as not material. Data does not include local workers. The Group does not use wastewater from Data reported is calculated in a accurate other organisations. manner and, where specified, by means Materials used of estimations. The methodologies applied Greenhouse gas emissions Where warehouse data systems cannot to determine the main indicators are measure materials consumption by weight, Calculations of the Group’s greenhouse gas indicated below. estimates based on available data (eg volume) emissions are based on: Safety indicators and specific weight have been performed. – the emission factors provided by the Italian Creating Safety indicators are calculated in accordance Direct energy used Ministry of Environment (DEC/RAS/854/2005 profitability with an internal procedures used for recording, – 2009 update) for the consumption of through Calculations on consumption of direct energy responsibility investigating and reporting accidents. direct energy; are based on: Specifically, safety indicators take into account – the emission factors provided by the all the work-related injuries (and fatalities) – factors provided by GRI-G3 to convert International Energy Agency (2010) for the that made affected employees temporarily weight of gasoline, diesel and natural gas consumption of indirect energy; (or permanently) unfit to carry out their regular to gigajoules; job for any day/shift following the injury’s – the emission factors provided by the UK – factors provided by the Italian Ministry of occurrence. Lost days are calculated as Department for Environment, Food and Rural Social Environment (DEC/RAS/854/2005-2009 from the day after the accident’s occurrence update) to convert weight of kerosene Affairs (2010 Guidelines to Defra/DECC’s dimension and includes the number of calendar days GHG Conversion Factors for Company to gigajoules. until the injured person can return to work. For Reporting) for business travel. specific calculation formulas, see the glossary. Direct energy used comes totally from nonCommuting injuries and subcontractors injuries renewable sources. Waste are not included in the calculation of the Where local legislation does not provide safety indicators. Any accidents occurring Indirect energy used guidance on measuring waste production and Environmental to independent contractors (e.g. consultants) Calculations on consumption of indirect energy reliable data is not available, data is estimated are included in employee injury rates. Injuries are based on the factors provided by GRI-G3 based on the annual consumption of the performance occurring at the headquarters and at other to convert kWh of electricity to gigajoules. original source of the waste. With regards to offices are considered as not material because The breakdown of electricity purchased by operating sites outside Italy, data regarding they do not relate to construction activities; for renewable and non-renewable sources is ‘used tyres’ and ‘oil scraps’ was estimated. this reason these injuries are not included in the calculated on the basis of specific production For the first category, calculations were made safety indicators. mix of each country, as recorded by the by multiplying the number of tyres replaced International Energy Agency (2008 statistics). during the year by the average weight of a used Future tyre. A specific average weight was assigned to each tyre category (for passengers, commitments transport and work vehicles). The calculation for oil scraps was made by multiplying the tons of oil used in each year by a standard factor, precautionary identified as 0.9 (i.e. for 1 ton of oil used, 900 Kg became waste). For more information: Appendix sostenibilita@salini.it 54 55 GRI data and verification report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Appendix continued 7.3 Glossary ISO 14001 Standard Voluntary international standard that allows Accidents Frequency Index (IR) organisations to implement an effective Index to assess the frequency of occurrence Environmental Management System, providing of accidents that result in casualties with a framework for the analysis of significant loss of workdays or death of an employee. environmental dimensions, and for managing It is calculated using the formula: and mitigating its impacts. The system ensures (no. LTI + no. FTL) x 1,000,000 compliance with applicable environmental IR = legislation and continuous improvement Total worked man hours of performance. where: ISO 9001 Standard LTI = total number of accidents with temporary Voluntary international standard that sets incapacity; out the principles and criteria for deployment FTL = total number of fatalities. and implementation of effective Quality Management Systems, which demonstrate the Aggregate organisation’s ability to provide products and Category of raw granular mineral particles used services that meet the requirements of the law, in construction; they may be natural, artificial of clients and of the organisation itself. or recycled materials previously used in construction. Construction aggregates are Local used primarily as components of composite The term is used in the Report with the materials such as cement, bituminous mix, following meanings: coating, etc. – communities living near the projects’ locations and the surrounding environment; Governance Set of rules, at any level (laws, regulations, etc.) – employees and suppliers, contractors and that govern the management of the Company. subcontractors based in the same Country Corporate governance also includes the of the project; relationships among the various actors involved – legislation applicable to the specific context (the stakeholders, who hold interests in the of the project (e.g. national, regional). Company) and the objectives for which the Company is managed. The main actors are OHSAS 18001 Standard shareholders, the Board of Directors and the International voluntary standard, which sets management. out the principles and criteria for implementing a system for managing health and safety at GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) work, to demonstrate the organisation’s International initiative established in 1997 under commitment to the analysis, evaluation, a UNEP (United Nations Programme for the management and control of risks faced by Environment) project with the common goal workers, in order to improve the safety of achieving greater transparency, corporate of their workplaces. responsibility and sustainable development. HSE Management System Component of the management system of an organisation, including the organisational structure, planning of activities, responsibilities, practices, procedures, processes and resources used to develop and implement its environmental, health and safety policy and manage its related aspects. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Quality management system Stakeholder Component of the management system of an The term of stakeholder identifies those Profile and organisation that aims, in relation to quality ‘actors having an interest’ in relation to an strategy objectives, to achieve those results that can economic initiative, be it a company or project. properly meet the needs, expectations and For instance, are included in this group: requirements of all stakeholders. customers, suppliers, lenders (banks and shareholders), employees, but also external Risk assessment interest groups such as residents of Overall documented assessment of all the risks neighbouring areas or local interest groups. Governance to which the Group is exposed in conducting its business. This assessment aims to identify Sustainable development the most appropriate measures of prevention Development that meets present needs without and protection and to develop/update the compromising the needs of future generations. Group organisation, management and The term ‘sustainable development’ appears control systems. for the first time in 1987 in a UN document, known as the Brundtland Report, named Roller-Compacted Concrete (RCC) by the then Norwegian Prime Minister Gro Technology adopted for the construction Harlem Brundtland and President of the UN Creating of dams, combining high rate of concreting profitability Commission on Environment and Development. through production with significant economical responsibility benefits. This technology makes advantage Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM) of the low cement content typical of the Technology used for the excavation of tunnels, RCC method, which provides an effective that enables the complete mechanisation of optimisation in terms of transportation, placing the excavation process, including finishing of and compaction. tunnels and installation of safety structures. Severity index (LDR) The use of TBMs allows an enormous increase Social Index to assess the severity of accidents in in the excavation speed, compared with the dimension speed achieved by using the traditional Drilling terms of days lost, which results in the injury or and Blasting (D&B) method (excavation with the death of a worker. It is calculated as follows: use of explosives). (gT + gP + gM) x 1,000,000 LDR = Total worked man hours where: Environmental gT = total days of temporary incapacity; performance gP = total conventional days of permanent invalidity (invalidity of 100% = 7,500 days); gM = total conventional days in the event of a fatality (1 fatality = 7,500 days). Future commitments Appendix 56 57 GRI data and verification report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Chapter 8 GRI Application Level Check Statement 8 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 58 GRI data and Appendix Future Environmental Social Creating Governance Profile and verification commitments performance dimension profitability strategy 59 report through responsibility Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Chapter 9 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table 9 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table Profile and Assured KPMG Application Level A+ GRI-checked by S.p.A. strategy STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis Part not Profile Global reported (if Reason for Disclosure Description Compact Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer applicable) omission Explanation 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker Fully p. 1 (strategic priorities), pp. 4-5 (general trend), of the organisation. p. 18 (perspectives and main challenges), pp. 39, 43 Governance (main negative events), p. 51 (future commitments). 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully pp. 29-30 (workforce), pp. 30-31 (communities) pp. 38-39 (environment), p. 37 (trends about sustainability subject). 2. Organisational Profile Part not Profile Global reported (if Reason for Disclosure Description Compact Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer applicable) omission Explanation 2.1 Name of the organisation. Fully p. 4 Creating 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully pp. 3-4 profitability 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including Fully For the Group’s organisation chart see http://www.salini. through main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, it/index.php/english/content/company/3. For the responsibility and joint ventures. Group’s structure see p. 24 of the Corporate Governance Report 2010 http://www.salini.it/index.php/ english/content/governance/21. 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Fully Rome, Italy 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, Fully p. 3 and names of countries with either major operations Social or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully pp. 7-8 dimension 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, Fully p. 3. Group’s clients are Public Administrations, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). Companies controlled or participated by the State and private companies. The beneficiaries of the Group’s works are mainly the residents living in the areas affected by projects and in neighbouring ones. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. Fully pp. 3-4 (employees, turnover, markets), p. 19 (main economic ratios). See also p. 29 of the Environmental Consolidated Financial Statement 2010 (main capital ratios) http://www.salini.it/index.php/english/content/ performance investor/22, p. 25 of the Corporate Governance Report 2010 (capitalisation) http://www.salini.it/index.php/english/content/ governance/21. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Fully pp. 4-5. For more information see also pp. 13-15 regarding size, structure, or ownership. of the Consolidated Financial Statement 2010 http://www.salini.it/index.php/english/content/investor/22. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully p. 53 Future commitments Appendix GRI data and verification report 60 61 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table continued STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures continued 3. Report Parameters Part not Profile Global reported (if Reason for Disclosure Description Compact Reported Cross–reference/Direct answer applicable) omission Explanation 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) Fully p. 53 for information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully The Sustainability Report 2009 was published in September 2009. 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully p. 53 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report Fully p. 55 or its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully p. 53 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, Fully pp. 53-54 subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or Fully pp. 53-54 boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, Fully pp. 53-54 leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Fully pp. 55 calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of Fully p. 54 information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods Fully pp. 53-54 in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures Fully p. 61 in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking Fully p. 53 external assurance for the report. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table continued Profile and 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement strategy Part not Profile Global reported (if Reason for Disclosure Description Compact Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer applicable) omission Explanation 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including Fully p. 7 committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance Fully p. 8 Governance body is also an executive officer. 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, Fully p. 8 state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to Fully pp. 7–8 (Mechanisms for shareholders). provide recommendations or direction to the highest Direct communication system between governance body. employees and BoD are not in place. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of Fully p. 7 the highest governance body, senior managers, Creating and executives (including departure arrangements), profitability and the organisation’s performance (including social through and environmental performance). responsibility 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body Fully p. 7. For more information see also p. 22 of to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. the Corporate Governance Report 2010 http://www.salini.it/index.php/english/content/ governance/21. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and Fully Processes in place for determining the qualifications expertise of the members of the highest governance and expertise of the members of the BoD do not take body for guiding the organisation’s strategy on into consideration environmental and social topics. economic, environmental, and social topics. Social 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or GC1– Fully p. 7 (codes related to the corporate governance), dimension values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to GC10 p. 9–10 (Code of Ethics and Global Compact). economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Fully p. 7 (powers of the BoD), pp. 11–14 (management of overseeing the organisation’s identification and economic, environmental, and social performance). management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally Environmental agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance Fully Currently systems for evaluating economic, body’s own performance, particularly with respect to environmental, and social performance of economic, environmental, and social performance. the BoD’s members do not exist. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary GC7 Fully p. 8 approach or principle is addressed by the organisation. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, Fully p. 10 and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry Fully p. 53 Future associations) and/or national/international commitments advocacy organisations in which the organisation: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. Fully p. 15 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Fully pp. 14–15 Appendix with whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, Fully pp. 14–15 (general approach), including frequency of engagement by type pp. 28–29 (workforce’s engagement), and by stakeholder group. pp. 30–31 (communities’ engagement). 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Fully p. 15 (summary of general topics), through stakeholder engagement, and how the p. 39 (criticalities about environment), organisation has responded to those key topics p. 42 (criticalities about urban contexts). and concerns, including through its reporting. GRI data and verification report 62 63 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table continued STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) Global Part not reported Reason for To be G3 DMA Description Compact Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer (if applicable) omission Explanation reported in DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Fully Aspects Economic performance GC1, Fully pp. 4-5 (strategy and approach), GC4, pp. 18-19 (opportunities GC6, and performance) GC7 Market presence Fully p. 3 Indirect economic impacts Fully pp. 20-21 (job creation and other economic impacts), pp. 30-31 (investments for communities) DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Fully Aspects Materials GC7– Fully p. 40 GC9 Energy Fully pp. 40-41 Water Fully p. 40 Biodiversity Fully pp. 40-42 Emissions, effluents and waste Fully pp. 42-45 Products and services Fully pp. 40-42 Compliance Fully p. 43 Transport Fully p. 45 Overall Fully pp. 38-39 (environmental impacts’ management), p. 43 (HSE expenses and investments) DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA Fully Aspects Employment GC1, Fully pp. 20-21 (job creation), GC3, pp. 26-28 (people development) GC6 Labour/management relations Fully pp. 29-30 Occupational health and safety Fully pp. 28-29 Training and education Fully p. 27 Diversity and equal opportunity Fully p. 28 DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Fully Aspects Investment and procurement practices GC1– Fully pp. 29-30 GC6 Non-discrimination Fully pp. 29-30 Freedom of association and Fully pp. 29-30 collective bargaining Child labour Fully pp. 29-30 Forced and compulsory labour Fully pp. 29-30 Security practices Fully p. 28 Indigenous rights Fully pp. 38-39 DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Fully Aspects Community GC10 Fully pp. 30-31 Corruption Fully p. 12 Public policy Fully See pp. 17-18 of the Code of Ethics, http://www.salini.it/index. php/english/content/ governance/19. Anti-competitive behaviour Fully See pp. 16-17 of the Code of Ethics, http://www.salini.it/index. php/english/content/ governance/19. Compliance Fully See pp. 8-9 of the Code of Ethics, http://www.salini.it/index. php/english/content/ governance/19. DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Fully Aspects Customer health and safety GC1, Fully pp. 38-39 GC8 Product and service labelling Not Not Salini does not applicable produce goods and services that require labelling. Marketing communications Fully p. 20 Customer privacy Fully p. 20 Compliance Fully p. 20 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table continued Profile and STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Economic strategy Performance Global Part not reported Reason for To be Indicator Description Compact Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer (if applicable) omission Explanation reported in Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and Fully pp. 18-19 distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained Governance earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and GC7 Fully p. 44 (risks and opportunities for opportunities for the organisation’s activities the business) / Because of this due to climate change. theme is unpredictable for the sector, quantitative estimates of the financial implications for the Group’s activities due to climate change are not provided. EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined Fully Group has not identified Creating benefit plan obligations. specific resources covering obligations deriving from profitability leaving indemnity’s award. through responsibility EC4 Significant financial assistance received Fully p. 22 from government. Market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level Not wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending Partially p. 21 (total data), Data exclude Not This data are not Social on locally-based suppliers at significant pp. 22-23 (detailed data) purchases of material reported because locations of operation. goods and services the business is dimension not related to focused on projects; operating sites. therefore purchases not related to the projects made by the Group are considered as not material. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion GC6 Fully p. 21 (total data), of senior management hired from the p. 23 (detailed data) local community at significant locations Environmental of operation. Indirect economic impacts performance EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Fully pp. 30-31 investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant Not indirect economic impacts, including the Future extent of impacts. commitments Appendix GRI data and verification report 64 65 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table continued STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators continued Environmental Performance Global Cross-reference/ Part not reported Reason for To be Indicator Description Compact Reported Direct answer (if applicable) omission Explanation reported in Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. GC8 Fully p. 40 (total data), p. 46 (detailed data) EN2 Percentage of materials used that GC8– Not Not This data are not reported are recycled input materials. GC9 material because the nature of Salini’s raw materials supplied (e.g. cement, steel, aggregate, etc.), does not allow a material use of recycled materials. However, the Company monitors and reports (p. 40) the percentage of recycled excavation materials, because they are considered as material. Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary GC8 Fully p. 41 (total data), energy source. p. 46 (detailed data) EN4 Indirect energy consumption by GC8 Fully p. 41 (total data), primary source. p. 47 (detailed data) EN5 Energy saved due to conservation Not and efficiency improvements. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient Not or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Not consumption and reductions achieved. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. GC8 Fully p. 40 (total data), p. 47 (detailed data) EN9 Water sources significantly affected GC8 Fully p. 40 by withdrawal of water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Not recycled and reused. Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, GC8 Fully pp. 41-42 (description managed in, or adjacent to, protected and specific data), areas and areas of high biodiversity value p. 47 (general data) outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, GC8 Fully p. 42 products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. GC8 Fully p. 42 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans GC8 Fully pp. 38-39 for managing impacts on biodiversity. (management approach), p. 42 (actions put in place) EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and Not national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table continued Profile and Environmental continued strategy Performance Global Cross-reference/ Part not reported Reason for To be Indicator Description Compact Reported Direct answer (if applicable) omission Explanation reported in Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse GC8 Fully p. 44 (total data), gas emissions by weight. p. 47 (detailed data) EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse GC8 Fully p. 44 (total data), gas emissions by weight. p. 47 (detailed data) Governance EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas GC7– Partially p. 45 The indicator does Not This data are not reported 2013 emissions and reductions achieved. GC9 not include the available because the implemented quantification of reporting system did not consider achieved reductions. a quantitative data collection. This system will be improved in order to allow the collection of data not available at the moment. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting Not Not This data are not reported substances by weight. material because, on the basis of the monitoring activities carried out in 2010 about the cooling gases’ Creating use, ozone-depleting gases profitability have been considered as not through material for Salini. responsibility EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant Not Not This data are not reported 2012 air emissions by type and weight. available because NOx, SOx, and other air emissions generated by the Group are mainly widespread emissions, not monitored at the moment. During 2011 the Group will assess an analysis about main emission sources at its operating Social sites (e.g. diesel generators), in order to evaluate the significance dimension of these emissions and the necessity of monitoring and reporting them. In the Sustainability Report 2011 results of such analysis will be reported. EN21 Total water discharge by quality GC8 Fully p. 48 and destination. Environmental EN22 Total weight of waste by type and GC8 Fully p. 43 (total data), disposal method. pp. 48-49 performance (detailed data) EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. GC8 Fully p. 49 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, Not or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and Not biodiversity value of water bodies and related Future habitats significantly affected by the reporting commitments organisation’s discharges of water and runoff. Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental GC7– Partially p. 42 (mitigations The indicator does Not This data are not reported impacts of products and services, GC9 of noise and not include the applicable because the nature of products and extent of impact mitigation. vibrations impacts, quantification of carried out by the Group (e.g. environmental achieved mitigations. dams, roads, etc.) does not allow restoration) to estimate quantitatively the mitigation of impacts achieved. Appendix EN27 Percentage of products sold and their Not Not Salini does not sell goods packaging materials that are reclaimed applicable that require packaging. by category. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total GC8 Fully p. 49 number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport GRI data and EN29 Significant environmental impacts of GC8 Partially p. 45 The indicator does transporting products and other goods not include the verification report and materials used for the organisation’s quantification of the operations, and transporting members environmental of the workforce. impacts related to the shipping of goods. 66 Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures GC7– Fully p. 43 (total data), 67 and investments by type. GC9 p. 49 (detailed data) Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table continued STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators continued Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work Performance Global Cross-reference/ Part not reported Reason for To be Indicator Description Compact Reported Direct answer (if applicable) omission Explanation reported in Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Fully p. 26 (total data), employment contract, and region. p. 32 (detailed data) LA2 Total number and rate of employee GC6 Partially p. 33 Regarding Salini, Not This data are not reported 2013 turnover by age group, gender, and region. data does not available because the data is managed include personnel at the operating site level and working at the was not possible to extract operating sites. them directly from the central Moreover, rate of information system. This system employee turnover by will be improved in order to region is not indicated. collect this data, not available at the moment. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees Not that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. Labour/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by GC1, Fully p. 30 collective bargaining agreements. GC3 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant GC3 Fully p. 30 operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented GC1 Partially p. 28 It is not reported in formal joint management-worker health the percentage of and safety committees that help monitor workers represented. and advise on occupational health and safety programmes. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, GC1 Partially p. 29 (general Data on absenteeism Not This data are not reported 2013 lost days, and absenteeism, and number injuries rates), does not include available because the data is managed of work-related fatalities by region. p. 34 (detailed data), Todini personnel at the operating site level and p. 55 (calculation and the personnel was not possible to extract methods) managed locally. them directly from the central Moreover, data on information system. This system industrial disease will be improved in order to are not reported. collect this data, not available at the moment. LA8 Education, training, counselling, GC1 Fully pp. 26-28 prevention, and risk-control programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in GC1 Fully p. 28 formal agreements with trade unions. Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per Partially p. 27 (total data), Data does not Not This data are not reported 2012 employee by employee category. p. 35 (detailed data) include Todini available because in 2010 it was not personnel. possible to collect data on training provided to Todini personnel for the integration process of the main functions of Todini within the Group. LA11 Programmes for skills management and Fully pp. 27-28 (skills lifelong learning that support the continued management). employability of employees and assist Concerning the them in managing career endings. management of career endings and the support of continued employability, the Group – besides the instruments provided by law – develops individual exit plans with the employees which are leaving the Company. These plans take into account the personal needs and the Company ones. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving Not regular performance and career development reviews. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table continued Profile and Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work continued strategy Performance Global Cross-reference/ Part not reported Reason for To be Indicator Description Compact Reported Direct answer (if applicable) omission Explanation reported in Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies GC1, Partially p. 8 (composition Data on workforce Not This data are not reported 2013 and breakdown of employees per GC6 of BoD), p. 32 by gender does not available because the data is managed category according to gender, age (detailed data). include personnel at the operating site level and group, minority group membership, In the composition managed locally. was not possible to extract and other indicators of diversity. of BoD members Data on workforce them directly from the central Governance belonging to minority by age group does information system. This system group membership not include Todini will be improved in order to are not present. personnel and collect this data, not available personnel managed at the moment. locally. Data on personnel belonging to minority group membership refer only to the head­quarters in Rome. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by GC1, Partially p. 28 (total data), Data does not Not This data are not reported Creating employee category. GC6 p. 35 (detailed data) include personnel material because personnel managed profitability managed locally. locally are almost entirely men. through For these reason these data are responsibility considered as not material. Social: Human Rights Performance Global Cross-reference/ Part not reported Reason for To be Indicator Description Compact Reported Direct answer (if applicable) omission Explanation reported in Diversity and equal opportunity HR1 Percentage and total number of significant GC1– Fully p. 30/For 100% of investment agreements that include GC6 construction projects Social dimension human rights clauses or that have launched by the undergone human rights screening. Group, evaluations including human rights aspects of personnel and local communities have been carried out. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and GC1– Partially p. 30/The contractual Data does not Not This data are not reported 2013 contractors that have undergone screening GC6 relationships with include percentage available because the data is managed Environmental on human rights and actions taken. suppliers, contractors of subcontractors at the operating site level and and subcontractors that have undergone was not possible to extract are based on the screening on them directly from the central performance acceptance of the human rights. information system. This system Code of Ethics and, will be improved in order to consequently, also collect this data, not available of human rights at the moment. clauses. Although performed, data on audits are not available at the moment. Future HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies Not and procedures concerning aspects of human commitments rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination GC1, Fully p. 30 and actions taken. GC2, GC6 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Appendix HR5 Operations identified in which the right GC1– Fully p. 30 to exercise freedom of association and GC3 collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child labour HR6 Operations identified as having significant GC1, Fully p. 30 risk for incidents of child labour, and GC2, measures taken to contribute to GC5 the elimination of child labour. Forced and compulsory labour GRI data and HR7 Operations identified as having significant GC1, Fully p. 30 verification risk for incidents of forced or compulsory GC2, report labour, and measures to contribute to the GC4 elimination of forced or compulsory labour. 68 69 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table continued STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators continued Social: Human Rights continued Performance Global Part not reported Reason for To be Indicator Description Compact Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer (if applicable) omission Explanation reported in Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in GC1, Partially p. 28 Data does not Not This data are not 2013 the organisation’s policies or procedures GC2 include percentage available reported because the concerning aspects of human rights that of personnel data is managed at are relevant to operations. trained on human the operating site level rights’ subject. and was not possible to extract them directly from the central information system. This system will be improved in order to collect this data, not available at the moment. Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations GC1, Fully p. 30 involving rights of indigenous people GC2 and actions taken. Social: Society Performance Global Part not reported Reason for To be Indicator Description Compact Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer (if applicable) omission Explanation reported in Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any Fully pp. 30-31 (approach towards programmes and practices that assess communities), pp. 38-39 and manage the impacts of operations (evaluations of social and on communities, including entering, environmental impact). operating, and exiting. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business GC10 Fully p. 12 units analysed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in GC10 Fully p. 12. Percentage of workforce organisation’s anti-corruption policies who received anti-corruption and procedures. training in 2008 was equal to 0% (management) and 0% (non-management); in 2009 41% (management) and 1% (non-management); in 2010 13% (management) and 0% (non-management). Management includes executives and middle managers, non-management includes employees and workers. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents GC10 Fully In reporting period none case of of corruption. corruption has been identified. Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in GC1– Fully In the reporting period the Group public policy development and lobbying. GC10 has not directly participated to public policy development and lobbying activities. These activities are governed by the Code of Ethics. (p. 18), http://www.salini.it/ index.php/english/content/ governance/19. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind Not contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Total number of legal actions for Not anti‑competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total Fully In the reporting period, the Group number of non-monetary sanctions for has received a fine derived from non-compliance with laws and regulations. a tax assessment. For more information see the Consolidated financial statements 2010, pp. 120, http://www.salini.it/index. php/english/content/investor/22. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table continued Profile and Social: Product Responsibility strategy Performance Global Part not reported Reason for To be Indicator Description Compact Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer (if applicable) omission Explanation reported in Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety GC1 Fully pp. 38-39 impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Governance PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance GC1 Not with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information Not Not The products and required by procedures, and percentage applicable services sold by the of significant products and services subject Group (major works) to such information requirements. do not require the Creating release of information. profitability PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Not through with regulations and voluntary codes responsibility concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, Partially p. 20 Results are Not This data are not 2013 including results of surveys measuring not reported. available reported because customer satisfaction. synthetic indicators to be monitored have Social not been identified at the moment. In next years the Group dimension will carry out an analysis to identify the appropriate performance indicators able to measure the client satisfaction. Marketing communications PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, Fully The Group does not adopt Environmental standards, and voluntary codes related code and/or standard related performance to marketing communications, including to marketing activities. advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Fully p. 20 with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints GC1 Fully p. 20 Future commitments regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for Not Besides the information non-compliance with laws and regulations reported in the EN28 indicator concerning the provision and use of (environmental fines), the products and services. Group has not received any administrative or judicial fines Appendix for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning these issues. GRI data and verification report 70 As provided by the ‘Application Levels FAQs’ published on the website www.globalreporting.org, the columns ‘Cross-reference/Direct answer’, ‘If applicable, indicate the part not reported’, ‘Reason for omission’, ‘Explanation’ and ‘To be reported in’ have been not compiled for the Additional indicators. 71 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Chapter 10 Third party Verification Report 10 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 72 GRI data and Appendix Future Environmental Social Creating Governance Profile and 73 verification commitments performance dimension profitability strategy report through responsibility Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Report Application  Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Profile and strategy G3 Profile Report on: Report on all criteria listed for Same as requirements for Disclosures 1.1 Level C plus: Level B 2.1–2.10 1.2 3.1–3.8, 3.10–3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1–4.4, 4.14–4.15 4.5–4.13, 4.16–4.17 Output Governance G3 Not required Management Approach Management Approach Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Management Disclosures for each Indicators disclosed for each Indicators Standard Disclosures Category Category Approach Disclosures Output Creating profitability through responsibility G3 Performance Report on a minimum of Report on a minimum of Respond on each of core G3 Indicators and 10 Performance Indicators, 20 Performance Indicators, and Sector Supplement* Sector including at least one from at least one from each of: indicator with due regard to each of: social, economic economic, environment, the Materiality Principle by Supplement human rights, labour, society, either: a) reporting on the Social Performance and environment product responsibility indicator or b) explaining the Indicators Output reason for its omission dimension *Sector supplement in final version. The Sustainability Report 2010 of the Salini Costruttori Group comply with the A+ requirements of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines provided Environmental performance by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in 2006. This Application Level has been checked by KPMG S.p.A. and by GRI. Future commitments Appendix GRI data and verification report 74 75 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2010 Information and contacts Italy Salini Costruttori S.p.A. 22, Via della Dataria, Rome Tel +39.06.67761 Fax +39.06.6776288 info@salini.it Africa South America Europe Algeria Argentina Albania algeria.info@salini.it argentina.info@salini.it albania.info@salini.it Ethiopia Brazil Azerbaijan ethiopia.info@salini.it brazil.info@salini.it azerbaijan.info@salini.it Gabon Chile Belarus gabon.info@salini.it chile.info@salini.it belarus.info@salini.it Ghana Asia Bulgaria ghana.info@salini.it China bulgaria.info@salini.it Guinea china.info@salini.it Czech Republic guinea.info@salini.it Jordan czechrep.info@salini.it Liberia jordan.info@salini.it Denmark liberia.info@salini.it Kazakhstan denmark.info@salini.it Libya kazakhstan.info@salini.it Georgia libya.info@salini.it Malaysia georgia.info@salini.it Malawi malaysia.info@salini.it Greece malawi.info@salini.it Saudi Arabia greece.info@salini.it Morocco saudiarabia.info@salini.it Hungary morocco.info@salini.it Turkey hungary.info@salini.it Nigeria turkey.info@salini.it Ireland nigeria.info@salini.it United Arab Emirates ireland.info@salini.it Sierra Leone abudhabi.info@salini.it Poland sierraleone.info@salini.it dubai.info@salini.it poland.info@salini.it Somalia Romania somalia.info@salini.it romania.info@salini.it Sudan Ukraine sudan.info@salini.it ukraine.info@salini.it Tanzania tanzania.info@salini.it Tunisia tunisia.info@salini.it Uganda uganda.info@salini.it Zimbabwe zimbabwe.info@salini.it Edited by: Salini Costruttori Design and production: Radley Yeldar www.ry.com Salini Costruttori 22 via della Dataria 00187 Rome Italy T: +39 06 67761 F: +39 06 6776288 info@salini.it www.salini.it
