General Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) for Qatar Airways: From: Sept. 2009 To: Sept. 2011 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) “I am pleased to confirm that Qatar Airways continues to support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Qatar Airways will continue to make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within two years of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy”. Akbar Al Baker Chief Executive Officer Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk‐assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Qatar Airways employs over 15000 employees worldwide comprising of over 120 different nationalities and different religious and cultural backgrounds. Company policy has a very strict “code of conduct” of respecting human rights at all times in line with the State of Qatar legislation on human rights in line with the United Nations charta. Reports of human rights abuses are being dealt with at the highest level of the law enforcement in the State of Qatar and else. In October 2011 Qatar Airways will be launching a global campaign against human trafficking together with UN.GFT in Vienna. This is a medium term partnership over initially three years whereby Qatar Airways makes its brand available to promote the cause of UN.GIFT and raise the awareness among the general public and staff. This is one of the first large scale campaign by Qatar Airways in support of the MDG’s. 1 Implementation With the launch of the UN.GIFT partnership campaign in October 2011, Qatar Airways and UN.GIFT have agreed on the following activities, phase by phase: 1) Awareness through a large scale launch of the campaign, in‐flight video, special articles, in our onboard magazine “ORYX”, leaflets with “hotline number in Qatar’ and a special staff intranet site 2) Sponsoring of UN.GIFT information boxes during the Olympics and para‐Olympics in London in 2012 3) Specialized training for cabin, ground and immigration staff and online training material as provided by UN.GIFT 4) Together with the local campaign against Human trafficking, organized by Qatar Foundation under the Patronage of Her Highness provide a local call and help/ information center Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. 1) As the campaign is yet to be launched it is to early to say how the outcome can be measured 2) All monitoring and follow‐up will be done through UN.GIFT and the local call/ help center Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights‐related risks and opportunities). Qatar Airways is bound by the labour law of the State of Qatar. The State of Qatar is signatory to all relevant Charta’s for the upholding of Labour Laws in the State of Qatar. For employment outside of Qatar, Qatar Airways is bound by the regional labour laws and trade association agreements. Any violation of labour laws can be freely reported to the Ministry for labour in the State of Qatar and will be investigated accordingly. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations. 1) Labour laws are safeguarded by the State legislation and Qatar Airways employment policy 2) Human Resources has special staff to deal with any case of attempted labour law violation which is reported directly to the CEO as per company organisational structure 3) All employees are duly insured , medical and accident 4) Qatar Airways has a dedicated staff clinic 5) The Senior Vice president for Safety and health is responsible to the safety of all employees network wide 2 Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. 1) Depending of the severity of violation, any case might be dealt with company internally or through the Ministry of labour and law enforcement 2) Every case of discrimination due to age, gender, ethnicity etc are being dealt with accordingly in line with the company policy and procedures 3) The State conducts periodic checks/ audits Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals 1) Qatar Airways has a clear environmental policy published on its website: http://www.qatarairways.com/global/en/csr‐docs/Environment‐policy.pdf 2) With 3.2 years of age we operate one of the youngest fleets in the world and already committed USD 60 billion for the fleet replacement with an order of nearly 200 next generation aircraft and engines 3) As the first airline in the region, Qatar Airways introduced a company wide fuel efficiency program back in 2007 when the IATA Fuel Efficiency Gap Analysis was carried out. A range of measures has been introduced such as a task force for total aircraft weight reduction, optimizing of onboard equipment, waste management etc 4) Qatar Airways has signed up with IATA (international Air Transport Association) to participate in a pilot project to launch the IEnvEAS – IATA Environmental Audit Scheme (ISO 14001 equivalent for airlines) which includes programs such as voluntary carbon offset for passengers and cargo, waste water management, sustainable recycling, introduction of light weight/ eco friendly products etc. 5) In October 2009 Qatar Airways conducted the worlds first revenue flight with a fuel mix of 50% Gas‐to‐Liquid jet fuel which reduces the fuel burn, improves the local air quality as it burns no aromatics and almost no sulphur 6) In Jan. 2010 Qatar Airways launched with national stakeholders and partners the “Qatar Advanced Bio Fuel Platform” in order to research the growth of second generation bio fuel feedstock in Qatar and the region in a sustainable manner. 7) Qatar Airways and partners invested USD 13 Mil. to kick‐start a national R&D program to research micro algae as a sustainable feedstock for future bio jet fuel 8) Qatar Airways is represented on all committees that deal with aviation and environment such as ICAO CAEP, IATA ENCOM, AACO EGP etc. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents negative impacts and transferring good practices: 1) An emergency response checklist for environmental incidents in an airline is a regulatory requirement 2) Qatar Airways has a dedicated department and manager that deal with environment 3) The environmental footprint (in an airline’s case it is GHG emissions) is constantly monitored through a “state‐of‐the‐art” fuel management system 3 4) For three years in the row we maintain a carbon footprint of 94.5 grams/ CO2 per revenue passenger kilometre. One of the lowest for a full service airline. European and US carriers compare with 109 to 115 grams 5) We run ongoing fuel and environmental management courses in house for pilots, engineers, ops personnel following the IATA best Practices and Guidance. 6) We have a dedicated environmental side as part of our CSR side: http://www.qatarairways.com/qa/en/csr.html 7) In line with the European Union directive under the EU ETS (emissions Trading Scheme) we file annual emissions data with the EU (verified) Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance: 1) Incidents are being dealt with in accordance with the regulatory requirements for aviation 2) Through the fuel consumption monitoring we constantly measure our environmental footprint 3) With the introduction of the IATA Environmental Audit Scheme by the end of this year we will have periodic audits as of 2012 onwards Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals 1) In line with the State legislation, Qatar Airways has a “zero tolerance for corruption” 2) Qatar Airways Group Security is in charge for adherence to this policy 3) The CEO reports directly to the Chairman and the Board in case of any known or discovered corruption case Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti‐corruption policies, reduce anti‐corruption risks and respond to incidents. 1) Group Security is in charge for adherence to the policy, fraud and corruption prevention, initial investigation and reports directly to the CEO 2) Any case of fraud or corruption will immediately filed with the applicable law enforcement 3) Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti‐corruption performance. 1) Internal audits are carried out periodically as well as spot checks in line with the security policy of Qatar Airways Group 2) A dedicated Senior Vice president heads the department and reports directly to the CEO 3) Annual review of fraud and corruption cases is being carried out and the report is passed to the CEO and the Board for review 4) All fraud and corruption cases are being handed over to the police for further investigation and follow up. 4 Prepared and verified by: Dr.h.c., Capt. Chris Schroeder, MSc, MBA Senior Manager CSR, Environment and Fuel Projects Qatar Airways Doha State of Qatar September 10, 2011 5
