Communication on Progress Report Name of the participating company: MONBAT Plc Country: Republic of Bulgaria Sector: Electrical and Chemical industry Reported period: This Communication on Progress Report refers to the activities and practices of MONBAT Plc in 2010. Structure of the Report: The Communication on Progress Report includes the following chapters: 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES BY MR. ATANAS BOBOKOV – CHAIRPERSON OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD OF MONBAT PLC. 2. DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN BY MONBAT PLC TO IMPLEMENT THE GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES IN 2010. 1 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES BY MR. ATANAS BOBOKOV – CHAIRPERSON OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD OF MONBAT PLC The management of MONBAT Plc has built up the company’s business on the basis of the responsibility towards different groups of stakeholders and the society as a whole. A priority place in our corporate policy takes the approval of our high ethical standards and value system in the company’s relations with its stakeholders. The adopted in 2007 Code of Ethics had a positive influence in the process of defining the company’s values. All business relations of the company are based on the corporate value system which is being actively promoted by all admissible for the management means – upon sales presentations, through marketing materials as well as during informal communication. MONBAT Plc holds that in order to conduct a well balanced policy in its relations with suppliers and contractors as well as in the process of approving business partners, transparency is very important in the mutual relations with those groups of stakeholders. The management considers that this policy is impossible to be based only on the lowest possible price or the most favorable financial conditions. Business ethics and values included in the policy, the overall image of the partners have leading importance for the management of MONBAT Plc when considering establishment of long-term business and/or commercial relations. We consider that it is particularly important for the conduct of responsible and sustainable business to abide by at least the following: Precise identification of all groups of stakeholders and creating mutual thrust; Continuous application of flexible and innovative solutions in each particular element of our scope of activity; Continuous adherence to high standards for environmental protection and production safety. Atanas Bobokov Chairperson of the management Board of MONBAT Plc 2 2. DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN BY MONBAT PLC TO IMPLEMENT THE GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES IN 2010. Human Rights: Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that the company is not complicit in human rights abuses Monbat Plc has defined its human rights protection policy in the Actions and indicators: following internal acts of the company: Human rights protection and non-admission of any forms of behavior which offend the dignity and infringe upon the rights of any separate personality, or Code of Ethics for the Workers and Employees of MONBAT tolerate any manifestation of discrimination take a leading place in our Plc corporate value system. Rules on the Internal Organizational Structure • MONBAT Plc does not admit manifestation of any forms of Employment Rules discrimination in relation to its workers and employees, as the requirements Employee information and training plan they should meet and their liabilities, set up in labor contracts and job Sponsorship, donation and social activity policy descriptions are based entirely on the provisions of the labor legislation. Personal data processing rules • In its employment policy, the management of MONBAT Plc has been lead by the equal treatment of all candidates principle, irrespective of Monbat Plc has a special team of professionals which is a part of their race, nationality, ethnic affiliation, sex, origin, religion, education, the company’s HR department in charge of implementing the convictions, political affiliation, personal and social standing or property human rights protection policy. status. • No child labor exploitation is admissible within the structure of The particular practices are regulated by the procedures of the MONBAT Plc. integrated management system under ISO 9001 and OHSAS • All workers and employees take into consideration their 18001:1999 – for healthy and safe labor conditions. position in the hierarchy within the established internal structure as they do not permit any misuse of their official position by exerting pressure or exercising The donation policy of the company is traditionally directed harassment, in one form or another, towards subordinate workers or towards the local community. employees. • MONBAT Plc is a personal data administrator which has access to the personal data of the workers and employees. The company has 3 elaborated Personal Data Protection Rules which regulates any use of such data and provides protection in case of misuse. • Information on the measures regarding human rights protection is being presented to the workers and employees on regular basis. • Consultations are being conducted with representatives of the workers and employees upon any amendments in the labor legislation. • MONBAT Plc protects the rights of its clients by means of disseminating information on its products on the occasion of sales as well as by posting such information on its website. 4 Labor Standards: Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labor; Principle 6: Eliminating discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Monbat Plc has defined its labor rights protection and recognition Actions and indicators: policy in the following internal acts of the company: As a company which realizes the serious dependence of the long-term business success and the efficiency of the production process on the knowledge, Code of Ethics for the Workers and Employees of MONBAT abilities, innovative creativity and motivation of its workers and employees, Plc the company performs initiatives, directed towards establishing new practices Internal labor rules on the labor place. Those practices of socially responsible conduct within Collective labor contract MONBAT Plc are voluntary and exceed the requirements of the labor Rules on the Internal Organizational Structure legislation in the Republic of Bulgaria. Employment rules Customer relation systems • The company’s management stimulates the workers and employees of Employee information and training plan MONBAT Plc by means of regular attestations and consistent Labor conditions Committee Rules implementation of new employees/workers information and training plans. Rules on the improvement of health and safety labor conditions Thus the employees/workers develop their professional abilities. Monbat Plc has a special team of professionals which is a part of • The company has new employees/workers information and training the company’s HR department in charge of implementing the plans, which take into consideration the long-term practical experience of the human rights protection policy. management. • Within the structure of MONBAT Plc was established the practice for having preliminary consultations with representatives of the workers in the separate sub-divisions on important issues related to the production activity. In 2009 such consultations were held in terms of initiating reduced working time for the directly employed in the main production and servicing structural departments. 5 • All workers and officials within the structure of MONBAT Plc work under labor contracts which are being registered in accordance with the legal requirements. The salaries of the different categories workers and officials of MONBAT Plc exceeds approximately 100 % the average working salary, fixed for the country for 2010 as all workers and officials are being given documents for the received salaries which provide detailed information on all elements of the working salary, including the personal insurance and tax payments. • All departments in the production and administrative activity of MONBAT Plc use working time reporting systems which report the duration of the working shift and the presence or absence of each worker and official. • By reason of the production activity nature, the company does not have the possibility to offer its workers and officials flexible working time or any possibility to perform their duties from distance. • In the main production departments was established a 3-shift working schedule, which also includes night shifts. Night work within the structure of the company was regulated in accordance with the requirements of the Labor Code and the approved work schedules. SAFE AND HEALTHY LABOR CONDITIONS In 2002 MONBAT Plc elaborated and since then has consistently applied the principles of the Integrated System for Core Management, as one of the main directions of this System is the Safe and Healthy Labor Conditions System. In 2009 the company successfully passed the audit for confirming 6 compliance of the Safe and Healthy Labor Conditions System with the requirements of the OHSAS 18001:2007 standard. The scope of the certification includes all aspects of the company’s activity and respectively – projecting, production, selling, distribution and recycling the whole product range. • In all separate production departments are regularly held safe and healthy labor instructions and trainings at least four times per year. Regarding the workers and officials which are directly involved in the old accumulator batteries recycling process, such instructions and trainings are held every month. The initial instructions, upon starting work, as well as the subsequent regular instructions are held by the labor safety coordinators under the control of the operative managers of the respective department or division. For each instruction is prepared a record in a special book which includes information on the workers/officials being present at the instruction. • All workers within the structure of MONBAT Plc are annually provided with working outfits and personal protection means. • All workers and officials are guaranteed food – free of charge during the working process. • MONBAT Plc, as well as all of the other companies within the structure, have signed contracts with respective Labor medicine services which annually provide overall medical examinations for all workers and officials and keep medical cards for all of them. • MONBAT Plc has constituted a Labor Conditions Committee, which gives statements on issues related to technological changes, social issues, issues related to ensuring health protection and safety for the workers 7 and officials. The members of the Committee annually attend different forms of trainings. WORKERS’ PARTICIPATION AND REPRESENTATION The management of MONBAT Plc encourages the workers and officials, employed within the structure, to freely unite themselves and appreciates the possibilities for unobstructed performance of initiatives in this field. • The employed within the company as well as within the whole structure are guaranteed the right to freely unite themselves and undertake any actions to set up workers/trade union organizations, voluntarily join and leave them while only complying with their statutes, without a preliminary permission on the part of the management and in case that they do not violate any binding legal provisions. • All workers and officials within the structure of MONBAT Plc are united in a General assembly of the workers and officials. In the events, specified by law the workers and officials participate in discussions and approval of decisions related to the management of the company through their representatives elected by the General assembly of the workers and officials. • MONBAT Plc, in its capacity of employer, is a member of the national employer’s organization – the Bulgarian Industrial Capital Association and actively takes part in all of its events and initiatives aimed at enhancing the social engagements of the employers in Bulgaria in relation to their workers and officials. 8 • The internal rules of MONBAT Plc completely prohibit employment of persons under the age of 18. • MONBAT Plc selects its contractors based on a list of criteria which includes the criterion for availability of information on their engagement with the labor rights protection. 9 Environment: Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Monbat Plc has defined its environmental protection policy in the following internal acts of the company: Actions and indicators: Risk management plan • The social responsibility of MONBAT Plc in its capacity of the biggest Supplier selection criteria accumulator batteries producer in Bulgaria and a fast developing listed Customer relation systems company finds expression also in its attitude towards the environment. Employee information and training plan Environmental protection is one of the main values included in the company’s Marketing plans value system. 2010 Investment Program • The management of MONBAT Plc considers the pollution preventing or reducing activities aimed at achieving maximum level of human health and The company has developed and approved a special separate ecoenvironmental protection as main priorities and crucial factors for the longpolicy. term and sustainable development. By reason of this, MONBAT Plc has its particular environmental protection policy. MONBAT Plc has a special team of professionals in charge of implementing the environmental protection policy. • In 2010 we managed to turn our socially responsible policy for environmental protection into our competitive advantage. During that year a completely new old accumulator batteries recycling plants was put into The particular practices are regulated by the procedures of the operation in the Republic of Serbia and in the Republic of Romania. integrated management system under ISO 9001 – for quality • The strategy for development of MONBAT Plc also includes management, ISO 14 001 – for environmental protection and participations in long-term socially useful projects in the environmental OHSAS 18001:1999 – for healthy and safe labor conditions. protection field. During 2010 the company was using a Separate Waste Collecting and Depositing Program by means of setting up a network of containers for old accumulator batteries with the distributors of MONBAT Plc. Old accumulator batteries belong to the group of the widespread dangerous 10 industrial waste and the company gives its essential contribution for the environmental protection by collecting, neutralizing and recycling them. The lead and polypropylene derived as a result of the recycling process are used for the production of new accumulator batteries thus contributing to the efficient use of waste materials. The company has set up the only individual system in Bulgaria for collecting old accumulator batteries and works under its own Program for management of lead-acid accumulator batteries went out of use. Self-Control System – the setting up and functioning of the internal control system is aimed at achieving continuous compliance with the requirements of the environmental, health and safety legislation on the grounds of the Integrated Management System. The Self-Control System provides assessment of the efficiency and the results from the activities management system of MONBAT Plc as a whole. • In 2002 MONBAT Plc elaborated and since then has consistently applied the principles of the Integrated System for Core Management, as one of the main directions of this System is the Environmental Protection System. In 2009 the company successfully passed the audit for confirming the compliance of the Environmental Protection System with the requirements of the ISO 14001:2004 standard. The scope of the certification includes all aspects of the company’s activity and respectively – projecting, production, selling, distribution and recycling the whole product range. • MONBAT Plc selects its contractors based on a list of criteria which 11 • MONBAT Plc clearly communicates its aims and achievements in the field of ecology through its investment program and the annual report on the company’s activities which are published on the website, presented to the public and filed with the regulation authorities. Anti-Corruption: Principle 10: Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. MONBAT Plc had defined its anti-corruption policy in the Actions and indicators: following internal acts of the company: • MONBAT Plc observes clear donation rules for each particular Financial rules and orders regarding gifts, social expenses and case under the conditions of full transparency. representational expenses Purchase rules • Suppliers and business partners are informed on the purchase Identification of related and interested parties system policy of MONBAT Plc. Donation rules, including for political parties Rules for service payments by state employees and/or • All company’s transactions are evaluated in advance and those employees to business partners with considerable values are approved by the Management Board of MONBAT Plc. • The company’s policy excludes engagement of MONBAT Plc with any political party. • One part of the Program for Applying the Internationally Acknowledged Good Corporate Governance Standards of MONBAT Plc is particularly devoted to the procedures and requirements to be observed by the members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of the 12 company in case of any conflict between their interests and those of the company. • The management of MONBAT Plc officially joined the Bulgarian Corporate Governance Code and strictly observes the Code’s principles in its activities. MONBAT Plc provides information to all stakeholders on all CSR initiatives of the company and in particular on its Communication on Progress Report on the company’s website www.monbat.com. Contact person: Daniela Peeva – Investor Relations Director Contacts: Tel.: +35929882413 e-mail: investorrelations@monbat.com Date: March 10th, 2011 13
