United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Timeframe: December 2011 – December 2013. Format: Basic COP template Differentiation category: GC Active level Self-assessment: • The Communication contains the statement of support for the UN Global Compact’s ten principles by the Chairman of the Board • A description of activities and valid regulations related to human rights • A description of activities and valid regulations related to labour • A description of activities and relevant valid regulations related to environmental protection • A description of activities and valid regulations related to community • A description of activities and valid regulations related to anti-corruption measures • Outcomes Human rights Assessment, policy and goals In its business, Vindija actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In line with this, it does no business in the markets in which fundamental human rights and freedoms are violated. Respect for human rights is woven into Vindija’s relationships with stakeholders. Accordingly, we are committed to ensuring that all our employees are treated with respect and we motivate our business partners who are not the signatories of the UN Global Compact to get involved in the initiative. Implementation Vindija’s employees are legally protected from all forms of discrimination, harassment, forced labour and privacy violations along the lines of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Labour Act of the Republic of Croatia. When organizational changes are introduced, much effort is invested into communicating with employees and involving them in the processes. All company’s activities, both internal and external, are designed in such a way as to ensure the dignity at work for all employees. Outcomes Over the reporting period, Vindija was not subject to any form of inquiry, legal proceedings nor any legal measures related to the violation of human rights. Workers and labour Assessment, policy and goals Vindija does not cooperate with organizations that use child or forced labour in their businesses. All Vindija’s employees have signed employment contracts which clearly define the terms and conditions of work, as well as their wages and arrangements in relation to overtime work. These contracts contain and clearly define job descriptions. Implementation Vindija respects human and labour rights of its employees and it fights all forms of discrimination. When its employees join the company, they are first acquainted with safety rules for handling various equipment and machinery, as well as with fire protection measures. Safety at work is perceived by the company as one of major preconditions for performing job-related tasks and, besides training and introducing employees to the safety measures, Vindija makes sure all tools and devices used at work meet the technical requirements prescribed. Vindija invests a significant amount of resources into the training of employees, as well as in the development of good interpersonal relationships, and the quality of working environment is enhanced by ensuring clean, furnished and eye-catching working premises. Moreover, our employees enjoy various benefits, such as material and financial assistance for the employees who have children. This involves gifts to children, support for their education and the organization of numerous activities such as organized field trips and family summer vacations financing. Outcomes The percentage of women holding leading job positions speaks in favour of Vindija’s policy of respect for human and labour rights. A high number of women hold senior management positions, which is a situation beyond Croatia’s average. Environment Assessment, policy and goals In its business processes, Vindija systematically implements environmentally friendly technologies and procedures and it introduces the most advanced solutions into its business. The control over production, products, raw materials, power plants, water and waste waters is carried out by modern automatic equipment and environmentally friendly methods. Implementation Power plants use energy in order of descending importance: electricity, gas, with an alternative – light fuel oil – should there be gas shortage. The cooling facilities contain no gases causing ozone layer depletion. Instead, NH3 with indirect media, ice water, cold water and ethylene glycol are used for air-conditioning. For each group of secondary raw materials there is a specific method of processing; for example, paper is collected and transported on a daily basis, whereas foils and objects made of synthetic materials are separated and pressed. Ever since the beginning of the application of the Ordinance on Packaging, Vindija has assumed the obligations in respect of the Fund and in relation to packaging waste management in the Republic of Croatia. The emissions that are created during the process of production have no significant impact on the soil. The measurements of the emissions of air pollutants are carried out regularly. In accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act, an operational plan for environmental protection interventions has been drawn up and the activities related to the adjustments to the accompanying implementation regulations have been undertaken for the purpose of alignment with the EU legislation. When the facilities of each member of the business system in Vindija are developed, a quality ratio of built-up areas to green areas is fully respected and green areas are all designed within the framework of landscape architecture by top quality professionals, whose ideas are implemented based on the instructions of the masters of horticulture. Outcomes Vindija has caused no environmental incidents with its business processes, from production of raw materials and final products to their distribution and shelf positioning, which means that the entire complex system is under strict control. Community Assessment, policy and goals We are aware of how important the wellbeing of the community we do business in is, which is why we systematically support its development and try to raise the overall quality of life. Vindija backs a number of projects that promote education, cultural heritage preservation and the values of the society we live in. Implementation Over the reporting period, Vindija participated in a number of actions and projects of various scopes, whose aim was to contribute to equal opportunities in knowledge society for all. In the framework of the Contract with the Rotary Club Zagreb, signed in November 2011, we undertook to provide scholarships to young adults who no longer had the right to use orphanages. This was all done within the framework of the action “A Step into Life”. Vindija also celebrates the World School Milk Day and on this occasion, it donates its products to children. This year, we donated our products to children in Croatian schools. Being the gold sponsor of the Varaždin Baroque Evenings and the general sponsor of the Špancirfest, Vindija nurtures the cultural life of Varaždin, the town where Vindija’s head office is located. Vindija’s participation in various entrepreneurial, food and agricultural fairs (the International Agricultural Fair in Novi Sad, the Agricultural Food Fair in Gornja Radgona, and the International Fair in Bjelovar etc.) seeks to promote Croatian economy and Vindija’s quality of business is always well recognized. This year, we participated in the largest international food fair, Anuga, where our products sparked a lot of interest, which is ultimately beneficial for the Croatian export potential. Vindija also contributes to public health sphere by producing innovative products of high quality. Moreover, it promotes the importance of a healthy and balanced diet through its accompanying marketing and promotional activities. Outcomes Vindija is seen as a reliable partner in the organization of humanitarian actions and is perceived as a socially responsible company, which both individuals and organizations often approach with great trust, asking for assistance with their activities. Vindija’s products are an integral part of professionally developed menus in kindergartens and schools, which reflects their high nutritional value and safety guaranteed by the HACCP certificate. Fight against corruption Assessment, policy and goals Vindija continues to fight corruption, seeking to create a positive climate in which each individual will be protected from wrongdoing and immoral relationships which include blackmail, bribery and other forms of violation of the Labour Act and the UN Convention against Corruption. Implementation As a socially responsible company, we fully support a systematic approach to the fight against corruption and permanent efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this regard. We continue to train Vindija’s management so that they are able to recognize all forms of nontransparent and illegal business in their work and to suppress such occurrences. When participating in the processes of public procurement, Vindija pays particular attention to the legality of all activities undertaken. Outcomes During the reporting period, Vindija was not involved in any legal proceedings related to corruption and bribery.
