Being One Koc Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Content of the Report: www.koc.com.tr gc@koc.com.tr • Work carried out by Koç Holding; For more detailed information about all of our We welcome feedback, suggestions, and work, and for updated information beginning criticism, for these are the most important tools • Projects and examples of best practices January 1, 2011 visit the Koç Holding corporate we use to improve the efficiency of our reporting conducted by the Group companies Arçelik, website or those of the individual Group work. To contact us, please send an email to Aygaz, Ford Otosan, Koç Information companies, the Vehbi Koç Foundation and Koç gc@koc.com.tr Technologies Group, Opet, Otokar, Otokoç University. A PDF version of our Corporate Otomotiv, Tat, Tofafl, Tüprafl, TürkTraktör, and Social Responsibility Report is available on our Yap› Kredi; and corporate website. • Joint projects conducted by NGOs supported by the Group, the Vehbi Koç Foundation, Koç University and affiliated institutions. Contents: 1 About the Report 6 Governance at Koç 26 Environmentally-Friendly Practices at Koç 2 Message from the Chairman 10 Koç University 38 Ethical Values at Koç 3 Message from the CEO 12 Human Rights at Koç 40 Social Development at Koç 4 Koç Group in 2010 18 Work Environment at Koç 50 GRI Index The Global Compact The Global Compact consists of 10 principles The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact of human rights, working conditions, environment and corruption. These principles Human Rights are based on a guiding perspective for opening Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Pg.12-17 up new ways of thinking for business and proclaimed human rights; and companies, especially, concerning risk Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Pg.12-17 management, increase in efficiency, morale and motivation of employees, increasing fidelity Labour Standards among employees, brand consciousness and Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Pg.18 creating new markets. recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Pg.18-25 The Global Compact has been propagated by Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Pg.18-25 the United Nations since 2000 and has been Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Pg.18-25 adopted exclusively on a voluntary basis. All occupation. efforts to comply with the principles are made public through reports accessible on the UN Environment website (www.unglobalcompact.org). Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Pg.26-37 challenges; According to Global Compact website, by the Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Pg.26-37 time this report is released nearly 8,700 and participants from 130 countries will have been Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Pg.26-37 reached by the Global Compact, 6,137 of them technologies. from the business world, and 2,547 from the NGO’s, unions, associations, foundations, local Anti-Corruption administrations, and academic circles. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Pg.38-39 extortion and bribery. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 About the Report 1 About the Report Koç Holding Our paramount objective at the Koç Group is In the reports that we published previously, we The report covers Koç Holding activities and to substantially enhance the quality of life in followed the United National Global Compact projects carried out in Turkey between January our areas of operation. In keeping with this COP Reporting procedures with regard to 1, 2010 and December 31, 2010. This year we objective, not only do we work to provide methodology. In this year’s report, we improved have expanded the scope of the report by products and services that conform to the our application by adding the Global Reporting raising the number of Group companies highest universal standards of quality, but also Initiative G3 Reporting Framework principles included in our work from 10 to 18. Therefore, to ensure the social and economic development to our reporting work on the B application level, the report covers the practices and performance of the communities that are impacted by our as they are the recognized global standard in of the Group companies Arçelik, Aygaz, Ford areas of operation and to fulfil our non-financial reporting activities. We intend to Otosan, Koç Information Technologies Group*, responsibilities for protecting the environment. follow this methodological framework for our Opet, Otokar, Otokoç Otomotiv, Tat, Tofafl, We view the sustainable development of the reporting activities in the future. TürkTraktör, Tüprafl, and Yap› Kredi in social, society we live in as the source of our own economic, and environmental areas. Unless corporate sustainability. Not only do we try to As we have done in previous years, our goal there is a statement to the contrary, apart from demonstrate this philosophy at every was to provide our stakeholders with a general the sections which present the general profile opportunity, we also view it as synonymous outline of our social, economic and for Koç Holding, the performance of all these with the personal motto of our founder, Vehbi environmental performance, which are the companies is included in the data for describing Koç, who said, “I live and prosper with my essential elements of corporate sustainability, the indicators that demonstrate sustainability. country.” We consider this to be the guiding within the scope of the reporting for this period. The report also encompasses the work of the principle of our operations and our way of In order to achieve this goal with expanded Vehbi Koç Foundation and Koç University, doing business. content, we implemented the “Koç Group which is affiliated with the foundation. However, Sustainability Performance Evaluation and unless there is a statement to the contrary, the In the execution of our operations, we aim for Reporting System” in 2010. This system was performance of these institutions is not included unity with our stakeholders and the creation of created based on the views of Koç Group in the consolidated numerical performance an integrated whole that moves towards a employees and numerous experts not affiliated data, tables, and graphics presented throughout common purpose. Therefore, we strive to learn with the company. We used this system to the report. The content of the report we have the expectations and opinions of our identify the most critical sustainability issues generated represents 84.4% of Group stakeholders so that we can immediately around which the activities of the Koç Group employees and 94% of the Group’s combined respond in the most appropriate manner. We revolve, and consequently how our turnover. understand that the ability to deliver superlative performance should be evaluated and reported. results depends on creating a constructive With the information processing infrastructure communication environment founded on the that we set up to facilitate the functionality of * “Koç Information Technologies Group” doesn’t represent a legal entity, but a common name for, Koç Group IT Companies, namely principles of transparency and accountability. the system, we were able to evaluate and report KoçSistem, Koç.net, Callus, Bilkom, Promena, Katron, Koç Bilgi ve For this reason, we want to represent the “best our sustainability performance in a more Savunma Teknolojileri. Within this report, all performance and practices” for each sector in which we operate systematic way. application information disclosed regarding Koç Information Technologies Group consist of shared data and practices of these and we are committed to continually improving 7 companies. our practices and processes to achieve better The intended audience for our report results. encompasses each of our stakeholder groups, including our employees, our customers, our Koç Group, the largest private sector employer shareholders, our investors, our partners, civil with many of Turkey’s well-respected industrial society and the professional organizations with organizations, annually publishes the Koç Group which we work. For this reason, we kept the Corporate Social Responsibility Report. Since diversity of our target group in mind when signing the United Nations Global Compact in formulating the language of communication 2006, we have improved the level of and structuring the content of our report. implementation every year, communicating our performance in all relevant social, environmental, and economic areas with our stakeholders. This is the fourth year that we have published this report and we have improved in terms of scope, content and application in comparison with the previous report we produced in April 2010. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 2 Message from the Chairman Message from the Chairman Mustafa V. Koç Dear Stakeholders, The immortal words of our founder Vehbi Koç, In 2010, Koç Group companies progressed in I live and prosper with my country, illuminate all areas of sustainability, especially Despite the vestiges of the global crisis, the our path. As one of the strongest links in environmental issues, as a result of the effect performance of the Turkish economy in 2010 Turkey's economic development, the Koç of many new initiatives. The creation of a reinforces our positive projections for the future. Group has maintained its faith and confidence strategic infrastructure in connection with the Turkey is becoming an important investment in this principle in its operations for over 80 fight against climate change, is an important destination both regionally and globally due to years. We have shaped our fundamental asset for us in terms of managing potential its economic potential, its physical business principles based on the fact that our risks and opportunities. The efficiency infrastructure, its human resources, and its most important duty in maintaining the improvement operations performed in 2010 socio-political position bridging East and West. impressive development of our country is the have resulted in significant decreases in energy sustainable development of the Koç Group. consumption, CO2 emissions, the use of natural The links in the chain that secures Turkey's Therefore, we have built our approach to resources, and the environmental impact of growth potential are the business community, corporate sustainability on the establishment our products. Our Group companies were civil society organizations and public of a transparent corporate management recognized and awarded for these efforts by institutions. This triad brings Turkey structural structure that is accountable to all shareholders, various Turkish agencies and institutions. With strengths with Turkish entrepreneurs led by the development of best practices in each of the practices they implemented in 2010, Koç managers who are well-equipped in terms of our sectors by monitoring the social, economic Group companies continued to provide their knowledge and talent, as well as excellent and environmental impact of our work, and the employees with a fair and safe working technological capacity and a qualified creation of joint projects together with all parties environment where human rights are respected. workforce. These companies enjoy the who share these same goals. We also carried out successful community environment required for economic growth development projects in areas of education, supported by agile public institutions and Today, we have come to a place where the culture, the environment. As an integral part of effective civil society organizations. In order Koç Group reaches far beyond the borders of our measure against excellence, we will for this tripartite structure to reach its true Turkey. The Koç Group is a global player active continue our progress in all areas of potential, both the economic impact of our in 28 countries on 4 continents, along with tens performance economic, social and financial production and business models, as well as of thousands of employees and hundreds of as we promptly have in 2010. the ensuing social and environmental impact, thousands of stakeholders, with products and must be seriously evaluated. We should all be services that enhance the quality of life. In I would like to express our gratitude to all of united in purpose when it comes to eliminating order to reinforce our commitment to fulfilling our stakeholders especially to our employees, the negative effects and strengthening the the ever-increasing responsibilities that come our investors, our suppliers and our business positive contributions. We must not forget that with our size, we signed the United Nations partners -for their support and contribution. economic growth only becomes an element of Global Compact (UNGC) in 2006. We enhanced lasting value for the future when it is achieved our performance by developing our Respectfully, together with social and environmental management approach in accordance with the improvement. Otherwise, our achievements principles outlined in the UNGC. The new are nothing more than temporary successes. sustainability management structure we have created aims to improve our performance in this area, above and beyond what we have Mustafa V. Koç already achieved. Koç Holding A.fi. Chairman Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Message from the CEO 3 Message from the CEO Turgay Durak Esteemed Stakeholders, we formed a Sustainability Coordination received volunteer support from 10,595 Group Committee consisting of executives responsible employees. In 2010, we continued the corporate The “Koç Group Goals and Principles” were for managing our areas of sustainability support we have provided to vocational passed down to us with the signature of our including social, economic, and environmental education in Turkey for years. Vocational founder Vehbi Koç and are the fundamental issues at the Holding level, thus giving us training was provided for 35,223 people with values upon which the Koç Group has been representation in all the individual Group a variety of projects developed by Group built. These fundamental values begin with companies. After creating policies and an companies including the 8,000 scholarship customer satisfaction and describe our organizational infrastructure for sustainability recipients in the Vocational Education: A Crucial approach to quality, how we view our management, we created the Koç Group Matter for the Nation (MLMM) Project. Our employees and action points for new Sustainability Performance Assessment and MLMM Project graduated its first students in investment, as well as positioning our sphere Reporting System including a new IT 2010. As a result, the employment phase of of responsibility on an axis that encompasses infrastructure to effectively manage and report the project has begun in addition to the all of the social and economic support required the performance of Group companies regarding education phase. for our country both now and in the future. issues of sustainability. What I view as a fundamental product of all The projects carried out by our companies these principles and goals, which are shared During this same time, we developed our were evaluated by various organizations during by all Koç Group employees, is the maxim of approach to climate change, which is of the year and recognized with awards in several our founder Vehbi Koç for adhering to superior increasing concern, so that we could respond areas, including product development and work ethics and honest business principles: more comprehensively with a risk-opportunity energy efficiency. The awards received as a “Our approach is to be fair in all our focus. As a result of work that involved active result of these efforts motivate us to achieve relationships, to act in good faith and participation from company executives, we even more. For this reason, our aim is to understanding to ensure mutual benefits and formulated the Koç Holding Climate Change accomplish even greater success in the future to comply with laws and ethical rules at all Strategy. The goal of this strategic initiative is on issues related to our sustainability times. Another fundamental principle that we to ensure that Group companies can respond performance. have pioneered and which is a non-negotiable to the issue of climate change more for us, is fulfilling our responsibilities to both comprehensively and transform potential risks Progress in long-established companies like this and future generations. It is our duty to be that may arise into opportunities. The strategy Koç Holding, which has 84 years of business sure that our actions reflect the importance of is compiled within a seminal corporate experience, is not the result of coincidence, protecting the environment and to spread document, which addresses a number of issues nor is it dependent on a few individuals at the environmental awareness.” ranging from our products and operations to top. The source of this success can only be legal compliance and business partnerships. the result of hard work by everyone, a robust As an industrial group that operates on a global strategic vision, and a cultural heritage of good level, it is our desire to share our goals and 2010 was a year in which we not only developed management. The fact that such huge strides principles with all of our stakeholders and our administrative approaches, but also have been made in my first year as CEO, after support them with practical applications in achieved notable successes regarding gains 35 years of working as a professional within order to create a multiplier effect in social and in a number of sustainability performance areas, the Koç Group, is not only a source of great economic development. I believe that keeping including the reduction of CO2 emissions and joy for me, it is the result of the deeply rooted these principles and values alive and developing natural resources consumption, as well as management legacy present in the organization them in accordance with the spirit of the age improving the environmental impact of our to which I belong. Therefore, I would like to is our most fundamental duty. Recent events products. Our work on efficiency reduced total express my appreciation to all of the Koç Group have shown us that financial results or legal energy consumption by Group companies by executives who supported the company with sanctions defined with the boundary of a single 3.35 million GJ, total GHG by 329,507 tons of their extraordinary performance; developing country are insufficient when it comes to equivalent CO2, and total water use by 2.1 our organization and serving as the architects measuring the success and sustainability of a million m3 while increasing the amount of of the success we enjoy today. I have every company. The global economy and human recycled water used to meet operational confidence that we will take the heritage they development indexes have made it necessary requirements by 33.4%. Our Group companies have provided, expand it and pass it on to to take a fresh look at responsibility and role offered consumers a broader range of future generations. In the final analysis, the sharing between the state, the private sector, environmentally friendly products by source of our confidence is the tradition of the and civil society organizations. The Global significantly reducing the emission of GHG and Koç Group, which has grafted onto us a culture Compact, which was announced in 2000, is a the use of packaging materials made from of viewing our country, our customers, our document that we support, and it is the product natural resources, and decreased the amount dealers, our suppliers, our employees, our of an approach that calls on the private sector of energy used in our products and services shareholders, and all of our stakeholders as to be proactive in the process of social thanks to the product development efforts one large family. development. carried out during the year. Respectfully, In 2010, we published the “Koç Group Code As always, we worked not just on our core of Ethics and Business Conduct”, which serves business operations, but also strived to as a joint business constitution that combines contribute to the socio-economic development a number of existing components which shapes of our country. Our Group companies Turgay Durak our approach to business, most notably our conducted a total of 236 donation, sponsorship, Koç Holding A.fi. Group values and the Global Compact. Later, and social projects during 2010. The projects CEO Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 4 Koç Group in 2010 Koç Group in 2010 Koç Group continues its success to be the largest industrial conglomerate of Turkey. 5 Koç Group companies have taken place amongst 10 largest industrial corporations in 2009 500 Largest Industrial Corporations research held by Istanbul Chamber of Industry. Energy Consumer Durables Other Main Companies Main Companies Main Companies Tüprafl* Arçelik* Tat Konserve* Aygaz* Arçelik-LG Klima Düzey Opet Koçtafl Mogaz International Alliances Setur Entek LG Electronics (in air conditioning) Setur Marinalar› Demir Export Mares* Divan International Alliances Finance KoçSistem AES Mont Blanc Holding B.V Koç.net Main Companies Bilkom Koç Finansal Hizmetler RMK Marine Automotive Yap› Kredi Bankas›* Yap› Kredi Finansal Kiralama* International Alliances Main Companies Yap› Kredi Sigorta* B&Q Ford Otosan* Yap› Kredi Yat›r›m Ortakl›¤›* Kagome Sumitomo Tofafl* Yap› Kredi Koray* Kaneka Seeds TürkTraktör* Yap› Kredi Emeklilik Otokar* Yap› Kredi Factoring Otokoç Otomotiv Yap› Kredi Yat›r›m Yap› Kredi Portföy Yönetimi International Alliances UniCredit Menkul De¤erler Ford Motor Co. Koçfinans Fiat Auto S.p.A Case New Holland International Alliances * Listed companies UniCredit Group 10 % of 56 236 134.6 MILLION TL Turkey’s Total Export Koç Group has generated a combined Number of Facilities Number of Donations, Environmental Protection financial turnover equivalent to 7% of Certified with Sponsorships and Expenditures and Turkey’s national income. OHSAS 18001 Social Projects Investments Total Taxes Paid 853 million TL * 64 10,595 EMPLOYEES 42,747 * Amount of taxes paid by joint ventures has been reflected to the consolidated amounts with respect to partnership shares. Number of Facilities Number of Employees Saplings Planted in Certified with Volunteered for Afforestation Practices 8 Koç Group Companies have taken ISO 14001 Social Projects in 2010 place in the 2009 100 highest Taxpayers List of Large Taxpayers Office. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Koç Group in 2010 5 World’s 273 rd Largest Company IN 28 COUNTRIES 73,063 63,426.6 EMPLOYEES MAN*HOURS Environmental Trainings Provided to Employees rd 273 in Fortune 500 List Koç Holding A.fi. Consolidated Financial Summary Values (Million TL) 31 December 2009 31 December 2010 Change % Koç Holding continues to be the only Turkish Consolidated Revenues 44,841 53,812 20 corporation in Fortune 500 List (according to 2009 end of the year results) Gross Profit 8,876 9,192 4 EBITDA 4,401 5,073 15 Koç Holding continues to be the first Turkish corporation taken place in the World’s Most Operating Profit 3,476 4,105 18 Admired Companies Research held by Hay Profit Before Tax 3,159 3,886 23 Group in cooperation with Fortune magazine. Net Income 2,641 3,138 19 Minority Interest 1,211 1,404 16 st 71 Largest Listed Company in Europe Equity Holders of the Parent Total Assets 1,429 66,386 1,734 81,143 21 22 Total Equity 18,782 20,978 12 Koç Holding has become the 71st largest listed company in Europe in Handelsblatt List Shareholders’ Equity 11,170 12,574 13 (according to 2009 end of the year results). th World’s 506 Koç Group’s Patent Potfolio (Cumulated Quantity) Koç Group’s R&D Investments (Million TL) 2087 700 Increase in patent Biggest R&D Investor 2087 application in 1833 last 8 years 600 Koç Holding, which has been taking place in the EU Commission’s R&D Investment 981% 1620 Research for 5 consecutive years, in 2010, 1500 1366 500 450 came 506th amongst world’s biggest investor in R&D companies. Two out of three Turkish 400 companies taking place in the same list are 1000 Koç Group companies. 300 735 539 200 Koç Holding was listed among the top 23 new 500 global challengers on Boston Consulting 104 100 Group’s “2011 BCG Global Challengers, Companies on the Move: Rising Stars from Rapidly Developing Economies Are 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Reshaping Global Industries Report in which All Companies companies have realized 18% annual growth average during 2000 – 2009 period. CO2 Koç Holding was rated as “one of the multinational companies with the most competitive power in China” by China International Institute of Multinational 33.4% 3,352,915 GJ 329,507 TONS Corporations (CIIMC). Percentage of Recycled Total Energy Total GHG Emission Water in Total Water Usage Saved Reduction Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 6 Governance at Koç Governance at Koç “My biggest wish for this institution that I have established is to prosper, to create employment, to pay taxes and to build a role model for generations to come.” Our Founder Vehbi Koç Corporate Governance at Koç Board of Directors from the fact that the Board of Directors cannot The structure of our Board of Directors complies meet with the frequency and urgency required The well-established and strong corporate with the Principles of Corporate Governance and in this manner to properly discharge the identity of Koç Holding and Group companies specified by the Capital Market Board. In terms duties and responsibilities of the board of makes effective corporate governance possible. of independent membership, Koç Holding is directors. The Management Committee consists Integrity, respectability, ethical behavior, and one of the Turkish companies that pioneered of five people, namely the Koç Holding Board compliance with laws and regulations are the the practice of including professionals with of Directors Honorary Chairman, the Koç center of Koç Holding’s way of doing business proven achievements in the international arena. Holding Chairman of the Board, two Viceand a part of the Group’s culture. Koç Holding Apart from the CEO, who is the head of the Chairmen of the Board and the CEO. is one of the first companies to voluntarily take executive function, none of the members serve the steps required to achieve the highest in executive positions on our company’s Board Audit Committee standards in the area of corporate governance. of Directors. Three of the 14 members of the The Audit Committee discharges the duties Compliance with the four principles of corporate current Board of Directors possess the general specified for the audit committee in the Capital governance – i) transparency, ii) fairness, iii) independence criteria specified in the Principles Market Regulations. In this regard, the responsibility, and iv) accountability – are and one of them meets independence criteria committee oversees the company’s accounting among the fundamental principles of the apart from the service term. The functions of system, disclosure of financial information and Holding. Koç Holding’s management structure CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors the operation and effectiveness of the was designed in compliance with regulations are fulfilled by different individuals. company’s internal control system. The in terms of its processes and policies, providing committee meets at least four times per year transparency and clarity in terms of decisionThe members of the Board of Directors do not and more frequently when necessary. Together making and responsibility. Koç Holding is one have weighted and/or veto rights. Every with company management, the Audit of the first Turkish companies to have an member has a single vote. Members of the Committee is responsible for ensuring that independent member on its Board of Directors. Board of Directors are not allowed to vote on internal and external audits are carefully carried Furthermore, it is one of the few Turkish resolutions related to themselves or those close out, and making sure that records, procedures companies to link compensation of senior-level to them. Approval must be granted by the and reports comply with the relevant laws, managers with sustainable financial and General Assembly for the Chairman of the rules and regulations, and also comply with operational performance. Board or its members to engage, either the principles of the Capital Market Board and personally or on the behalf of others, in business the International Financial Reporting Standards. As the first holding company in the history of that enters the company's sphere of operations The committee consists of one chairman and the Republic of Turkey and one that truly and to become partners in companies that members who do not have executive functions. believes in corporate structure, the Group has engage in these types of business. During this adopted the 'Principles of Corporate period, no problem was encountered regarding Corporate Governance Committee Management' prepared by the Capital Market approval given to members of the Board of The Corporate Governance Committee Board and these universal principles are to a Directors for these issues. Koç Holding does monitors the Company’s compliance with the large extent being implemented. Work is not get involved in transactions that might lead Principles of Corporate Governance, reviews currently being carried out on the principles to conflict of interest such as extending loans the reasons put forward for not implementing which have not yet been implemented and the to members of the Board of Directors or certain principles and makes recommendations plan is to implement them after the necessary executives, or providing collateral on their to the Board of Directors for improving managerial, legal and technical infrastructure behalf. practices. Currently, the committee consists projects are completed. The Corporate of 2 members, one of which is the chairman. Governance Compliance Report drafted for The individuals chosen for membership on the The committee meets at least twice a year and the purpose of informing stakeholders of the Koç Holding Board of Directors are always more frequently when necessary. The President status of our compliance with the Principles of qualified, possess a high level of knowledge of the Strategic Planning Group responsible Corporate Governance is provided to our and talent, and have a certain amount of for relations with stakeholders is a member of stakeholders in the annual report every year. experience. The curricula vitae of the members the committee. Assessments for Koç Holding’s involvement of our Board of Directors are available on our in corporate governance rating is ongoing. The website and are communicated with the public Human Resources Committee following Group companies, which are traded via our annual report. The Human Resources Committee evaluates on the stock exchange, have had corporate total salary packages and monitors application. governance ratings conducted and have been Our company has committees that are created It evaluates the organization's qualitative and included on the Corporate Governance Index to properly discharge the duties and quantitative need for human resources in the due to the high scores they received: Arçelik, responsibilities of the Board of Directors. future and the Group’s senior-level succession Aygaz, Otokar, Tofafl, TürkTraktör, Tüprafl and planning and development plans. The Yap› Kredi Bank. Management Committee committee consists of four individuals, one of The purpose of this committee is to provide whom is the Chairman of the Board of Directors. support in terms of filling gaps that might result Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Governance at Koç 7 Board of Directors Audit Management Corporate Governance Human Resources Committee Committee Committee Committee Audit Group CEO Banking & CFO Durable Energy Automotive Defense Strategic Tourism, Human Corporate Chief Legal Formal Secretary Insurance Goods Group Group Industry, Planning Food & Resources Communications Advisor Affairs General Group Group Other Group Retailing & & Automative Group External Media & IT Group Affairs Relations Sustainability Management at Koç encouraged at Group companies. With 15 Environmental inspections are made at group companies participating in the first year, specified intervals and environmental goals The Koç Group aims to provide products and sustainability performance managers are that conform with policy and strategies are services that meet universal quality standards identified at both Holding and company levels. assigned to senior-level managers, in order to and to achieve healthy development by The main aim of this structure is to synchronize highlight the importance given to these issues. ensuring the satisfaction of customers and the activities of expert units at company levels employees alike, thus becoming a symbol of and inspect and report the related Sustainability Performance Management reliability, continuity and respectability for performances. The fundamental objective of Koç Holding is Turkey, its customers, partners, dealers and to ensure the sustainability of Group companies. suppliers. The goals and principles of the Koç Management of Social and Economic Issues In keeping with this goal, innovations that Group provide guidance in all of its activities The companies in the Koç Group and enhance our administrative competencies are and are shared with the public via its website. workplaces operating in affiliation with these implemented. In order to improve sustainability The goals and principles of the Koç Group are companies throughout Turkey have Personnel management system, we have recently as follows: Guidelines which address issues such as improved our administrative approach in the employee benefits and working conditions, as areas of social, economic and environmental • The Customer is the focus of everything we well as occupational health and safety. The responsibility and we have strengthened our do. provisions of these guidelines reflect the human organizational structure. In 2010, we resources policies of the Koç Group specific implemented another improvement by • To be “the best” is our ultimate goal. to group company sectors. The regulations introducing the Koç Group Sustainability contain provisions that comply with legal Performance Assessment and Reporting • Our most important asset is our people. regulations and are updated as needed in System. For this purpose, with participation keeping with changes in the law. from the managers of the Koç Group, the basic • Creation of wealth for continuous areas of performance were identified the development is our key objective. The Code of Ethics and Business Conduct fundamental framework for which is provided which is applied in all Koç Group companies by our commitments within the scope of the • Honesty, integrity, and superior business and specifies employee relations with Global Compact. Then, performance indicators ethics are the foundations of our behavior. customers, the state, shareholders, rivals, that would serve to assess the working suppliers, and dealers, as well as authorized performance of Group companies in these • We aspire to strengthen the Turkish sales and service was published in 2010. The areas were created. In order to facilitate the economy from which we derive our own text makes reference to the United Nations dissemination of this system among Group strength. Global Compact. In this regard, Code of companies and to facilitate operational Conduct Boards have been created to ensure functionality, required IT infrastructure was set The Koç Group has taken the principles it has compliance and monitor violations of the code up. With this system, which was put into lived by up until now in terms of social in all companies. operation at the end of 2010, our aim is to carry responsibility, corporate governance and ethical out more systematic and efficient target-based rules a step further by signing the Global Management of Environmental Issues performance monitoring and reporting Compact developed under the leadership of The Koç Group has formulated an throughout the Koç Group. the United Nations. The Global Compact serves environmental policy, environmental vision and as the reference text for sustainability Climate Change Strategy to serve as a guide With the feedback we obtain as a result of this management. The performance exhibited by for all Group companies with regard to report, which is the first output of the system the Koç Group regarding 10 principles in the environmental issues. The Environmental Board, and the infrastructure that we have created, areas of working conditions, human rights, the Energy Efficiency Board and Environmental we aim to identify areas of improvement and environment and anti-corruption, which are the Coordination Board, created with participation enhance our performance system in the future four main categories in the Global Compact, from Group companies, conduct work related in terms of its scope, content, and infrastructure. is monitored and reported, while maintaining to the implementation and expansion of relevant a focus on constant improvement. policies and strategies. Environmental issues are addressed within the process of target In 2010, we have institutionalized our distribution for each company in accordance sustainability activities in terms of organizational with the environmental policy and vision of Koç structure emanating from Koç Holding Group. spreading to Group companies. We have established a “Sustainability Coordination Committee” with the participation of managers of social, economic and environmental issues of Koç Holding. Similar structures were Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 8 Governance at Koç TürkTraktör Employees Strategic Planning The fundamental principles in identifying OPET, being a leader of the liquid fuels sector Within all of the Koç Group companies a corporate stakeholders with which to develop for four years since 2006 in customer strategic planning process study is conducted cooperative relations are: honesty, satisfaction, succeeded in becoming the most every year. Issues such as technology respectability, ethical behavior, and compliance preferable brand of customers in 2010. Leaving management and environmental management with laws and regulations. In addition to all of all brands in the sector behind, OPET has been are part of this process. As part of this process, these principles, the primary criteria that are the only brand taking on the leadership in the companies make projections every year considered with regard to cooperative ventures sector for 5 years on end. regarding market conditions, potential and business to be developed are their regulatory changes, environmental conditions sustainability, the extent of innovation and Koç Holding also monitors how satisfied dealers and competition for the next 5-10 years, creativity, the potential for creating a multiplier are with the companies they are affiliated with predicting possible product and parallel effect and added value in the social arena. due to the importance of the company-dealertechnology developments based on these customer relationship at the point where Group projections and formulating preventative and Group companies organize comprehensive Companies reach the customer. The Dealer proactive action plans. Investments and meetings with both dealers and suppliers during Satisfaction Survey, which was also conducted financial analyses are prepared in light of these the year where they have a chance to exchange by an independent research company for the action plans. Companies present these plans ideas. After these meetings, activities are seventh time, encompasses approximately to the Koç Holding Strategic Planning initiated on the suggestion of the dealers and 5,500 dealers in 81 provinces throughout Presidency in planning meetings held every suppliers. Turkey. Improvement targets related to dealer year. satisfaction are reflected in the performance Koç Holding takes the results obtained from targets of company management just as they Risk Management dealer and customer satisfaction surveys into are with customer satisfaction. The responsibility for Risk Management and account in its operations. Improvement targets Reporting is coordinated among Koç Holding related to customer and dealer satisfaction are Koç Holding communicates with civil society Presidents under the leadership of the Finance reflected in the performance targets of company organizations and public institutions regarding Presidency. Risks are reviewed in meetings management. The importance that Koç Holding solutions to social problems. Meetings are held and reports held periodically and evaluated in places on customer satisfaction is highlighted with civil society organizations operating in the detail. The primary risks to which Koç Holding by the customer satisfaction survey it has had fields of education, health, the environment, is exposed can be divided into four categories: conducted from its headquarters regularly since and culture-art by the office of corporate social financial risks (foreign exchange, liquidity and 2003. This project is the most comprehensive responsibility. Ideas and experiences are also capital, credit, counter-parties and interest), consumer research in 20 different Turkish shared in conferences and workshops; and strategic risks, operational risks and legal risks. sectors and includes 26 brands belonging to partnerships are established with the CSOs 12 Koç Group companies and 95 rival brands. and public institutions. The results of this study conducted in 47 Our Stakeholders provinces representative of Turkey as a whole Acting in concert with civil society organizations, via approximately 40,000 face-to-face international initiatives, universities and The Koç Group monitors economic, social and interviews are shared with senior and mid-level professional organizations regarding social, environmental impact as part of its approach managers of Koç Holding and Group economic and environmental issues in the to sustainability and not only does it avoid Companies and are included in the performance quest for solutions to common problems is an negative impacts, it also aims to bring added targets of managers. important part of stakeholder engagement value to the community in these areas. The activities of Koç Holding. The primary multicorporate stakeholders in Koç Holding and According to the results of the 2010 Turkish sectoral civil society organizations related to Group Companies are also defined based on Customer Satisfaction Index, Aygaz was ranked multiple sectors to which Koç Holding and Koç impact analyses conducted within the number 1 in the first quarter of 2010 in the Group companies are members and on whose framework of this approach. bottled gas sector with 81 points. board of directors they serve are as follows: Even though our company does not have direct In accordance with the 2010 results of Turkish TÜS‹AD (Association of Turkish Industrialists relations with individuals, such as dealers or Customer Satisfaction Index implemented and Businessmen), YASED (Association of customers because of the fact that our under the coordination of KalDer (Quality International Investors Board of Directors company is structured as a Holding company, Association), by the licence and project Membership), T‹SK (Confederation of Turkish it does have relations with a wide spectrum of management support of ACSI (American Employer Unions), MESS (Metal Industrialists stakeholders through its affiliates. The most Customer Satisfaction Index), National Quality Association), TÜY‹D (Association of Turkish prominent groups of stakeholders in our Research Center and University of Michigan, Investor Relations), ICOC (Istanbul Chamber organization are: shareholders, companies, scoring 80 points OPET Petrolcülük A.fi. has of Commerce), DE‹K (Foreign Economic employees, dealers, agencies, customers, civil preserved a title of the company with the Relations Board), TURKTRADE (Turkish society organizations and public institutions. highest customer satisfaction in the liquid fuel Association of Foreign Trade). fuels sector that keeps the intense competition conditions. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Governance at Koç 9 Arçelik Call Center “Best Call Center” and 7 Aygaz According to the results of the “Best Working Environment” Number of Group 2010 TCSI, Aygaz was ranked awards at the 3rd IMI Companies listed in number 1 in the first quarter of Conferences Istanbul Call ISE Corporate 2010 in the cylinder gas sector Center Awards Governance Index with 81 points. In addition to the CSOs mentioned, Koç Group companies are also members of Chambers of Department of Investor Relations answers Commerce and Industry, Exporter Unions and the Sector Councils of TOBB (The Union of Chambers questions for current or potential shareholders and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey) in all of the areas in which it operates. Koç Group participates either verbally, in writing or e-mail depending actively in or chairs numerous committees and working groups established within the framework on how the questions are conveyed. Questions of projects conducted by these CSOs. are generally related to the operations, shareholder structure and future plans of On the basis of the different sectors in which Koç Group companies operate, their primary companies. Furthermore, on the day that the memberships in CSOs in different sectors can be summarized as follows: financial results for each quarter are disclosed, an internet broadcast is organized and a presentation is made to investors and analysts. ENERGY TLPGD (Turkish LPG Association), ADER (Association of Questions are answered with participation from Primary Fuel Distribution Companies), WLPGA (World LPG Senior Management. The records, transcripts Association), PETFORM (Petrol Platform Association), SSDGD and relevant investor presentations from the (Liquefied or Compressed Natural Gas Association) meeting as well as the questions and answers directed at management during the discussion AUTOMOTIVE OSD (Association of Automotive Industrialists), ODD are published on the Koç Holding website. The (Association of Automotive Distributors), TÜS‹AD (Association information given in these meetings and of Turkish Industrialists and Businessmen), O‹B (Uluda¤ transcripts for the questions that were conveyed Automotive Industry Exporters Union), OTP (Automotive can be accessed at the following link: Technology Platform) http://www.koc.com.tr/trtr/Yatirimci_Iliskileri/FinansalSonuclar/Web CONSUMER DURABLES TÜRKBESD (White Goods Supplier’s Association), TOBB _Yayini/Pages/Web_Yayini.aspx (The Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey), ‹MM‹B (Istanbul Mineral and Metals Exporter’s Customers of the Koç Group companies can Association), ‹SO (Istanbul Chamber of Industry), ‹SK‹D (Air share their opinions, recommendations and Conditioning and Refrigeration Manufacturer’s Association), complaints regarding products and services EC‹D (Electronic Device Manufacturer’s Association) by contacting the call centers and relevant departments of the companies via telephone, BANKING AND FINANCE TÜS‹AD (Association of Turkish Industrialists and e-mail and the websites. In addition to these Businessmen), TBB (The Banks Association of Turkey), TKYD avenues, customers may contact Koç Holding (Corporate Governance Association of Turkey), KKB(Credit via e-mail, telephone or the contact form on Bureau of Turkey), BKM (Interbank Card Center), ‹MKB the website. The primary issues communicated (Istanbul Stock Exchange) by customers are opinions, recommendations and complaints about products and services, OTHER SECTORS SASAD (Defense Industry Manufacturers Association), TÜS‹AD and these issues are conveyed to and answered (Association of Turkish Industrialists and Businessmen), TOBB by the company's concerned call center, Public (Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey), Relations, Human Resources and Corporate TIF (Turkish Informatics Foundation), TÜB‹SAD (Turkish Communication departments. Informatics Industry Association), TELKODER (Turkish Competitive Telco Operators Association), TURY‹D (Turkish Other basic issues communicated to Koç Restaurant and Entertainment Association), DTB (Sea Tourism Holding by social stakeholders are requests Union), TARMAKB‹R (The Turkish Association of Agricultural for personal and corporate support, Machinery and Equipment Manufacturers), RVD (Advertisers sponsorship, scholarships and cooperation. Association) These issues are evaluated in light of current support availability and future plans by either the Koç Holding Corporate Communications Directorate or the Vehbi Koç Foundation depending on the subject and the requests are Arçelik won the “Best Call Center” award in its category at the 3rd IMI Conferences Istanbul responded to whether the answer is positive Call Center Awards, which it attended as one of the largest actors in the call-center sector, or negative. thus demonstrating its competitive edge in terms of its technological infrastructure, service, process quality and its customer-oriented approach. It also won the “Best Working Environment Award” at the same event, proving its commitment to providing its employees with the best workplace conditions. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 10 Koç University “The purpose of Koç University is to provide superior education for young people. The future of our country will be guaranteed when there are sufficient numbers of them and they attain the leadership positions they deserve... The extent to which we raise up highly qualified individuals will be the measure of our service to the country.” Our Founder Vehbi Koç, 1993 As a non-profit university supported by a Schools at Koç University Incentive Award, 2 faculty members had foundation, Koç University began providing received the TÜB‹TAK-TWAS Incentive Award education at a temporary campus in Istinye in • College of Social Sciences and Humanities and 1 faculty member had received the 1993 and moved to its new, permanent campus • College of Administrative Sciences and TÜB‹TAK Special Award. at Rumeli Feneri in 2000. In order to ensure an Economics integrated ‘qualified specialist-qualified human’ • College of Sciences In terms of the percentage of woman approach under the umbrella of a “Center of • College of Engineering academicians, Koç University ranked number Excellence , Koç University makes a point to • Law School one in the Financial Times rating of universities. provide all students with a general culture • School of Medicine and Nursing curriculum, to set aside a significant portion of Two of every three students at Koç its assets to scientific research, development Koç University contributes to the development and education and to raise up young people of science in Turkey and the world with 22 University has a Scholarship with leadership characteristics who are capable undergraduate programs, 18 graduate Making the opportunities at Koç University of producing solutions to problems. With 4,077 programs and 12 doctoral programs. available to needy students, contributing to students, Koç University is one of Turkey’s the progress of science and therefore sharing leading academic institutions. Academic Departments Introduced having a share in the development of society in 2010 directly correlate with the institution’s vision. The Mission and Vision of Koç Sixty percent of the students at Koç University Koç University School of Medicine: benefit from scholarships with the new University The Koç University School of Medicine was scholarship funds launched in 2010, including To produce the most competent graduates in founded to bring a new and unique perspective the Semahat-Nusret Arsel and Suna-‹nan K›raç Turkey, individuals with international and to medical education in Turkey and opened to Superior Achievement Scholarships. This leadership qualities who are creative, its first students in the 2010-2011 academic percentage is equivalent to full scholarships independent and can think objectively, to year. for 40% of the student body. Achievement expand the boundaries of science and to serve scholarships are granted based on university both Turkey and humanity as an exemplary Media and Visual Arts Department: entrance exam scores, and it is also possible education and research institution. Koç University's goal from the outset has been to take advantage of financial assistance to train the media leaders of the future, and in scholarships. Full, half and quarter scholarships 2010, it founded the Media and Visual Arts are offered to students studying on scholarships Department in the College of Social Sciences at Koç University based on their university and Humanities. The Department, which entrance exam scores. Scholarships do not launched its education program with the first have to be repaid and continue for the duration students in September, aims to raise up the of the normal education period. future’s creative, productive media leaders in the rapidly developing field of media and visual Cooperative Research and arts. Development Distinguished Faculty The Office of the Assistant Rector Responsible for Research and Development was established The accomplishments of Koç University have in 2010 for the purpose of increasing outside been recognized by numerous awards given support for research funds at our university by the Turkish Academy of Sciences (TÜBA) and providing the infrastructure necessary to and TÜB‹TAK. Koç University has the largest strengthen the university's position. The ARRRD number of academicians who are members of office develops and manages strategic TÜBA and the work done by its faculty cooperative relationships in the field of research members has received the most TÜBA-GEBIP with other institutions. For this reason, various awards in Turkey. public institutions and private companies work in cooperation with our university on research Twelve faculty members are founding members projects at the national and international level. of the Turkish Academy of Sciences and 4 are associate members. As of January 2011, 33 Koç University In 2010, research cooperation protocols were faculty members had received the TÜBA-Young signed with the Information Technologies Scientist Award, 5 faculty members had Communications Agency, Koç Holding Energy received the TÜB‹TAK Science Award, 13 Group Companies, the Mechanical and faculty members had received the TÜB‹TAK Chemical Industry Agency, the Scientific Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Koç University 11 4,077 6+1 22 250,000 Total number of Number of colleges Number of Number of library students and school undergraduate resources programs Research Centers Established in Accreditation 2010 EQUIS: Koç University College of Administrative Koç University Gender and Women Studies Sciences and Economics and the Business Research and Application Center (KOÇInstitute have received the European Quality KAM) was established for the purpose of Improvement System accreditation from the conducting scientific research, formulating European Foundation for Management educational programs, organizing scientific Development. Koç University is the first and events that will raise awareness and only school in Turkey to receive EQUIS communicating with national and international accreditation. There are 115 business schools organizations in this regard. with EQUIS accreditation in 33 countries around the world. Koç University Surface Technologies and Research Center (KUYTAM) is the first interPRME: Koç University has signed the Principles disciplinary initiative that will work on surface for Responsible Management Education, which science and related technologies. One of the is an initiative of the United National Global most important objectives of KUYTAM, which Compact. Therefore, Koç University is was established with funds provided for three committed to educating its students within the years from the State Planning Organization framework of corporate citizenship and (DPT), is to cooperate with other agencies on sustainability principles. Chemistry Research Laboratory the development of new information, products and technology that will have a significant ANCC: In 2010, the American Nurses impact on the national and international Credentialing Center (ANCC) certified the quality Research Center of the Czech Republic, technology base and contribute to science. of education at Koç University Nursing Graduate Maastricht University and Munich Technical Another fundamental purpose of KUYTAM is School. As a result, the nursing education University. to create excellent surface science programs provided at Koç University has been accredited for undergraduate and graduate students and on an international level and recognized as an important center of education in this field. Research Centers to provide continuing education for professionals with workshops and conferences. Koç University has established various centers for the purpose of conducting scientific and The purpose of the Social Policies Center is applied studies in specific fields, recommending to conduct scientific research and applications policies, and transferring academic knowledge on a national and international level in the field to the community in social, economic and legal of social policy, which encompasses human fields. development objectives and includes issues such as social security, employment, health, Research centers operating as part of the social assistance and education, to support university: these types of studies and applications, to • Center of Anatolian Civilizations organize panels, seminars, conferences and • Center for Globalization and Democratic similar meetings of an academic and social Governance nature, to engage in educational efforts, to • Center for Immigration Research develop projects and to cooperate and consult • Dr. Nusret-Semahat Arsel International with all relevant agencies and institutions. Business Law Center • Social Policy Application and Research Center Inventram • Center for Computational Biology and In Turkey, the Koç Group invests more than anyone Bioinformatics else in R&D and the latest examples of its research• Center for Gender and Women Studies oriented philosophy is Inventram, which was • Photonics Center founded in cooperation with Koç University. Inventram is the first and only example in Turkey • Semahat Arsel Nursing Education and of a business partnership between industry and Research Center universities and its purpose is to discover innovative technologies with market potential and to work towards converting this intellectual capital into products and services that raise society’s Koç University standard of living. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 12 Human Rights at Koç Human Rights at Koç “There is democracy in countries where the economy is strong. There is a private sector in countries where there is democracy.” Our Founder Vehbi Koç Because of our respect for human rights and An employment contract is concluded with all In accordance with article 32 of the Convention our philosophy of maintaining universal human employees when they are hired into the Koç on the Rights of the Child accepted by the rights, we continue to preserve our reputation Group, where employee rights are observed General Assembly of the United Nations in as a pioneer on these issues. Respect for and respected. This contract outlines the 1989, Koç Group does not employ child labor. human rights is a fundamental part of all our general framework of reciprocal company and Written commitments are obtained from operations. In keeping with this philosophy, employee responsibilities and defines relevant suppliers as well at the beginning of the we are united with all of mankind, and as a working standards. All work-related processes relationship and compliance with this issue is group, we share the vision for moving forward are shared with employees via the content of strictly monitored. together with regard to human rights. this contract. Furthermore, in accordance with the Koç Group The actions of the Koç Group reflect respect The work performed and the responsibility Code of Conduct “Compliance with all relevant for human rights as specified in national assumed by the employee is important in the laws, guidelines and regulations in countries legislation and international agreements. The determination of compensation. The where operations are conducted or are to be Group does not permit human rights violations compensation levels of non-union employees initiated” is mandatory. Legal regulations in in its places of business. It works to institute are evaluated with a system used globally by our country prohibit child labor. Pursuant to behavior patterns that are modern and comply many companies taking into consideration the the principle found in article 3.8.2 of the Koç with human rights in its relations with suppliers, difficulty of the job being performed, the level Group Code of Conduct which states, “Acting customers, service centers and dealers, but of knowledge and skill used in the performance in accordance with the principles specified in particularly with its employees while contributing of the job and the responsibilities that are the United Nations Global Compact, and being to the development of awareness in this regard. assumed. Because of the comparative an example of corporate citizenship with our compensation studies conducted every year, employees, dealers, suppliers and authorized Discrimination based on language, race, competitive compensation is provided in service centers,” this matter is strictly gender, political opinions, philosophical beliefs, keeping with company means. The salaries monitored. religion, denomination and similar grounds is and other financial benefits of union employees not practiced in business relationships within are specified in the Collective Bargaining There is absolutely no forced/compulsory labor the Koç Group. Unless required due to reasons Agreement signed at the conclusion of in the Koç Group. Suppliers are strictly related to the nature of the job, such as collective bargaining conducted with the union monitored for compliance with this issue. biological grounds or the risk entailed by the that the employee is a member of. job, employee safety or legal obligations, people are not treated differently either directly or indirectly due to gender or pregnancy in the conclusion of employment contracts, or in the formulation, application or termination of conditions. Lower salaries are not determined for equal or equivalent work due to gender. There is no discrimination in hiring as specified by the Labor Law. Individuals who are qualified for the job are hired by evaluating their competencies and measures are taken to ensure that throughout their careers they are afforded equal opportunities. During the hiring process, both the competencies expected of all employees and the knowledge and experience required by the position are essential. Employee Security Practices in Marmara Terminal Filling Islands Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Human Rights at Koç 13 56 1,497,973.3 MAN*HOUR 35,223 Number of Facilities Total Amount of Total Number of Certified with Trainings Given to People Received OHSAS 18001 Employees Vocational Training Occupational Health and Safety The structure of the health and safety committees that facilitate the monitoring of occupational health and safety programs and make recommendations in this regard is provided below: at Koç Occupational health and safety is an important Number of Representative for Total Number of Holding Companies Active OHS Employees Working on Active OHS priority in our Group because of our belief that Committee Members OHS Committees Committee Members human resources are our most important asset. The Occupational Health and Safety ARÇEL‹K 10 18 190 Coordination Board has been established to AYGAZ 14 12 80 ensure that occupational health and safety procedures are monitored at Koç Group FORD OTOSAN 4 6 65 workplaces, that best practices are expanded OPET 4 7 43 and that review work is performed. Each workplace has an independent Occupational OTOKAR 1 4 15 Health and Safety Board and the work OTOKOÇ OTOMOT‹V 21 21 172 conducted at the workplaces are followed up TAT 4 3 12 with meetings held at regular intervals. The health and safety of employees in Group TOFAfi 9 9 95 companies is guaranteed with a variety of TÜPRAfi 5 6 97 procedures. TÜRKTRAKTÖR 1 4 22 The philosophy of guiding the right person to YAPI KRED‹ 0 0 0 right work is one of the fundamental principles of Koç Group companies' human resources KOÇ INFORMATION 1 10 10 TECHNOLOGIES GROUP processes. As a reflection of this understanding employees are expected to have not only necessary education, skill and experience but Risk assessment is conducted with special Fifty-six of the eighty-three facilities* belonging also be capable of physical and psychological attention given to the prevention of job-related to companies included in this report possess states of work done.If employees are assigned accidents at our places of business, and the OHSAS 18001 “Occupational Health and Safety positions unconvenient to their physical and necessary preventative measures are taken Management System” certification. In 2010, psychological states, this would risk both based on the results of the assessment. sixty-seven percent of our facilities possessed occupational health and safety processes and Technology and ways of doing business are OHSAS 18001 certification. employees. This situation is not acceptable for reviewed and training is provided for any Koç Group companies. As a result of this employees. The Occupational Health and Safety Guidelines understanding, Group companies stipulate that established for relevant health and security every candidate should have extensive health Statistics are kept for job-related accidents at issues throughout the Koç Group identify areas exam required by their work activities before Group workplaces and data, such as accident of improvement by evaluating processes. Group employment. Depending on qualifications frequency, accident severity and lost workdays, employees and union representatives are asked required by the work, candidates are expected is monitored in comparison with previous years. for feedback and opinions in order to enhance to prove their suitability to work with reports measures that can be taken regarding taken from authorized offical health institutions. occupational health and safety and to improve These documents are supported by additional processes. examination and analysis performed by * Yap› Kredi Facilities are not included in this calculation. company's health personnel. There are highly qualified health service units avaliable at most of group companies. In these cases, health checks could be done within company. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 14 Human Rights at Koç Aygaz LPG Authorized Personnel Course Arçelik encourages all employees to Aygaz began working on an occupational To establish corporate culture on ergonomics communicate with each other and with their health and safety system in 1995, and today “Ergonomy Booklet” and leaflets including managers regarding occupational health and it has developed a working systematic as well hand&foot health issues were distributed within safety. Indicators of occupational health and as expanding its work area. Aygaz brings the company. Pandemic plan, emergency safety are monitored as part of the Performance specialist experience and know-how to its plans, first aid&first aid stations projects and Management System. A Job-related Accident practice due to the Occupational Health-Safety ergonomics board and commitee projects were Monitoring Program is extensively used within Experts Platform that was established in 2008 carried out. Modular, flexible occupational the company. and continues today. health automation project is continued. On ‹nönü Plant, employees receive psychological Employees are given health check-ups during A medical exam that specifies workplace support pursuant to the stress map constructed the hiring process. Periodic examinations, conditions is given during the hiring process by psychosocial support unit in company with preventative medicine and treatment services and general health check-ups are provided an industrial psychologist. are provided to employees by workplace health once every 6 months to protect worker health units every weekday between the hours of pursuant to articles 54 and 55 of the collective The MESS – Turkish METAL Group Collective 08:00 and 18:00. Health employees/nurses are bargaining agreements concluded with the Bargaining Agreement covers issues such as available on all other shifts operated by the Turkish Metal Union. There are also procedures Employee Health, Job Safety Materials, business. in place for X-rays to check for tuberculosis in Cleaning Materials, Individuals with Medical the dispensary once a year, transfer of Reports that can Perform Light Work, and There is Group Health Insurance for company employees to health clinics during job-related Leave of Absence related to Social Security employees. Flu vaccinations are procured for accidents and the provision of protective Insurance. employees and their families and administered materials, clothing, and cleaning materials at to employees. In addition, services for the workplace. Union representatives are invited to participate employees, such as counseling to quit smoking, in committees that address Occupational Health as well as educational pamphlets on personal Opinions related to occupational health and and Safety issues. An effort is made to produce hygiene, HPV and “Quitting Smoking” for safety are evaluated as employee problems solutions regarding issues that are placed on employees and families, are provided. and suggestions are brought to the board by the agenda and the Board of Directors supports union representatives. these decisions. Participation is ensured with periodic Union Representative meetings and Occupational Ford Otosan publishes an internal magazine In addition to the services provided for Health and Safety Board meetings. every month that has a health column entitled employees, Ford Otosan also conducts health My Family and Me , which contains current screening for elementary students at the Koç health information. The company also has a Elementary School as part of health services “Healthy Days” bulletin that focuses on for the community. occupational health issues. The optional flu vaccine campaign is conducted routinely every With the participation of specialists “Healty year and counseling and guidance on all types Life Seminars” are conducted for employees, of health-related issues are provided for their families and public on a regular basis. employees and their families. Women and disabled employees who are encouraged for employment undergo an exam once every six months and other employees are given one per year. Ford Otosan has been nominated for “Baby Friendly Workplace” as a result of the establishment of nursing room and trainings given to working mothers about the importance of breast milk. Routine trainings on women health were repeated on reporting period. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Human Rights at Koç 15 63 Total Number of Active Health and Safety Committees Otokar Factory Koç Information Technologies Group has Otokar employees were asked to provide Tat requests a report that employees obtain normal and periodic examinations for all its workplace healthcare personnel with extensive from the relevant health institutions during the employees. Procedures include flu vaccinations, data including medical history and records hiring process. Health insurance service is vaccinations for cervical cancer, auditory before beginning work. Through taking these provided for employees who request it. testing, ear-nose-throat examinations, vision records into consideration health check-ups screening and informational health education are conducted by the workplace physicians Practices related to the occupational health on a variety of topics. prior to starting work. Periodic exams are and safety issues that fall within the scope of conducted and necessary actions are taken the collective bargaining agreement concluded All new recruits of Opet pass primarily a health for all employees. The necessary laboratory with TEK Foods are implemented. Discussions exam. Periodical health controls of employees tests, audiometry exams and respiratory are held with union representatives on relevant working in terminals and facilities are conducted function test are given to employees who work issues. by workplace healthcare personnel. All Opet in risky areas. employees are subject to groupwide insurance Tofafl meets its goals of developing the policy. Issues related to Occupational Health and capacity of its employees for occupational Safety are evaluated within the scope of the health and safety, minimizing human error in Furthermore, in October of every year, flu MESS Turkish Metal Group Collective the relevant processes, achieving its Zero vaccinations are administered to employees Bargaining Agreement. An OHS Board Meeting accident target, and raising health and safety at the Central Office and in every region on a is held once a month. The requests and levels in production and facilities as high as voluntary basis. opinions of Worker Representatives are heard possible via the WCM Safety (World Class at this meeting. Furthermore, Union Labor Safety) business standard. Employees are given As part of the Clean Toilet Project that has representatives and Human Resources a comprehensive entrance check-up when they been conducted since 2000, thirty-two hours Specialists hold routine meetings every week are hired. This exam is a complete physical of educations were provided to 12,500 people to discuss these issues. examination and the candidate’s chest X-rays, in a total of 12 schools in 2010 by Opet. In respiratory function tests, audiometry tests and Amasya, 2000 teachers were given cleanliness Koç Foundation Group Private Health Insurance ECGs are all evaluated as well as fasting blood and hygiene training, thus providing an can be obtained for employees and their sugar, liver enzymes, total blood count, blood opportunity for teachers to convey the families if the employee requests it. type and a urine analysis. information they learned to their students and expand the reach of the project. Otokoç Otomotiv requires a Report Every year an audiometry test is given to our Demonstrating Suitability for Heavy and employees in the Press Production department Beginning at the end of 2009, a project entitled Dangerous Work from those who work in the with check-ups and controls compared with “To Love is to Protect” was launched, thus service department. Individuals who will begin the results from the previous year. Respiratory taking the Clean Toilet Campaign one step working in other departments must provide a function tests are given every year to our further in 2010. Common use areas and toilets health report and the results of a chest X-ray. employees in the Paint Production department, in all OPET stations were protected with an Practices related to occupational health and employees in the purification facilities and to application of BioShield disinfectant, which safety can be summarized as follows: hiring employees who work in jobs that involve prevents the reproduction and spread of examination, periodic check-up, vocational welding, and the results are monitored in microbes for 90 days. Later, the same project diseases check-up, peripheral smear, eye comparison with results from previous years. was brought into schools disinfecting the toilets exam, audio testing, chest X-ray, tetanus in schools where the cleanliness and hygiene vaccination, and examination for performing The MESS – Turkish METAL Group Collective education was given by applying BioShield heavy and dangerous work. Bargaining Agreement covers issues such as here as well. Employee Health, Job Safety Materials, Personnel may, if they so desire, obtain Koç Cleaning Materials, Individuals with Medical Foundation health insurance. Reports that can Perform Light Work, and Leave of Absence related to Social Security Relevant ideas are evaluated via the monthly Insurance. Occupational Health and Safety Boards, which contain employee representatives chosen on Assessment of relevant issues includes risk a branch basis. notifications and recommendations for improvement, as well as improvement conducted via SMAT audit, job-safety captain and Kaizen studies. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 16 Human Rights at Koç Workers at the Metallic Oils Department of Tüprafl ‹zmir Tüprafl conducts independent HSE audits as TürkTraktör had “New Hire Examinations” There are five blue-collar employees on the a part of its HSE-Q Management System. conducted for a total of 631 people in 2010. board that evaluates issues of occupational Detailed observations and inspections are The examinations included a Respiratory health and safety. performed as a result of these audits on issues Function Test, a Chest X-ray, Audiometry Text related to occupational health and safety and and a Physical Exam. Yap› Kredi requires a committee report from future corrective actions are identified based a general State Hospital for Call Center on the results of the audit. In 2010, detailed, periodic health screenings Supervisor positions indicating that the were conducted for 1,193 employees of candidate has no impediment to work at night. Employees are required to provide a report TürkTraktör. Fasting Blood Sugar (FBS) tests, from a general hospital health board during Total Cholesterol, Triglycerides, LDL In the hiring of handicapped individuals a health the hiring process. Blood and urine tests are Cholesterol, and Physical Exams were given report obtained from a state hospital indicating conducted as well as an audiogram and chest to employees during the health screening. the status and degree of disability is required. X-ray are taken. A hiring/periodic examination form is filled out for employees who will perform In 2010, a health improvement program began Employees, their spouses and the children for heavy or dangerous work. to be implemented for TürkTraktör employees. whom they are responsible are covered by The targets of the program are as follows: private group health insurance. Medical Periodic health check-ups are conducted expenses not covered by the Private Group annually for the employees. These check-ups 1. Achieving measurable improvements in Health Insurance are paid for by the Bank include hemogram, biochemical analyses, chest health and help employees acquire healthier Retirement Pension Foundation. Furthermore, X-ray, ECG (if necessary) and specific blood eating habits a health certificate is issued by the Bank and urine tests for employees in risk groups. Retirement Pension Foundations for parents Additionally, Operations and Maintenance 2. Achieving a reduction in the number of not covered by social security if this is department employees are vaccinated for people who use tobacco and in the number of documented with official papers and they can tetanus. cigarettes smoked per day take advantage of health services under this coverage. When an employee or their family is ill, exams, 3. Acquiring the habit of physical activity at the tests and treatment are provided at the workplace and an increase in the number of The company’s Collective Bargaining workplace clinic. Furthermore, in September days on which physical activity is engaged in Agreement includes provisions for death and and October of every year employees receive as well as the amount of time spent in daily disability resulting from job-related accidents. a flu vaccination free of charge and their families physical activity may receive one for a fee. Health education is provided to employees and to families living 4. Acquiring the ability to cope with stress and in employee housing. Bacterial analysis of developing psychological resources drinking water and utility water is conducted once a week in the offices and operations area. 5. Achieving improvements in sound health behavior Health and safety issues are assessed within the scope of the relevant article of the collective 6. Conducting personal risk assessments and bargaining agreement concluded with the developing a personal follow-up program. Turkish Petroleum Chemical Rubber Workers union. The opinions/suggestions/complaints The company possesses a Collective of union and employee representatives are Bargaining Agreement signed between the noted in the minutes of the board and so they Turkish Metal Union and MESS valid from are taken into consideration by the Board of September 1, 2010 to August 31, 2012. The Directors. Following an assessment of the current Collective Bargaining Agreement opinions/suggestions and complaints, all includes provisions for the availability of employees are notified of the conclusions that dressing, undressing and shower areas, are reached via the intranet portal, or for those conducting general health check-ups once employees without access to a computer, they every six months, tuberculosis screening once are sent to a common unit/facility e-mail a year, protective gear provided by employer, account or posted on bulletin boards related keeping as many health personnel as necessary to Safety Environment and Quality. on hand and provision of a transfer ambulance in the event that more than 1000 personnel are employed. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Human Rights at Koç 17 42,857 Total Number of Employees covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements TürkTraktör Employees Labor Union Rights at Koç Even though it may seem that an increase in Number of employees covered by CBA services purchased from suppliers poses a risk Maintaining peace at work is a priority issue to the freedom of unions to organize, our for the entire Koç Group. To the extend that it companies, particularly in the automotive group, 40,000 does not contradict with local laws and purchase these types of services from the regulations in the countries where it operates, suppliers that also have labor union 2,363 Koç Group protects the rights of individuals to organizations. The employees at these 30,000 be members of trade unions in accordance workplaces are also covered by collective with article 23. (4) of the United Nations bargaining agreements. These types of Declaration of Human Rights and articles 2, 3 processes in our suppliers are monitored to 20,000 16,449 33,085 and 4 of the Convention on the Freedom of prevent violations. Association and Protection of the Right to 10,000 Organize adopted by the United Nations in On the other hand, freedom of organization in 1948. The Koç Group respects the freedom of Group companies is also guaranteed in foreign 9,772 employees to be a member of labor union and investments. For instance, there are labor union 0 sign collective bargaining agreements. organizations at the Arçelik factory of Romania White-Collar Blue-Collar and the Grundig factory in Germany. The Today, the most important aspect of industrial employees at these workplaces are also relations is constant, healthy and constructive covered by collective bargaining agreements. social dialogue between parties. A review of %30.5 Percentage of the content of the Turkish legislation, EU The Koç Group contributes to the development employees regulations and the UN Global Compact, to and strengthening of relations with unions both not covered by CBA which Koç Holding is a signatory, demonstrates at home and abroad, thus establishing a lasting that great importance is placed on relations social dialogue. with unions. Collective bargaining agreements specify the salary levels, wage differentials and relevant policies for union employees. At the more than 32 workplaces of 18 companies within the group, 42,857 people %69.5 are union members and collective bargaining Percentage of employees agreements are signed after negotiations with covered by CBA authorized unions at these workplaces. Furthermore, employees can be elected to management bodies in labor and employee organizations; they can also be members of their own professional organizations (medical chamber, bar, chamber of engineers-architects, etc.). In addition, some of our employees serve on Provincial Employment and Vocational Education Boards, Chambers of Commerce and Industry, and in civil society organizations where they contribute to employment, the national economy and social life. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 18 Work Environment at Koç Work Environment at Koç “Our most valuable asset is our human resources.” Our Founder Vehbi Koç We are aware of the fact that the most important 2010 employee demographics in the companies covered in the report are as follows: factor that enabled the success we have achieved today as a Group is our human Employee Breakdown by Employment Category Employee Breakdown by Employment Type resources, which are our most valuable asset. Blue-Collar Full-time As a result of this philosophy, the Group has adopted the goal of working with successful 35,448 61,423 professionals that create added value and aims White-Collar Part-time to be a preferred, model company at which 26,221 246 people are proud to work. In order to take this success we have achieved together with our employees to even greater heights, as a Group Employee Breakdown by Gender Employee Breakdown by Contract we have adopted the following principles: Men Undefined Duration • To attract to the Group the young people 46,582 59,923 and professionals best qualified to carry Koç Group into the future Women Specified Duration 15,087 1,746 • To reward success with fair and competitive salary policies and superior performance standards Employee Breakdown by Age Number of Interns Older than 50 Number of University Interns • To retain these people by creating a pool of 1,596 3,320 competitive talent Between 30 and 50 Number of High School Interns • To invest in personnel development with a 36,830 2,482 philosophy of continuing development Younger than 30 Total number of interns in 2010: 5,802. • To increase employee loyalty to the company 23,243 by ensuring equal opportunity in career development and compensation • To ensure the continuity of our labor peace. In the Turkey operations of the 18 companies covered by the report, there were a total of 313 senior executives, 12 of whom were foreigners while 301 were Turkish citizens. During the same period, there were 51 foreign citizens employed in the Turkey operations and 57,294 Turkish citizens. Aygaz Gebze Facility Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Work Environment at Koç 19 61,669 46,582 15,087 5,802 Total number of Total number of Total number of Total number of employees in the male employees female employees interns in group companies covered by by the end of 2010 by the end of 2010 companies by the end this report in 2010 of 2010 Recruitment well as occupational health and safety. The Koç Academy and Training in our provisions of these guidelines reflect the human Among the principles that the Koç Group holds resources policies of the Koç Group, and group Companies as important are recruiting the most talented companies make and implement specific Koç Academy is a platform for training, employees into the group and objectively adjustments based on their sector. The development and sharing where activities that evaluating candidates when making this regulations basically reflect Koç Group policies will encourage the development of Koç Group acquisition with the awareness that human and contain provisions that comply with legal employees are planned and executed, taking resources are the most valuable asset. The regulations. They are updated as needed in into consideration the needs of the most qualified candidates for the job are hired keeping with changes in the law. Group/Company/Individual. Its services can from among the many candidates that apply be broadly categorized as preparing, monitoring to Group companies based on objective Similarly, there is a Code of Ethics and Business and evaluating development plans for Koç assessment of their qualifications. All applicants Conduct which are applied in all Koç Group Group employees. are treated equally during this process and companies and specifies employee relations there is absolutely no discrimination. with customers, the state, shareholders, rivals, First of all, areas in which the employees are suppliers, and dealers, as well as authorized expected to demonstrate development in the Competencies play an extremely important sales and service. The text makes reference upcoming period are identified based on the role in recruiting the most talented candidates to the United Nations Global Compact and development requirement as a result of into the Group. All candidates are expected to protecting the environment. In this regard, integrated HR practices. Based on specified possess these competencies regardless of Code of Conduct Boards have been created development needs, a development plan is which department or job they are being to ensure compliance and monitor violations created in consultation with guidance and evaluated for. of the code in all companies. feedback from the relevant supervisors. The process of implementing the developmental Minimum Notice Period plans is followed throughout the year and Koç Group Competencies: During work life several changes occur in evaluation meetings are held at the end of the • Direction Setting employees’ work conditions; they could year. The end-of-year evaluation meetings are • Teamwork be assigned to new work units, the followed by meetings to plan the following year. • Communication organization they work for could be shut • Cooperation down as a result of regulations or collective Training is provided for the employee at every • Result Orientation redundancy could occur. Our fundemental level both internally and externally based on • Innovation and Entrepreneurship principle is to minimize the effects of these the needs that have been identified in HR • Improving Colleagues and Self circumstances and inform our employees system. The fundamental purpose of this • Adaptation and Managing Diversity in advance about related processes. Within practice is the improvement of personal • Customer Orientation the framework of legislation currently in development within the framework of corporate effect, when wide-scale layoffs or a development. workplace shut down is required due to Whether or not candidate possess the economic, technological, structural or In companies that utilize the system, there are competencies and technical qualifications similar operational, workplace or business 11,496 employees for whom development plans necessary for the job is evaluated and then a requirements, union workplace are prepared. A total of 35,529 developmental job offer is made to suitable candidates by the representatives will be informed of the activities were assigned with reference to these relevant Koç Group company. An Orientation situation in writing at least 30 days (at least plans and 88.3% were executed during the Program is organized so that employees joining 4 weeks) in advance and it will be plan period. These results demonstrate that the Group can quickly adapt to the Koç Group. announced at the workplace. the Koç Academy program is one that has This program provides information about: been very well received by Group employees. • Group vision, strategy and goals as well as In negotiations that will take place between an introduction to the Group workplace union representatives and the • Human Resource strategies and practices employer after the announcement, the • Company vision, strategy and goals as well following issues will be addressed: as an introduction to the Company Training Provided to White and preventing the layoffs or reducing the Blue-Collar Employees (man*hour) • An introduction to functions and positions. number of employees who will be laid off, as well as minimizing the negative impact Blue-Collar The companies in the Koç Group and of the layoff on the workers. A report will 540,547.3 hours workplaces operating in affiliation with these be drawn up at the conclusion of the companies throughout Turkey have Personnel negotiations demonstrating that the White-Collar Guidelines which address issues such as meeting took place. 957,426 hours employee benefits and working conditions, as Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 20 Work Environment at Koç Tüprafl Employees Koç Compensation System results and economic profitability are evaluation process are taken into consideration significantly weighted on score cards. The by their immediate superiors. Furthermore, the The compensation and remuneration process score cards also contain strategic goals. Code of Conduct which applies to all of the in our Group is managed with the Koç Salary companies in the Koç Group defines the social System. The primary factors that determine Bonuses for Senior Executives in our Company and ethical guidelines that our employees are wage policy are the results of the analysis of are calculated according to company subject to at every level. Employees are market conditions and competition in the sector. performance, individual performance and bonus expected to conduct themselves in accordance Differences in employee salaries are derived basis. Information related to these criteria is with these guidelines. from the responsibility assumed and the work summarized below: performed. There is no difference between men and women in terms of salary levels. 1) Bonus Basis: The Bonus Basis is updated Work Environment Assessment at the beginning of every year and varies Survey Although the minimum wage which is currently depending on the extent of the executive’s job. in effect in our country is taken into Trends in the wage market and the company's As a group, we consider it very important that consideration from a legal perspective, there economic position are taken into consideration our employees are satisfied with our companies are no employees in the Koç Group companies as part of the update. and are committed to the work they perform. who are actually paid the minimum wage. In One result of this philosophy is the Work addition to the monthly gross salary, employees 2) Company Performance: Company Environment Assessment Survey which is are paid a bonus and given a social payment performance is determined by measuring, at conducted every year in our companies for the package monthly. In most of our places of the end of the period, the financial and purpose of ensuring continual improvement. business, there are job categories determined operational targets (market share, exports, This survey is a practice through which the by regulations or collective bargaining foreign operations, efficiency, etc.) set for the views of our employees in categories like agreements and created based on the companies at the beginning of the year. The satisfaction, recommendation, sense of knowledge, experience and education of the sustainability of success and implementation belonging and repeated preference are employee as well as the risk entailed by the of improvements over previous years are obtained, group companies set goals based job they perform. These job categories have a important principles taken into consideration on the results and the results are monitored. salary structure implemented by taking into when setting company goals. consideration equivalent wages in the market In 2010, 41,504 surveys were evaluated as part and the unique circumstances of each job. 3) Individual Performance: In the determination of the Work Environment Assessment process. of individual performance, goals related to the In most Group workplaces, the salary paid to employee, customer, process, technology and newly hired individuals is different from the long-term strategy are taken into consideration Suggestion Systems minimum wage as required by collective along with the company goals. In the Koç Group companies are committed to bargaining agreements. For example, in our measurement of individual performance, the continually improving and developing practices companies that employ the Metal Sector Job principle of long-term sustainable improvement and processes. One of the most important Evaluations System, different starting salaries is considered in parallel with company resources for achieving improvement and are outlined at different levels depending on performance and apart from financial development are the views of employees. the size of the job. At the lowest level, this considerations. Group companies not only ensure employee percentage is 7.3% higher than the minimum participation in management with the wage and it is 9% on average. Similar newAll of the white-collar personnel who work at suggestion systems they implement, but they hire wage scales are employed in our other the Koç Group are subject to annual also improve organizational efficiency in industrial workplaces, and when the impact of performance evaluations. The performance of accordance with their views and suggestions. bonuses and social payment is taken into our employees is monitored via a web-based consideration, the wages actually paid in Group software system. The performance evaluation Arçelik employs suggestion boxes set up at companies are significantly above minimum is conducted based on score cards which are specified locations within the enterprise. The wage. created using the Management by Objective suggestions dropped in the suggestion boxes approach with suggestions and consent from using the forms provided are collected at Koç Holding is one of the few Turkish the employee. specified intervals, read by preliminary companies to link compensation of senior-level evaluators and conveyed to the concerned managers with sustainable financial and In mid-level management positions, there are individuals. The person who receives the operational performance. The majority of the 1,400 managers for whom performance suggestion decides whether or not it can be compensation for senior-level Group managers evaluations are conducted. The number of implemented and forwards it to the Human consisting of salaries and bonuses is paid performance evaluations conducted for senior Resources department indicating his depending on performance. Performance executives is 300. assessment on the form. Feedback on the coupled with the scope of the business is the status of the suggestions is provided to the most important criteria in income management. The “Discretion” points which employees may person who made it. Implementation of The method used to determine performance give on their social, environmental and ethical accepted suggestions is monitored and is the Balanced Score Card, where business evaluation as part of the annual performance recognized as part of a reward system. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Work Environment at Koç 21 Results of Work Environment Assessment Questionnaire In 2010, 107 106 105 105.5 106.0 105.1 177,039 104 103.4 of the 102.9 103.2 295,188 103 102.5 102.4 102 101.8 101 100 100 100 100 suggestions received from 99 employees in the companies 98 covered by this report 97 2007 2008 2009 2010 were implemented. Loyalty Job Satisfaction Enthusiasm Aygaz employees fill out a Personal Suggestion Suggestions which pass the first round of Yap› Kredi uses the Suggestion Management Form, detailing their suggestion, what it pertains approval are filed by the Suggestion System System located under Applications on its to and place it in the suggestion box. Supervisor and submitted to the Suggestion intranet for the submission of employee Suggestions are entered into Electronic Evaluation committee. Suggestions that have suggestions. The suggestions that are received Personnel Suggestion System (PSS) by facility been evaluated and accepted are followed up are shared with teams, and the individual who representatives. Location managers, after their on by the suggestion system supervisor submitted the suggestion is informed of the review submit approved suggestions to the quarterly. results. PSS Evaluation Committee. PSS Evaluation Committee evaluates the entries in the system The Tat Suggestion System encompasses all and informs suggestion providers on results Tat employees, the employees of within two weeks. subcontractors and interns, excluding only Leader Development Programs managers. Employees may convey their At Ford Otosan employee suggestions are suggestions either over the intranet or by filling KoçAcademy Leader Development Programs, conveyed to Improvement Directorate for out a suggestion form and putting it in the are composed of training designed for the analysis via forms avaliable online. Suggestions suggestion box. Suggestions are evaluated by development of Group Company’s executives. appropriate for practice are conveyed to the Enterprise Suggestion System Supervisors Programs differentiate for several management Improvement Board and the owner of the and the Decision-Making Committee. levels are carried out with the support of Koç suggestion demanded to be rewarded. All University, specialists and institutions. Main suggestion owners are informed about the Tofafl continues to increase employee aim of the program is to establish common evaluation results. For the group suggestions, participation every year with its Personal management and leadership culture throughout work group leader writes a suggestion made Suggestion System. All employees are Group. Programs are also valuable as a result of a group effort on the Improvement expected to participate in this practice in parallel development opportunity to share knowledge Notification Form and sends it to the Work with Tofafl goals. The World-Class Production and experience for executives attending from Group Engineer. The process is evaluated by System has had a positive effect on the different companies and cultures. the Work Group Engineer, the Work Group practice. Team Leaders and the Site Manager. In 2010, 826 executives took part in these Suggestions that are deemed acceptable are The Tüprafl Refinery Suggestion program programs and total of 3,844 executives sent to the improvement coordinator to be allows employees to fill out Suggestion Forms have participated since 2003. In 2010, recognized. at their facility or unit and communicate their predominantly “Leader and Strategy”, personal or original ideas since 2007. “Leader and People”, “Leader and Work” Opet has initiated a practice known as Suggestions can be conveyed directly to Recommendation Days, which it holds on management through a box that is easily “Leader and Effective Management” and Wednesdays, to understand employee accessible to the employees. All Tüprafl “Leader and Efficient Performance” expectations, hear their perspective and receive employees convey suggestions as both trainings were carried out. suggestions. OPET employees come together individually or as a team under categories of and discuss new suggestions, creative ideas energy and resource efficiency, work safety, When programs finish, development process and different points of view at meetings held environmental services and process continues with several projects and follow-up as part of Recommendation Days. improvements. Suggestions that are received trainings. Participants of “Leader and People” through the Suggestion System are evaluated program carry out social responsibility projects The Otokar Suggestion System (OSS) begins by the suggestion system board. Suggestions with TEGV and as a result of this collective when suggestion forms are filled out via ethat are found to be applicable are announced work two different projects are accomplished woom or Portokar. OSS Suggestion Forms are with their rewards within the company. The in a year. Some of our executives participated first evaluated by the first supervisor of the system also operates in company intranet. in 2010 program have organized closing person who made the suggestion and if he is ceremony of TEGV’s activities continued across positive about it, points and gains are TürkTraktör has a suggestion system that was summer. Other executives organized a festival calculated. launched at the beginning of 2010. Suggestions within the scope of “Our House ‹stanbul” Project boxes were placed in all of the departments -European Capital of Culture eventin Kartal. At Otokoç Otomotiv employees either fill out to implement the system and suggestion Suggestion Forms or use Personal Suggestion supervisors were appointed. The suggestion System software to convey suggestions. supervisors in each department check these Suggestion System Supervisor regularly reviews boxes at specified intervals. The suggestion submitted suggestions and checks to see if supervisor speaks with an officer from the the suggestion has been properly outlined and department in which the suggestion would be whether or not it is related to a subject that implemented and enters it into the system. If has been previously submitted, tried or the suggestion is appropriate, the suggestion researched. The Suggestion System Supervisor supervisor notifies the person who submitted submits the suggestion for approval. the suggestion and gives them an estimated time of completion. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 22 Work Environment at Koç Yap› Kredi Banking Academy Most Successful Koç Employees Creativity – Innovations Koç My Family Program This category includes projects that suggest The Most Successful Koç Employees Award creative, alternative solutions that will improve The Koç My Family Program launched in 2005 System is a recognition system that encourages the current situation by constantly staying encompasses all of the benefits and practices Koç Group employees to develop their abreast of innovations, approach circumstances which contribute to raising the quality of life competencies. The system operates in three with a fresh perspective, identify important and for Koç Employees who are members of the categories: Cooperation, Creative Innovations priority fields of business, find and implement Koç Group Family and are there for them at and Customer Satisfaction. The purpose of the creative, innovative solutions to problems and every stage in their lives. reward system is to increase employee loyalty, opportunities. motivation and productivity throughout the group, to make a contribution towards a Customer Satisfaction The members of the Koç Family program learning organization and to discover and This category includes projects that immediately include employees, relatives of employees, promote the best practices in the Group in this meet expectations with regard to requests for authorized service centers, dealers, retirees regard. internal/external customers, exhibit the proper and Koç University students. approach to customers in unexpected At the end of 2010, The primary categories in the most successful situations, solve problems by quickly Koç Projects Reward system are provided responding to customer needs and take the program had a total of below: advantage of opportunities that could exceed customer expectations. 83,000 Cooperation members. This category includes projects that suggest To date, a total of 48 companies and 535 ways to facilitate the achievement of goals for projects have been included in this system, Koç Holding Retirement Pension the individuals involved, act and take ownership which has been employed since 2003 and 426 Foundation in accordance with target objectives and people have been rewarded. provide common benefit. Since 1967, the Koç Holding Retirement Pension Foundation has invested the savings The projects and companies that were recognized in 2010 are provided below based on categories: of Koç Group employees so that when they retire they can receive their savings in a lump sum or over their lifetime and can take Category WC / BC Company Projects advantage of group health insurance for themselves and their family members. In Creative White Tüprafl Diesel Sulfur Removal Unit – Efficiency Enhancement addition to the employees’ own savings, the Innovations Collar Project accumulated savings of employees is increased as both employee and company make a 6% Blue Arçelik Work on a Mesh that Removes Polyurethane Gaps contribution of the salary on which the Collar in Refrigerators deduction is based. At the end of 2010, the Koç Holding Retirement Pension Foundation Cooperation White Tüprafl Project to Reduce EII (Energy Intensity Index) Values had 46,948 members. Foundation assets are Collar invested in the financial markets, providing foundation members with a return that exceeds Blue Aygaz Scrap and Repair Cylinder Preparation Machine inflation every year. Collar Yap› Kredi provides a unique opportunity Customer White Opet Work Performed to Rank Number One for the 5th for its employees in this regard. Yap› Kredi Satisfaction Collar Time in a Row by Scoring Above the Sector Average supports secondary financial guarantees in the Fueling Station Category According to 2010 for its employees at retirement and has Results on Opet's Turkey Customer Satisfaction Index contributed to the Group Individual Retirement Plan since 2006. At the end of Blue Tofafl Y Doblo Quality Enhancement Project 2010, 68% of bank employees were taking Collar advantage of the Group Retirement Plan. Yap› Kredi employees, along with their Special Blue Tüprafl Theatre Club spouses and children are covered by Group Award Collar Health Insurance. The total number of employees rewarded in 2010: 36 White-collar 27 Blue-collar Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Work Environment at Koç 23 The Aygaz-Opet Turkish Music Choir Professional and Personal Life Competition organized in 2010 throughout Aygaz and Opet employees participate in the Turkey by Üniaktivite. KU Volunteers continued Aygaz-Opet Turkish Music Choir, established Balance at Koç to grow in 2010 with more than 250 active in 2004 for the purpose of bringing together A 45-hour work week is implemented at Group volunteers, making it the largest club at Koç employees with a heart for Classical Turkish workplaces in accordance with the limits set University. It consists of 7 different sub-groups Music and creating an opportunity to engage by the law. Generally, these working hours are and conducts a variety of short-term projects. in their hobbies. The Aygaz-Opet Turkish Music completed during the 5 weekdays in companies These projects include the Koç University Tiny Choir not only helps employees develop team operating in the service sector and employees Hearts Project, the Teeth are Fine Project, KET spirit and cooperation, but also makes a very are off on Saturday and Sunday. In companies (Koç University Education Club) Children Who positive impact on their professional life by involved in industrial production, on the other Can Think, Share Your Dream Project, KU bringing employees together under the same hand, there is generally a shift-work system Volunteers Awareness Group, and KUYAT (Koç roof outside of the workplace. and those who complete a 45-hour work week University Summer Workshop). have at least one day a week of uninterrupted Koç Information Technologies Group has rest. Shift employees work in the daytime for Arçelik drew students’ attention to protecting provided employee volunteers for the “We Are one week and at night the following week in the dwindling natural resources on our planet Volunteers” project for LÖSEV, the Foundation accordance with the law and provision is made and conserving water and energy in the for Children with Leukemia. During reporting for them to spend time with their families. competition entitled “Let's Protect the period employees voluntarily participated in Environment and our Natural Resources”, which “Green Information Platform” social In addition, work is not performed on religious was held for the second time in 2010 as part responsibility project as “Green Information and official holidays or New Year’s, all of which of Arçelik Volunteer Family activities in the Embassadors” with different projects and are very important in Turkey, so that personnel “Standing United for Education” with Arçelik practices. With the voluntarily participation of can spend time with their families. Furthermore, Program in 2010. The employees who employees Photography Group, Diving Group, employees are given the opportunity to use participated in the project were volunteers. Sailing Group and Carting Groups were more paid annual leave than the law requires. established. Netkulüp, a social activity club for The human resource departments in our Arçelik employees voluntarily set up social Koç.net employees, arranges visits to Child companies follow modern human resource clubs and enable persistence of practices. In Protection Institution and planting visits to policies and are careful to protect the balance this context, amongst these active groups and Koç.net Biri Memorial Forest in Ankara. between career and personal life of our clubs Fotography Club, Turkish Music Club, employees. Dance Club, Theatre Club, Nature Sports Club Opet has social activities clubs established and Travel Club can be listed. As a part of and continued by the volunteer participation these club activites concerts, touristic and of employees. These clubs are involved in Employee Volunteering nature trips, theatre performances are music, diving, motor sports, basketball, Many of the social activities carried out by Koç organized. volleyball, extreme sports, dance, sailing, Holding companies are based on the principle photography, cooking, swimming, theater and of employee volunteerism. Numerous projects Aygaz employees give lessons at high schools bowling. All Opet employees volunteer to have been implemented in diverse fields ranging and universities to inform young people in their participate in social responsibility projects. from education, the environment, art, health, areas of expertise. In 2010, Aygaz executives sports and many others as the volunteer effort and employees met with students at Koç High Otokoç Otomotiv, is conducting a social of our employees. School, Koç University and Y›ld›z Technical responsibility project with the Üsküdar Hasan University to share their experience. Tan Day Care. The project is called “Tiny Employees in different numbers from all of the Supervisors at Work”, and we host the orphan companies included in this report participated The Aygaz My Social Activity Club consists of children attending this day care center at our voluntarily in the projects entitled “I am 15 volunteer members working on a purely company headquarters one Saturday every Donating Blood for My Country”, “Vocational voluntary basis not connected with any month. Employees participate in this project Education: Crucial Matter for the Nation”, and department or directorate and conducting their on a volunteer basis. Together with Otokoç “The Koç Sports Festival.” activities and work outside of business hours. Otomotiv employees children play, make The purpose of the club is to bring together cookies and celebrate birthdays of their friends The Koç University Volunteers Club has people who work in the same business who born at that month. The aim of this project operated under the auspices of the Koç environment for activities outside of work such is to develop their productivity via an applied University Student Dean’s Office since 2001. as tours, tournaments, cultural and artistic activity, to have fun, make feel themselves and The number of KU Volunteers continues to events to relieve stress, enhance internal support their individual development. Addition grow every year and it has developed projects communications at the company, and improve to this, in each branch there are volunteer and collected donations for numerous projects motivation and solidarity. Activities in 2010 Otokoç Otomotiv employees, called B‹Z teams, in various parts of Istanbul, primarily the district included Dragon Fest, participation in a rowing perform several projects. of Sar›yer, and throughout Turkey. competition, three theater events, a book KU Volunteers placed 2nd in the Social collection campaign, two cultural outings and Responsibility category of the Most Active Club a bowling tournament. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 24 Work Environment at Koç In 2010, a total of 15,342 people, 10,595 of which were employees and 4,747 of which were volunteer participants, took part in volunteer activities carried out by Group companies. Tüprafl carried out numerous activities in which With the TürkTraktör Solution Teams, Koç Employees and Sports employees participated on a volunteer basis employees conduct continuous improvement during the reporting period as part of the activities on a volunteer basis related to the In addition to the social clubs and sports “Umbrella Movement – 100 Smiling Faces” in areas in which they work. opportunities provided to employees in each Alia¤a and ‹zmit, “MEGEP” and “We Produce of our Group companies, sports festivals are the Oxygen We Consume” in K›r›kkale, “The These individuals are knowledgeable about the organized with the leadership of Koç Holding April 23rd Festival”, “The Clean Tüprafl, Clean environment, familiar with legislation and legal for the purpose of bringing Koç Group Environment”, “TEMA & Tüprafl Tree Planting” requirements and qualified to identify Companies and employees closer together and “TEGV Activities” in Batman, as well as environmental accidents and environmental and improving the Group’s image, contributing the “Happy Waste” project in Alia¤a. deficiencies and they support projects to the physical and psychological health of conducted in our company for this purpose. personnel and utilizing their free time. The As a result of an employee suggestion, in every festivals, which last for five weeks beginning refinery Tüprafl Employee Social Activity Clubs The Yap› Kredi Volunteers Platform allowed in the first week of May, have become an annual were established by volunteer employees. Yap› Kredi to bring the volunteer projects tradition where approximately 3,200 employees There are 8 different branches of activities conducted by employees for many years all come together for sports. within these clubs including seek and rescue, together under one roof in 2009. The Yap› Kredi nature activities, photography, travel-gourmet, Volunteers Platform was established with the The Festival began in 1989 and has been held music, underwater, theatre and sailing. These slogan A Social Responsibility Project for Each every year since in the months of May-June. clubs, with nearly 1,300 members, continue to Department . All of the projects included in the This year it was organized in five regions: perform activities such as trainings, Yap› Kredi Volunteers Platform have a structure Istanbul, Ankara, Bursa, Izmir and Adana. The performance shows, exhibitions and cultural and address issues determined by volunteers festival is organized by the Central Organization travels. and the civil society organizations that they Committee, and the Regional Executive work with and which moves forward with Committees handle follow-up in different While Batman and ‹zmir Photography Clubs resources that volunteers create with their own regions. open three exhibitions, ‹zmit and ‹zmir Theatre budgets. Corporate Communications Clubs put two representations. ‹zmit Theatre Management supports project teams with Approximately 3,200 amateur athletes from club reached a total of 2,000 people with a communication and coordination (establishing among our employees participate in matches cooperation of 29 different groups including connections with the proper business partners). conducted by official referees supplied by ÇYDD, TEGV, TEV, TEMA, Turkish Petroleum In this regard, the coordinating teams for the provincial referee committees in the following Chemical Rubber Workers Union, Child pilot projects came together with the leading sports: mini-football, basketball, volleyball, Protection Association, ‹zmit Directorate of civil society organizations in Turkey for a twotable tennis, tennis, chess, swimming, track Education, interns and students. Additionally, day “Awareness Meeting”. They also received and field and bowling. Throughout the festival, within Music Clubs there are Turkish Music training in volunteerism at the Awareness our employees, whether they were participating ensembles composed of employees from Meeting. as athletes or spectators, had the opportunity Batman, K›r›kkale, ‹zmir and ‹zmit. There is also for some fun with their families, who were also folk music ensemble in Batman and chorus In 2010, the Yap› Kredi Volunteers Platform invited to the games. composed of employees’ children in ‹zmit and increased the number of management ‹zmir. Bands named Stones and Parçal› Bulutlu departments/affiliates that carried out projects After the games, which last approximately 5 -established by ‹zmir and ‹zmit refinery to 10. At the end of 2010, 154 Yap› Kredi weeks according to the fixtures that are drawn employeesand percussion group RitmoRafino employees were supporting projects as up, ceremonies are held in each region to the -established by ‹zmit refinery employeestake volunteers as part of the Yap› Kredi Volunteers teams and individual athletes from Group place in social responsibility projects. Platform. In addition, 130 Yap› Kredi employees Companies and cups are presented to the top takes place in “Read Think Share” programthree teams in each sport and also to the teams TürkTraktör has implemented the kaizen with corporation of Young Guru Academychosen as best sportsmen, while medals are system with the aim of eliminating losses from within the leadership development training presented to the individual contestants. Senior the use of energy, labor, materials and framework of Yap› Kredi Banking Academy. executives from Group companies also equipment with constant improvement and this attended the ceremonies and in the ceremony system includes efforts to remedy negative held in Istanbul, which is where participation aspects related to the environment and the is the greatest, Koç Holding CEO Turgay Durak health and safety of employees. Employees presented the medals and cups to the volunteer to participate in these kaizens, which recipients. continue to generate significant interest. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Work Environment at Koç 25 Koç Group Sports Festival Arçelik provides indoor and outdoor sports Tüprafl has a total of 4 Fitness Salons set up The Yap› Kredi Sports Club Association was facilities where its employees can engage in according to the Body-Building Federation's established in 2007 for the purpose of making fitness, tennis, basketball, football and table Private Sports Salons guidelines, taking into social activities possible and all employees tennis activities as an attempt to maintain a consideration the number of people in all of under the Koç Financial Services umbrella can healthy balance between work and personal the refineries who would use them, and there become members and their spouses and life and to enhance communication between are swimming pools constructed to specific children can take advantage of it as well. The employees. Furthermore, activities, such as measurements and depths. The dimensions of Club can participate in all of the sports accepted skiing and bowling tournaments, are also the Izmit Refinery Indoor Sports Salon are by the Directorate of Youth and Sports. organized off-site. suitable for basketball, volleyball and tennis. Employees who join the association as well as Furthermore, the Indoor Sports Salon also has their spouses and children can participate in The Aygaz Headquarters contains a facility Ping-Pong tables. All of the refineries have numerous sporting activities, including football, where employees can engage in sports. In lighted tennis courts with Rebound Ace Grand sailing, tennis, track and field, volleyball, other locations, there are facilities available for Slam surfacing constructed in consideration basketball, water sports and skiing. The Yap› football, volleyball and ping pong activities. for the users. The Izmit Refinery and the Kredi Sports Club Association organizes a Several sports tournaments are organized K›r›kkale Refinery have lighted, artificial turf variety of activities, such as a skiing festival, during the year for employees. football fields and miniature football fields. The basic and advanced sailing, and rafting trips. Izmit Refinery also has a jogging track that is Furthermore, every summer there is a Yap› Ford Otosan has an Outdoor Basketball Court, approximately 2 km long featuring the Tartan Kredi Sports Club Summer School for the Outdoor Tennis Court and a Fitness and Aerobic Track. There are squash courts at the Izmir children of employees. There is also a Yap› Salon that can be used 24 hours a day. and K›r›kkale refineries and a billiard hall at the Kredi Search and Rescue Team (YAKUT) Furthermore, facilities were rented in some K›r›kkale Refinery. Throughout the year, sporting operating under the auspices of the Yap› Kredi cities to ensure that the practice schedules of events in a variety of fields are organized at Sports Club Association. YAKUT is a team all of the teams were not disrupted in 2010. In the refineries. consisting of volunteers whose mission is to addition to the football, basketball, volleyball, provide information about all emergency and track and field, table tennis, bowling, chess Tofafl has a fitness salon at its Bursa plant. disaster situations, as well as information about and swimming teams, there were some Employees can take advantage of an indoor what should be done prior to, during and after participating in the individual sport of tennis. basketball court, 2 tennis courts, an outdoor an earthquake, and to conduct the search and The activities organized and participated in basketball court, and 13 Ping-Pong tables in rescue activities needed after a disaster. during the reporting period are as follows: Ford the workshops. Employees at the Istanbul office Otosan 50th anniversary race, the Çay›rova may use the fitness salon and the billiard tables. Since 2005, Yap› Kredi has conducted an Track and Field Competition, the Ford Otosan internal sponsorship project for the purpose of Ismail Hakk› Uzuner indoor football tournament, TürkTraktör has been organizing the supporting and encouraging employees in their the karting tournament and bowling tournament. TürkTraktör sports festival for eight years for sports activities. In 2010, Celal Altunbafl and a total of 13 different sports, namely basketball, Bayram Kuytan competed individually in Koç Information Technologies Group has a football, volleyball, table tennis doubles, table swimming and mountain climbing, supported fitness salon that is open to employees. A total tennis singles, backgammon, chess, darts, pin by internal sponsorship from Yap› Kredi, which of 33 employees participated in diving and ball doubles, pin ball singles, checkers, contributes to the personal development of sailing clubs during the reporting period. badminton doubles, badminton singles. In employees and sports activities. As part of this addition to the activities organized during the sponsorship, the achievement of employees Opet provides opportunities for employees to festival, which lasts for more than 2 months, involved in sports activities are announced on participate actively in basketball, diving, a special festival magazine called Gentlemen internal communications channels and shared swimming, sailing, volleyball, bowling, nature is published together with employees. with all employees. and extreme sports. Employees are also given the opportunity to use our indoor sports salon, outdoor football Otokar offers employees the opportunity to field, and the showers, heating and equipment take advantage of the sports facilities such as free of charge so that they can continue their basketball courts, football fields, sports salon sports activities after business hours. and tennis courts. Tat employees can take advantage of the fitness salon at the company. The company organizes sporting events in a variety of fields throughout the year. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 26 Environmentally-Friendly Practices at Koç Environmentally-Friendly Practices at Koç It is our duty to protect natural resources, use them in the most efficient way while minimizing the creation of waste at the source and maintaining effective recycling. The world meets the needs of all living things created. Therefore, in addition to its own created in the Group pertaining to due to an incredible balance that is difficult to activities, Koç Holding participates in joint environmental management is the comprehend or explain even with today's initiatives with public agencies, professional “Environmental Coordination Council”, which scientific knowledge. However, at present, organizations, civil society organizations, the consists of the most senior-level executives nature is experiencing difficulty in the resources community and all concerned national and responsible for group companies' currently required by living organisms. This international parties for the purpose of environmental management. The basic duties disruption to the balance of nature is beginning promoting environmental awareness in the of the council are to identify long-term strategies to manifest itself in a number of areas that business world and society in general. related to environmental management and to directly affect our daily lives, beginning with formulate plans for their implementation. The the problems caused by climate change. With regard to our own activities, minimizing “Group Environmental Council” consists of the environmental impact of operations is the environmental specialist in Group companies, In the recent past, the dilemma which the global number one priority for Koç Holding and all of and its basic duties are to support the community faced was the fact that industry its subsidiaries, and it is an essential part of formulation of strategic plans and to implement had a destructive impact on the environmental ensuring our own corporate sustainability. For them. Furthermore, the Group Environmental conditions necessary for life while at the same this reason, we manage our environmental Council is also responsible for coordinating time it provided the production necessary to impact with ambitious goals, sophisticated efforts to comply fully with changing sustain life. Today, it is obvious that a common systems and processes and an integrated environmental regulations and handling the perspective has been developed regarding a management approach that also addresses periodic environmental audits in cooperation solution to this dilemma in the light of both these issues separately at Group and company with the Audit Group. The audits that are social and scientific developments. The levels. Furthermore, we rigorously monitor performed ensure that environmental sensitivity business world not only functions as the performance in this regard. Legal compliance is maintained in Group companies and that provider of a certain living standard, but it has with all of the aspects of environmental potential risks are identified in advance. The also assumed responsibility regarding management is not for us a goal to be attained, results of environmental audits and the environmental sensitivity. but a minimum standard for continuing improvement targets that emerge are submitted operations. to the Koç Holding CEO. As a result of the Here at Koç Holding, we have made audits conducted in 2009, all Group companies environmental sensitivity a top priority ever have been assigned goals inline with audit since our foundation. In accordance with Environmental Management results for 2010. Group companies have been founding principles, we have always been an assigned the goal of establishing a GHG example of the best in the areas we operate Koç Holding is an enormous organization emission system and some of them for in. As it does in every area, the leadership of consisting of dozens of companies operating obtaining certification of this system by 2011. our founder Vehbi Koç guides us in this area in numerous sectors that are very dissimilar to as well. The fundamental motto of Koç Holding one another. Koç Holding’s environmental For the management of the basic elements and all of its subsidiaries is: I live and prosper management is organized to manage this multithat constitute climate change in order to with my country , which demonstrates our faceted structure in the most effective manner. respond effectively to the increasing importance stance regarding environmental sensitivity. In Koç Holding has formulated guiding policies of the issue with our operations in terms of our opinion, without a physical environment in in order to handle the environmental both subsidiaries and the corporation, specialist which nature maintains its own balance, our management of all its subsidiaries. The Koç organizations have been created. The “Energy own existence would be impossible. In terms Group Environmental Vision, Koç Group Efficiency Working Group”, which consists of of our own corporate sustainability, it is essential Environmental Mission and Koç Group energy executives from Group companies have that we achieve harmony not only with our Environmental Policy documents were created been formed in order to ensure the most social environment, but with our physical within the framework of this understanding and productive management of energy consumption surroundings as well. This is the only way that they shape the administrative approach that because this is the source of the GHG our efforts to produce the goods and services should be taken in the operations of all Group emissions which are the primary cause of that will enhance the quality of life for societies companies. The details of Koç Holding’s climate change. By setting up expert subin our areas of operation can have true approach to environmental management are committees, the Energy Efficiency Working significance. available on the corporate social responsibility Group works on planning improvements as page at www.kocholding.com.tr. well as developing joint projects and sharing As one of the largest corporations in the world, best practices in order to capitalize on the the Koç Group is proud of the fact that the Koç Holding’s environmental performance is progress that has been achieved. Climate operating principles we have adopted are the consolidated performance of its subsidiary change is a complex phenomenon that becoming the general norm on a global scale. companies. Therefore, environmental encompasses many different dimensions and However, expecting the business world to management also begins with the Holding and not just energy efficiency. In order for shoulder all of the responsibility for is provided with a powerful organization that companies to gain a comprehensive environmental sensitivity will make it more extends to the operational areas of subsidiary understanding of the issue and to execute the difficult to achieve our goals. Therefore, not companies. A fundamental principle is that necessary operations in harmony with Group only companies but all stakeholders should participation of subsidiary companies be goals, the Koç Group Climate Change Strategy assume some responsibility in this regard, and ensured at every level in the organization of document was published during the reporting then a working culture that produces collective environmental management handled at the period. solutions to common problems should be Group level. Therefore, the highest level body Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Environmentally-Friendly Practices at Koç 27 134.6 3,352,915 MILLION TL GJ 64 42,747 Environmental Reduction Achieved in Number of our plants The number of expenditures and Energy Consumption with ISO 14001 saplings planted investments from Koç in 2010 Certificate in 2010 as a result of the group’s Group companies forestation works in 2010 in 2010 The strategic plans formulated by the Group’s management in all Group companies for the environment in keeping with Koç Holding environmental management organization are purpose of working on the achievement of business principles and performance goals converted to performance targets on a these targets. In companies that operate in and to quickly comply with changes to company basis. In order to emphasize the sectors that are sensitive to energy environmental regulations. Group companies importance of this issue, the company targets consumption or have a certain operational stay abreast of and implement the latest were disseminated starting from the highestcapacity, units specializing in energy management systems, both in general and for level company executives down to those management are also being organized. The their sector, in order to achieve efficiency in responsible for environmental management in basic duties of the environmental management environmental management. the lowest-level departments. An expert organization created at the company level is organization has been created for environmental to minimize the impact of operations on the Management Systems in Group Companies Koç Group companies aim to formulate the Arçelik conducts its operations in guarantees that its vehicle parts do not most modern management approach in compliance with numerous systems, contain lead, mercury, cadmium or chrome+6 every area as they conduct their operations. standards and methodologies related to in accordance with the IMDS program while We place a great deal of importance on compliance with product standards and it came second amongst 180 F‹AT factories management standardization efforts in this working conditions. Beside ISO 14001 and by applying WCM (World Class area. For this reason, Group companies stay ISO 9001, Arçelik possesses ISO 17025 Manufacturing) simple production models. abreast of management systems with general Laboratory Quality Management certification Otokar guarantees management of features and those unique to the sector in as well as 37 national and 7 general product information security with ISO 27001 order to strengthen their management compliance documents related to product certification. TürkTraktör achieved an structures. They also implement standards standards for a variety of countries. Arçelik important first in 2010 among its CNH recognized both domestically and also complies with all of the relevant product factories by creating an integrated internationally into their management regulations adopted by EU countries, which management system that places the ISO methods and conduct periodic external constitute an important export market. 9001, 14001, 27001 and OHSAS 18001 audits. The generally recognized Compliance has been achieved with the standards under a single umbrella. management standards among Group Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment companies are ISO 14001 Environmental (WEEE) Directive, the Restriction of Koç Information Technologies Group Management, ISO 9001 Quality Management Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive and complies with ISO 27001 Information Security and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and the Eco-design Requirements for EnergyManagement, ISO 20000 Information Safety* management systems. Using Products Directives. Arçelik, holder Technologies Service Management, and ISO of EFQM and KalDer Quality Grand Awards, 10002 Customer Satisfaction and Complaint In 2010, we achieved a significant with regard to managerial efficiency, follows Management systems in its operations. improvement in Group company EFQM, 6 Sigma and Total Productive performance related to ISO 14001 Maintenance (TPM) methodologies. Tüprafl provides complete compliance with documentation. 64 of the 82** facilities specifications determined by official belonging to companies that fall within the Aygaz complies with TPED, the institutions for all of the products that it scope of this report possess ISO 14001 Transportable Pressure Equipment Directive, processes in addition to complying with the certification. This is equivalent to coverage and PED, the Pressure Equipment Directive, EN 12591 standard for bituminous products. of 78% and this rises to 83% in companies in its operations, and it follows the TPM Total Tüprafl has completed the ISO 17025 engaged in manufacturing operations. In the Productive Maintenance methodology in accreditation for its laboratories and employs last reporting period of 2009, 76% of the terms of administrative efficiency. the EFQM model for managerial efficiency. companies included in the report possessed ISO 14001 certification while in 2010 the Among the companies operating in Yap› Kredi launched its 6 Sigma work in percentage rose to 82.6%. automotive sector, Ford Otosan employs 2010. the 6 Sigma and Kaizen methodologies with Apart from general practices, Group regard to managerial efficiency while Otokoç In addition to these, all related Koç Group companies also implement management Otomotiv follows the EFQM model and 6 companies comply with REACH, EU efficiency and product compliance standards Sigma. Since 2008 Otokoç Otomotiv also Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, and methodologies appropriate to the operates in accordance with ISO 9001, ISO Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals. characteristics of their sector. 14001 and OHSAS 18001 Standards as integrated management system. Tofafl * You may find performance values regarding OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System in Human Rights section. ** Yap› Kredi facilities are not included in this calcultaion. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 28 Environmentally-Friendly Practices at Koç Tüprafl ‹zmit Refinery Environmental activities carried out by Koç Environmental expenditures and investments Climate Change and Emission Holding and group companies are conducted from Koç Group companies in 2010 added up in three areas that have equal priority. All to 134.6 million TL. Tüprafl accounts for 87% Management companies that are part of the Group perform of these expenditures with an environmental One of the most serious environmental the following: management budget in 2010 of 14 million TL, problems our world is faced with today is and it invested 103.5 million TL in 27 different climate change caused by global warming • Control the environmental impact created by units and technologies in four refineries. resulting from the release of greenhouse gases. their activities and work on improvements that Scientific studies indicate that a continued will reduce this impact. Arçelik’s environmental expenditures in 2010 increase in global warming will result in severe were 4.44 million TL, of which 2.28 million TL consequences not just for nature but also with • Monitor the environmental impact created consisted of investments in environmental and regard to social and economic issues. At Koç by manufactured goods and services for the energy management. Holding, the problem of climate change is taken whole life-cycle, from the design and planning very seriously. We are identifying our stage until the end of their economic life; work Opet spent 1.9 million TL on environmental responsibilities in these areas, designing on reducing these impacts by developing expenditures, 1.7 million TL of which was for solutions and rapidly implementing them. The environmentally friendly products. waste management projects. Tat spent 1.4 activities and investments we make in the area million TL and a significant amount of this was of combating climate change are not viewed • Carry out educational activities to increase physical investment in waste water as the items that increase our operating knowledge and awareness about protecting management. expenses. To the contrary, as the philosophy the environment. The focus of these activities of a “low carbon economy” becomes more is the general public, in particular the company’s Tofafl spent 3.4 million TL on environmental widespread, this issue is viewed as an area of employees, customers, dealers, suppliers, expenditures in 2010, more than half of which investment that has significant potential to contractors and other operational stakeholders; consisted of structural improvements while 1.3 create important new business and job develop field projects in their areas of operation million TL of the 1.6 million TL spent by opportunities. As a result, formulation of the that protect and promote biodiversity. TürkTraktör was for investment expenses. 2020 Greenhouse Gas Strategic Plan was begun in 2009 outlining the emission projections and emission reductions in Group companies Environmental Management and for 2020 and the projects that would have to be implemented to achieve these targets. In Investment Expenditures Environmental Expenditures and 2010, the work on these issues has been taken Koç Group companies set aside a significant Investment Percentages even further. First of all, the strengths and amount of financial resources to environmental by Koç Group Companies* in 2010 weaknesses of Group companies with regard management in order to achieve the to the problem of climate change have been environmental improvement goals set forth in 9.12% identified and the risks and opportunities posed TÜRKTRAKTÖR the Environmental Policy and Vision. A portion 25.81% by the issue have been specified in workshops of these funds are used for administrative ARÇEL‹K held in collaboration with Group companies. operations directed at environmental At the conclusion of these efforts, the “Koç 19.47% management while a large portion is employed TOFAfi Group Climate Change Strategy”, which in investment and R&D projects to develop involves aspects related to operational and products and processes as well as trainings. production processes, products, innovation, A significant portion of the Group’s total R&D suppliers, customers and contributions to the budget of approximately 450 million TL was 7.85% 4.75% formulation of environmental policy has been TAT AYGAZ employed for projects aimed at reducing the created in order to mentor Group companies environmental impact of products. 0.58% in their approach to the issue of climate change. OTOKOÇ OTOMOT‹V 19.68% 1.65% FORD OTOSAN OTOKAR 10.91% OPET 0.18% KOÇ INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES GROUP * Tüprafl performance is not included in this chart. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Environmentally-Friendly Practices at Koç 29 Koç Group Climate Change Strategy: Products: • The Koç Group will emphasize environmental sensitivity on all of the products it manufactures, will be transparent regarding the impact of these products on the environment, and will contribute to the development of environmentally-friendly product technologies. • The Koç Group will carry out projects to develop innovative products and create technologies that are more sensitive to the environment and more compatible with a low-carbon economy in the areas it Aygaz Yar›mca Marine Terminal focuses on. Operations and Production Processes: • The Koç Group will reduce GHG In 2010, management approach development Tat reduced the amount of emissions by 1,334 emissions and the negative impact on the practices have been conducted implementing tons of equivalent CO2 through efficiency efforts environment in parallel with developments the climate change strategy. The most it conducted in 2010 even though production in the sector pursuing a continuous important activity we conducted in this regard levels rose compared to the previous year. improvement approach by measuring the was starting to implement the GHG emission Because of these efforts, the amount of total environmental impact of all of its operations management program. Thanks to this program emissions rose only 0.05 tons compared to and production processes. It will also be that will begin operation at the beginning of the previous year. a national pioneer in this regard. 2011, the process of monitoring the • It will analyze “The Best and Most performance of climate change and company Tofafl managed to reduce GHG emissions by Feasible Technologies” and make its strategies will be based on more precise data 8,172 tons of equivalent CO2 with 25 projects production processes compatible with because GHG emissions will be calculated it completed during the year. these technologies within the framework more accurately by all of the companies with of a specific plan. a common methodology. At a future stage of In 2010, Tüprafl reduced emissions by 308,599 • It will carry out projects to increase the the program’s development, it will be integrated tons equivalent CO2 with the efficiency projects use of renewable energy resources in its with the Koç Group Sustainability Performance it implemented during the year, which production processes. Management System. The details of Koç constitutes 93.7% of the total emission Holding’s approach to climate change and reduction achieved by Koç Group companies. Suppliers and Customers: emissions management are available on the Izolation and maintenance against steam leaks • It will work to increase environmental corporate social responsibility page at projects realized in ‹zmit and ‹zmir Refineries awareness among suppliers, customers www.kocholding.com.tr. are the practices contributed most to this and society. performance by an annual reduction of 59,115 • All types of technical support will be As a result of the improvement efforts tons CO2. provided to suppliers for production and implemented in 2010, the total amount of GHG products that are environmentally friendly. emissions produced by the companies within • The Koç Group’s goal is to employ the scope of this report experienced a decline environmentally sensitive purchasing of 329,500 tons equivalent CO2. This amount criteria in its purchasing systems. is more than 10 times greater than the reduction achieved in 2009. Contribution to the Formulation of Protecting the Quality of the Air Environmental Policies: Arçelik reduced total GHG emissions by 6,929 Koç Group companies approach emission • It will work actively with CSOs and management not only from a climate government institutions, sharing tons of equivalent CO2 with the more than 100 change perspective but also in terms of knowledge and supporting the formulation projects it conducted in 2010. protecting the quality of the air. In this of national environmental and climate change policies. Ford Otosan achieved GHG emission regard, Group companies comply with the • It will contribute to developments by reductions of 3.99 tons of equivalent CO2 with parameters and quality values specified actively participating in constructive its efforts during the year and 1,513 tons of in emission permits issued by the Ministry international policy platforms. this performance was achieved by optimizing of Environment and Forestry as they the automation programs of the heating system conduct their operations. Emission values Innovation: in the workshops. are measured with continious or periodic • In order to develop creative and sampling using methods specified on the innovative methods that reduce climate Otokoç Otomotiv managed to prevent the basis of parameters pursuant to the change impacts and are environmentally creation of 151 tons equivalent CO2 emissions Industrial Air Pollution Control Directive. sensitive in terms of products, per year by converting the energy used for Emission values are subject periodically manufacturing technologies, operations heating at 5 locations from fuel oil to natural to independent audits by accredited and business models, Koç Group will work gas while total reduction in GHG emissions institutions as specified in government together with Koç University, other have reached to 763 tons equivalent CO2 in regulations. Furthermore, these values are universities, relevant R&D organizations 2010 thanks to reduction of energy periodically monitored by the Ministry of and centers, and it will contribute to an consumption. Environment and Forestry and the increase in the knowledge in our country Provincial Environment and Forestry regarding low-carbon economy Directorates. As a result of these technologies. measurements and evaluations, it is • It will work to develop new business observed that, company-based values are models and new fields of business activity under the emission limits specified for the that are innovative, creative and compatible concerned companies and parameters. with a low-carbon economy. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 30 Environmentally-Friendly Practices at Koç Tofafl Production Line Opet Marmara Terminal Efficiency at Koç Reduction in Indirect Energy Consumption Efficiency projects not only contribute to the companies’ environmental sustainability Like many companies, a significant portion appear to be modest in terms of scope, the performance, but they also make a significant of the energy consumption portfolio of Koç project is important as it serves as an contribution to economic sustainability due to Group companies is comprised of indirect example to other companies. the cost advantages they provide. Therefore, energy consumption. Part of indirect energy many companies in recent years have begun consumption arises from purchased energy Koç Information Technologies Group is to view environmental management projects while another part consists of the energy another of Group companies that worked as more important not only for eliminating consumption arising from the production of on reducing energy consumption arising impact but also for their cost advantages. Koç sub-contractors, business travel and from personnel transportation in 2010. The Group companies approach efficiency personnel commuting. In 2010, Koç Group increase in the number of personnel requiring improvement operations in terms of energy companies worked on efficiency projects to commuting service in the operations area in efficiency, resource consumption, waste improve performance in these areas. 2010 compared to the previous year, and management, recovery and recycling. the increase in the amount of energy Operations in all of these areas are managed At the end of 2009, Otokar personnel consumed per person transported forced with organization structure and performance commuting shuttles travelled an average of Koç Information Technologies Group officials targets specified at the Group and company 2.2 km per person, but in 2010, the length to consider implementing a project that level in accordance with the Koç Group of the drive per person was reduced to 1.8 would enhance efficiency in this area. The environmental policy and vision. Energy km through optimization efforts, even though project, which will be conducted jointly with management has a unique administrative there was an increase in the number of the personnel commuting service provider structure due to the consequences of its personnel and vehicles. As a result, CO2 company, was designed in 2010 and will be environmental impact. The Energy Efficiency emissions arising from personnel implemented in 2011. It includes optimization Working Group created at the Group level plays transportation were reduced by 2.6 tons of of routes and the number of vehicles in a significant role in creating synergy for equivalent CO2 and annual energy personnel transportation services and the enhancing energy efficiency performance consumption fell by 34.75 GJ. Due to these use of vehicles that consume less fuel. This among Group companies with the 7 subefforts, Otokar also achieved cost efficiency project aims to reduce fuel consumption in committees created in various areas of in its personnel transportation service. Even 2011 from 155 liters per person to 100 liters. expertise. The details of Koç Holding’s though this enhanced performance may management of efficiency issues are available on the corporate social responsibility page at www.kocholding.com.tr. Koç Group companies carried out efficiency Reduction Achieved in Energy Consumption (GJ) enhancement projects in 2010, improving performance on energy, resource utilization, 1,692,430 2,302,740 3,352,915 waste management and recycling. Especially 2008 2009 2010 performance with regard to reducing energy consumption improved by 46% compared to the previous year and achieved a level of 3.35 million GJ. This performance accounted for 329,507 tons equivalent CO2 in our total GHG emissions reduction performance. These values are extremely significant in terms of emphasizing the importance of energy efficiency in connection with work to prevent climate change. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Environmentally-Friendly Practices at Koç 31 329,507 TONS 12.6 MILLION M3 273,000 TONS GHG emission The amount of recycled Total amount of recycled reduced in 2010 by and reused water in 2010 waste in 2010 by Koç Group companies by Koç Group companies Koç Group companies Hundreds of different resources are used in reporting period we achieved a reduction of order to continue the operations of Group 2.1 million m3 and decreased in 2010 to 25.2 Waste Water Disposal companies and these vary depending on the million m3. This is equivalent to 66.6% of the The most fundamental goal regarding sector involved. The most important of these total amount of water required. 33,4% of the management of the waste water that resources and one that is common to all of water required is provided by recycling of used results from operations is reclamation of these companies is water. For that monitoring water. In 2010, a huge improvement has been this resource for production through performance regarding water consumption is achieved in performance compared to last year recycling. In 2010, 12.6 million m3 of water extremely important. Group companies are when it comes to increasing the amount of was reclaimed for production. However, developing projects that will reduce water recycled water. Due to the improvements it is impossible to reclaim 100% of the consumption as they do every year. In terms implemented by Group companies, 5.5 million waste water produced. The waste water of the sustainable use of water resources, m3 of water recycled in 2009, has been raised that is created in the facilities of Group diversifying the sources being used and by 129% to 12.6 million m3 in 2010. We have companies undergo either chemical or increasing the amount recycled to reduce the also succeeded in significantly reducing the biological treatment processes depending amount withdrawn from a resource are use of this natural resource in meeting our on their pollution values and after it attains important areas of performance. After the needs. the quality norms specified in the discharge reduction of 3.5 million m3 which we achieved permits issued by government in water consumption in 2009, during this organizations, it is discharged either to the receiving environments specified on these same permits or into municipal waste water systems. If there is no receiving Total Water Withdrawal by Group Company Total Water Withdrawal by Source environment that is suitable for the discharge of waste water near the 3.60% FORD OTOSAN 0.23% business, the waste water is stored 5.64% KOÇ INFORMATION 6.21% according to the terms specified for waste 1.40% ARÇEL‹K 0.39% TECHNOLOGIES GROUP MAINS WATER 0.55% water in government regulations and YAPI KRED‹ AYGAZ 0.16% 1,563,326 m3 OTHER 0.61% OPET 24.13% 137,695 m3 transported to discharge sites at periodic TÜRKTRAKTÖR 0.66% UNDERGROUND intervals. By paying special attention to OTOKAR WATER 0.18% 6,075,787 m3 the quality parameters of the waste water OTOKOÇ OTOMOT‹V that is discharged, a negative impact on 11.80% the biodiversity of the receiving TAT environment and on the organisms living 3.78% in the environment is prevented. In this TOFAfi regard, approximately 14.9 million m3 of 71.56% waste water arising from the operations TÜPRAfi 0.00% of Group companies in 2010 was WASTE WATER 69.11% TAKEN FROM SURFACE processed by treatment units and OTHER INSTITUTIONS WATER 440.7 m3 17,402,505 m3 discharged after complying with quality norms. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 32 Environmentally-Friendly Practices at Koç TürkTraktör Factory Pursuant to the Koç Group Environmental Policy, Group companies aim to reduce waste Efficiency Practices of Group Companies Alia¤a Terminal, 51% at the Marmara arising from operations at the source and In 2010, Arçelik achieved energy savings of Terminal and 35% at the Giresun Terminal. recycle as much as possible. In accordance 61,462.2 GJ as a result of the 115 practices with this policy, our Group companies and projects it carried out, thus preventing During the course of the year, Otokar realized succeeded in recycling 93.5% of the 292,026 6,929 tons of CO2 emissions. By practices annual savings of 369.7 GJ by choosing tons of waste produced in 2010. aiming usage of treated waste water in more efficient fixtures in outdoor lighting and Cooking Appliance Plant, Arçelik realized implementing partial lighting practices in annual water savings of 2,400 m3, plus administrative buildings and timed lighting Operational Entry and another 3,084 m3 by deionizing and reusing in its plants, annual savings of 600.7 GJ by waste water from anolyte tank in the automating the inside of the primer and final Decommissioning Practices Dishwasher Plant and 15,600 m3 by coat trailer paint shop and annual savings Koç Group companies engage in certain improving paintshop rinse bath waste water. of 332.6 GJ by choosing more efficient air pre-determined actions when opening a Furthermore, by using treated waste water compressors on its trailers. new operational site or decommissioning on paintshop phosphate line in Washing an existing one. A number of companies Machine Plant, annual water saving of 42,000 Tat realized annual natural gas savings of perform this work using a check list. Our m3 has been realized. 268,077 m3 with a project reclaiming energy fundamental principle is not to create a from surface blowoff and flash steam from negative impact on the existing Aygaz has consumed 4,774 GJ less energy the steam boiler at the Mustafakemalpafla environmental, social and economic value by changing lighting fittings, the use of Operation in 2010. The Mustafakemalpafla of an operational site when launching an frequency convertors in cooling towers, Operation recovered 432,000 m3 of water operation; and when it is time to exit an replacing low efficiency engines with high coming out of its tomato sorting tanks while operational site, to leave it only after efficiency EFF1 engines, preferring water savings totaling 184,561 m3 was restoring the natural features that were equipments that would enhance heating realized from the reuse of unit cooling water there when we took over, and preventing control efficiency in administrative buildings, at the Sek Milk Operation. During this period, the decommissioning from having any replacing the boiler heated paint curing ovens Tat contributed 1,356 GJ of this performance environmental impact. Our operations may on the household tank production lines with by replacing the cooling pumps used in cold have both an environmental impact as well infrared ones. storage depots with more efficient models as a social and economic impact. For and selecting frequency-adjusted invertors example, thousands of people are Ford Otosan realized annual energy savings on the motors that were used. employed at these operational sites, of 25,914.2 GJ with a project optimizing making a contribution to the local automation programs for workshop boiler Tofafl realized an optimization by connecting economy. Consequently, the social and units that it implemented at its Kocaeli 2 cooling towers to a central system in 2010, economic impacts are evaluated as well Factory and annual savings of 8,294.4 GJ resulting in annual water savings of 52,950 as the environmental impacts when with its bottom cushion on the press lines. m3. initiating an operation or terminating one It also reduced energy consumption by 23% and an attempt is made to avoid all while increasing illuminance level by 34% Thanks to the improvements and investments negative impacts. Naturally, the general with efforts to improve building automation realized in 2010, Tüprafl has reduced its principles of the work that is performed in and lighting systems. Energy consumption energy consumption by 3.2 million GJ and this regard are common, but the type of in the ‹nönü Factory decreased 11% as a water consumption by 3.6 million m3. practice is shaped by the nature of the result of reducing energy consumption in sector in which the company is involved. the presses, providing energy savings of Yap› Kredi realized annual water savings of Because Koç Holding is a growing and 4,603.6 GJ. 17,600 m3 by using the water recycled in the developing organization, start-up Banking Headquarters treatment facility for operations are experienced frequently Opet realized annual energy savings of 20.9 watering the grounds. while decommissioning of operations is GJ in 2010 by adding invertors to 3 pumps rare and does not generally apply to an used in the Mersin Terminal. It also achieved area but to units. a recycling rate of 45.2% by using the discharge water in the terminals to meet its need for water in pig operations, for site washing and water reserves for firefighting. In terms of operations, on the other hand, it achieved waste water recycling in 2010 of 100% at the Körfez Terminal, 41% at the Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Environmentally-Friendly Practices at Koç 33 Ford Otosan ‹nönü Factory Biodiversity and Environmental Development Practices All Koç Group companies are responsible In 2010, Arçelik planted grass on 40.05 km2 The use of special occasions to motivate for preventing our operations from having a within its operational areas, converting them and increase participation in reforestation negative impact on the physical integrity of to green space and placing them under projects has proven very effective. This natural areas located on or near operational protection. approach ensures the support and sites and on the living organisms found there. participation of employees. For example, All Group companies conduct risk For Koç Group companies, making a positive Aygaz planted saplings on behalf of assessment projects in order to fulfill this environmental impact is as important as employees at the Tekirda¤ Memorial Forest, responsibility, taking precautions against reducing negative environmental impact. For which was created as a joint project with these risks, measuring and monitoring their this reason, the most basic type of activity the TEMA Foundation. Tüprafl also environmental impact in a multi-dimensional is reforestation projects. Forests serve as encourages its employees to plant trees with fashion. Because the majority of the Group our greatest assistants in our fight against their families on various special occasions companies are industrial organizations, climate change by eliminating the harmful and organizes tree-planting activities in the operational areas are located in places effects of GHG emissions. However, we lose memorial forests created for this purpose. suitable for industrial activity in accordance many square kilometers of forest every year Group companies have embraced these with the criteria specified in government due to a rising population, the need for reforestation projects so enthusiastically that regulations. Therefore, the operational areas resources and fires. In order to replace these they have even begun to produce their own of Group companies are not located on lost forests, Koç Group companies have saplings so that they can continue with these protected natural areas, special instituted projects to plant saplings. The activities. For example, the project to plant environmental preserves or RAMSAR sites importance placed on performance in this saplings launched by Ford Otosan at the as specified by the law or international area has been reinforced adding it to the ‹nönü Factory in 2010 has produced 3,000 agreements. sustainability performance evaluation system. saplings for planting next year. Group companies’ interest in the issue is Ford Otosan is the only Group company strieved by reforestation campaigns that are The Group company that worked the most with a wetland located on its operational organized periodically on the Group level. on reforestation in 2010 was Tofafl, which site. The wetland on the 5.4-acre plot inside Our largest project partner with regard to planted 18,000 fruit trees during the year. the Gölcük factory site is important in terms reforestation both on the Group level and Opet, on the other hand, was also one of of biodiversity because it is located on a bird company level is the TEMA Foundation. The the highest performing companies in this migration route. For this reason, the plot was last large-scale campaign organized within regard, planting 16,210 saplings at 32 put under protection by Ford Otosan to the framework of joint projects was the different locations this year as part of the prevent it from being affected by operations Forests for My Country project in 2008. As award-winning “Green Road” project it has and to ensure that the migration routes of a result of this campaign, 1,194,020 saplings continued to expand since 2004. these birds are not changed. An 8.6-acre have been planted in forests created in 7 site created on a nearby site as a result of geographical regions in Turkey. settling that occurred after an earthquake was rehabilitated in cooperation with the In 2010, Group companies continued with TEMA Foundation. It was converted into a their reforestation projects, planting a total park open to visitors and employees after of 42,747 saplings. reforestation and landscaping were conducted. Number of Saplings Planted per Year 63,952 1,194,020 65,000 42,747 2007 2008 2009 2010 Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 34 Environmentally-Friendly Practices at Koç Arçelik Ankara Factory Environmentally Friendly Products The LPG products released by Aygaz have The vehicles Sultan, Navigo, M2010, and Land significantly more environmentally friendly Rover Defender, manufactured by Otokar, at Koç features in terms of structure when compared were equipped with motors that create less The life-cycle of products and services with equivalent petroleum products. The emissions, thus reducing their environmental encompasses the period of time from the Advanced Formula Aygaz Euro LPG+, which impact and providing an advance, especially process of production and consumption until was released to the market in the autogas in terms of particulate matter. We introduced they lose their economic value and are recycled. segment, saves energy and reduces emissions. our customers to more environmentally friendly The impact they have during this time is an Aygaz Euro LPG+ provides energy savings of alternatives by implementing the EEV and CNG important element in the environmental 3.9% at a constant speed of 120 km/hour with motor options in our KENT Low Floor vehicles. management of companies. Koç Group 20.2% less HC emissions and 33.5% less CO2 R&D work was also initiated in Otokar for the companies conduct research-development emissions. The use of Aygaz products provided usage of CNG and hybrid motors in new vehicle and investment activities every year in order energy savings totaling 697,604.6 GJ in 2010. models. to enhance the environmentally friendly characteristics of their products and services. The V227 Transit Connect vehicle released by Tat has made it possible to reduce tanker traffic Our basic goal is to minimize the environmental Ford Otosan was brought up to Stage V fuel to the Sek Milk Operations to one-third with a impact of our product and service portfolio consumption and emission standards in 2010, process it developed to transport raw milk to throughout their life-span using the best that which is a 7% increase in fuel efficiency over the factory in a concentrated form. technology to offer and to exceed these limits Stage IV. R&D initiated during the year focused Concentrated milk was used to produce 2.7% by focusing on innovation. on achieving emissions reductions and better of the products made in 2010 so emissions fuel economy for a number of models. were reduced by 176 tons CO2 by saving 100 As in previous years, Koç Group companies tanker trips. have achieved significant improvements in Use of the Adblue product released by Opet 2010 with regard to reducing the environmental improves fuel economy by 2% and reduces Tofafl reduced fuel consumption by 8-10% in impact of products and services. the creation of hazardous emissions. According gasoline vehicles and 4-6% in diesel vehicles to calculations conducted on sales made in by integrating the start/stop system in all of 2010, Adblue resulted in energy savings of the motor options for the Doblo and the Fiorino 80,356.6 GJ in 2010. 1.3 Mjet version in 2010. By equipping the Doblo 1.4 16V and Fiorino 1.4 8V gasoline motors with CNG capacity, emissions were reduced approximately 25%. Tüprafl introduced products conforming to the EU reduced-sulfur Euro V norm, thus achieving a reduction in emissions arising from the consumption of fuel. Aygaz Euro LPG+ Ford V227 Transit Connect Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Environmentally-Friendly Practices at Koç 35 In 2010, Arçelik has invested 12,300,630 TL in R&D in order to enhance environmental performance of products and these efforts resulted major improvements in all product groups and development of new products constituting best case examples world-wide in terms of eco-friendly features. Dish Washers: Washing Machines: Compressors: In order to comply with EU Commission’ Arçelik Ekonomist model, which has been By improving MTS compressors applied on Ecodesign and Energy Labeling regulations, produced as a result of product performance refrigerators, an annual energy saving of in 2010, new products have been developed booster projects realized in 2010, displayed 0,053 GJ per refrigerator has been realized. in various segments. These efforts resulted even better performance, by reaching ABy shifting to a new packaging system with production of the world’s least water 50% energy efficiency level, than the most according to which packaging materials consuming dish washer, Arçelik Kaktüs. In efficient class A+++*. Thanks to its water jet would be reclaimed after transportation order to use 100% recyclable aluminum as feature, Ekonomist consumes less water and instead of employing single use packaging, isolation material instead of bitumen based its acoustic impact is also reduced. material usage has been totally eliminated non-recyclable materials causing air and * A +++ represents the most efficient energy class according to and packaging volume has been significantly new EU energy classes directives came into force by the end water pollution in production phases, a of 2010. For washing machines, A+++ energy class represents reduced. patented technique Alumination™ has been 30% less energy consumption compared to A enegy class. developed. Tumble Dryers: Cooking Appliances: By the Ares Platform Project realized in 2010, 63107 New Ecologist Dishwasher In 2010, thanks to the improvement work production of 7, 8 and 9 kg. B class tumble New Ecologist is the world’s least water realized for cooking appliances, production dryers have been started. In 2010, portfolio consuming dish washer by its 6 lt. of world’s least energy consuming ovens share of B class tumble dryers, which are consumption in Eko6L program while it is has been started by reaching to the energy 12% more energy efficient compared to C also the world’s least energy consuming level of A-30% for mid/large sized ovens. class dryers, has been raised from 14% up A+++ class* dish washer by consuming 30% In case of total usage of these ovens in 15 to 37%. All products’ stand-by energy less energy compared to A energy class. European countries where these products consumption has been reduced to less than Thanks to Alumination™** technique, which are released for sale, an annual energy saving 1 W. The project for production of A class is used for the first time in the world for of 16 million GJ could be achieved. Besides, dryer, which is 60% more efficient than B acoustic isolation instead of bitumen and in all cooking appliances, 100% recycled class, has been started. The Ares Platform applied with a cohesive having high damping plastic material is used and packaging Project also resulted to a reduction of factor, 10% of energy saving is realized. materials are also reduced. By easy to clean products’ acoustic impacts from 69 dBa to Furthermore, thanks to patented lock and platings applied on ovens, consumption of 65 dBa and of packaging material hinge design, door is automatically opened cleaning materials is reduced. consumption. after the program is finished and by that, 15% energy is saved. By using recovered Televisions: Electrical Motors: heat which would be vented, for warming 11% of total household energy consumption Industrial Motors: the washing water, 5% of energy use is is made by devices on stand-by mode. In 2010, 0.75-45 kW range IE1 series saved. By storing the final rinse water for Thanks to the R&D realized in 2010, all (standard efficiency*) motors have been reusing it in the next washing, 14% of water products have been redesigned that their upgraded to IE2 (high efficiency) energy class consumption is saved. stand-by mode energy consumption would while 0.75-7.5 kW range motors have been If all the dish washers used in Turkey were be less than 1 W. By redesigning documents upgraded to IE3 (premium efficiency) level. replaced by New Ecologist 1.25 million GJ which are given to consumers with products By the end of 2010, 25% of the production of energy and 10.08 million m3 of water could such as manuals, warranty certificates, a has been consisted of IE2 class motors. be saved. significant paper saving has been realized. * Energy classes for electrical motors, from least efficient to the * A+++ represents the most efficient energy class according to most, are IE1, IE2, and IE3. new EU energy classes directives came into force by the end of 2010. White Goods Motors: ** Registered trademark of Arçelik A.fi. Thanks to the Quadro motors, which have been produced as a result of R&D work Refrigerators: worth 860,000 Euros, energy consumption In 2010 a significant number of projects of asynchronous motors applied on aiming improvement of energy classes of dishwasher machines has been reduced products have been realized. In this context, from 120W to 55W. Through the motors, 41 different basic models have been 150,000 units of which has been planned to upgraded to the energy levels upper than A be produced in 2011, an annual energy class and all B class models have been saving of 21.8 million GJ has been aimed. upgraded to A class. In the same period, the A substantial reduction realized, thanks to design of A+++ class refrigerator has been the Quadro motors, in acoustic impacts of completed. Besides significant projects are products resulted with the production of conducted in order to reduce noise levels world’s most silent dishwasher machines. of refrigerators. 5088 NF A+++* Refrigerator As the world’s least energy consuming refrigerator by its 60% less consumption, 5088 NF can work 2.5 years with the annual energy consumption of its A class rivals. 5088 NF, in production of which 5 different patented technology are employed, contains environmentally friendly R600a as refrigerant gas. Thanks to the motor applied, acoustic impacts of this product has been reduced. * A +++ represents the most efficient energy class according to 5088 NF 63107 A-%50 new EU energy classes directives came into force by the end A+++ New Ecologist Economist of 2010. Refrigerator Dish Washer Washing Machine Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 36 Environmentally-Friendly Practices at Koç Environmental Training Provided in 2010 Trainings for Trainings for Trainings for Social Responsibility Company Employees Contractor Employees Purposes Number of Attendants 10,198 10,289 20,179 Total Training Hours 63,426.6 29,731.8 73,122 (man*hour) Environmental Protection at Koç Koç Group Recycling Projects Revaluating wastes through recycling is In addition to projects and investments aimed We believe that the development of effective for preventing air and environmental at minimizing the environmental impact that environmental protection activities is a subject pollution beside the economic value generated. results from its operations, Koç Group that must be addressed to society at large In 2010, through the Recycling Project started companies also provide training to increase through going beyond the projects for the in Koç Group, raising awareness for recycling the knowledge and skill levels of employees, company. Therefore, our Group companies throughout primarily Group employees, subcontractors and suppliers regarding carry out environmental projects directed collection and recycling of paper, glass, metal environmental management and to develop an towards all of society starting with the local and plastics according to a certain standard, environmental culture in society at large. communities in areas of operation. and a raise in volume of waste collected have been aimed. Within the project, a recycling training document has been created and activities in order to provide all Group employees with training have been started. In 2010 Environmental Awards the company sites, different recycle boxes, on which information on type and environmental As a consequence of their environmental The Green Information Platform from Koç impact of the waste could be found, have been concerns, Koç Group companies earn the Information Technologies Group was placed. recognition of various institutions and are awarded with the Friend of the Environment rewarded every year for the improvements Certificate by the Global Warming Council Group companies are controlling the volume they make, the products and services they organized under the leadership of the of their wastes, supervising the recycling develop and the environmental management Association of Economic Reporters for its companies and becoming member of Global performance they exhibit. In 2010, Group operations in 2010. Recycling Network. Amount of the waste recycled and equivalent contribution to CO2 companies won numerous awards for their emission reduction of Group companies are environmentally friendly practices. Tofafl won second place in the Energy followed through a common database. Efficient Industrial Facility category in Arçelik made its way to the finals in the competition organized by Ministry of Energy What Will the Weather Be Like Tomorrow? Europe Program’s management category as and Natural Resources, in 2010. Tofafl has Aygaz implemented a comprehensive it won first place in the management and won the second prize in the general environmental project in 2010. The purpose of product categories of the 2010 EU classification of the “Industrial Energy the project is to raise awareness regarding Environmental Award Turkey Program. In Efficiency” competition held during the 2. climate change and to make a contribution to the SENVER Project Competition organized National Energy Efficiency Forum organized promoting responsible consumer habits. On by the Ministry of Energy and Natural by Electrical Power Resources Survey and this project, Aygaz worked in cooperation with Resources, Arçelik won first place in the Development Administration (E‹E), while it the Ministry of Environment and Forestry and the Regional Environmental Center, known as energy efficient products, projects to improve also entitled as the “Turkey’s most efficient REC. energy efficiency in industry and energy automotive plant” as a result of being one efficient industrial facilities categories. Arçelik of the companies which improved most their “What will the weather be like tomorrow” has not only won numerous awards from various energy intensity in last three years compared been created as a result of researches organizations for the environmentally friendly to their turnover. evaluating societal awareness on environment products it developed in 2010, it also won and the climate change. In every destination a total of 16 awards with various brand In 2010, Tüprafl has been awarded with that the “Sky Trailer” has visited, effectiveness names as part of Plux X, one of Europe's Environmental Projects Encouragement and memorability of trainings have been most prestigious technology and design Award in the large scales companies assured by a mobile planetarium and a global competitions. category of fiahabettin Bilgisu Environment simulation device. High school and university Awards organized by Kocaeli Chanber of students have been determined as the intended Ford Otosan developed two of the 5 projects Industry, while as a result of their energy audience for these trainings. that made it to the finals of the Environmental efficiency projects, in the competition held With this project, Aygaz visited 11 cities in Leadership Awards, which was held for the by E‹E ‹zmir Refinery in SEVAP 3 category 2010. The project, starting with Sivas and just first time throughout Europe, and it won first and Batman Refinery in SEVAP 2 category after visiting Urfa, Van, Kars, Trabzon, Samsun, place for the Treatment Facility Sludge Drying have been awarded with the first prize. Kastamonu, Eskiflehir, Antalya and ‹zmir, has Project. Ford Otosan also won the fiahabettin ended in Tekirda¤. 4,058 people were trained Bilgisu Environmental Award organized by in 186 sessions in which students from 92 the Kocaeli Chamber of Industry. schools also participated. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Environmentally-Friendly Practices at Koç 37 Project to Create and Raise Awareness for Protecting the Environment As part of the project to create and raise awareness regarding protecting the environment, Tofafl made it a priority in 2010 to fulfill its corporate environmental responsibilities. A work plan that would encourage environmental practices and raise the environmental awareness of dealers and service departments was drawn up within this framework. The goal of the project was to work with an independent environmental audit firm regarding the following: Tekirda¤ / Çerkezköy For My Country Forests Tree Planting Ceremony • Conducting audits at all of the dealers and service centers beginning in the pilot region • Identifying areas that would provide environmental sustainability and energy During the celebration activities for 2010 World Green Information Platform organized a short savings Environment Week, Ford Otosan has organized environmental film competition based on a • Dissemination, inspection and reporting a painting contest on environment theme with concept called Before Nature Takes it Back, of the improvements in environmental the participation of employees’ children and to coincide with World Environment Day on practices at all dealers and service students from surrounding schools and “Finest June 5th and Environment Protection Week. organizations Bird Nest Contest” with the participation of More than 50 short films from all over Turkey • Providing environmental education for ‹nönü Factory employees and their families. It entered the competition. By the end of 2010, dealers’ human resource trainers and the also supported model making contest named the Green Information Platform had reached Environmental Supervisors at dealers and “Nature’s Resistance” held by Eskiflehir 2.5 million people with its activities, projects service centers. Provincial Directorate of Environment and and applications. The Platform, which sustains Forestry. its continious efforts on awareness raising on In 2010, as part of the the Dealer and environmental issues and drawing attention Service Center Improvements, an audit of with its activities, in addition to its activities the pilot region was conducted, and an aiming dissemination of information to the assessment and recommendations for society at large on various environmental issues development were made. A total of 3,000 such as forest fires and global warming, is the dealers and service personnel received winner of 3 awards. Moreover, Platform trained training and 110 primary dealers and 276 employees on environment in 2010. service centers scattered throughout Turkey underwent environmental audits. The Green Information Platform The Happy Wastes: Packaging Waste It was decided that the issue of the The Green Information Platform is a corporate Parsing Movement at Alia¤a environment would be integrated with social responsibility platform operating under Within the Happy Wastes Project launched by dealer HR training and that this would be conducted as e-training. As a result of the the leadership of Koç Information Tüprafl in order to support parsing and recovery audits completed in the final quarter of Technologies Group companies. The purpose of packaging wastes in ‹zmir Refinery site, 13.5 2010 at dealer and service centers, 395 of the Platform, which was launched in 2008, tons of packaging waste has been collected. improvements have been realized. Efforts is to raise the awareness of society at large on This amount is equivalent to the recovery of for assuring persistence of ecologist the environmental problems and to disseminate daily water consumption of 300 houses by approach will be also continued in 2011. knowledge about the environment. The Green 325,000 lt of water, 1,500 m2 of forest field, Information Platform is a “network of projects” 120,000 lt petroleum product and 161,000 consisting of many projects and capable of w/h energy saving which can work a television Boundless Blue education was given to 665,306 producing many different projects because of for 6,000 hours. By this project, 1,220 students students in 2,610 schools in 2010 as part of the multi-stakeholder engagement model it have been trained on packaging waste parsing, this project. By the end of 2010, almost 5 million posesses. Civil society organizations with which 10 activities have been held, 1,000 kids have students had received education within the the Green Information Platform works include participated in coast cleaning, waste paper scope of this project. TEMA, Turkish Marine Environment Protection and kite workshops and kite flying fest, 477 Association-TURMEPA, ÇEVKO, the Bu¤day housewives have been reached in order to Paper Conservation Project Association, the Do¤a Association, TÜRÇEK, raise awareness on environment, 9 packaging As part of the Paper Conservation project that and WWF-Turkey. waste containers have been placed to Alia¤a Yap› Kredi has conducted for 3 years, a Kaz›m Dirik District. decision was made not to produce paperWithin the scope of the project, all Koç based promotional material, thus saving Information Technologies Group companies Boundless Blue Project 165,000 trees from being cut down over 3 are implementing the measures necessary to Since 2006, Yap› Kredi has continued its years. Yap› Kredi continued its efforts to protect ensure that their consumption is recyclable “Boundless Blue” project, which is an nature in 2010 and thanks to the electronic and environmentally friendly. Waste collected awareness raising project aimed at primary statement instructions it has obtained, it saved in waste bins placed on campuses and in and high school students. In cooperation with 17,961 trees from being cut down this year. buildings is sent to the relevant organization TURMEPA and with support from the Ministry for recycling or disposal in a way that is least of National Education, the project aims to raise Banking Packages harmful to nature. The Green Information awareness in students regarding the Yap› Kredi launched an environmental Constitution, which defines the Group’s conservation of natural resources. responsibility movement with the Pine, Oak, sensitivity to the environment, has been signed Sycamore Mortgage, Cedar and Juniper by all company employees. The project website, The project, which will end in April 2011, aims banking packages it offered to its customers www.yesilbilgi.org, operates with a to reach at least 6,600,000 primary and high in 2010. Yap› Kredi planted one sapling through crowdsourcing business model for the purpose school students with education given to one the TEMA Foundation on behalf of each of creating the most comprehensive teacher and administrator from each school in customer who purchased its bank packages, environmental portal in Turkey. 28 coastal provinces and in Van. The longcreating 4 forests of saplings with a total of term goal of the project is to have Boundless 150,000 trees in the provinces of Antalya, The Green Information Platform became the Blue education integrated with the curriculum Tekirda¤, Konya and Urfa. With the forests social partner this year for the 4th Risk of primary and high schools. Discussions with created in four different regions of Turkey, Yap› Management Summit organized by Active the Ministry of National Education regarding Kredi has turned its customers into partners Academy and was held in February 2010. The the realization of this goal are ongoing. in a significant social responsibility project. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 38 Ethical Values at Koç Ethical Values at Koç “Our principle is to be fair in all our relationships, to act in good faith and understanding to ensure mutual benefit and to comply with the law and ethical rules. Another fundamental principle that we have pioneered and which is a non-negotiable for us is fulfilling our responsibilities to both this and future generations.” Our Founder Vehbi Koç The fact that the Koç Group is the largest experience of foreign partners in terms of codes There are two people certified in misconduct taxpayer in Turkey coupled with the importance of ethics. (Certified Fraud Examiner-CFE) employed at Group companies place on transparency is a Koç Holding to enhance the efficiency with reflection of our unwavering commitment to Major reference in terms of fighting corruption which cases of corruption are handled. Support the law of the countries we operate in and the is the “Koç Group Code of Ethics and Business is also given to our auditors so that they can standards required of international trade. This Conduct”. All newly-hired employees are obtain a CIA (Certified Internal Auditor) commitment is maintained by the processes informed of this code of conduct which is an certificate and gain international know-how and control procedures that are standard in all attachment of the personnel guidelines. and experience. The Koç Holding Audit Group of the Group companies. Presidency employs the following certified Implementation of the Code of Conduct and personnel: 7 CIAs, 4 CPAs and 2 IFAs. In addition to the preventive approach of the monitoring the process of compliance with the procedures created within the scope of the code is handled by the Koç Holding Ethical The Koç Group has the principle of not control system, special audits are conducted Behavior Board and the Ethical Behavior Boards developing relations with any political with reference to the risk of all types of formed separately in our companies. In the movement either national or internationally and misconduct in our companies. The centralized event that there is a need for amendments to not having any tangible or intangible audit process for Koç Group companies is the Koç Group Code of Conduct, the Koç communications with political institutions or conducted by the Koç Holding Audit Group Holding Ethical Behavior Board submits individuals. Koç Group companies do not have Presidency, which reports directly to the necessary update and amendments to the Koç communication with public officials in the Chairmanship of the Koç Holding Board of Holding Board of Directors for approval. countries where it operates unless it is Directors. Most of the Group companies also connected to business or social responsibility have their own internal auditing function. Behavior that is deemed suspicious can be projects. reported to the Koç Holding Audit Team Koç Holding and internal company audit managers by contacting them via their direct departments essentially perform five basic lines. The goal is to ensure that company auditing processes in all Koç Group companies. employees can give information directly and without being affected about corruption. Risk Management Process Financial Statements Regulations and Compliance Actions to be taken in the event of any Misconduct possibility of corruption in the Group companies have been specified in Koç Group procedures. Koç Holding Audit teams conducted 32 audits According to our procedures, when there is related to corruption as part of the 2010 audits. any suspicion of corruption, the manager of the concerned department informs the Business Ethics in the Supply Other processes, implemented throughout company’s General Manager of the situation. the Koç Group for the purpose of preventing The company’s General Manager then Chain misconduct in addition to the audit immediately informs the Business Unit Koç Group Companies support the sharing processes are: Presidency and the Audit Group Presidency and promotion of the ethical values they that they report to at Koç Holding. Corruption are committed to with their value chain. • Company results are monitored by conducting that most likely involves material damages of For example, Arçelik has incorporated the analytical reviews with the Koç e-Audit software less than 10,000 USD is investigated and Code of Business Ethics into the quality developed by Koç Holding. reported by company internal audit teams while specifications for suppliers. The contracts • Personnel working in the financial other instances of corruption are reviewed by that are signed guarantee compliance with departments of the Group companies are the Koç Holding Audit Group Presidency. The the Code of Business Ethics. The quality constantly increasing their knowledge of results of the corruption review are conveyed specifications are located on the supplier regulations, best practices and Koç Group to concerned senior management. portal and can be accessed at any time. principles through applications such as the In addition to this practice, a selfAudit Portal and Koç Audit software. The following issues are of the utmost assessment document is sent to suppliers • The audits and reviews conducted routinely importance in the process of researching during the supplier selection process by independent audit companies give Group suspicion of corruption: asking the suppliers to evaluate themselves companies an outside perspective regarding • Gathering all of the facts surrounding the on the issues of Quality, the Environment international auditing and risk management issues as soon as possible and Business Ethics. In 2010, 208 suppliers standards. • Maintaining confidentiality were evaluated at Arçelik with a self• Our companies with global partners benefit • Following the necessary legal process assessment, which includes questions from and implement not only our Group’s • Informing public authorities or stakeholders about business ethics. principles, but also the knowledge and if necessary. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Ethical Values at Koç 39 Risk Management 32 Misconduct Process 2 Number of audits AUDIT Number of related to corruption employees certified as part of the 2010 in misconduct (CFE) audits. at Koç Holding Regulations Financial & Compliance Statements Responsible Advertising and Product Information Marketing Providing our consumers with the most accurate information about our products is a top Koç Group companies have a significant priority for all Koç Group companies. Ensuring that all concerned stakeholders have market share both at home and abroad in accurate, reliable and timely information is a fundamental part of Group companies’ the sectors that they operate in, so approach to ethical trade. Product information is prepared with a scope and diligence that advertising and other marketing surpasses legal requirements in all of the group companies that offer products and services communication vehicles, as well as their to numerous consumer groups in different sectors. proper utilization, are extremely important. The Group companies covered by this report offered 2,267 different products and services In this regard, our Group acts in to their customers in 2010. All companies provide product information to their consumers accordance with the ICC (International via various means in keeping with the requirements of the sector. Although it varies according Chamber of Commerce) Principles of to the type of product, information includes the contents of the product, usage instruction Advertising Practice and the Advertising and environmental impact. Self-Regulatory Board’s guidelines when engaging in advertising and promotional Arçelik activities. These principles essentially cover Energy Label: The energy label is prepared for each product group as specified by the following issues: standards, directives, regulations, etc. and presented to the user on the product. The product energy label not only informs the user of the product’s energy performance but • ethical compliance it also includes information about the type of product, the dimensions of the product, the • integrity product's noise level, etc. • social responsibility User Manual: A typical user manual contains information such as an introduction to the • truthfulness (not being misleading) product, important safety warnings, installation, use, maintenance and cleaning, • advertisements that are legal and comply recommendations for troubleshooting, the warranty period and conditions. with regulations; Website: The Arçelik website contains a wide variety of product-related information. Under • the ability to prove the accuracy of every product group, visuals of the products divided into intermediate groups are provided descriptions, claims or visual depictions, along with technical information and user manuals. which are used in marketing Safety, warning and information labels: communications and can be documented Barcode Label: The barcode label contains information, such as the product's brand name • not disparaging, not benefiting unfairly and code, as well as electrical information, and approving authority. from business reputation, not imitating Warning Label: Warning labels indicate warnings related to the device. • respecting personal rights Warranty Label: Provides information regarding warranty duration. Quick Start Guide: The quick start guides contain summary information related to the detailed descriptions in the product's user manual. Aygaz provides information to its customers about LPG cylinders and LPG with cylinder information tag which is resistant to outside conditions. There were 135 labels on 23 different Opet products released during the reporting period. Information about Otokar’s products is available at authorized dealers via product brochures and corporate website www.otokar.com.tr. Product information for each model of all Tofafl brands are available from authorized dealers as printed brochures or vehicle manuals and the digital versions of the same information are available on the website for each brand. Tüprafl publishes a product safety information form which is available to consumers directly on its corporate website at www.tupras.com.tr. Yap› Kredi shares detailed information for all of its products and services with stakeholders at www.ykb.com.tr. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 40 Social Development at Koç Social Development at Koç “I live and prosper with my country.” Our Founder Vehbi Koç Being one of the most sensitive companies to Distribution of the social development In 2004, SANERC was integrated with the Koç social issues the Koç Group’s goal is to increase investments made by Koç Group Companies University School of Nursing, and in 2010, it the level of prosperity and social creativity in according to field received the International Accreditation in Postthe geographical areas where it operates and Graduate Nursing Education from the American to contribute to social progress in a manner 8% Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC). ANCC is that conforms to the expectations of its Environment the most widely recognized and largest nursing stakeholders. The secret to the sustainable accreditation organization in the United States business success and corporate reputation of America. SANERC’s ANCC Accreditation is that the Koç Group has achieved is being 16% 51% valid for 2 years. unified with society and sharing common values Health Education and sensitivities. The second of the “Semahat Arsel Nursing Conversations Series”, which is dedicated to Our founder Vehbi Koç, established the Vehbi the interest Semahat Arsel has shown in this Koç Foundation as a boquest to the Turkish profession, took place at the Koç University Nation and he wanted it to last in perpetuity. 12% School of Nursing on October 20, 2010. That is why, he based this endowment on “an Sports entity that will be able to adapt itself to the Koç University School of Medicine requirements of the day”. He established the Founded for the purpose of bringing a new Foundation with Holding company shares in 14% and fresh perspective to medical education in order to create a synergy and mitigate risks Arts and Turkey, the Koç University School of Medicine Culture among various companies from various sizes welcomed its first students in the 2010-2011 and industries. academic year. The school aims to train the leaders of the future in the field of medicine by Vehbi Koç Foundation, rising on the shoulders Koç Provides Support for Health focusing on research, producing of knowledge of Koç Family and Koç Group companies, The Koç Group considers health to be one of and serving the health of society with its inherited an honorable endavour, philanthropy, its top priorities in the area of social excellent faculty members. Its goal is to be an once pioneered by Vehbi Koç himself with responsibility. As Vehbi Koç said, “If you don’t educational and health institution that meets personal delight. Our focus is to institutionalize have health, you don’t have anything.” In universal standards. Its mission is to train its and carry forward “social responsibility” addition to the major investments that the Vehbi students to become doctors who are able to consciousness by participating in international Koç Foundation has made in this area, our understand the society they live in, are sensitive initiatives like United Nations Global Compact. Group companies also implement projects for to global health problems, can communicate In this way, the leadership in the field of social improving the infrastructure of our country’s with the world of science both on a domestic responsibility that we inherited from our founder health services. and international level, contribute to global continues to grow through the synergy created research by staying abreast of scientific by the unity of our Group over years. Vehbi Koç Foundation (VKF) developments, are ethically informed, possess The Vehbi Koç Foundation is the most extensive leadership qualifications, have an excellent Having the mission to create a prosperous health care investment in Turkey managed by command of advanced medical technology Turkey for future generations, the Koç Group a private foundation. The Foundation, that and understand advanced clinical medicine. and its companies provided resources for a institutionalized the healthcare investments number of projects in 2010. Our Group directly through the establishent of the American The goal of the First Aid Training Center executes projects or supports the efforts of Hospital, the Semahat Arsel Nursing Education (KUIYEM), which opened on May 18, 2010 as civil society organizations in the fields of and Research Center (SANERC), the Koç part of Koç University, is to provide basic education, culture-art, cultural heritage, health University School of Nursing and the Nursing education regarding the proper and informed and the environment. Koç Group plays an Fund, continues to lead the way for best administration of first aid in situations where active role in Turkey’s development by keeping practices in Turkey. The Nursing Fund utilizes first aid procedures are required. Training at in mind the words of its founder, Vehbi Koç, significant resources every year to contribute KUIYEM is given by experienced instructors who said, “I live and prosper with my country.” to the development of the nursing profession that possess First Aid Instruction Certificates Koç Group is careful to ensure that the projects and improve the health of society. Every year, approved by the Ministry of Health. Following it supports are long-term, provide social benefit the fund supports 10 projects and provides an exam organized by the Istanbul Provincial and meet the expectations of stakeholders. scholarships for up to 100 nursing students. Health Directorate, participants in the training program receive a ‘First Aid Certificate’ and a ‘First Aid Identity Card’, which are valid for three years. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Social Development at Koç 41 42,112 32,580 8,000 62,853 Total Number of Total units of blood Total number of Total number of students benefited collected by vocational high school children reached by from VKF Educational For My Country students reached by Yap› Kredi “I read I Sponsorships from Project in 2010 MLMM Play” project between 1969 until 2010 2006-2010 For My Country Koç Companies Support Health National Education Directorates. Over 1 million In 2010, “For My Country” Project collaborated “Safe Motherhood” Project from Aygaz people were reached via this project after the with Turkish Red Crescent in order to create Aygaz aims to support the Turkish Family Health completion of trainings at Amasya and Manisa. awareness in society about the importance of & Planning Foundation (TAPV) in its efforts to donating blood and to encourage voluntary educate mothers and pregnant women on TCDD Clean Rails Project from Opet blood donations in our country as these topics related to their own health and their As part of the “Clean Rails” campaign launched approaches are employed quite effectively in infants’ health. The project has been supported in 2010 with the slogan “TCDD and Opet work developed countries. As part of the project, 46 since 2006, and in 2010 it continued in Ordu, together for health and cleanliness”, Opet Koç Group companies and 121 “For My providing education and consultation to 679 provided guidance to Turkish State Railways Country Ambassadors” worked to create pregnant women, 80 postpartum women and (TCDD) for the hygienic conditions of toilets in awareness about how vitally important blood 70 health care providers. Since 2006, the project stations and platforms and on trains to be donations are for human life and to increase has provided education and consultation to improved. Not only were all of the related the number of informed volunteer donors who more than 32,028 pregnant women, 16,566 personnel given training, but passengers were regularly give blood. As a result of the 228 local postpartum women and 70 health care also informed about the rules of hygiene. To and 45 company campaigns that were conduct, providers in Bak›rköy, Düzce, Diyarbak›r and date, over 1,000 TCDD personnel have been 38,498 people had volunteered to give blood Ordu. given training and “train the trainers” certificates as of December 31, 2010 and a total of 32,580 have been provided to 37 people, including units of blood had been collected. Blood Aygaz Supports Diabetic Children technicians, laboratory workers and doctors. donation campaigns and awareness raising Since 2004, Aygaz has been supporting the Opet is spreading awareness regarding hygiene and training activites will continue in 2011. Association of Diabetic Children and by sharing its knowledge and experience on Adolescents, an association whose purpose the subject with other institutions. is to help diabetic children learn how to live with diabetes and help educate families about To Love is to Protect Project from Opet diabetes. One of the association’s most The “To Love is to Protect” project, which was important activities is aimed at bringing diabetic launched as part of the Clean Toilet Campaign children together and is called the Diabetic in 2009 aims to create areas cleansed of Children’s Camp. It is held every year in July microbes, bacteria and viruses. In 2010, the at Istanbul University’s Enez Social Facilities project applied BioShield disinfectant at 5 with the support of Aygaz. The camp is schools in Istanbul. With its proven anti-viral attended free of charge by diabetic children action, BioShield protects treated surfaces for between the ages of 8 and 18 and there are 90 days from all types of microbes and bacteria. doctors, dieticians, sports trainers, psychiatrists Tofafl Supports KAÇUV and psychologists as well. In 2010, Tofafl continued its contributions in the area approximately 100 diabetic children participated of health in 2010 by supporting the Hope for in the Enez Camp. Children with Cancer Foundation (KAÇUV). Support for health from Ford Otosan Tüprafl Aid for Pakistan Vehbi Koç Primary School students went In 2010 by implementing an employee through a health screening at Ford Otosan suggestion, Tüprafl organized food aid Inonu Plant Healthcare Center. A vehicle was campaign for Pakistan after the earthquake donated to Governorship of Eskiflehir’s with the participation of all of the refinery plants. “Eskiflehir without handicaps” Project. Tüprafl also provided assistance to the Clean Toilet Campaign from Opet Solidarity Association of Spouses of Foreign As part of the Clean Toilet Campaign, which Affairs Members (DMED) for the construction aims to prevent the incidence and spread of of a health center in Pakistan. The Vehbi Koç Award, which is given to disease by keeping toilets clean, the toilets at individuals and institutions that are the historic Neflet Waters Recreational Area in pioneers and examples in their field, the Belgrade Forest were replaced and made supports and encourages work conducted more hygienic in 2010. A handicapped stall in the field of health. In 2010, this award was added to the toilets, and diaper-changing was given to Prof. Dr. Turgay Dalkara for areas and nursing sections were added to keep his international achievements in celebral babies from getting infections. Training was and vascular diseases. also provided to employees at the facility. “Clean Toilet” trainings continue at full speed “Safe Motherhood” Project from Aygaz at the schools with demands coming from Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 42 Social Development at Koç Koç University VKF Koç Private High School Koç Supports Education benefiting from VKF scholarships in 2009-2010 Support for Education from Koç Companies increased to 11,840. A total of 42,112 people Standing United for Education with Arçelik Education and training is the main way to benefited from VKF educational scholarships In accordance with its vision “Respect the provide youth with the skills required by the since the Foundation’s establishment in 1969. Globe, Respected Globally”, Arçelik carries out global economy which is based on information projects that contribute to the development of and technology. Quality education, access to International Symposium on Talented young people. Arçelik launched the social education and equality in education are The 1st International Symposium on Talented responsibility program called Standing United important problems in our education system. Education took place on September 23-24, for Education with Arçelik in cooperation with More funds need to be set aside for education 2010 in cooperation with Koç University, the the Ministry of National Education and the and reforms in education must be accelerated Turkish Education Foundation and the Ministry General Directorate of Elementary Schools for so that youth can acquire the knowledge and of National Education. The purpose of the the purpose of contributing to the personal skills necessary for transformation into an symposium is to compare educational methods development of elementary school children. information society, raising the level of applied to talented children around the world, prosperity and sustaining Turkey’s economic explain to educators the importance of noticing As of 2010, “Standing United for Education development . Support from the private sector children with talent at a young age, to formulate with Arçelik” had embraced 200,000 students is important in this regard. In addition to the an ideal educational plan for children with talent in 299 schools in 60 provinces and the number social responsibility activities of Koç Group in Turkey and create educational laws that can of “Our Rooms” created at each school for the companies in the area of education, the Vehbi be applied to these children. children and equipped with books, toys and Koç Foundation has provided educational educational materials reached up to 299. As Sharing Best Practices in Education part of the program, the “Arçelik Volunteer scholarships to young people since its founding In order to encourage the sharing of best and provides society with exemplary models Family” organizes events every year to support practices and provide access to excellence in the personal development of the students. via its educational institutions whose purpose education throughout our country, Koç is to be centers of excellence. Arçelik drew students’ attention to the University organized an event on May 28, 2010 protection of the dwindling natural resources VKF Koç University to share a student-focused and interon our planet and conservation of water and Founded in 1993, the university aims to be a disciplinary approach to education with high energy through the competition entitled Let's world class education and research institution school principals and guidance counselors. Protect the Environment and our Natural and educates over 4,000 students with nearly The primary theme of the event, which was Resources , which was held for the second 350 faculty members. Scholarships of various attended by 29 high schools and 48 educators time in 2010 as part of Arçelik Volunteer Family amounts are provided for 2 out of 3 students from around Turkey, was “The Learning to activities. A Standing United for Education with at Koç University. Learn Approach and New Practices in StudentArçelik corporate social responsibility program Focused Education.” At the event, information booklet was also prepared and included the VKF Koç Private Elementary School and was provided about the Koç University Learning projects that have been carried out since the High School and Teaching Office, which is a first in Turkey. first day of the program. The high school was founded in 1988 and was expanded to include a kindergarten and 8-year Koç University Supports the Municipality of Support for education from Aygaz elementary school in 1998. The Koç Private Sar›yer Trainings on climate change prepared by REC Elementary School and High School is proud In a cooperative initiative between the (Regional Environmental Center) as part of the to serve its students, who are extremely Municipality of Sar›yer and Koç University, six Aygaz’s “What Will the Weather Be Like successful in not only academics, but also in weeks of seminars were held under the umbrella Tomorrow?” project has been given to 4,058 social responsibility projects, sports, and culture of Strategic Business Administration people in 11 provinces. Aygaz also supports and art activities. Approximately 15% of our Education , providing training on a wide range the Turkey Education Volunteers Foundation students study with a full scholarship. of issues, such as public relations, service and (TEGV) Firefly project. In 2010, 5,465 students quality management, strategic planning, benefited from the education provided via a VKF Education Scholarships behavior in organizations, process semi-trailer. Furthermore, books were collected The primary purpose of the VKF educational management, problem-solving and decisionfrom Aygaz employees and sent to the Eskiflehir scholarships is to provide equal education making. Ahmet Yesevi Elementary School for the opportunities to young people who are talented Koç University was chosen as the university Hearing-Impaired, the Malatya Veterans Ali but have limited resources, and to help them representative for the Executive Board of the Gökçe Elementary School, the Ordu Afl›kl› become individuals who make a difference in Women's Assembly, which operates as part Elementary School, and the fianl›urfa the world. Scholarships are provided to of the Sar›yer City Council. Koç University aims Süleymanflah Elementary School. university students, students at the vocational school of nursing, research assistants and to contribute to many social responsibility vocational high school students. VKF provided projects in the areas of education, the scholarships for 9,156 students in the 2008environment and society and it plays an active 2009 academic year. The number of students role in volunteer projects with the local administration. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Social Development at Koç 43 Standing United for Education with Arçelik Fiat Laboratories Support for Education from Ford Otosan benefited from the in-service education that is Books in the Middle of Life Ford Otosan donated equipment to 16 schools offered. As part of the social responsibility project during the reporting period. Ford Otosan entitled Books in the Middle of Life , conducted employees came togather with METU Efficiency Automotive Engineering Graduate Program, jointly by the Office of the Körfez District Club students for the Project of “A day at the cooperation with UU-Polytechnic Governor, the Mayor’s Office and the Tüprafl workplace”. Kapadokya Vocational School and The “Automotive Graduate Program” was General Headquarter, book reading corners Ordu Industrial Vocation School were donated launched in 2007 under Tofafl leadership and consisting of at least 200 books were set up engine parts and training materials. A library in cooperation with Torino Polytechnic in every village teahouse or village council. The was established in Ford Otosan ‹nönü Factory University and Uluda¤ University. The graduate purpose of the project is to encourage those in order to provide employees and their children program in automotive engineering with foreign living in all of the district’s villages to acquire with books. Bozüyük Vocational High School support is a first in Turkey, and it is a pioneering a habit of reading books related to everything and Atatürk Industrial Vocational High School program in terms of strengthening the in life. were donated 8 work stations. Kütahya cooperation mechanisms that Turkey needs Dumlup›nar University was donated a training between universities and the automotive sector. Furthermore, during the reporting period, set showing the internals of a motor engine. A total of 53 students have participated in the Tüprafl also contributed to the 100 Classic program since it was launched in 2007. In the Works project in the A¤r› Elementary School Support for Education from Tofafl 2010 academic year, there were 27 students, and the TEGV Firefly project as well as Fiat Laboratories and in the same period, 3 students were supporting CSOs connected with a variety of The Fiat Laboratories-Fiat Technical Education graduated from the program. schools and training. Program, which is integrated with the “Vocational Education: A Crucial Matter for the Support for Education from Otokar Support for education from TürkTraktör Nation” project, was launched for the purpose Otokar attended 20 seminars and career days Thirty-two employees participated in the book of training a technical work force that at 16 different universities during the reporting campaign organized for the P›nar Üstü Village understands developments in the automotive period and shared its professional knowledge Elementary School in the Korkut District of industry in our country, new technologies in with students. It continued its support for the Mufl, a joint project conducted by TürkTraktör the field, as well as the production, export and Education Volunteers Foundation in 2006. and TEGV. Furthermore, during the reporting import targets, and then employing these period, participation was also provided for the people in industry. As of 2010, a total of 869 Tüprafl-Employment Agency Project University Industry Cooperation Conference students have been trained in the Fiat A “Petroleum and Gas Production Vocational held at Middle East Technical University, the Laboratories that are located in 11 high schools Course” was organized by the Kocaeli Çankaya University Industrial Engineers Panel, in the provinces of Istanbul, Bursa, Kocaeli, Provincial Employment Office and the Tüprafl “The How is Agricultural Engineering and Ankara, Antalya, Izmir, Adana, Samsun and Izmit Refinery as part of the Workforce Training Farming Perceived Forum” and the Turkish Diyarbak›r. Employment is provided within the for Guaranteed Employment Courses. Industrial Engineers Student Rendezvous held Fiat Service organization for students who at Middle East Technical University. Seventy-five people from among those who graduate with distinction. passed the Tüprafl exam were invited to the Read, Think, Share Development Project Twelfth-grade students studying in the Fiat course after a successful interview. In addition Read, Think, Share is a leadership development Laboratories receive three days of vocational to theoretical classwork, the participants visited project conducted by the Yap› Kredi Banking skills training (internship) at Authorized Fiat fields and units related to the issue and received Academy with the Young Guru Academy (YGA) Service Centers. Throughout this internship, applied training. In the evaluations that were and the Dream Partners Association. The students participate in the Vocational Skills conducted, the 75 people who successfully project gives Yap› Kredi Bank employees a Education program under the supervision of participated in the course began working at “learn-through-experience” opportunity to Service Technical Specialists employed in our the Tüprafl Izmit Refinery. develop their leadership skills while creating a authorized service centers. development platform for 6th and 7th grade Umbrella Movement: 100 Smiling Faces in elementary school students to become selfAt the conclusion of the Vocational Skills the Bay confident individuals who can dream, outline Education, students take the certification exam. The Umbrella Movement that was launched at plans to fulfill their dreams, think creatively, Successful students are given a Fiat Laboratory the Tüprafl Batman Refinery in 2008 was write, approach issues from different Student Certificate. After graduation, successful introduced at the Izmit Refinery in 2009. perspectives and are aware of their potential. students start work at the service centers. Implemented in conjunction with the District In 2010, 130 of Yap› Kredi employees Directorate of National Education, school participated in this project. Fiat In-Service Training Weeks principals and teachers, the purpose of this The In-Service Education program, carried out project is to contribute to the social jointly by Tofafl and the Ministry of National development of 9th, 10th and 11th graders. In Education Department of the In-service Training 2010, Tüprafl volunteers met with 100 students since 2006, took place in July 2010. To date, with Smiling Faces in six different activities, 120 vocational high school teachers have volunteering a total of 264 man*hours. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 44 Social Development at Koç “Vocational Education: A Crucial Until 2010, the goal of the MLMM was set as to dissaminate the model programs that Matter for the Nation” Project are based on the experiences gained from As of 2010, MLMM reached Koç Holding has mobilized its resources to the MLMM Project throughout the country in order to strengthen cooperation between 81 Provinces, solve problems related to unemployment the state, the private sector, civil society and people not having a vocation in Turkey organizations and schools. In this context, as part of the “Vocational Education: A the “Cooperation for Quality in Vocational Crucial Matter for the Nation” Project (MLMM) 264 Schools, Education” project was launched in 2010 launched in 2006 with support from the Vehbi with the Education Reform Initiative. The Koç Foundation and in cooperation with the purpose of this cooperation is to develop Ministry of National Education within the 8,000 recommendations for improving the quality framework of the Program to Encourage of vocational education in Turkey in general, Vocational High Vocational Technical Education. Koç and especially to encourage and facilitate Holding’s goal is to encourage young people School Students to enroll in vocational education through the formation of public-private-civil society cooperation with the potential to improve creating awareness in every segment of quality. society regarding the importance of vocational and technical training for the School – Business Pairing Model country’s economy, to be a leader in sowing In this project, 20 Koç Group companies are seeds of cooperation between the matched with vocational high schools that government and the private sector, and to provide education in the relevant sector for contribute to the training of a qualified the purpose of increasing the employability workforce. of young people and contributing to the traininig of the qualified human resources As of 2010, MLMM had reached 8,000 businesses need. scholarship students in 264 schools in 81 provinces. Eighty percent of the scholarship This model is known as “School-Business students who applied for an internship were Pairing” and it is based on the development given internship support. In 2010, the first of cooperation between schools that provide scholarship recipients were graduated and vocational education and enterprises in the the project’s employment phase began. sector, thus forming bridges between education and the business. Within the scope of the project, Koç Group companies were matched with vocational In this model, employees from Koç Group high schools that provided education in their companies provide volunteer coaching fields in a way that would trigger cooperation support for the personal and professional between the businesses and the schools. development of vocational high school Within the framework of this strategy called students and the companies provide support the “school-business pairing model”, the in the form of curriculum, materials and 374 Vocational High School Coaches from laboratories to improve the content and Koç Group Companies who volunteered to infrastructure of the education at school and participate in the project served as a bridge make it compatible with today’s technology. between schools and businesses by ensuring communication between the scholarship International Awards for the “Vocational MLK-School Representatives Meeting 2010 recipients and vocational schools which had Education: A Crucial Matter for the Nation” been matched. Project 2009: Silver Medal in the Public Relations The Vocational High School Coaches (MLK) Category of the Magellan Awards presented I Read I Play Project from Yap› Kredi from 20 Koç Group companies and Migros The I Read I Play project executed by Yap› by the League of American Communication provided support for the personal Professionals (LACP) Kredi in cooperation with the Turkey Education development of MLMM students by means 2010: The Sabre Award in the “Corporate Volunteers Foundation (TEGV) has adopted as of the development modules that were Social Responsibility” category at the 2009 its mission stimulating the creativity of designed. The purpose of these modules Europe Sabre Awards presented by the elementary school children, allowing them to was to equip vocational high school students Holmes Group express themselves freely in any environment with the skills they will need throughout their 2010: Second best social responsibility lives. These skills ranged from program in Europe in the ‘Companies / and ingraining in them the habit of reading. entrepreneurship to responsible citizenship. Organization’ category at The International The I Read I Play project is a program revolving The Vocational High School Coaches played around 8 different stories accompanied by Business Awards organized by Stevie an active role not only in support for personal Awards comprehension exercises carried out in development but also in providing students National Awards specially-designed reading rooms in order to with internship opportunities and priority 2006: Corporate Social Responsibility Award develop the reading ability of children between placement in employment. given by Active Academy at the International the ages of 7 and 11. During the first phase of Finance Summit the project between 2006 and 2009, the goal Through projects such as the Fiat-Tofafl 2009: Most Successful Public Relations Laboratories, Tüprafl Laboratories and Ford Project at the Burç College Communication was to reach 50,000 children/activities by 2010 Otosan Laboratories, which derived from Awards in TEGV’s 11 Educational Parks and 55 Learning the business-school pairing approach, Koç Units in Turkey. At the end of 2009, the project's 2009: “The Most Successful Volunteer Group Companies made significant Project” at Awards from the Heart organized performance had surpassed this number and contributions for improving the quality of by the Association of Private Sector reached 62,853 children/activities. Because of vocational education and increasing the Volunteers (ÖSGD) the success of the program and the interest employability of young people. In order to shown by the children and their parents, it was give young people bigger plans for the future, Koç companies that support MLMM decided to extend the program for another 3 expand their vision and focus on the positive Arçelik, Arçelik LG, Aygaz, Avis, Bilkom, aspects of studying in a vocation high school, Birmot, Demir Export, Divan, Düzey, years and continue from 2009 to 2012. In 2010, every year project competitions and Harranova Besi, KaTron, KoçSistem, Koç.net, the project reached 11,662 students. communications campaigns have been Koçtafl, Opet, Otokar, Otokoç Otomotiv, conducted to raise awareness regarding Setur, Tat, Tofafl, Tüprafl, TürkTraktör, Yap› vocational education among stakeholders. Kredi In 2009, there were 59 applications to the project competition, but in 2010 the For more information: application level rose to 70. www.mlmm.com.tr Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Social Development at Koç 45 FOR MY COUNTRY Employee Volunteerism in the The purpose of the For My Country” Project Implementation of For My is to develop a more participative approach Country regarding social problems by promoting social responsibility among Koç Group “For My Country” has been built on a companies, employees, dealers and volunteer management system that consists suppliers and to implement projects that will of different pillars due to its multi-stakeholder raise the standard of living by supporting structure. Koç Holding undertakes project local development. design and implementation while project operations are conducted by two different Through its more than 10,000 dealers, its pillars: Koç Group Companies and dealers. companies and its 70,000 employees the Koç Group contributes to Turkey and our society on a volunteer basis through the “For My Country Project. Since 2006, it has launched initiatives that enhance the quality of life and provide innovation in local communities in all 81 provinces of Turkey. The work carried out under the leadership of coordinator dealers appointed to serve in Cooperation between Koç University every province as “For My Country and UNDP Ambassadors” made a difference in the Dealer Application: Koç University has established a areas of education, health, the environment, With a distribution network of 10,000 dealers, partnership with UNDP Turkey and the culture and art in 2006 with a total of 223 which makes it the most extensive in Turkey, regional Growing Inclusive Markets (GIM) projects. the Koç Group aims to promote social initiative, thus taking an important step by responsibility and support local development answering the global call from business By 2007, most of the 164 projects being in the dealer network through the For My schools and other academic institutions implemented were focused on the area of Country Project. The dealers who are for the purpose of responding to the need education. In addition to these projects, there responsible for carrying out the projects in to promote corporate social responsibility were initiatives directed at health, culture, every province and providing coordination and create more inclusive markets around history and social agencies as well as between the Koç Group dealers are called the world. projects in the areas of the environment and “For My Country Ambassadors”. “For My other fields, making for another successful Country Ambassadors” execute the project’s The partnership will pioneer the year. provincial aspects in accordance with a local establishment of an academic initiative guidebook prepared by Koç Holding. As an related to inclusive markets in Turkey and In 2008, on the other hand, the “For My Country” Project focused on a single issue element that boosts dealer participation, conduct academic research on issues Company Regional Managers provide such as value chains and clustering in in order to achieve a more comprehensive impact and to produce cooperative solutions support in terms of monitoring and Turkey, the countries of Southeastern encouraging consistent participation in Europe and in the Commonwealth of to current problems. In cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Forestry and campaigns conducted locally, sharing Independent States. This initiative will information and experience regarding the support the integration of small and the TEMA Foundation, resources were created to plant 700,000 saplings covering project and promotion of the concept of medium-sized businesses and small volunteerism. producers into the international and local an area the size of 1,750 football fields in value chain. seven regions of Turkey. Activities to raise environmental awareness were carried out Company Application: As a signatory of the Principles for through education and information projects. Work in this pillar, which aims to ensure Responsible Management Education participation in volunteer work with the more (PRME), which is a framework developed During the implementation of the project in than 70,000 employees of Koç Group for academic institutions for the purpose 2008, environmental trainings were organized companies, is executed by the Directorate of incorporating universal values into for elementary school students in 81 of the Koç Holding Corporate curricula and research by expanding the provinces in cooperation with TEMA. A total Communications, and the Directorate of the concept of Corporate Social Responsibility, of 18,000 environmentally informed “Children Koç Holding Human Resources, as well as the Koç University Management Institute Who Save the World” were raised up via this by Company Human Resources and will play an active role in the promotion of education program and the Children Who company communication departments. inclusive markets among academicians. Save the World application in tha project’s website. Children who visited the project’s website earned the Children Who Save the The number of ambassadors and World certificate by answering questions companies that have participated in the related to small actions that could be taken For My Country Project since 2006 are to conserve the environment. provided below: In 2010, a focus on health was resumed in Companies order to achieve the goal of developing the For My Country participating in concept of corporate citizenship and promote Ambassadors the Project social responsibility among group employees 2006 81 43 and dealers. The implementation of the For My Country Project in 2010 was aimed at 2007 81 30 creating awareness in society about the 2008 81 22 importance of donating blood and encouraging voluntary blood donors in our 2009 81 (*) country in cooperation with the Turkish Red 2010 121 49 Crescent. ( * ) No companies were involved in 2009 Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 46 Social Development at Koç 147,350 As of 2010, total number of visitors of Rahmi M. Koç Museum Koç Supports Art and Cultural museology, which has been shaped in particular Symposium was published and made available by the rapidly growing phenomenon of private to interested people at the Sadberk Han›m Heritage museums founded in recent years. Museum gift shop. The next International Sevgi The Koç Group sets aside resources in order Gönül Byzantine Studies Symposium will take to preserve and develop our cultural values Koç University Anatolian Civilizations place in 2013. and art, to promote it on a national and Research Center (ANAMED): Founded in international level, and to provide protection 2004, the Anatolian Civilizations Center is ARTER and incentives for artists. The Koç Group Turkey’s first and only institution to support The primary purposes of ARTER, which was believes that creativity is one of the most academic study on the subject. At ANAMED opened in 2010, is to support and exhibit new important factors required for societies to in 2010, 5 sympousim and a photo exhibition productions and to create a new platform that develop and its aim is to be involved in raising was held. Headquarters of the Center was will give artists and their work more visibility. up creative generations by contributing to the enlarged, a new exhibition hall and a gallery ARTER contributes to the expansion of the cultural development of society with the support was added and the existing library was Vehbi Koç Foundation collection with the new it provided for cultural and artistic activities. extended. productions it supports, and it also aims to Koç Group companies support projects to share the works that are in the collection with protect cultural heritage and archaeology Suna Inan K›raç Mediterranean Civilizations people through periodic and thematic because they are proud that they live in an Research Institute (AKMED) and Kaleiçi exhibitions. ARTER will also provide a research area that has one of the richest historical and Museum: The Kaleiçi Museum was visited by and laboratory environment in preparation for cultural heritages in the world. With the various 9,800 people in 2010. The museum is the museum complex that VKF intends to projects that developed in 2010, Koç Holding, connected with the Institute AKMED, which is establish in the future. Group companies and the Vehbi Koç the first and only Center in Turkey in its field, Foundation have continued to raise awareness which supports scientific research for studying, International sponsorships from the Vehbi in the areas of culture and art. documenting, protecting and repairing the Koç Foundation historic, archeological, ethnographic and The Vehbi Koç Foundation has undertaken The Vehbi Koç Foundation’s cultural activities cultural heritage in Antalya and the surrounding sponsorship for two international exhibitions are very wide-ranging. area. in 2010. The first is an exhibit entitled “Tactics of Invisibility”, which was opened in Vienna on Sadberk Han›m Museum: The Sadberk Han›m Rahmi M. Koç Museum: The Museum, which April 16, 2010 in cooperation with TBA21 Museum was established in 1980 as the first specializes in issues related to the history of (Thyssen-Bornemizsa Art Contemporary) in private museum in Turkey and it features a transportation, communication and industry Austria. The “Tactics of Invisibility” exhibit collection of 18,000 pieces consisting of was visited by 147,350 people in 2010. continued until August 15, 2010 and featured etnographic pieces, Turkih-Islamic pieces and the works of 15 Turkish artists. It was in Vienna archeological pieces. The museum proudly Sevgi Gönül Byzantine Studies Symposium for five months and then at TANAS in Berlin. celebrated its 30th anniversary in 2010, hosting Another important initiative from VKF is the They will be displayed at ARTER in Istanbul at an exhibit on Women's Clothing and ‹znik International Sevgi Gönül Byzantine Studies the beginning of 2011. “The Morning Line” Exhibition that shed light on the final period of Symposium, which is held once every three project that TBA21 launched in Istanbul on the Ottoman Empire. years in honor of the late Sevgi Gönül (1938May 22, 2010 as part of the Istanbul 2010 2003), who always supported Byzantine studies European Capital of Culture events was also Vehbi Koç and Ankara Research Center in order to preserve the Byzantine heritage in supported by VKF. (VEKAM): Founded in 1994, VEKAM is the only Turkey and remind society of Istanbul’s research center in Turkey that carries out incredibly rich cultural heritage. The purpose New York Metropolitan Museum of Art research focused on Ankara and exhibits written of this symposium is to share scientific research sponsorship documents, photographs and articles belonging being conducted in Turkey and around the The Vehbi Koç Foundation sponsored two to Vehbi Koç. The Vehbi Koç Research Center world on an international platform, to raise Ottoman Art Galleries at the New York (VEKAM) hosted two important symposiums awareness of cultural heritage through Metropolitan Museum of Art, which is the fifth in the field of museum studies in 2010. publications, and to support research in this most-visited museum in the world. Two galleries area as well as young Byzantine researchers. in the Islamic Arts section will exhibit matchless The purpose of these symposiums was to 600-year-old examples of Ottoman art for contribute to the academic and applied The theme for the 2nd International Sevgi Gönül millions of visitors who come from all around development of museums and museum science Byzantine Studies Symposium was “The the world. The two new Ottoman Art Galleries in Turkey as this field has played an effective Byzantine Palace: Source of Power and in the Islamic Arts section will be opened to role in the social and cultural life of Europe Culture”, and it was held at the Istanbul visitors in an expanded and revised fashion in since the 18th century serving as the intellectual Archeology Museum on June 21-23, 2010. A 2011 and will be named after the Koç Family. vehicle of society, and to support research that book containing the papers from the 1st can provide solutions to the problems in Turkish International Sevgi Gönül Byzantine Studies Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Social Development at Koç 47 Sadberk Han›m Museum International Istanbul Biennial International Istanbul Theater Festival Yap› Kredi Cultural Activities, Arts and The Koç Group embraces initiatives that can Aygaz and Opet support the International Publishing be left to society as a legacy. The International Istanbul Theater Festival organized by the In 2010 Yap› Kredi Cultural Activities, Arts and Istanbul Biennial is supported as a modern art Istanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts. In Publishing (YKY) continued to be active with event that is directly related to social problems. addition to shows and performances, there its publications, exhibitions, and other cultural The International Istanbul Biennial, which is were workshops, speeches, panels and film activities. Market leader since being founded, organized by the Istanbul Foundation for Culture showings in the four-week theatre festival, Yap› Kredi Cultural Activities, Arts and and Arts, has been supported by Koç Holding which was held for the 17th time in 2010. The Publishing continued its leadership in 2010 by for 10 years from 2007 to 2016. The festival featured more than 31 performances producing various publications; 210 first International Istanbul Biennial is the Turkish art from 9 foreign theatre and dance groups and editions, 371 reprints, amounting over 1 million event which attracts the most attention from 30 local ones. Istanbul art lovers followed it books from various genres. Having printed its abroad and is the most well-known art event. with great interest and almost 24,000 spectators 3,235th book by the end of 2010, YKY reached Support for the Biennial is also support for the attended. to a level of success being hard to achieve in Istanbul brand name. Koç Holding will continue Turkish publishing history. to provide the support necessary to maintain Activities at VKF Otosan Gölcük a rich and vibrant International Istanbul Biennial. Center hosted various cultural activities in 2010 Yap› Kredi Cultural Center hosted 10, Kaz›m and contributed to social life Gölcük. Devrim Taflkent Art Gallery hosted 6 exhibitions Support for Art from Koç Companies Erbil and Raif Ç›nar exhibitions, Istanbul respectively in 2010 all of which received great Aygaz Library Flamenco Association’s performance and interest from art-lovers. As a reminder of the richness of the land we various theatre groups met with art-lovers live in and for the purpose of conveying this during the reporting period. Open trainings Yap› Kredi Afife Theatre Awards idea to future generations, 11 works on culture were also available at the Center. The trainings Being held since 1997, one of the most and art have been produced within the scope at the Center were initiated with Üstün respected arts award in Turkey, “Afife Theater of Aygaz Library project since 1996. In 2010, Dökmen’s “joy of living and working” seminar Awards” aims to support Turkish theatres. YK a work entitled “Dynasty and Camera Portraits and various health related seminars followed. Afife Theater Award begun with the distribution from the Ottoman Palace” was added to the With the aim of being a living and producing of 3 special awards (Muhsin Ertu¤rul, Nisa Aygaz Library, which is comprised of books center, VKF Otosan Gölcük Cultural and Social Serezli Aflk›ner, Cevat Fehmi Baflkut) and 13 that touch on a number of fields ranging from Lifetime Center aims to hold free arts award categories in 1997. history to archeology. Furthermore, Aygaz workshops. continues its support to the publication and 14th Afife Theater Award ceremony was held reference building efforts on Ottoman era Tofafl Bursa Museum of Anatolian Cars on 17 April 2010 in Lütfi K›rdar Center with the foreign relations since 2008. Established by Tofafl in 2002 in order to protect participation of distinguished guests. A total the Turkish automotive heritage, the Tofafl of 19 awards were distributed at the ceremony Sevgi Gönül Theatre Festival Museum of Anatolian Car is the first and only 5 of which were special category. Aygaz has been supporting the Sevgi Gönül museum of Anatolian cars in Turkey and has Theatre Festival at Koç University since 2006 been visited by almost 280,000 people since and continued to do so in 2010. its founding. The Tofafl Art Gallery was opened in the Umurbey Turkish Baths, which were “Rahmi Koç Museum Ticket Sponsorship” restored in 2008, and the first exhibit was Project entitled “Same Old Bath, Same Old Basin”. Aygaz has supported ticket sponsorship for The first comprehensive exhibit in the Tofafl the Istanbul RMK Museum since 2005, and in Art Gallery was open to visitors until May 31, 2010, it also undertook the ticket sponsorship 2010. for the Ankara Çengelhan RMK Museum. Tofafl Bursa Museum of Anatolian Cars Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 48 Social Development at Koç Aygaz Sagalassos Antonine Nymphaeum Restoration Project Koç Fest Support for Cultural Heritage from Koç laboratory. The archeological laboratory set up Koç Supports Sports Companies by Koç University continued to be used. Sagalassos Antonine Nymphaeum The Koç Group is aware of the contribution Restoration Project Çatalhöyük Excavations that sports make to social development and it The project intended to resurrect the “lost city” One of the most important projects supported supports projects that promote sports in every of Sagalassos has been ongoing since 1990, for many years by Yap› Kredi in the area of art segment of society, beginning with its own and Aygaz has been the sole Turkish supporter and culture is the Çatalhöyük Excavations. The employees. of this project since 2005. The restoration of 21-meter high Çatalhöyük Hill located 10 the Antonine Nymphaeum was completed in kilometers southeast of the town of Çumra in Koç Fest University Sports Games 2010. Aygaz will continue to support the Konya holds secrets to the past stretching The university festival inaugurated in 2006 by Sagalassos Project for three more years, so back 9,000 years. Yap› Kredi has been Koç Holding to contribute to the development that the area around the Nymphaeum will be supporting the Çatalhöyük archeological of youth and enriching their lives, Koç Fest arrayed. excavations as a primary sponsor since 1997. visited 7 universities in 2010 and has involved Some of artifacts from the excavation are on 1.5 million university students since the first Sponsorship of the Pamukkale Hierapolis display while others are protected in storage year it was organized. Through providing Excavations in Konya Archeological Museum. sponsorship to the Turkish University Sports Tofafl has been a sponsor of excavations at Federation, the festival lended its name to the Hierapolis, one of the five largest ancient cities Respect for History Project from Opet University Sports Games. Accordingly, Koç in Turkey, since the 90s. The company supports Rehabilitation work on the villages of Kocadere Fest combined sports, music and entertainment the unearthing of another very important and Behraml› were completed in 2010 as part under the same roof and official university settlement in the history of Anatolia. As part of of the Respect for History project which was sports matches organized in Turkey started to the archeological excavations, a research initiated to raise awareness of history on the be called as Koç Fest University Sports Games program was launched in 2010 regarding the Çanakkale peninsula, stimulate the local since 2009. Frontinus Gate which was built in 82 BC. economy and improve the quality of life. A University athletes compete in matches Excavations and restoration work were protocol was signed with the Public Education organized in almost 40 sports and the teams conducted on the floors, roof and two towers Centers in the town of Eceabat in Çanakkale and athletes which succeed in this event adjacent to the arches of the gate in order to and the surrounding villages giving support for represent Turkey in international events, the personalize specific usage purposes. The courses. Courses were organized and training European Championships and Universiade. In archaeological research helped to determine provided in the fields of cleanliness and hygiene 2010, the finals of the Turkey Koç Fest how the towers were used during the Byzantine as well as English and bed-and-breakfast University Sports Games took place in Denizli period. operations for the employees who serve to at Pamukkale University and attended by almost two million people who visit the region approximately 3,000 university athletes. Sponsorship of the Küçükyal› Excavations each year. Tofafl has supported the excavation at the Support for Basketball from Arçelik Küçükyal› Archaeological Park for 8 years. The Tüprafl Sponsors Archeological Publications Arçelik views the support it gives to sports as 2010 excavation season that began in July and Tüprafl aims to introduce public with archeology an important contribution to the development was completed in the month of August was by sponsoring the only publication in the field of future generations, and it has sponsored a quite successful in terms of archeology. Work of archeology; “Aktüel Arkeoloji Magazine”. number of different sports in Turkey since its focused on the monumental monastery tower The publication makes note to the history by founding. In 2010, Arçelik continued to sponsor in 2010. Throughout the 2010 excavation covering the endeavours that reveal the rich the Turkish Basketball League with its Beko season, work continued in the conservation, cultural heritage of our country and makes brand by extending its contract with the Turkish restoration, photography and database scientific discoveries reach to public at large. Basketball Federation for another 4 years. This processing sections within the scientific sponsorship changed the name of the league to the Beko Basketball League and the All-Star matches started to be called the Beko All-Star games. As the “Presenting Sponsor” of the 2010 FIBA World Championship and the largest sponsor presenting the championship to the world, Beko took its investment in basketball to the highest level. This investment was the first time that a Turkish brand has sponsored one of the Tofafl Pamukkale Hierapolis Excavations most important tournaments in world sports on this scale. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Social Development at Koç 49 Opet and Tüprafl Basketball Teams Beko’s most recent basketball investment in Tofafl Basketball Schools and Tofafl Sports Activities within the scope of the the international arena was its sponsorship of Club aim to introduce children to basketball; the German Basketball League, which is one teach them team work and help them become Global Compact of Europe’s leading basketball leagues, in the healthy adults. Local Network Activities fall of 2009. With Beko name brand In 2010, the Koç Group continued to support sponsorship, the German Basketball League Teams from different locations participating in work related to the adoption and expansion of (Basketball Bundesliga) has begun to be these two projects have an opportunity to share the principles of the Global Compact. Koç referred to as the Beko Basketball Bundesliga what they have done throughout the year at Holding continued to serve as a member of since the beginning of the 2009-2010 season. the FiatBall Basketball Festival, which is held the Global Compact Local Network Turkey, Throughout the sponsorship agreement, which once every activity year. Throughout the National Steering Committee in 2010, providing is valid for 6 years, the BBL All-Star Day, BBL tournament that was held in Bolu in 2010 with active support for the sector-based approach Top Four and BBL Championship Cup will take 150 participating athletes, the children not only initiated by the Local Network to implement place in Germany with Beko sponsorship. developed life skills such as teamwork and the principles of the Global Compact. Within communication, but they also experienced the the framework of this approach, the Local In 2010, the Beko brand became a sponsor excitement of a tournament. Network focused its promotional efforts in 2010 for the Russian Basketball League. on developing approaches unique to the Support for Sports from Opet different sectors. In this regard, problem areas Aygaz has supported the Koç University RAMS During the reporting period, Opet continued and regulations unique to the pharmaceutical, American Football team since 2007. its support for sports with its sponsorship of textile and automotive sectors were identified the 2nd Opet Gallipoli Peace Run, Kenan Çelik’s and strategies were developed for the adoption Ford Otosan Supports Sport On the Shores of History motorcycle tour, of the principles. These were then shared with Ford Otosan supported Turkish Model Plane TOSFED Turkish Automobile Sports Federation businesses in the sectors as well as civil society Championship and Europe Paragliding Turkey Rally, the Volvo Youth Sailing ISAF organizations and unions. Koç Group Championship both of which were held in World Championship, the Aegean Yacht Rally, companies Ford Otosan, Tofafl and Otokoç Eskiflehir ‹nönü Turkish Aeronautical and the Istanbul Classic Automobile Otomotiv attended the meeting held on May Association facilities. Association's Izmir Tour. 4, 2010 for the automotive sector. Tofafl Sports Club Tat Konserve supported the World Youth Global Compact Conference in its 10th Year Joining first division in Beko Basketball League Sailing Championship, the Karfl›yaka Sailing In 2010, Koç Holding sponsored “The Global 2008-2009 season, Tofafl Basketball Team Club – Youth Sailing competitions and the Compact at 10: Holding Ourselves aims to qualify to play-offs in 2010-2011 American College Sports Tournament. Accountable” Conference on the role of the season. In addition to its main branch of GC in advancing human rights, work place basketball, Tofafl gets successful results in Tüprafl, supported the Batman Tüpraflspor, standards, environmental sustainability and other branches and trains countless athletes Batman Wheelchair Basketball Team and anti-corruption. The conference was organized who partake in national teams. K›r›kkale Off-Road Races. by the Yale World Fellows Program. At the conference, prominent leaders from the world Tofafl Basketball Camps and Basketball of business, policy-makers and academicians Volunteer Project shared their views on the responsibilities of the The Basketball Volunteers Project has private sector, lessons learned from the Global continued operations since 2001 in cooperation Compact and new methods for the next with the Turkey Education Volunteers generation of leaders in the world of business. Foundation (TEGV) and the Tofafl Sports Club. The project organizes activities in 11 TEGV Member of the Koç Holding Board of Directors Educational Parks and 3 Learning Units and Ali Y. Koç shared the Koç Group's approach the goal is to help children who do not have to corporate citizenship, social responsibility the opportunity to be involved in sports develop and sustainable development with those healthy personalities and life skills through attending the conference. Koç Holding basketball. The target group is children in Corporate Communications Director Oya Ünlü grades 6 to 8 and every year the project reaches K›z›l, who was given the title ‘Global Leader’ an average of 700 children. by Yale University in 2008, served as the session moderator. Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 50 GRI Index GRI Index GRI Indicators Reference Page Notes Response Profile Indicators 1.1 Message From Chairman 2 Full Message from the CEO 3 1.2 Message from the CEO 3 Full Sustainability Management at Koç 7, 8 Climate Change and Emission Management 28, 29 2.1 Contact Inside Back Cover Full 2.2 Koç Group in 2010 4 http://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/Corporate/Sectors/Pages/Sectors.aspx Full 2.3 Koç Group in 2010 4, 5 Full 2.4 Contact Inside Back Cover Full 2.5 Koç Group in 2010 5 Full 2.6 Koç Holding Annual Report 2010 6 http://www.koc.com.tr/enFull us/Investor_Relations/FinancialStatementsStatistics/AnnualReports/Pages/Ann ualReports.aspx 2.7 Koç Group in 2010 4, 5 Koç Group, as a multi-sectoral conglomerate, focuses on 4 main sectors namely Full Energy, Automotive, Consumer Durables and Finance. For more detailed information on company based sectoral involvement of Koç Group you may refer to http://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/Corporate/Sectors/Pages/Sectors.aspx?lnk=1 Koç Holding serves to consumers and corporate clients via its subsidiaries in 28 countries. For more detailed information on geographic breakdown of Koç Holding subsidiary companies please refer to http://www.koc.com.tr/enus/Corporate/List_of_Companies/Pages/ListofKocGroupCompanies.aspx 2.8 Koç Group in 2010 4, 5 Full 2.9 Detailed information about significant changes in 2010 can be obtained from Full Material Disclosure section of Investor Relations section located at www.koc.com.tr. http://www.koc.com.tr/trtr/Yatirimci_Iliskileri/OzelDurumAciklamalari/Pages/Oz elDurumAciklamalari.aspx 2.10 Koç Group in 2010 4, 5 Full 2010 Environmental Awards 36 Vocational Education: A Crucial Matter for the Nation 45 3.1 About the Report 1 Full 3.2 About the Report 1 Full 3.3 About the Report 1 Full 3.4 Contact Inside Back Cover Full 3.5 About the Report 1 Koç Holding A.fi. as a holding company, compared to its subsidiaries, has no Full Sustainability Management at Koç 7, 8 significant impact in terms of performance indicators. So we include our subsidiaries’ Full performances to our reporting engagements and progressively increase boundary level. In this report, we disclose performance for 18 group companies which were eligible according to GRI Guidance on Boundary Settings, such as control on the entity and significant impact. Boundary level of this report also covers all major Koç Group companies referring to 84.4% of total group employees and 94% of the Group’s combined turnover. Koç Holding Sustainability Performance Evaluation and Reporting System creates the basis of reporting content which is found on material sustainability issues for Koç Holding. During the process of establishing the System, material issues were determined by Koç Holding employees in consultation with subsidiaries’ experts and external expertise. Deciding on materiality is a challenging process for a holding companies due to the sector specific differences of the subsidiaries. To this end, Koç Group materiality is created with respect to form a Group level consolidated coverage. Sector specific issue coverage is disclosed subsidiaries’ own disclosures. Koç Holding publishes CSR reports in order to communicate with its key stakeholders who are identified within the strategic communication planning processes. To this end, as intended audience for CSR reporting practice, Koç Holding targets all person and entities identified as key stakeholder groups namely employees, customers, shareholders, investors, professional organizations, civil society organizations. 3.6 Content of the Report Inside Front Cover Full About the Report 1 3.7 Content of the Report Inside Front Cover Full About the Report 1 3.8 Content of the Report Inside Front Cover Full About the Report 1 3.9 Sustainability Management at Koç 7 In performance measurement, Koç Holding and Group companies use reliable Full and standardized system and information technology infrastructure. All the measurement parameters used in this report were provided by methodologies accepted in field and methods set by GRI performance indicators were abided. 3.10 Sustainability Management at Koç 7 Full 3.11 About the Report 1 Full 3.12 GRI Index 50, 51 Full 3.13 GRI Index 50, 51 The information disclosed in this report did not receive independent audit within Full the scope of this study. 4.1 Governance at Koç 6, 7 Full 4.2 GRI Index 50, 51 Koç Holding’s Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer tasks are carried Full out by different people. 4.3 Governance at Koç 6 Full 4.4 Governance at Koç 6 Full Employee Health and Safety at Koç 13 Suggestion Systems 20, 21 Koç Holding Annual Report 2010 78, 81 http://www.koc.com.tr/enus/Investor_Relations/FinancialStatementsStatistics/AnnualReports/Pages/Ann ualReports.aspx 4.5 Koç Compensation System 20 Full Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 GRI Index 51 GRI Indicators Reference Page Notes Response Profile Indicators 4.6 Koç Holding Annual Report 2010 83 http://www.koc.com.tr/enFull us/Investor_Relations/FinancialStatementsStatistics/AnnualReports/Pages/Ann ualReports.aspx 4.7 Koç Holding Annual Report 2010 16, 17, http://www.koc.com.tr/enFull 20, 21 us/Investor_Relations/FinancialStatementsStatistics/AnnualReports/Pages/Ann ualReports.aspx 4.8 Governance at Koç 7, 8 Full 4.9 Governance at Koç 7, 8 Full 4.10 Koç Compensation System 20 Full 4.11 Governance at Koç 8 More detailed information on risk management can be obtained from our annual Full reports published on investor relations section on www.koc.com.tr. 4.12 About the Report 1 Signed by Koç Holding on 30 March 2006, Koç Holding and Group companies Full -in all country operationsprovide compliance to the United Nations Global Compact. Governance at Koç 7 4.13 Our Stakeholders 9 Full 4.14 Our Stakeholders 8 Full 4.15 Our Stakeholders 8 Full 4.16 Our Stakeholders 8, 9 Full 4.17 Our Stakeholders 9 Full Management Approach DMA EC Governance at Koç 6, 7, 8 For further reference on DMA EC aspects such as economic performance, market Full Work Environment at Koç 18, 20 presence, indirect economic impacts: Koç Group in 2010 (p. 4, 5), Koç University Koç Holding Annual Report 2010 3, 6 (p.10, 11), Koç Compensation System (p.20), Management Systems in Group Companies (p.27), Environmental Training Provided in 2010 (p.36), Koç Supports Health (p.40, 41), Vehbi Koç Foundation (p.40), Koç Supports Education (p. 4244), Vocational Education: A Crucial Matter for the Nation (p.44), Koç Supports Art & Cultural Heritage (p.46, 47). Koç Holding Annual Report (p.3, 6, 90, 91) Annual Report link: http://www.koc.com.tr/enus/Investor_Relations/FinancialStatementsStatistics/AnnualReports/Pages/Ann ualReports.aspx DMA EN Governance at Koç 7 For further reference on DMA EN aspects such as materials, energy, water, Full Environmental Management 26, 27, 28 biodiversity, emissions, effluents and waste, products and services, compliance, transport and overall: Environmentally Friendly Practices at Koç (p.26), Environmental Management and Investment Expenditures (p.28), Climate Change and Emission Management (p.28, 29), Efficiency at Koç (p.30, 31), Reduction in Indirect Energy Consumption (p.30), Biodiversity and Environmental Development Practices (p.33), Environmentally Friendly Products at Koç (p.34) DMA LA Governance at Koç 7 For further reference on DMA LA aspects such as Employment, Labor-Management Full Employee Health & Safet at Koç 13 Relations, OHS, Training and Education, Diversity and Equal Opportunity: Employee Labor Union Rights at Koç 17 Health & Safety (p.13 -16), Labor Union Rights at Koç (p.17), Work Environment Work Environment at Koç 18, 19 at Koç (p.18, 19, 22), Koç Academy and Training in Our Companies (p.19), Koç Compensation System (p.20), Leader Development Programs (p.21). Any personal property of employees can not be the reason of different treatment, like all processes of Koç Group companies, in remuneration process. For this reason, as long as they perform the same job, all Group employees are paid equal wages. Equality of women and men wages may vary only in seniority status, overtime, performance bonus and similar payment cases. DMA HR Governance at Koç 7, 8 For further reference on DMA HR aspects such as investment and procurement Full Human Rights at Koç 12, 17 practices, non-discrimination, freedom of association and collective bargaining, Ethical Values at Koç 38 child labor, forced and compulsory labor, security practices, indigenous rights: Governance at Koç (p.7), Human Rights at Koç (p.12, 17), Operational Entry and Decommissioning Practices (p.32), Ethical values at Koç (p.38). Being a signatory party to UNGC, Koç Holding is commited to support and respect protection of human rights within it's sphere of influence; to ensure that it's operations are not complicit in human rights abuses.Koç Holding and its subsidairies take necessary precautions in order to realize these principles within all processes including security processes; parallel precautions and implications are expected from supply chain. DMA SO Governance at Koç 7, 8 For further reference on DMA SO aspects such as community, corruption, public Full Ethical Values at Koç 38, 39 policy, anti-competitive behavior, compliance: Governance at Koç (p.7, 8), Social Development at Koç 40 Operational Entry & Decommissioning Practices (p.32), Ethical Values at Koç (p.38, 39), Social Development at Koç (p.40). Corporate web site links: http://www.koc.com.tr/enus/Investor_Relations/Corporate_Overview/VisionValues/Pages/VisionValues.aspx http://www.koc.com.tr/enus/Investor_Relations/Corporate_Overview/Strategic_Principles/Pages/Strategi c_Principles.aspx http://www.koc.com.tr/enus/Investor_Relations/Corporate_Overview/Strategic_Principles/Pages/Main_C ompetitive_Advantages.aspx DMA PR Governance at Koç 7 For further reference on DMA PR aspects such as customer health and safety , Full Ethical Values at Koç 38, 39 product and service labelling, marketing communications, customer privacy, compliance: Governance at Koç (p.7), Our Stakeholders (p.8, 9), Ethical Values at Koç (p.38, 39), Responsible Marketing and Advertising Practices (p.39). Corporate web site link: http://www.koc.com.tr/enus/Corporate/Vision_and_Values/Pages/VisionandValues.aspx Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 52 GRI Index GRI Indicators Reference Page Notes Response Performance Indicators EC1 Koç Group in 2010 4, 5 Full Koç Holding Annual Report 2010 90, 91 http://www.koc.com.tr/enus/Investor_Relations/FinancialStatementsStatistics/AnnualReports/Pages/Ann ualReports.aspx EC2 Climate Change and Emission Management 28, 29 Partial EC3 Koç Holding Retirement Pension Foundation 22 Partial EC5 Koç Compensation System 20 Partial EC7 Work Environment at Koç 18 Partial EC8 Koç University 10, 11 Partial Koç Supports Health 40, 41 Vehbi Koç Foundation 40 Koç Supports Education 42-44 Vocational Education: A Crucial Matter for the Nation 44 Koç Supports Art and Cultural Heritage 46, 47 EC9 Management Systems in Group Companies 27 Partial Environmental Training Provided in 2010 36 Koç Supports Education 43 Vocational Education: A Crucial Matter for the Nation 44 EN5 Message from the CEO 3 Full Efficiency at Koç 30, 32 EN6 Environmentally Friendly Products at Koç 34, 35 Full EN7 Efficiency at Koç 30, 32 Partial EN8 Efficiency at Koç 31 Full EN10 Efficiency at Koç 31 Full EN11 Biodiversity and Environmental Development Practices 33 Full EN13 Biodiversity and Environmental Development Practices 33 Full EN18 Climate Change and Emission Management 28, 29 For further information: Full http://www.koc.com.tr/enus/Corporate_Social_Responsibility/Holding_Activities/Pages/Environment.aspx EN20 Climate Change and Emission Management 29 Within the scope of the work stated, Group companies conduct measurement, Partial follow-up and emission reduction operations related to Nox, Sox, POP, VOC, HAP, PM, and other relevant air quality parameters specified in legal regulations. EN21 Efficiency at Koç 31 Partial EN22 Efficiency at Koç 32 Disposal methods are determined depending on waste management regulations, Partial directives and implemented environmental management standards of government agencies and the category and type of waste. EN26 Environmentally Friendly Products at Koç 34, 35 Full EN30 Environmental Management & Investment Expenditures 28 Partial LA1 Work Environment at Koç 18 As the report covers Koç Holding activities and projects carried out only in Turkey Full no regional breakdown is cited LA4 Labor Union Rights at Koç 17 Full LA5 Recruiting 19 Full LA6 Employee Health and Safety at Koç 13 Full LA8 Employee Health and Safety at Koç 14-16 Partial LA9 Employee Health and Safety at Koç 14-16 Partial LA10 Koç Academy and Training in our Companies 19 Full LA11 Koç Academy and Training in our Companies 19 Partial Leader Development Programs 21 LA12 Koç Compensation System 20 Full LA14 Koç Compensation System 20 Any personal property of employees can not be the reason of different treatment, Full like all processes of Koç Group companies, in remuneration process. For this reason, as long as they perform the same job, all Group employees are paid equal wages. Equality of women and men wages may vary only in seniority status, overtime, performance bonus and similar payment cases. HR2 Ethical Values at Koç 38 Partial HR4 One of our Group companies, Tüprafl, received two discrimination claims-one Full personal and one anonymous applicationsin reporting period. Claims were found to have no valid ground after necessary inspections performed by internal audit personel and investigation cases were closed. There has been no reported incidents of discrimination in Koç Holding and other Group companies in the reporting period. HR5 Labor Union Rights at Koç 17 Full HR6 Human Rights at Koç 12 Full HR7 Human Rights at Koç 12 Full SO1 Operational Entry and Decommissioning Practices 32 Partial SO2 Ethical Values at Koç 38 Partial SO3 Ethical Values at Koç 38 Partial SO4 Ethical Values at Koç 38 Partial SO6 Ethical Values at Koç 38 Relevant contribution to political parties, politicians and related institutions is Full zero. PR3 Ethical Values at Koç 39 Partial PR5 Our Stakeholders 8, 9 Full Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Disclaimer This Report is prepared for information All information contained in this Report and purposes only and it is not intended to form associated documents were believed to be This Report has been prepared by Koç Holding the basis of any investment decision. It does accurate for the time period it covers, expressed Afi (“Koç” or “Koç Holding” or “Koç Group”) not constitute or form part of an offer to sell or in good faith and based on sources believed in the context of United Nations Global issue, or a solicitation of an offer to purchase to be reliable. However, this does not constitute Compact Initiative which Koç adhered to on or subscribe for, any securities or other interests a representation, guarantee, warranty or March 30, 2006. in the Koç Group and no legal relations shall undertaking of any nature on Koç Group. be created by its issue. Accordingly, none of Koç Group or their All information and opinions contained in this respective advisors, directors or employees Report which does not purport to be shall be liable for any direct, indirect or comprehensive, have been provided to by Koç consequential loss or damage suffered by any Group and have not been independently verified person as a results of relying on any statement for this purposes. in or omission from this Report or in any other information or communications in connection with the Report. Contact For further information Oya Ünlü K›z›l Koç Holding Director of Corporate Communications and External Affairs Koç Holding A.fi. Nakkafltepe Azizbey Sok. No:1 Kuzguncuk 34674 ‹stanbul T: (216) 531 02 87 F: (216) 343 15 37 iletisim@koc.com.tr Consultant K›ymet-i Harbiye info@kiymetiharbiye.com www.koc.com.tr This report has been published using 100% recycled paper. No trees were harmed during its production.
