FUTURE READY Annual Report 2010–11 Our financial, social and environmental performance Australia Post can be very proud of the progress it has made towards achieving its Future Ready vision. I’m genuinely excited about the transformation the corporation is undergoing to become a modern postal enterprise that is equipped to grasp the opportunities of the digital economy. David A Mortimer AO Chairman About this report This year we have integrated our annual report and corporate responsibility report within one document. Our 2010–11 annual report covers our financial, social and environmental performance and discusses issues that are important to our broad range of stakeholders. You can read more about our materiality process, and how we identify significant issues to report, on page 16. In this report 2 Future Ready 32 Corporate responsibility 4 Year in review 34 Supporting our people 6 Chairman’s report 38 Investing in communities 7 Managing Director and CEO’s report 42 Connecting with our customers 8 Financial report 46 Managing our environmental impact 10 Corporate responsibility report 51 Financial and statutory reports 11 Performance summary at a glance 52 Corporate governance 12 About Australia Post 115 Community service obligations 14 Our board and executive committee 123 Statutory reporting requirements 16 Stakeholder engagement 130 Australia Post – the statistics 18 Core businesses 132 Index 20 Letters: A sustainable letters service 134 Glossary 24 Parcels: Winning in e-commerce 135 About this report and assurance statement 28 Retail: Providing trusted services 136 GRI index Our trusted brand, customer-focused approach and eParcel online fulfilment and tracking system are key reasons why multi-channel retailer Gazman selected Australia Post as its parcel delivery partner. AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 1 FUTURE READY In this our first year of Future Ready, I am delighted that we have achieved our main aim of stabilising business performance. Despite the challenges of our rapidly changing marketplace, we have increased profitability, sharpened our customer focus and exceeded all of our community service standards. Ahmed Fahour Managing Director and CEO THE PAST THE PRESENT THE FUTURE Continuous improvements to the Established clear and Rebuild the business and achieve efficiency of our delivery network. simple enterprise strategies to sustainable growth. guide us to future growth. A trusted and iconic Australian brand. Continue to deliver a reliable and Returned to profit growth, delivering accessible letters service to the Consistently exceeded our a profit before tax of $332.3 million. Australian community. prescribed performance standards. Exceeded our CSOs, with 96 per Grow our share of the e-commerce An unrivalled retail and cent of domestic letters delivered market and provide greater customer distribution network. on time or early. convenience and choice for delivery. BUT … Increased the number of retail Roll out our next-generation retail Digital substitution reducing letter outlets to 4,419. model to provide customers with volumes and retail foot traffic. greater access, convenience Reached agreement for, and and choice. Traditional revenue declining while implemented, our Fair Work Agreement. the cost of servicing an expanding Continue to manage costs, build Announced a $20 million Future our capabilities and support and delivery network is increasing. Skills program to develop skills reward our people. of award-level employees. Reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 5 per cent. 2 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 In 2010, we launched the Future Ready business transformation program, setting an exciting new direction of customer-driven, sustainable An important part of our plan is the maintenance growth for Australia Post. During the financial of our commitment to providing a reliable and accessible year, we took great strides in making that service to every Australian, wherever they live or work. vision a reality as we stabilised the business and laid solid foundations for a dynamic future. Until just a few years ago, Australia Post enjoyed ever-increasing revenue and profits. Stabilising the business Another highlight this year was the board’s As Australia’s population and economy grew, In 2010–11, we achieved what we set out endorsement of our new enterprise strategy, so too did our core business. But over the to do in the initial phase of Future Ready: which is essentially a Future Ready action plan. past few years, the rapid shifts by consumers we stabilised the business. This has established It retains Australia Post’s three enterprise to digital communications and transactions a solid foundation for the next Future Ready strategies established in October 2010: sharply eroded our letter volumes and phase, which is to rebuild the business. • restoring a self-sustaining letters business customer numbers and began to put stress As proof of our achievements this year, • growing our parcels business by winning on the cost base of our traditional mail delivery our revenue (up 2.8 per cent on last year) in e-commerce infrastructure. As a result, our profits have fallen – to the point where, last financial year, grew faster than our costs (up 1.2 per cent). • building a multi-channel services offer we returned our lowest profit in 20 years. This was the first time in four years that in digital and retail. our revenue growth outstripped cost It was apparent that a new direction was Underpinning these strategies are a focus growth. We also returned to profit growth essential if we were to not only survive but on business efficiency and service quality and (up 31.3 per cent on last year): with a before-tax also thrive in the era of the digital economy. a commitment to building the capabilities profit of $332.3 million this financial year, and engagement of our people. In April 2010, we began stepping boldly in compared with profit (before restructuring) that new direction under a business renewal of $253.2 million in 2009–10. We recognise that putting our customers at program that we call Future Ready. It involves the centre of all that we do will be critical to Every day, people throughout our business transforming Australia Post so that we are becoming Future Ready. So we are refreshing have responded to the challenges facing ready to tackle the challenges, and embrace our approach to sales and marketing to better Australia Post. Among the many highlights the opportunities, of the future. meet our customers’ needs. of this financial year, we signed a new Fair Of course, we began this change journey Work Agreement which gives our people The next phase with some enviable strengths and real certainty for their future. Central to the While there is much to be proud of in competitive advantages. We are an iconic agreement was the announcement of our the first year of our transformation program, and trusted brand with unrivalled retail $20 million Future Skills program, which we cannot lose sight of the fact that we and distribution networks. offers targeted training in business and are only part of the way along our journey employability skills to award-level employees. of renewal. There’s still much to be done. Now, as Australia Post brings an even greater focus to the needs of twenty-first century On 1 July 2010, we implemented our Over the next year, there will be a concerted customers, we are strengthening our digital restructured business model focused on focus on executing our enterprise strategies. capabilities and seizing the considerable strategic business units with profit-and-loss This means enhancing and refining some opportunities that growth in the global accountability and supported by lean, existing capabilities and developing new ones. e-commerce market presents for our parcel high-performing functional business units. It means identifying new revenue opportunities delivery business. In their first full year of operation, our new as we respond to customer and market needs. business units successfully implemented An important part of our plan is the a range of efficiency improvements and Our stakeholders are critical to our maintenance of our commitment to providing cost reduction measures. achievement of our aspirations. We will a reliable and accessible service to every deepen our engagement with them so that Australian, wherever they live or work. During the year, we also established our four their expectations inform our priorities – and culture pillars – safety, accountability, customer so that they support us on our change journey. focus and speed of action – and launched several programs to ensure that these are The future holds many challenges for postal at the heart of our business. The key programs services around the world. Australia Post we launched this year are Performance Ready, is embracing change so that we can not only which drives accountability across the overcome those challenges but also grasp business; and Safety. the opportunities that lie ahead. AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 3 Year in review 4 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 During 2010–11, Australia Post stabilised its business and laid the foundations for future growth by balancing the financial, social and environmental imperatives of its operations. This was a year of change and challenge but also one of achievement. BUSINESS $332.3 million 96% PROFIT BEFORE TAX OF DOMESTIC LETTERS 4,419 OUTLETS IN OUR RETAIL NETWORK, DELIVERED ON TIME OR EARLY UP FOUR ON LAST YEAR (CSO TARGET 94%) PEOPLE 73% OF AWARD-LEVEL EMPLOYEES $20 million INVESTED IN OUR FUTURE SKILLS 29.1% OF OUR EXECUTIVE WORKFORCE VOTED “YES” FOR OUR NEW FAIR PROGRAM TO PROVIDE SKILLS IS FEMALE WORK AGREEMENT FOR AWARD-LEVEL EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY $142.1million THE COST OF MEETING OUR $2.9 million IN PUBLIC DONATIONS COLLECTED $458,903 DONATED TO CHARITIES COMMUNITY SERVICE OBLIGATIONS THROUGH OUR OUTLETS THROUGH OUR WORKPLACE GIVING PROGRAM ENVIRONMENT 15,002 TONNES LESS GREENHOUSE GASES 31% OF NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE 539,035 CARTRIDGES AND 7,460 KG PRODUCED (TARGET: ACHIEVE 25% RECYCLED (TARGET: INCREASE OF MOBILE PHONE PRODUCTS REDUCTION BY 2020) TO 70% BY 2016) COLLECTED FOR RECYCLING THROUGH OUR OUTLETS YEAR IN REVIEW 5 Chairman’s report Like postal businesses around the world, Australia Post is now operating in a rapidly changing (and increasingly competitive) marketplace as a result of the generational shift towards electronic forms of communicating and transacting. David A Mortimer AO Chairman The development of new applications While they sound simple, these strategies Finally, I am excited about the new initiatives making communications technology more are actually very ambitious. The next great our management team is investigating to intuitive, reliable, mobile and user-friendly challenge for Australia Post’s leadership enhance our service levels and offer customers is having a huge impact on every area team is to engage our workforce in all of greater flexibility and choice for delivery. of our core business. In letters, for example, the operational change and new service These initiatives will demonstrate how nimble our volumes continue to fall as consumers initiatives underpinning these three strategies. and responsive Australia Post has become and businesses increasingly adopt digital I have every confidence that our talented to changes in the market, and that we are alternatives. Likewise, in our retail network, team will implement our strategy successfully a service leader in parcel delivery in Australia. customer foot traffic is falling as Australians over the coming years. My thanks shift to online methods of bill payment and The other really significant achievement this I’d like to pay tribute to Bill Mansfield, banking. In the parcels marketplace, the year is the return to profit growth, with our who passed away in February this year. Internet is having the opposite effect: driving revenue growing at a greater rate than our Bill made an invaluable contribution to the volume growth as consumers increasingly cost growth (2.8 per cent and 1.2 per cent Australia Post board since joining in 2008. shop online. respectively) for the first time in several years. He will be sadly missed. In 2009–10, we acknowledged that we The turnaround in the financial trajectory of needed to change our approach to doing our business during 2010–11 was remarkable, I’d like to express my sincere thanks to business in order to remain relevant to our and it has been achieved while maintaining the many people who have made this year customers and to thrive in the digital era. very high standards of community service. a success. Management, staff, licensees, The manifestation of our new approach is franchisees, partners and contractors around Importantly, being a Future Ready business the country are making a tremendous the Future Ready business renewal program, is about much more than bottom-line financial contribution to Australia Post’s current stability which we began implementing at the results. We also have an ongoing commitment and future growth. I also thank my fellow beginning of this financial year – under to social and environmental responsibility. board members for their continued support the direction of our new chief executive, We have some fantastic initiatives in place of me as chairman and their commitment Ahmed Fahour. that ensure that we reduce our environmental to the future prosperity of our business. Future Ready in action footprint and give back to the communities We have much to look forward to. I am immensely proud of the progress in which we operate. we have made this year towards achieving A new initiative I am particularly proud our Future Ready vision. Our priorities for of this year is our Reconciliation Action Plan. 2010–11 – the first year of our change program Launched in February, the plan provides – involved establishing a new strategic agenda, a long-term commitment to providing implementing a new business structure and sustainable employment opportunities David A Mortimer AO stabilising our financial performance. to Indigenous Australians. Chairman The board endorsed the new Future Ready As a government business enterprise enterprise strategy in November 2010. This with a set of community service standards, strategy aims to address the many competitive we remain fully committed to meeting our challenges facing the corporation and harness two primary objectives: (1) earning enough customer growth opportunities of the digital profit to ensure the sustainability of our economy. There are three simple points to business while returning an appropriate our strategy: dividend to our shareholder, and (2) continuing 1 Restore a self-sustaining letters business. to serve the entire Australian community, from the largest cities to the smallest towns, 2 Grow the full-value chain in parcels for many years to come. and win in e-commerce. 3 Build our trusted multi-channel services offer in retail and digital. 6 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Managing Director and CEO’s report Year in review I am very proud of what the corporation has achieved in 2010–11. We have just completed the first year of our Future Ready business renewal program, which is focused on transforming Australia Post into a more customer-centric and higher performing enterprise. About Ahmed Fahour Managing Director and CEO Australia Post Core businesses Our two goals are to deliver on our parcels volumes boomed this year as more We also conducted a strategic review community service obligations (CSOs) and consumers took advantage of the strong to ensure that we had the right capabilities to earn a commercial rate of return for our Aussie dollar to shop offshore, but we in place to achieve our Future Ready goals. Corporate shareholder. I am pleased to report that these lost money on the delivery of inbound parcels As a result, we divested two companies – have both been achieved. Delivering on our weighing under 2 kilograms because of the iPrint and PrintSoft – so that we could focus responsibility CSOs is not easy. I am proud that this year we structure of international payments to us our resources on achieving our three core have again met our target for domestic letter under the Universal Postal Union’s global strategies in our letters, parcels and delivery (96 per cent on time or early against rate-setting agreements. retail businesses. Financial and our target of 94 per cent) and we have finished Major achievements Overall, it was pleasing to see our commercial the year with 4,419 outlets, up four on last year. The signing of our new Fair Work Agreement non-reserved services business make a profit statutory reports Financial performance was a major highlight of this year. It provides of $405.3 million (up 18.7 per cent on last year). After declines in both revenue and profit an industrial relations framework while we This was largely driven by growth in parcels last year, we have returned to growth. rebuild the business and, importantly, gives and trusted services such as financial and Trading revenue was $5.0 billion (an employees stability and security for the future identity services. improvement of 2.8 per cent on 2009–10) as we continue to carefully manage costs Future headwinds and we delivered profit before tax of $332.3 in our loss-making reserved services activities. Despite our many achievements this year, million. This is up $79.1 million on last year’s The fact that 73 per cent of our people voted we cannot lose sight of the ongoing challenges result of $253.2 million (excluding restructuring “yes” to the FWA demonstrates that they that face our business. Digital substitution costs). While this is 31.3 per cent higher support the Future Ready program and are will continue to cause a decline in our letter than in 2010, it only brings us back into line committed to our future success. volumes and retail foot traffic. Australia’s with our 2009 profit result. The direction Another pleasing aspect of this year was the “two-speed” economy also means there is positive, but there is still much to be done. work we did on revitalising the corporation’s is strong growth in sectors such as mining Key factors contributing to our positive culture. We introduced four new culture pillars and agriculture, but the services sectors profit result included the additional revenue – safety, accountability, customer focus and (to which our products and services are more we gained from the full-year impact of the speed of action – to guide our behaviour aligned) are growing at a much slower rate. increase in the basic postage rate (from 55 and launched a number of programs to start These factors will continue to weigh heavily to 60 cents), and the strong performance embedding these behaviours in our business. on our future results. of our parcels business on the back of online Of particular note is our new Safety strategy, Thank you trade and growth in identity and money which will guide us towards a world-class transfer services. safety culture. The health and wellbeing of our I extend my thanks to everyone across people are a top priority and we are working the corporation, from posties to directors, The increase to the stamp price helped to for embracing the Future Ready business very hard across all areas of the corporation to reduce losses in our reserved letters business, renewal program and putting in the hard work achieve an injuryand incident-free workplace. from $250.1 million in 2010 to $91.3 million in to make it a reality. We have now completed 2011. However, this was offset by the continued We also clearly articulated our plan for the first year and we are ready to move into decline in the volume of domestic addressed future growth with an enterprise strategy the next phase, which is focused on rebuilding letters mailed in Australia (down 3.7 per cent that builds on our traditional strengths our business. There is hard work ahead of us, this year), while the cost of servicing Australia’s while also embracing the digital economy. but there are great rewards too. I look forward expanding delivery network continued to rise. The December acquisition of payment to another year of achievements in 2011–12. gateway company SecurePay is a perfect Electronic substitution is having an impact example of how this strategy is already beyond our letters business; it is also driving decisive action aimed at growth. contributing to declines in the number of agency-based bill payment and banking Other future-focused initiatives this year transactions conducted via our retail network. include the launch of our smartphone app, partnerships with eBay and PayPal and Ahmed Fahour Another factor that had a detrimental effect the trial of flexible new service options Managing Director and CEO on this year’s results was the strength of the such as 24/7 parcel collection. Australian dollar. Our inbound international YEAR IN REVIEW 7 Financial report Australia Post has made great progress towards stabilising business performance, despite being faced with some significant challenges. The continued decline in letter volumes, an uncertain economic environment (particularly with regard to the Australian retail sector) and environmental factors, such as the Queensland floods, have all had an impact on the corporation. Performance retail sector, resulted in a decline in revenue Capital expenditure Our efforts to improve business performance for our retail, agency and merchandise portfolio. As we shift our focus to rebuilding our contributed to our statutory profit before tax We have continued to expand and improve our business, an assessment of our investment increase of $229.3 million (from last year’s proof of identity services through image capture expenditure was made. Total consolidated $103.0 million). and authentication, and this resulted in an capital investment expenditure for 2010–11 increase in revenue within identity services. was $269.3 million. We have continued The improved statutory result is partly The strength of the Australian dollar throughout to direct approximately half of our annual attributable to the restructuring costs 2010–11 encouraged Australian consumers expenditure towards the maintenance and recognised last year. These costs have been to purchase from overseas online retailers and replacement of assets (predominately in our incurred to reposition our business portfolios this increased our international inbound parcel postal and retail networks), with the balance to be more responsive to our customers’ volumes. This, together with a modest increase of expenditure being directed towards cost needs and preferences in a digital economy. in domestic volumes, resulted in overall parcel reduction initiatives and management systems Excluding the one-off restructuring costs volume growth of 10.9 per cent. to position Australia Post for growth in the recognised in 2009–10, earnings before tax parcels market. have increased by $79.1 million, from $253.2 Dividends million last year to $332.3 million this year. Outlook Dividends payable from the 2010–11 result The improved earnings were boosted by federal are expected to total $173.2 million, which Although the Australian economy continues and state election mailings and the increase is in line with a 75 per cent payout ratio of to benefit from a strong and dominant to the basic postage rate (BPR). This was the corporation’s after-tax result. This dividend resources sector, consumer confidence partially offset by the foreign exchange impacts is well above last year’s level of $79.1 million and retail uncertainty will continue to on our international inbound postages due and returns payments broadly to the level affect our overall performance. to the strong Australian dollar, and subdued experienced in 2008–09. As we pursue our strategies over the retail conditions. coming year and adapt to these challenges, Cash management Revenue from our letters portfolio grew by Australia Post will begin to rebuild its Cash at 30 June 2011 is $101.5 million 2.6 per cent, mainly as a result of the five cent business model to underpin new revenue higher than last year. This is due to the increase in the BPR in July 2010. The volume with sustainable cost structures. We will enhanced operating cashflow during the of addressed domestic letters declined by implement our parcel strategy to grow market current period and the fact that no final 3.7 per cent this year (but excluding the share and expand our range of financial and dividend was paid this year for the 2009–10 federal election showed a 4.6 per cent decline), other services delivered through physical financial year. These cash levels are adequate representing 89 million fewer articles passing and online channels. to support targeted capital investment and through our network. While an improvement ongoing capital maintenance. on last year’s 5.5 per cent contraction, this is an ongoing challenge as our customers In line with the stronger cash position, will continue to move to digital methods key gearing metrics have improved with for communicating and transacting. debt to debt plus equity falling to 23.6 per cent (from 26.4 per cent last year) and interest Although we remain Australia’s largest retail cover improving to 10.9 times (from 4.6 times network, this year we continued to experience in 2009–10), which is approximate to a decline in the number of customers visiting 2008–09 levels. our outlets. Weak consumer confidence and economic uncertainty, especially within the 8 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review About Australia Post Core businesses Profit/(loss) from reserved services $m Operating profit before tax $m Revenue $m 07 24 07 561.7 07 4,711.1 Corporate 08 -1.7 08 592.2 08 4,959.2 09 -69.2 09 380.9 09 4,985.3 responsibility 10 -250.1 10 103.0 10 4,870.6 11 -91.3 11 332.3 11 5,006.6 Financial and Mail volumes m Shareholder return on equity % Declared dividends $m statutory reports 07 5,515.8 07 14.2 07 296.9 08 5,609.4 08 15.4 08 446.2 09 5,323.4 09 14.1 09 222.4 10 5,145.0 10 5.7 10 79.1 11 5,034.5 11 13.4 11 173.2 Ordinary dividend declared Special dividend declared Capital expenditure $m Five-year trends 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 07 283.7 08 295.1 Mail volumes m 5,515.8 5,609.4 5,323.4 5,145.0 5,034.5 09 270.1 Revenue $m 4,711.1 4,959.2 4,985.3 4,870.6 5,006.6 10 258.4 Return on revenue % 11.9 11.9 7.6 2.1 6.6 11 269.3 Profit before tax $m 561.7 592.2 380.9 103.0 332.3 Profit after income tax $m 400.7 432.2 260.5 89.5 241.2 Profit/(loss) from reserved services $m 24.0 (1.7) (69.2) (250.1) (91.3) Shareholder return on equity % 14.2 15.4 14.1 5.7 13.4 Labour productivity (illustrating five-year cumulative growth) % Return on average operating assets % 19.6 19.4 12.2 3.8 10.9 Debt to debt plus equity % 15.9 15.4 23.3 26.4 23.6 07 1.4 Ordinary dividend declared $m 296.9 334.6 184.0 79.1 173.2 08 4.0 09 0.8 Special dividend declared $m 0.0 111.6 38.4 0.0 0.0 10 0.8 Interest cover (times) 18.4 15.6 11.0 4.6 10.9 11 2.5 Cumulative labour productivity % 1.4 4.0 0.8 0.8 2.5 Capital expenditure $m 283.7 295.1 270.1 258.4 269.3 YEAR IN REVIEW 9 Corporate responsibility report Given the Future Ready transformation, this year has been challenging and much of our CR program has focused on supporting our people through the change. Considerable effort has also gone into reducing our greenhouse gas emissions to achieve our 2020 carbon reduction target. 2010–11 highlights has a role to play in helping us to achieve Achieving our Workplace Giving target This year marks the end of our three-year our target. (See pages 46 to 49 for more also proved a challenge as our people made corporate responsibility (CR) program, details on our environmental performance.) generous personal donations to the various which was launched in 2007. All of the natural disaster relief funds established in the Meanwhile, we revised our community initiatives established under the program wake of the Queensland and Victorian floods, engagement strategy to reflect the new have been completed or are ongoing. the Japan and Pacific disaster and the New strategic direction of the corporation and An overview of our major achievements Zealand earthquake. ensure that we continue to make a positive during the three-year period is provided contribution to Australian society. This year Outlook on page 33. we began implementing the strategy, which Work is now underway to review our A number of new initiatives were launched saw the launch of a new partnership with CR performance against best practice. to bring about cultural change and engage and Foundation House to support their UCan2 The outcomes of this review will be used equip our people with the skills and capabilities program to promote social cohesion. We also in the development of a revised CR strategy, that will be needed to execute our enterprise achieved our Workplace Giving participation which will determine our long-term approach strategy successfully. These include Future target of 5 per cent and provided a broad range to monitoring our environmental and social Skills, Future Leaders, Performance Ready of support for communities affected by the performance and managing the various risks and our new Safety program, I Am for Zero. Queensland floods. (See pages 38 to 41.) and challenges facing our business. The views (See pages 34 to 37 for more details.) Challenges this year of our stakeholders will inform the strategy to ensure that our future approach to We also achieved a significant reduction in This year, we faced two main challenges. CR addresses their needs and concerns. our greenhouse gas emissions to a level on The first was maintaining employee par with the emissions we produced in 2000 engagement and morale through significant We will also focus on ensuring that all areas – more than a decade ago. We are on track change, something that all organisations of the corporation not only have a clear to meet our board-endorsed carbon reduction face when they embark on a transformation understanding of our long-term sustainability target of 25 per cent by 2020. Reducing our process. But we have been proactive in goals and commitments but also consider emissions is now a key performance indicator monitoring this and developing initiatives these in their business planning and (KPI) for the CEO and a gateway KPI for all to support our people. day-to-day activities. employees, so each and every one of our people Stakeholder Council statement By integrating its annual and corporate responsibility reports this year, Australia Post has demonstrated its commitment to long-term sustainability, from a financial, social and environmental viewpoint. The council recognises that the corporation is in a major transition period as it adapts its business to respond to the many challenges it faces. With this in mind, we congratulate Australia Post on showing leadership in integrating its reports and providing its stakeholders with a balanced account of its overall performance this year. In closing, we believe that the report is a factual representation of the corporation’s financial, social and environmental performance and that it is well written and easy to understand. We appreciate that, as part of its Future Ready program, Australia Post is revisiting its CR strategy and we expect to see greater integration across all its business areas as this new approach is implemented over the coming years. Australia Post Stakeholder Council August 2011 10 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Performance summary at a glance Year in review This first year of our Future Ready renewal program saw achievements that had a positive impact not only within the corporation but also on the communities in which we operate. The corporation’s transformation continues and, while challenges remain, the outlook is very much one About of sustainable, customer-driven growth. Australia Post Highlights Challenges Outlook Core businesses Our business Corporate responsibility Improved the efficiency of our network We are delivering fewer letters to an expanding Continue to improve network efficiency by sequencing more than 3,000 delivery rounds network of delivery points each year. and promote the benefits of physical mail. under our Future Delivery Design program. Inbound international parcels weighing less Continue to improve our network efficiency The parcels portfolio achieved 5.3 per cent than 2 kilograms operate at a loss because and flexibility, including providing greater Financial and revenue growth. the cost of delivering them outweighs the customer choice for sending and reimbursement we receive from overseas receiving parcels. Sold our 3 millionth gift card and introduced postal operators. new Australia Post-branded gift and online Build our trusted services offering, shopping cards. Retail foot traffic continues to decline as particularly through further development statutory reports Australians send fewer letters and increasingly of multi-channel and self-service use digital channels for bill payment and banking. capabilities, and equip stores for online sellers. Our people Launched Performance Ready, to drive a culture Maintaining staff focus and morale through Embed our culture pillars – safety, of accountability, and I Am for Zero, to improve the first year of our transformation. accountability, customer focus and speed our safety culture and performance. of action – with particular focus on safety. Our communities Revised our community engagement Ensuring that we continue to meet the needs Establish new programs and partnerships strategy to align with our Future Ready of the community as we adapt our business to reflect our revised community enterprise strategy. to the changing marketplace. engagement strategy. Our customers Refocused our sales force to better meet Maintaining customer satisfaction levels through Offer our customers sustainable customer needs and deliver relevant a period of significant change. products and services and adapt and valued solutions. to the changing marketplace. Our environment Reduced greenhouse gas emissions by Finding new strategies to further reduce our Undertake trials of new building and vehicle 5 per cent during the year. dependence on energy and fuel derived from technology to identify long-term strategies non-renewable sources. to reduce carbon emissions. YEAR IN REVIEW 11 About Australia Post Australia Post continued to provide an accessible service to Australians, expanding its network of retail outlets to 4,419 this year. 12 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 An iconic and trusted brand Year in review For more than 200 years Australia Post has been an integral part of the community, from the nation’s largest cities to its smallest towns. Despite a changing world, we have continued to provide a reliable and accessible letters service to all Australians. But to remain financially sustainable, we must use our reputation About as a trusted services provider to deliver products, services and capabilities to achieve growth, well into the future. Australia Post Core businesses Australia Post is a government business Our profits are used for two purposes. The first (2011 AMR Reptrak brand reputation study), enterprise which operates under the is to return a dividend to our sole shareholder, we are in a good position to achieve this. Australian Postal Corporation Act 1989. the federal government. The second is to But we need to develop new capabilities Corporate reinvest in developing new products, services and a product and service offering that will responsibility A completely self-funding business, we have and capabilities so that our business can enable to us to compete in the digital world. a dual responsibility to operate according to meet the changing needs of Australians. Our Future Ready renewal program will sound commercial practice and to meet our enable us to achieve this. community service obligations (CSOs). Under Our vision is to be a trusted services provider our CSOs, we are committed to providing for the real and digital economy. With Australia’s an accessible, affordable and reliable letters largest retail and distribution network and Financial and service for all Australians, wherever they reside. the second most trusted brand in Australia statutory reports Our corporate structure Managing Director and CEO Mail Services Parcel Services Retail Services eServices Enterprise Sales Finance and Business Strategic business units Corporate Affairs (HR) and Marketing Services Functional business units Australia Post was restructured outside of the reporting period to better align its corporate structure with its enterprise strategy. These changes are reflected in this organisational chart. Our products and services Our business partners (at 30 June 2011) Key facts • Domestic and international Joint ventures • We operate 4,419 outlets, including letter delivery. Australian air Express (with Qantas): 2,552 in rural and remote areas. • On-time international, domestic and domestic air linehaul and cargo • We maintain 16,036 street express parcel delivery services. terminal operations. posting boxes. • Trusted financial, government Star Track Express (with Qantas): • We have a diverse workforce of and identity services. market-leading road and air more than 33,000 people speaking • Data and customer delivery service. 50 languages. acquisition services. Sai Cheng Logistics International • We consistently exceed our • Document management (with China Post): supply chain community service obligations, and processing. management and logistics. including letter delivery to 98.8 per cent of Australian • Cross-town courier services. Subsidiary companies addresses five days per week. • Post office boxes and locked bags. SecurePay: secure business-to• Every week we deliver on average • Collectable stamps, coins and business and business-to-customer 97.8 million items to more than associated products. payment gateway. 10.9 million delivery points. • Complementary retail products, Decipha: mailroom and document • We are ranked the second most including packaging, stationery, workflow services. trusted brand in Australia. communications, gifts and cards. Post Logistics Hong Kong: freight • Having celebrated our bicentenary in • Secure business-to-business and forwarding services. 2009, we are the oldest continuously business-to-customer running organisation in Australia. payment gateway. ABOUT AUSTRALIA POST 13 Our board and executive committee Australia Post Board 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 1 David A Mortimer AO 3 Ahmed Fahour Australia and the Tourism and Transport Forum. BEcon (Hons), FCPA, FAICD BEcon (Hons), MBA, FAIM Ms Bingham-Hall is currently chairman of Chairman (non-executive) Managing Director and CEO Advocacy Services Australia and a director at BlueScope Steel Limited, The Global David Mortimer has extensive experience Ahmed Fahour has held a number of senior Foundation and SCEGGS Darlinghurst Limited. in banking, finance and transportation. executive positions within the finance and He was appointed chairman of Australia Post banking industries in Australia and overseas. in September 2006 (current term expires in He was appointed managing director and 5 Peter Carne September 2012) after serving as deputy CEO of Australia Post in February 2010. BA, LLB, FAICD, FAIM chairman from June 2001. Formerly the managing He was previously CEO of Citigroup (Australia Director (non-executive) director and CEO of TNT, Mr Mortimer is and New Zealand), National Australia Bank Peter Carne has served in both the public chairman of Crescent Capital Partners Limited, (Australia) and Gulf Finance Group (Bahrain). and private sectors and is a former CEO of Leighton Holdings Limited and the Defence Mr Fahour is a senior fellow of the Financial the Queensland Law Society and a former Industry Innovation Board, and a director Services Institute of Australia and chairman director of Lexon Insurance Proprietary Limited of Petsec Energy Limited and Clayton of the Rip Curl Group and the Council for and Tarong Energy Corporation. Appointed to Utz Foundation. Australian–Arab Relations. He is also chairman the Australia Post board in December 2009 of AUX Investments, deputy chairman of Sai (current term expires in December 2012), Cheng Logistics and a director of International 2 Mark Darras Mr Carne is currently the Public Trustee Post Corporation (IPC) and Murdoch of Queensland where he is the chairman LLM, BA, LLB, BEd Children’s Research Institute. Deputy Chairman (non-executive) of its investment board. Mark Darras has significant experience as 4 Penelope Bingham-Hall a senior counsel and human resources executive. BA (Ind Des), FAICD, SA (Fin) A member of the Australia Post board since Director (non-executive) October 2008, he was appointed deputy chairman in June 2010 (current term expires Penelope Bingham-Hall is a company director in June 2013). Mr Darras previously with experience across business, government, served as a human resources and strategy the investment community and the media. executive manager with Goodman Fielder Appointed to the Australia Post board in Limited. He is currently a special counsel May 2011 (current term expires in May 2014), with Sparke Helmore Lawyers and a director she is a former executive general manager at John Holland Engineering Proprietary strategy at Leighton Holdings Limited and a Limited. Mr Darras is also chairman of the former director of Infrastructure Partnerships Australia Post Human Resources Committee. 14 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review Australia Post executive committee About Australia Post Ahmed Fahour Jim Marshall Christine Corbett Managing Director and CEO Executive General Manager, Executive General Manager, Core businesses Postal Services & Distribution Retail Services and Express Services Corporate responsibility Richard Umbers Ewen Stafford Chris Blake Executive General Manager, Executive General Manager, Executive General Manager, Financial and eServices & Strategy Corporate Services & Finance People and Community statutory reports and Marketing 6 Ian K Warner Retirements William Mansfield RFD, LLM, FAICD Margaret Gibson LLB Director (non-executive) LLB (Hons), BCom, FCA, FTIA, FAICD Director (non-executive) Ian Warner is a distinguished legal practitioner Director (non-executive) William Mansfield passed away in February with extensive commercial experience. Margaret Gibson is a retired partner of 2011. He was a well-respected practitioner Appointed to the Australia Post board in PricewaterhouseCoopers where she was in the industrial relations field who served June 2001 (current term expires in May 2012), a member of the board of partners. Ms Gibson as a commissioner of the Australian Industrial he is a former senior partner of Jackson was appointed to the Australia Post board in Relations Commission (now Fair Work Australia). McDonald Lawyers in Perth. Mr Warner September 2004 and is an external member Appointed to the Australia Post board in is currently deputy chairman of Amcom of the Australian Taxation Office’s Audit October 2008, Mr Mansfield was a former Telecommunications Limited and a director of Committee and a director of the RSPCA director of Telstra Corporation Limited, Cape Bouvard Investments Proprietary Limited. (Queensland). Ms Gibson retired from the CSIRO and Comcare. board in September 2010. 7 The Hon. Trish White BE, BA, GAICD, FIEAust Jennifer Seabrook Director (non-executive) BCom FAICD Trish White has broad experience in the Director (non-executive) public and private sectors across a number Jennifer Seabrook has held a variety of of industries, including resources and energy, senior executive positions within the finance defence, transport and communications. industry in her executive career. Appointed Appointed to the Australia Post board in to the Australia Post board in July 2010, July 2010 (current term expires in July 2013), Ms Seabrook retired from the board in June Ms White is a former cabinet minister and 2011. Currently a special adviser for Gresham chair of the South Australian Parliament’s Partners Limited, she is also a non-executive Economic and Finance Committee. She is director of the Bank of Western Australia currently the executive strategic adviser for Limited, Export Finance & Insurance Corporation, Worley Parsons and a director of the Motor IRESS Market Technology Limited and Iluka Accident Commission. Resources Limited. ABOUT AUSTRALIA POST 15 Stakeholder engagement Australia Post is an iconic brand with a long history and high levels of trust among the Australian public. So the community and our stakeholders have high expectations about what we do and how we conduct our business. We are committed to building strong relationships with our stakeholders so that we can understand their needs and expectations and use those to inform our strategies and activities. Broadly, Australia Post defines its stakeholders Stakeholder research To identify material issues for this year’s as employees, customers, regulators, In July 2010, Australia Post commissioned annual report, we conducted a materiality shareholder (the federal government), independent firm Allen Consulting Group to assessment with support from independent suppliers, industry bodies, community groups, conduct research that measures our reputation consultancy Halcrow. To inform this process, the media, opinion leaders and the broader with key external stakeholders. This included we used the results of our 2010 stakeholder Australian community. in-depth interviews and an online survey. research, as well as feedback received directly from stakeholders on our 2009–10 standalone Our approach to stakeholder engagement is The results provided valuable insights into CR report. As a result of this process, five new based on developing a sound understanding the views of our stakeholders, including indicators were identified for reporting this year. of the views and expectations of individuals, their satisfaction with Australia Post’s See the GRI table on page 136 for the full list organisations and community representatives communication and engagement. The research of indicators covered in this report. who are critical to helping us achieve our goals. found that overall we have a strong or good This engagement occurs through a variety reputation with stakeholders across most Being Future Ready of channels. A summary of the activities of the dimensions of corporate reputation, Critical to Australia Post’s Future Ready undertaken this year is provided opposite. and this includes comparison with competitors transformation program is the ability to adapt Our stakeholder council and peers. However, the research made a and improve our approach to stakeholder number of observations and identified areas engagement. This year we began developing Australia Post’s stakeholder council is an where improvements could be made. an enterprise-wide approach to stakeholder external advisory body of 12 individuals whose These included: engagement to help us better understand role is to help us improve our stakeholder • we perform strongly for products and and coordinate the various stakeholder engagement and communications. services but rate low for innovation interactions across our business. Council members (a list of whom is available • compared with competitors and peers, A number of initiatives are underway to on our website) offer a range of views and are we have a strong reputation across support and promote stakeholder engagement drawn from various professions, including small, all dimensions except leadership throughout the corporation, including stakeholder medium and large business, industrial relations, • stakeholders have a high expectation and key project mapping, reviewing engagement direct marketing and corporate responsibility of Australia Post in terms of governance methodology and the establishment of a unit (CR) across rural and regional Australia. and they expect more from us. dedicated to this critical aspect of our business. The council is chaired by an Australia Post We are confident that this will lead to a greater board member, and meetings are attended These findings are being used to review understanding of our stakeholders’ expectations by senior Australia Post executives. our strategy and how we engage and of Australia Post and to improved business As per its charter, the stakeholder council communicate with stakeholders. and stakeholder outcomes. met three times during the 2010–11 financial Materiality Our focus next year will be on effectively year. Members discussed and advised on We identify the material issues associated embedding these management processes a number of issues relating to our services, with our business and our strategy through a in the business and establishing an customer communication and corporate formal materiality assessment, which includes appropriate stakeholder management responsibility. The council also conducted a consultation with stakeholders. Stakeholders’ system to efficiently collect, manage formal review of our CR performance this year, views are taken into consideration when and monitor our engagement activities. about which there is a statement on page 10. developing our CR strategy and determining the material issues to report on. Material issues for Australia Post stakeholders LABELLING ENERGY USE MATERIAL WORKFORCE USE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION FLEXIBILITY LOCAL ECONOMY ACCESS TO COMPLIANCE MAIL BIODIVERSITY EMPLOYMENT FLEET COMPOSITION WATER PRODUCTS AND SERVICES GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS PRIVACY ROAD SAFETY PROCUREMENT CORRUPTION LABOUR RELATIONS OH&S MARKETING TRANSPORT TRAINING AND EDUCATION LOCAL COMMMUNITY IMPACTS DIVERSITY ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 16 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Our stakeholders: who they are 2010–11 engagement activities Year in review Government Our shareholder and portfolio ministers. Consultation on our rolling three-year business plan. Federal, state and territory members of parliament. Provision of quarterly shareholder briefings. Commonwealth departments and agencies, local government Participation of senior executives in Senate Estimates hearings. and special organisations that oversee portfolios relevant to Australia Post and its business. Provision of reports under the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting System About and Energy Efficiencies Opportunities Act 2006. Customers Australia Post Major corporate and government customers. Launched Driving Business Online initiative. Small to medium-sized business customers. Introduced localised sales model based at business centres to work with Core businesses the local small-business community. General public who contribute to our success by purchasing our products and services. Conducted industry sector-based workshops to showcase our business solutions and obtain feedback. Undertook customer briefing sessions with the managing director and CEO. Regulators Corporate Federal and state bodies responsible for the Notification to ACCC to change bulk business mail services. control and supervision of the postal industry Provided a submission to the Productivity Commission’s inquiry into the retail sector. responsibility and organisational compliance matters. Workforce Employees, contractors and licensees. Reached agreement for, and implemented, our new Fair Work Agreement. Financial and Unions that represent our employees. Gave Future Ready strategy briefings to all staff. Launched our Safety awareness campaign, I Am for Zero. statutory reports Launched Future Skills, a $20 million employee training and development program. Launched our Reconciliation Action Plan. Held International Women’s Day events for employees across the country. Regularly delivered Post Journal (Australia Post’s employee magazine) to employees, contractors and other key stakeholders. Conducted Staff Attitude Survey pulse-check. Provided regular management and staff updates on environmental issues, including energy efficiency and carbon reduction program. Held annual licensed post office conference in major capital cities. Held a national sales conference for 200-plus members of the sales team. Suppliers Manufacturers, packagers, distributors, wholesalers and Continued to engage with suppliers to increase the number covered by our supplier code of conduct. other providers who generate the goods and/or services Wrote to suppliers outlining our Future Ready program. critical to Australia Post’s daily operations and ongoing ability to service both residential and business markets. Industry Organisations that act as industry peak bodies for the Achieved a 3 per cent improvement on last year’s performance documented sectors and markets in which we operate, as well as in the international IPC Sustainability Report. sectors and markets affecting our suppliers and competitors. Australia Post is a member of several industry groups. A full list is provided on our website (www.auspost.com.au/2011annualreport). Community groups A diverse group of non-government organisations (NGOs) Began a refresh of our Community Engagement strategy and framework. involved in an array of social issues, including education, Had ongoing communication with community groups in relation to changes to our network, health and welfare, sport, the arts, rural and regional facilities, products or services. development and small business. Launched our SES partnership and continued to support community-based initiatives. Environmental groups A diverse group of government and NGOs involved in Sponsored Banksia Environmental Foundation’s People’s Choice Award. a range of environmental issues relevant to our business. Continued support of initiatives such as MobileMuster and Cartridges 4 Planet Ark. Media Individuals who represent print, broadcast and online media Developed a comprehensive national and state media relations strategy. organisations that engage with business and/or consumer Held media briefings on annual results with the Australia Post chairman and managing director markets and publish and broadcast at the international, and CEO. national, metropolitan, regional or rural levels. ABOUT AUSTRALIA POST 17 Core businesses Australia Post is enhancing its product and service offering to better meet the needs of customers in a digital world. 18 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 A platform for growth Year in review Our Future Ready transformation program is underpinned by three board-endorsed strategies that will help us rebuild the corporation and achieve ongoing profit growth. About Australia Post Core businesses These three strategies are: A major step towards making our letters The completion of the first two phases • Restore a self-sustaining letters business. business self-sustaining was the continuation of the Channel Enablement – Point of Sale • Grow the full-value chain in parcels and of Future Delivery Design, a multi-faceted project this year greatly improved our ability Corporate program that has been boosting operational to deliver trusted services via multiple channels, responsibility win in e-commerce. efficiency and flexibility throughout the delivery making us even more attractive to customers • Build a trusted multi-channel offer network (see page 23). Also pointing to a and clients (see page 31). From the launch in digital and retail. sustainable future for letters was the ongoing of Australia Post’s smartphone app to These clear and simple strategies are success of our businesses that combine the a significantly enhanced online shopping Financial and helping us overcome the challenges facing benefits of physical mail and digital technology experience (see pages 29 to 30), we continued our business and driving us to seek new (see pages 22 to 23). to augment our unrivalled physical reach. statutory reports revenue opportunities that respond to This year’s acquisition of SecurePay is an Next year, we will continue to trial new customer and market needs. Supported by example of how Australia Post is positioning products and services and introduce those that our trusted brand and unrivalled delivery itself to capture a share of the e-commerce best suit Australian businesses and consumers. network, we are in a strong position to realise market. Providing multi-channel business-toWe will look for other opportunities to grow, these strategies over the coming years. business and business-to-customer payment especially by developing our digital capabilities. While our primary focus this year has been services, the SecurePay platform is particularly Reducing costs is another important focus, on stabilising the corporation and building attractive to small to medium-sized but optimising the performance of our retail a solid foundation for the next phase of businesses selling goods online (see page 26). and delivery networks is also about enhancing our Future Ready transformation, which is Another e-commerce win was our partnership the quality of our service. to rebuild our business, our strategic business with Australia’s most popular online shopping We have now established a stable platform units have started to execute these strategies destination, eBay. Several initiatives, including for growth. Our talented workforce is dedicated during 2010–11. co-branded satchels and boxes, generated to helping us realise the full potential of our substantial business for Australia Post (see This year we delivered some exciting Future Ready program so that we can continue page 26). new products and services and we trialled to provide valued, trusted and reliable services a number of pilot programs designed to further to all Australians – today, tomorrow and well improve customer access, convenience and in the future. choice – from third party stores-in-store that expand our retail outlets’ offering through to various 24/7 service options (see page 30) and greater flexibility in our parcel delivery service Our primary focus this year has been on stabilising the corporation (see page 27). and building a solid foundation for the next phase of our Future Ready transformation, which is to rebuild our business. CORE BUSINESSES 19 LETTERS: A SUSTAINABLE LETTERS SERVICE Express Post delivery is a valuable service for our customers, particularly small-to-medium businesses. Australia Post recognises that the role of This year alone, addressed domestic letter Highlights and challenges letters in the communications marketplace volumes fell 3.7 per cent, but this was less With our letter volumes falling again this year, is changing and that we must reshape our than in the previous year, when volumes fell the June 2010 increase in the basic postage letters business to adapt to the realities 5.5 per cent. This year’s slower rate of volume rate (BPR) – from 55 to 60 cents – was the of a digital-enabled world. decline can be partly explained by a series main factor contributing to overall revenue of major mailings associated with federal growth of 2.6 per cent in the letters portfolio. Our first enterprise strategy – to restore and state elections (in NSW and Victoria). (Despite the BPR increase, Australia’s postage a self-sustaining letters business – is all about adapting our letters operations and While our letter volumes are falling, our rate remains the third cheapest among our services to align with changing customer delivery network keeps growing as Australia’s OECD countries.) and community needs. population expands. This year, around 200,000 Once again this year, we met or exceeded new addresses were added to our nationwide all of the prescribed CSO performance The generational shift to digital forms of delivery network. (See graph opposite.) standards, including our on-time delivery communicating is the main reason for the decline in our letter volumes for a third Under our community service obligations target for domestic letters, bulk mail and consecutive year in 2010–11. Over that (CSOs) performance standards, we are international inbound letters. (See page 115 three-year period, the number of domestic committed to delivering letters five days a for more details.) letters posted in Australia has fallen by week to 98 per cent of Australian addresses. The great challenge for our letters business around 12 per cent. is to become financially self-sustaining at We honour these performance standards as part of our commitment to providing a letters a time when we are delivering fewer letters service that is accessible to all Australians – to a wider network of delivery points. wherever they reside. In response to this challenge, we made great strides this year in the roll-out of our Future Delivery Design program. The program has improved operational efficiency and The generational shift to digital forms of communicating reduced costs through a combination of is the main reason for the decline in our letter volumes automation, process redesign and improvement to network systems. (See page 23.) for a third consecutive year in 2010–11. 20 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review Highlights Challenges Outlook About • Improved the efficiency of our • We are delivering fewer letters. • Further improve the efficiency Australia Post network by sequencing more than of our network. • Our delivery network is expanding 3,000 delivery rounds under our Future each year as our population grows. • Promote and enhance the benefits Core businesses Delivery Design program. of physical mail and the relationship • Delivered 96 per cent of domestic between print and online. letters on time or early. • Make more products available online. • Delivered 96.3 per cent of bulk mail on time or early. • Serviced more than 98.8 per cent of Corporate Australia’s delivery points five days a week. responsibility • Unaddressed Mail volumes rose by 12 per cent. Financial and • Our Decipha subsidiary enjoyed revenue growth of 11 per cent. statutory reports Trends over a decade: letter volumes against delivery points Product and service performance Mail items billions Delivery points millions During 2010–11, electronic substitution 5.8 12 continued to have an impact on our volumes, with the number of addressed domestic letters 5.6 11 sent falling by 3.7 per cent. Despite the volume 5.4 decline, the increase in the basic postage rate 10 resulted in revenue growth of 3.3 per cent 5.2 for domestic letters. 5.0 9 Among bulk mail, PreSort volumes declined 4.8 8 by 1.7 per cent while Print Post volumes declined by 5.5 per cent. 4.6 7 4.4 Due to federal and state elections, Unaddressed Mail volumes rose by 12 per cent, resulting in an 6 4.2 increase in revenue of 13 per cent. 4.0 5 20 20 20 05 06 07 20 09 10 11 01 02 03 20 20 20 07 20 20 20 –0 –0 –0 04 05 06 –0 08 09 10 2 3 4 – – – 8 – – – 96% ON-TIME DELIVERY 96.3% ON-TIME DELIVERY 98.8% DELIVERY POINTS SERVICED FOR DOMESTIC LETTERS FOR BULK MAIL FIVE DAYS A WEEK CORE BUSINESSES 21 Letters: A sustainable letters service FROM ORIGIN TO LETTERBOX Our Postbillpay service has been the basis of a long and successful partnership with Origin Energy. Building on this, in April 2010 Origin Energy invited us to tender for the print production of its outbound mail. Our tender was successful, and we began producing Origin’s printed material in South Australia in June 2011. Nationwide roll-out is expected by November. The three-year contract will involve Australia Post preparing some 21 million articles each year for Origin. Key to our successful tender was our ability to offer greater efficiency in printing, distribution and payment processing. The breadth of our products and services, both physical and digital, meant that Australia Post was the strategic, whole-of-business partner that Origin was looking for. “We need partners like Australia Post who can help us make a difference to our customers.” Christina Wilson, Executive Customer Sales and Operations, Origin Energy. The decline in international mail volumes to some of our reserved letters services used Digital communications was most pronounced in outward mail by businesses. The changes predominantly and data services (down 11.6 per cent). While this category relate to our PreSort letters service. While this Australia Post is capitalising on the everremains profitable, the Australian dollar’s did include a price increase, a key objective expanding capabilities of digital technology strength continues to reduce revenue from of the change was to encourage the use of to maintain letters as a convenient, flexible inward items, which was down 4.4 per cent the Off-Peak service by making it more attractive and effective communication option. this year. When we deliver inbound mail we to customers. These changes came into are reimbursed by overseas postal services effect on 4 July 2011, just outside of the Decipha according to a rate set by the Universal Postal reporting period. Our Decipha subsidiary (www.decipha.com.au) Union. However, the value of this rate has is a provider of inbound information management New service developments reduced as our currency has strengthened. services, including document imaging, data Throughout 2010–11, we continued to market capture, automated document categorisation, Despite this challenging environment, our range of letter products and extend our both domestically and internationally, mailroom management, online forms, and multi-channel delivery options to increase workflow and electronic archive solutions. our independently monitored and audited revenue growth. Among our most significant delivery performance met all targets in achievements was the expansion of Send Me, During 2010–11, Decipha experienced strong 2010–11. One of our key performance standards a service that enables consumers to request revenue growth of 11 per cent. Highlights under our community service obligations is samples, brochures and other advertiser for the year included: that we must deliver 94 per cent of non-bulk information via mobile phone. And we launched • pilots for new clients Telstra, World Vision domestic mail on time. Once again, we Sample Post, a service that has enabled clients and Ford exceeded this target in 2010–11 by delivering such as Nestlé and Proctor & Gamble to have 96 per cent of domestic letters on time or • organic growth with major clients, including addressed product samples sent to customers. early. We also exceeded our targets for the Westpac, Suncorp, the Australian Taxation on-time delivery of bulk-lodged business mail We relaunched Community Update Office and NAB, through the development (96.3 per cent) and for international inbound mail (a service that enables councils to of new projects letters (tracking at 93.4 per cent). communicate with their constituents with • extending our capabilities in hosted image maximum efficiency and value), which is and data archiving, advanced document Price changes expected to deliver additional revenue categorisation and workflow In June 2011, the Australian Competition next year. We also successfully launched • improving payment processing security and Consumer Commission announced that the Unaddressed Mail online booking system. by making strong progress towards it had no objection to our proposed changes independent certification to the PCI DSS (Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard). Despite this challenging environment, both domestically and internationally, our independently monitored and audited delivery performance met all targets in 2010–11. 22 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review First Direct Solutions launched in recent years. Premium offerings We expect promotional mail to continue First Direct Solutions (FDS) is a division of such as eLetter Easy Peel, eLetter Wrap and to perform well as businesses recognise Australia Post that helps businesses attract full digital colour performed particularly well that consumers continue to respond as customers migrated towards targeted, positively to physical communications. About and retain customers by giving them access to accurate and relevant address and profiling high-return direct marketing strategies. We will make the Off-Peak service more Australia Post data. It maintains four major databases: A highlight of the year was our successful attractive to customers seeking value for Lifestyle, Movers, the Australian Address tender for Origin Energy’s mail house solution, money, including an update of the indicia Reference File and the National Change which gave us an opportunity to develop to read “Surface Mail” (this better reflects of Address File. a whole-of-business approach (see case the transport method, which is by road Core businesses FDS (www.fdsolutions.com.au) achieved study opposite). rather than air). 4.4 per cent revenue growth in 2010–11. PrintSoft This was due to the strong performance Following a strategic review as part of the of our Mail Redirection and Mail Holding Future delivery design Future Ready program, a decision was made services, coupled with data collection Through automation, process redesign to divest PrintSoft. The review identified that increases of approximately 8.4 per cent. and improved network systems, our Corporate PrintSoft’s suite of software services was not The division’s primary focus this financial core to the Australia Post business. It also multi-faceted Future Delivery Design program has been increasing responsibility year was on making the Mail Redirection and established that there are a number of Mail Hold services available online. Since its organisations in the market that are better operational productivity and flexibility launch in August 2011 (just after the current aligned with PrintSoft’s future strategy. across our delivery network for reporting period), households have been several years. Objectif Lune International, a company based Financial and able to go online to lodge and pay for mail During 2010–11, the program: in Montreal, Canada, purchased PrintSoft redirection or mail hold applications, extend on 30 June 2011. • further improved round optimisation, existing arrangements and notify participating statutory reports suppliers of their change-of-address details. reducing posties’ delivery time by Outlook 4 per cent FDS has improved its capability in delivering In 2011–12 and beyond, we will focus • installed proprietary geographical email campaigns by implementing processes on returning to a self-sustaining letters information software that calculates to cleanse recipient lists to maximise the business. Critical to this is the separation optimal delivery rounds and the number of messages received. The division of parcels and letters into two profit-and-losslabour resources required (more is also offering customers an email accountable business units, effective than 3,000 delivery rounds have design-and-build service. 1 July 2011. now been sequenced) eLetter We will continue to invest in technology and • delivered phase two of the systems that streamline our delivery processes Recognition Improvement project, Australia Post’s eLetter mail house and improve the efficiency and flexibility in which upgraded software enhanced (www.auspost.com.au/eletter) offers of our network. the automated recognition of fonts a comprehensive suite of direct marketing products and services that enable We also remain committed to promoting the and handwriting on addressed mail. businesses to reach current and potential tangible benefits of the physical letter and The roll-out of efficiency initiatives customers effectively. expect positive results from this year’s identified by the Future Delivery Design reorganisation of our sales force from state program will continue in 2011–12. Revenue rose by 5.5 per cent in 2010–11, to industry-aligned teams. with strong returns for innovative solutions CORE BUSINESSES 23 PARCELS: WINNING IN E-COMMERCE Business partnerships with small to medium-sized online retailers, like Nadia Watson of Fancy Flats, are critical to the success of our parcels business. Our trusted brand, extensive nationwide delivery This year, we took some important steps Highlights and challenges infrastructure and global reach mean that to protect our position as a reliable, Our parcels portfolio enjoyed 5.3 per cent Australia Post is ready to deliver on its second cost-effective provider of delivery services revenue growth in 2010–11 – a very positive enterprise strategy: to grow the full-value well into the future. Our customers’ needs result in a highly competitive marketplace. chain in parcels and win in e-commerce. and expectations are evolving, so we have This was largely due to our success in Access Economics’ report Household focused on giving them more flexible delivery attracting e-commerce customers, and many E-Commerce Activity and Trends in Australia options and greater choice. We have trialled of the year’s highlights centred on enhancing (published in November 2010) estimates that and implemented many new and augmented our role in this area. in Australia alone the value of online purchases products and services and formed strategic is worth between $19 billion and $24 billion partnerships that further enhance our offer. We improved our position in the a year, with growth forecast at up to 12 per cent e-commerce marketplace by strengthening Building relationships within the broader our relationship with eBay, acquiring the per annum for the next few years. postal industry is crucial to overcoming the payment gateway company SecurePay Australia Post is the natural partner for many challenges we face in the extremely (read more on page 26), and partnering e-commerce in Australia, with millions of competitive parcels and logistics market. with PayPal to launch Driving Business parcels delivered annually on behalf of online By working with the Universal Postal Union Online (www.drivingbusinessonline.com.au). sellers, both domestically and internationally. (UPU) and forging alliances with postal This program, which includes a regional services, carriers and sellers, we are bus roadshow, actively assists Australian We are ideally positioned to support online tackling one of our greatest challenges: businesses in reaping the rewards of online traders, from individuals with small, ad hoc the losses incurred by inbound international shopping’s global reach. items to large enterprises needing fulfilment parcels weighing under 2 kilograms because services that reach customers nationwide of the way we are reimbursed for them. and around the globe. Australia Post is the natural partner for e-commerce in Australia, with millions of parcels delivered annually on behalf of online sellers, both domestically and internationally. 24 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review Highlights Challenges Outlook About • The parcels portfolio achieved • Inbound international parcels weighing • Enhance our role in e-commerce Australia Post 5.3 per cent revenue growth. less than 2 kilograms operate at through even better products, a loss because the cost of delivering services and partnerships. • We forged a strong partnership with Core businesses them outweighs the reimbursement eBay, attracting considerable business • Continue to improve our network we receive. from its 8 million registered Australian efficiency and flexibility, including sellers through several initiatives • US-bound parcels incur higher greater customer choice when during the year. freight costs due to aviation sending and receiving parcels. security measures. • We acquired SecurePay, which • Provide convenient, low-cost delivery Corporate provides multi-channel payment and returns solutions. services that are particularly • Address the losses incurred responsibility attractive to small to medium-sized through the delivery of international businesses selling goods online. inbound parcels. Financial and statutory reports Other notable achievements during the While our international inbound parcel Domestic delivery year included the launch of Australia Post’s volumes increased significantly due to the After two years of marginal volume decline, smartphone app (see page 29) and the strong Australian dollar, we lost money on our domestic parcels business achieved reconfiguration of our joint ventures with small packets as the cost to deliver them growth in 2010–11. We maintained our Qantas, which enables Star Track Express is greater than the payment we receive from excellent service performance, with and Australian air Express to focus on their overseas postal organisations. The stricter 96.2 per cent of Parcel Post and 99.3 per cent respective strengths in express freight. aviation security measures imposed by the of Express Post items delivered on time United States also created a challenge or early. Our Enterprise Event Management project due to the additional screening processes also continued to deliver major service The strong revenue growth in eParcels that were required for US-bound parcels. improvements, through enhancements to was particularly notable, driven by multiple-parcel consignment management, e-commerce market growth for key clients, identity capture on delivery and parcel including eBay, JB Hi-Fi, Deals Direct, tracking infrastructure. Grays Online, Catch of the Day and emerging e-commerce retailers and small to mediumsized businesses. The eParcel Post Returns product (part of our popular suite of returns The revenue growth in eParcels was particularly notable, services) has delivered strong growth with driven by e-commerce market growth for key clients. clients such as Apple and Austar. 5.3% REVENUE GROWTH FOR THE 99.3% ON-TIME OR EARLY DELIVERY 96.2% ON-TIME OR EARLY DELIVERY PARCELS PORTFOLIO OF EXPRESS POST OF PARCEL POST CORE BUSINESSES 25 Parcels: Winning in e-commerce International delivery Australia Post continues to address such Securing the future challenges in the complex and constantly Our international outbound parcel product A highlight of 2010–11 was our enjoyed its most profitable year in 2010–11, evolving international parcels environment. acquisition of SecurePay – an despite substantial external pressures. These include bilateral agreements with Australian payment gateway company the postal services of our four major trading offering billing and shopping cart We met all of our delivery service targets, lanes (New Zealand, the United Kingdom, capability – to expand our online including those set by the UPU. the US and China), and partnerships with services and win in e-commerce. Price and productivity gains offset falls in international online retailers that target outbound volumes that were mainly caused parcels at the source. SecurePay extends Australia Post’s multi-channel capability, allowing by the strong Australian dollar and subdued Strategic partnerships business and government customers global economy. Express Courier International, An important aspect of Australia Post’s to provide secure business-to-business Express Post International and Registered expanding role in e-commerce this year and business-to-consumer payment Post International all had modest volume is our partnership with eBay, the nation’s services via the Internet, phone or declines, while Air Mail parcel volumes most popular online shopping destination. custom software. held steady. In July 2010, our Click and Send service was The SecurePay platform is particularly There was historically high volume growth integrated into the eBay Australia website attractive to small and medium-sized for international inbound parcels as Australian and in December 2010 our co-branded satchel online businesses as it allows them to consumers reaped the benefits of buying from became available. When we launched our offer customers both an online payment overseas online retailers. Unfortunately, this online store within the eBay site in May 2011, service and the ability to buy products dramatic volume growth was not profitable some 85,000 of these flat-rate satchels and services via a shopping cart on for Australia Post. In fact, inward small parcels were ordered in the first 24 hours. The launch their website. operated at a loss due to the rate at which of flat-rate co-branded boxes in the first week we are reimbursed for deliveries by overseas in July rounded out a year in which we The SecurePay offering complements postal services. Determined by the UPU, significantly improved our partnership our existing Australia Post-branded this rate is unfavourable when the Australian with eBay. online payment channel, Postbillpay, dollar is high, particularly for items weighing and positions us to take advantage Australia Post continues to be a market leader less than 2 kilograms. Although these in last-mile delivery solutions to Australian of the rapid growth of e-commerce items are deemed by the UPU to be letters, in Australia. households. Our comprehensive last-mile we deliver them as parcels and they incur capabilities are also key to partnerships Established in 1999, SecurePay has higher costs, from gateway to delivery. with intermediaries such as Australian Mail around 19,000 business customers Another challenge during 2010–11 involved Services and source customers like Reader’s and offices in Melbourne, Sydney parcels destined for the United States (US). Digest, and these capabilities will continue and Adelaide. In November 2010, during the pre-Christmas to be an important focus in generating peak, the US introduced heightened security future business. restrictions on inward parcels at short notice. Specialised X-ray machines and higher freight costs were among the imposts on Australia Post, necessitating a $9 surcharge on US-bound parcels. The US is currently reviewing these new aviation security measures. 26 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review SEIZE THE DAY About One of Australia’s most popular online retailers, Catch of the Day offers a single, low-price deal every day for goods as diverse as chocolates and televisions. Australia Post Established in 2006, the business has increased by 100 per cent over the past four years. Australia Post delivers 98 per cent of Catch of the Day’s orders – which range from 2,000 to 10,000 parcels a day – via our eParcel service. eParcel is a reliable Core businesses and secure option, which features scheduled pickups, proof of delivery and a suite of management reports. This partnership is just one example of how Australia Post is growing its parcels business by winning in e-commerce. “Australia Post is the only way to ship goods… They’ve been partners of ours in growth from day one.” Gabby Leibovich, Director, Catch of the Day. Corporate responsibility Financial and Service trials Messenger Post Couriers SCLI is supporting Australia Post to achieve In order to offer our customers more choice Messenger Post Couriers (MPC), its enterprise strategy, specifically to manage and convenience when sending or receiving Australia Post’s courier division, enjoyed distribution from the source, and will continue statutory reports parcels, we conducted various service trials revenue growth of 5.0 per cent in 2010–11. to be a critical partnership throughout 2011–12. during 2010–11. These included: Highlights for the year included extended Outlook • 24/7 retail zones featuring parcel delivery windows (Saturday morning and During 2011–12 and beyond we will continue collection lockers for post office box 6am–8pm Monday–Friday) for its major new to improve customer choice for parcel delivery customers and self-service terminals client Optus, and the introduction of a 24/7 and returns and lower network costs through for weighing and lodging parcels service for the healthcare industry. This led greater productivity. to a successful tender for the Red Cross • dedicated areas in our outlets where online emergency blood service. We also began We will build strategic relationships that traders can purchase packaging products providing point-to-point and scheduled enhance our place in online trade, leverage and despatch parcels services for The Alfred Hospital and Peter our strengths in last-mile delivery and improve • a 24-hour parcel collection facility at the MacCallum Cancer Centre in Victoria. returns on international deliveries. We will St Leonards Delivery Centre in NSW. further strengthen our place in e-commerce During 2011–12, MPC will relaunch two These and other trials will continue in 2011–12. through the Kahala Postal Group (an alliance services, making them more customer friendly. of 10 international postal services) and the Joint ventures and The improved ad hoc courier service will offer development of an international ePacket product associated companies extended metro delivery reach, later booking designed for small, ad hoc items traded online. deadlines and simpler service selection: AUX Investments ePacket will be launched in 2011–12. standard, express and immediate priority. In May 2011, Australia Post and Qantas The oversize solution, which is currently being To provide a greater focus on achieving our reconfigured their joint ventures to create used by online retailers such as Grays Online strategies, our letters and parcels businesses two new express freight businesses with and Big W, will be extended to all capital cities. will be split into separate business units distinct capabilities. Overseen by holding with profit-and-loss accountability, effective company AUX Investments, the changes Sai Cheng 1 July 2011. enable each business to focus on key Sai Cheng Logistics International (SCLI), strengths: Star Track Express has become our joint-venture partnership with China Post, a business-to-business road and air service, has continued to grow despite the slow global while Australian air Express will focus economic conditions, with revenue up by on domestic air linehaul and cargo 2.4 per cent. terminal operations. Focused on delivering high-end integrated The reconfiguration of these entities will supply chain solutions to target industries, improve their value and competitiveness SCLI has helped organisations to reduce their and position them for growth. total supply chain costs and allowed Australian customers to access global markets in a cost-effective way. CORE BUSINESSES 27 RETAIL: PROVIDING TRUSTED SERVICES Through initiatives such as third party stores-in-store, Australia Post is changing its retail outlets to offer customers greater choice. With our strong brand, unrivalled retail The various service-delivery trials undertaken Our greatest challenge continues to be network and understanding of customers’ during 2010–11 are part of our shift from declining retail foot traffic due to digital evolving needs, Australia Post is perfectly a one-size-fits-all, 9-to-5 operating environment. substitution and cautious consumer spending. placed to deliver on its third enterprise Developing 24-hour service offerings, for Financial and commercial services strategy: building our trusted multi-channel example, and designing stores that meet local services offering in digital and retail. needs are integral to providing greater access, Bill payment, banking and money transfer convenience and choice for our customers – are among Australia Post’s leading financial Australia Post has one of Australia’s largest and commercial service offerings. now and into the future. physical retail networks. At 30 June 2011, our network comprised 4,419 outlets, Highlights and challenges Money orders and money transfer services with 2,552 of these located in rural performed strongly during the year, while While Australia Post’s outlets experienced and remote areas. sales of travel-related products were the same market pressures as other Australian particularly robust. This included the new We also hold an enviable position as retailers this year, our trusted services once Amex Global Travelcard and Travelex Cash one of the nation’s most trusted brands, again performed strongly. This resulted in Passport debit card, which provide secure, ranking second in the 2011 AMR Reptrak 2.8 per cent revenue growth for agency pre-paid access to foreign currency. Other brand reputation study – up three places services, which is a pleasing result given new offerings that performed strongly are from last year. current consumer caution. the Australia Post-branded pre-paid Visa This powerful combination of trust, There was particularly strong revenue gift cards and online shopping cards. convenience and accessibility is the reason and volume growth in identity and money Improving traditional products and services why so many businesses and government transfer services. This was partly driven by was an important feature of 2010–11. agencies choose to reach their customers new travel-related products, pre-paid and through Australia Post. online shopping cards. We also substantially expanded our online stationery offering with This year, more than ever before, we have the launch of a dedicated office supplies been actively improving our customers’ online store. experience by adapting to their changing needs. Our retail network’s reach may be vast, but the future demands that we continuously enhance our multi-channel offerings, from in-person service to telephone, online, hand-held and self-service options. This powerful combination of trust, convenience and accessibility is the reason why so many businesses and government agencies choose to reach their customers through Australia Post. 28 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review Highlights Challenges Outlook About • Enhanced our online shopping offer • Continued decline in retail foot traffic • Roll out our next-generation Australia Post with extra product lines, including as Australians send fewer letters and retail model. stamps, Express Post and Parcel Post, increasingly use digital channels for • Build our trusted services offering, Core businesses and we extended our stationery bill payment and banking. particularly through further partnership with OfficeMax. • Australia Post, and the entire retail development of multi-channel • Stamp releases commemorating the sector, faced pressure as consumers and self-service capabilities, royal wedding and Mary MacKillop’s shifted from discretionary spending and equip stores for online sellers. canonisation delivered strong results to a culture of saving. • Open our first full-service flagship for the philatelic business. Corporate store at Brisbane GPO. • Sold our 3 millionth gift card, and responsibility introduced new Australia Post-branded gift and online shopping cards. • Processed more than 120 million bill payments in-store. Financial and statutory reports Postbillpay became available to consumers licensing applications. During 2010–11, on the move via our new smartphone app. we conducted in excess of 4 million Mobile access to services Meanwhile, we expanded our range of banking transactions on behalf of more than 90 clients, This year Australia Post launched services for more than 70 financial institution which resulted in 11.7 per cent revenue growth its iPhone and smartphone application partners and their customers. in this area. Image capture and passports to provide customers with convenient performed particularly well, with transactions access to its most popular services. We continued to increase the number of up 10 and 2 per cent respectively. The simple app allows customers outlets that facilitate NAB business banking during the year, reaching 1,300. Our agreement The strength of our multi-channel identity to track parcels, with ING Direct to act as an agent for opening certification capabilities was confirmed calculate postage, term deposits also came into effect (in August in 2010–11. After last year’s successful search for 2011, just after the 2010–11 reporting period). pilot program for birth, death and marriage a postcode, certificate applications on behalf of the NSW retail outlet or Our new and improved offerings contributed street posting Government, this offering was formally rolled to slight revenue growth of 0.6 per cent. box, and pay out to 57 outlets statewide. Another pilot, Identity and government services for the Australian Taxation Office, was their bills undertaken at 18 outlets. Survey results using Postbillpay. Australia Post offers an extensive suite of highly secure, accessible identity services, showed 100 per cent customer satisfaction including the processing of passports and with our Tax File Number application process, various government, occupational and business which combines online forms with in-person identity document scanning and certification. 4,419 THE NUMBER OF AUSTRALIA POST 750+ THE NUMBER OF BUSINESSES 4 million+ THE NUMBER OF TRANSACTIONS RETAIL OUTLETS, WITH 2,552 IN AND GOVERNMENT BODIES WE CONDUCTED FOR OUR RURAL AND REMOTE AREAS. WE ARE AN AGENT FOR. IDENTITY SERVICES CLIENTS. CORE BUSINESSES 29 Retail: Providing trusted services This high level of consumer satisfaction of one-stop buying, packing and posting. The future is here with our trusted services is key to client Bulk discounts on packaging also delivered Critical to Australia Post’s focus retention and growth. good results, while post office boxes continued on providing customers with greater to perform well, with 1.5 million (or nearly We enhanced the customer experience access, convenience and choice were 90 per cent) occupied. during 2010–11, thanks to improvements the numerous service-option trials delivered by the Channel Enablement – Point Philatelic had another strong year, with conducted in our retail outlets during of Sale project, and the introduction of digital sales up 3.9 per cent on 2009–10. The most 2010–11. These included: image-capture capabilities to 800 outlets. successful stamps and other collectibles were • self-service terminals that enable This fast, efficient digital technology will issued for the royal wedding, Mary MacKillop’s customers to pay bills and weigh, be rolled out to more outlets in 2011–12, canonisation and the 150th anniversary of assess and lodge parcels when we will also focus on building awareness the Melbourne Cup, while Christmas issues • 24/7 parcel lockers, which allow of Australia Post’s service delivery and again enjoyed strong sales. post office box customers to collect identity capabilities, including proprietary Australia Post’s online shopping offer parcels at a time that is convenient end-to-end solutions. was further enhanced, particularly with the to them Merchandise and other services August 2010 launch of our online stationery • Q-matic queue segmentation, which Like most of the retail sector, Australia Post store (www.auspost.com/stationery) in reduces customer waiting times outlets experienced a difficult year, as partnership with OfficeMax. The online store by separating complex transactions consumers continued to spend cautiously. has 10,000 lines of office products including • digital media screens delivering The shift to online for communications, stationery, technology and furniture, all of helpful customer information, banking and bill payment also contributed which are delivered to the customer’s door by advice and promotions to declining foot traffic. This, in turn, affected Australia Post. At the end of the financial year, • stores-in-store operated by Telstra the predominantly impulse nature of our there were 10,000 registered users of the site. and Travelex, offering customers merchandise sales. Other than for our The upgrade of Australia Post’s primary access to a broader range of philatelic products, we are not regarded online shop (www.shop.auspost.com.au) products and services, including as a destination retailer. Our pre-paid mobile in December featured improved navigation contract-based mobile phone phone offerings also faced pressure from and an extended range (such as Express services and foreign exchange ATMs price deflation. Post products), and resulted in an immediate doubling of site traffic. • Australia Post ATMs. There were positive results for greeting These trials delivered extremely cards and gifts, which benefited from positive results and a number event-driven promotions (such as Back-Toof the initiatives will be included School and Mother’s Day) and the convenience in our first full-service flagship store when it opens at Brisbane GPO in December 2011. Philatelic had another strong year, with sales up 3.9 per cent on 2009–10. 30 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review TRAVELLER’S CHECKLIST About Our suite of travel-related products and services has made us a leading destination for people heading overseas. Our range includes: secure and convenient money Australia Post options, such as American Express GlobalTravel Cards and Travelex Cash Passport debit cards; Australian and British passport applications and renewals; visa and passport photos; Registered Post and money orders; travel accessories; travel SIM cards and phone cards; and Mail Redirection and Mail Holding services. Core businesses This year, we began installing currency rate boards and have begun trials of Travelex branded booths and foreign exchange ATMs in six CBD locations. Initial customer feedback is encouraging and additional stores are being considered for 2011–12 roll-out. We will evaluate other partner-branded in-store trials in the travel category over the coming year. “Australia Post’s suite of travel products and services is just one example of how we are expanding our trusted multi-channel services offer.” Andrew Maitland, Corporate General Manager Financial and Commercial Services, Australia Post. responsibility Financial and Upgrading our network bill payment and banking and that this is As part of our evolution towards truly This year saw great progress in the reducing our foot traffic in an already difficult multi-channel operations, we will strive Channel Enablement – Point of Sale (CE-POS) retail market. But we also have a very good to make everything offered in-store also statutory reports project, which is a critical investment in understanding of what our customers and available online. We will roll out our our multi-channel capabilities. Centred on clients do want today – and what they will next-generation retailing model and begin streamlining back-end processes and retiring want tomorrow. the next phase of our CE-POS upgrade. old systems, Phase 1 was successfully Outlook All of these enhancements are designed delivered in late 2010, while Phase 2 was to provide greater access, convenience In 2011–12, Australia Post’s retail network completed at the end of the financial year. and choice for our customers. and offering will continue to adapt and evolve. This second phase focused on key capabilities We will leverage our enviable brand and at the point of sale, including enhanced network presence to build and grow our verification and article scanning, improved suite of trusted services. product reporting and greater speed to market for new services. Technology upgrades and new products are just part of the work we are undertaking to ensure the sustainability of our vast physical Technology upgrades and new products are just part network. We know that Australians are of the work we are undertaking to ensure the sustainability sending fewer letters and going online for of our vast physical network. Stamps commemorating the royal wedding, the canonisation of Mary MacKillop and the 150th anniversary of the Melbourne Cup were particularly popular this year. CORE BUSINESSES 31 Corporate responsibility The safety of our people is a number one priority: we aim to achieve zero incidents through our new Safety strategy. 32 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Managing our impacts Year in review Our goal under our Future Ready program is to build a sustainable, customer-focused and high-performing business that provides trusted services for all Australians. Understanding and managing our economic, social and environmental impacts, across all areas of our business, About is fundamental to achieving this. Australia Post Core businesses Our corporate responsibility (CR) vision is to 4 Integrate sustainable sourcing across business. This will involve benchmarking our contribute every day for a sustainable tomorrow our supply chain. performance against industry best practice, and to be recognised as a corporation and a 5 Engage our workforce to apply engaging with our stakeholders so that Corporate workforce that creates success via sustainable sustainability practices. we can respond to their needs and concerns business practices. 6 Understand and be responsive to the and establishing a new governance framework. responsibility We will begin implementation in 2011–12. To realise this vision, we have a board-endorsed needs and expectations of our stakeholders. CR strategy and policy (available on our 7 Ensure effective governance and reporting. A summary of our disclosure on management website), which guides our day-to-day approach, which is in line with the Global business practices and decisions. This strategy This year marks the end of our initial three-year Reporting Initiative (GRI), is available on Financial and is underpinned by seven goals: CR strategy. The table below provides our website. statutory reports an overview of our journey and what has 1 Minimise our environmental footprint. been achieved during the three years, while We recognise that climate change poses 2 Invest in the communities where the following pages (34 to 49) describe in some risks to our business, in particular the we operate and where our people detail the key achievements of 2010–11. likely future increases in fuel and energy costs. live and work. We have a work program in place to manage We are now focused on developing a new and reduce our exposure to this risk. Additional 3 Offer responsible and valued products long-term CR strategy to support our Future risks associated with climate change are and services. Ready enterprise strategy, one that will embed reported quarterly to our Audit and Risk sustainable principles more deeply in our Committee and annually to the board. Performance highlights of our three-year CR strategy Goal 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 1 Reduced total greenhouse gas emissions Set a target to reduce our greenhouse gas Completed the first year of our carbon reduction by 5 per cent for the year. emissions by 25 per cent on our year 2000 target, reducing emissions by 5 per cent. emission levels by 2020. Completed our five-year Energy Efficiency Opportunities program. 2 Contributed a total of $7.46 million to the Achieved our Workplace Giving program Achieved our Workplace Giving program community, including a $1 million donation participation target of 3 per cent. participation target of more than 5 per cent. to the Red Cross Victorian Bushfire Appeal. Donated $387,777 to our eight Invested $3.35 million in the community. Facilitated the collection of $4.8 million staff-nominated charities. in public donations. 3 Began to phase out the use of plastic Launched a trial of our “eco” stationery range Increased the recycling content of our packaging bags in our retail outlets. in selected Australia Post outlets in Victoria. to 49 per cent. Exceeded our CSOs. Exceeded our CSOs. Exceeded our CSOs. 4 Reduced the amount of packaging used Met our target of 70 per cent of contracted Exceeded our target of 90 per cent of within our supply chain. suppliers covered by our supplier code contracted suppliers covered by our supplier of conduct. code of conduct. 5 Achieved improvements in employee Won the Diversity@Work National Diversity Launched our Reconciliation Action Plan engagement and job satisfaction. and Inclusion Champion Award. Rolled out our I Am for Zero safety program. Launched our Performance Ready program. 6 Completed our first comprehensive Developed new community Began the development of an enterprise-wide stakeholder review to better understand participation procedures. approach to stakeholder engagement. stakeholder needs and views. 7 Established an enterprise-wide CR strategy Became a signatory to the United Nations Began revising our CR strategy and governance endorsed by the board. Global Compact. framework as part of our Future Ready enterprise strategy. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 33 SUPPORTING OUR PEOPLE Female senior leaders, like Catherine Walsh, General Manager HR, account for almost 30 per cent of our executive workforce, up nearly 8 per cent this year. As we continue to grow our business, We will continue building commitment 2 enhance our current safety observation our people are critical to the delivery of our to our four culture pillars by engaging our feedback program Future Ready strategy. To achieve our goals, people and recognising role models who 3 improve safety leadership capability through we need talented people who behave in the display these behaviours. expert training programs right ways, supported by good systems and Performance Ready 4 address specific high risk safety issues processes and guided by a clear strategy and Launched this year, Performance Ready is a through staff involvement, particularly action plan. This combination enables our people key initiative to develop individual accountability. in our retail and delivery networks to achieve successful outcomes and will ultimately build a high-performing workforce. Performance Ready provides clarity for individual 5 improve existing safety processes employees on their objectives and how for incident investigation and training This year, we continued to support they contribute to the priorities of the business. 6 introduce more appropriate safety metrics our people through a range of programs, Accountability, one of our culture pillars, to support ongoing improvement with particular focus on the development is reinforced by improving the alignment of ways to support the corporation through 7 improve the quality of information of reward and performance. Over the next its transformation. provided to doctors to facilitate three years we will focus on entrenching the rehabilitation after work-related injury. Our culture pillars process as business-as-usual. Through the realisation of this initiative, we aim A key focus this year was ensuring that Safety to improve our safety performance next year. our people demonstrate the behaviours The health and safety of our people and that are critical to the successful execution contractors continue to be our first priority Injury prevention and management of our Future Ready strategy. as our lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) An important safety initiative that continued Hence we introduced our new culture again increased this year to 10.3 (up from this year was the visibility enhancement pillars – safety, accountability, customer focus 8.8 in 2009–10). While our LTIFR has increased, program, which aims to improve the safety and speed of action – to help Australia Post the incident rate per 100 full-time employees of our posties by increasing the visibility of achieve a performance-driven culture. has reduced (see chart at right). their motorcycles and apparel. In 2010–11, we achieved a 37 per cent reduction in Two key initiatives were launched to In October 2010, we began implementing our visibility-related injuries. establish our culture pillars throughout Safety strategy to achieve a world-class safety the enterprise: Performance Ready, which culture across the enterprise. The strategy has Our occupational health and safety (OH&S) aims to build a culture of accountability; seven key elements, which aim to: management system is regularly audited and Safety, which aims to protect the and continues to achieve excellent results 1 demonstrate senior leadership commitment health and wellbeing of our people. for compliance. This year, a new IT system to safety, particularly through the CEO-led was introduced to help us better monitor safety campaign, I Am for Zero (see case our regulatory compliance. study on page 37) 34 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review Highlights Challenges Outlook About • Reached agreement, and implemented, • Maintaining employee focus and • Maintain our diversity profile. Australia Post our new Fair Work Agreement. morale throughout the first year • Embed our culture pillars, with of our transformation. • Launched Performance Ready, a particular focus on safety. Core businesses to drive a culture of accountability. • Meeting safety targets across • Build capability and engage our changing business. • Launched our safety program our workforce. I Am for Zero, to improve our • Roll out the Future Skills and safety culture and performance. Future Leaders programs. • Launched our Reconciliation Action Plan. Corporate responsibility Financial and statutory reports More detail on OH&S, including our performance Building enterprise capability Future Leaders is designed to build our this year, is provided on page 127. leadership capability and grow our pipeline We aim to continuously strengthen the skills of future leaders at all levels. This year, Safety performance: and capabilities of our people to support our the program focused on supporting the LTIFR against incident rate plans for future growth. This year, our enterprise development of front-line managers as well capability program focused on three key as enhancing the abilities of our senior leaders LTIFR IR 4 initiatives: Future Skills, Future Leaders to manage the complexities of our changing 10 3.5 and Sales Capability. business. In 2011–12, we will focus on 8 3 The Future Skills initiative commits $20 million, identifying and fast-tracking high potential 2.5 which will be invested in programs to provide talent, from operations through to senior 6 2 skills for our award-level workforce. The programs executive levels. 4 1.5 will focus on critical capabilities such as 1 The Sales Capability program aims to Ju Aun1 0 leadership, sales and customer service in the build the sales and servicing skills of our areas of our business that are likely to experience Oc Deg1 t10 0 c1 customer-facing employees, including Fe Ap b1 r10 1 Ju n11 1 significant change. Re-skilling opportunities business-to-business account managers, LTIFR = lost time injuries per million hours worked. will also be provided for employees affected retail customer service officers and contact IR = number of incidents per 100 FTE (hours worked). by role redundancy. Future Skills will be rolled centre operators. out over the next three years. Employee engagement The link between a highly engaged workforce and stronger business performance is well established. In May this year we conducted Rates of injury, occupational disease, lost days and fatalities a survey to measure how engaged our people 2009–10 2010–11 are at work. The result was an engagement Injury rate1 4.8 3.5 score of 69 per cent. While slightly lower than our 2009 result (down 2 per cent), this is Occupational disease rate (ODR)2 1.13 2.3 a good outcome considering the significant Lost-day rate (LDR) 3 0.0016 0.0017 changes in the business over the year. Fatalities (number) 1 0 Fatality rate (per million km) 0.005 0 1 The number of injuries divided by the number of hours worked (per 200,000 hours). 2 The number of diseases divided by the number of hours worked (per 200,000 hours). 3 The number of days lost to injury and disease divided by the number of days worked. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 35 Supporting our people Results of the survey show that our people: Labour relations and freedom Promoting diversity and inclusion • understand the need for change (88 per cent, of association A key achievement this year was the launch up 7 per cent) The FWA provides an improved framework of our Reconciliation Action Plan, which • are willing to help each other and the business for consulting with our workforce and offers demonstrates our long-term commitment to to succeed (70 per cent, up 4 per cent) employees a number of benefits, including pay employing Indigenous Australians and provides increases of up to 10 per cent over three years, a solid platform for closer working • believe we are making progress in addressing the protection of penalty rates, cashing out of relationships with Indigenous communities. unsafe conditions (80 per cent, up 4 per cent). annual leave, an increase to maternity leave Other activities undertaken include the following: However, there are opportunities for (from 13 weeks to 14 weeks) and more flexible improvement. These include: the way we share workplace arrangements. This year, 32,046 (or • International Women’s Day (IWD) – information and collaborate across business 95.7 per cent) of employees were covered by Australia Post became an Amethyst Partner units; our responsiveness to market changes; the agreement. of IWD and held numerous events across and recognising and rewarding our people. the corporation to celebrate the economic, Australia Post complies with the Fair Work political and social achievements of women. We will continue to focus on engaging Act 2009, which declares that employees have • My Mentor – this career development our employees by addressing the issues that the right to exercise freedom of association. program was delivered to 90 women matter. Next year we will conduct a full census Diversity and inclusion for the second year running. survey to measure our progress. We are committed to an inclusive, diverse • The Ucan2 program – provided work Certainty for the future and flexible workplace and aim to maintain experience opportunities and mentoring Australia Post worked closely with the two and promote diversity and inclusion as support to 38 young people of refugee key unions operating in the postal industry part of our normal business practice. background (see page 40 for more details). to establish an agreement that recognised • The signing of a memorandum of Through our Workforce Diversity Business not only the fundamental domestic and understanding with Work Focus – which Strategy, we monitor and report on four international challenges facing our business, strengthens our commitment to employing indicators of diversity: women, Indigenous but also the needs of our workforce. people with a disability. Australians, people with disabilities and people The result was the Fair Work Agreement from non-English-speaking backgrounds. Promoting tolerance and respect (FWA) and in October 2010 Australia Post’s The groundwork has been done to act on a To promote a workplace that is free of award-level employees were invited to vote new Diversity and Inclusion strategy in 2011–12. harassment, discrimination and bullying, on the proposal. The outcome was a 73 per cent As the business has undergone considerable we provide staff training at induction and “yes” vote for the agreement, which formally change, our focus this year was on maintaining regularly reinforce our policies, which aim came into effect on 28 October 2010 following our 2009–10 diversity profile. This was achieved to prevent anti-social behaviour. approval by Fair Work Australia. with 39.8 per cent women, 1.8 per cent This year 30 internal complaints relating to The signing of the FWA is a key achievement Indigenous Australians, 7.8 per cent people harassment or discrimination were lodged. this year as it has given job security and with disabilities and 22.7 per cent people Of these, only 11 were substantiated, while stability to award-level employees. from non-English-speaking backgrounds. 10 are still being investigated. Appropriate remedial action was recommended to address Diversity profile breaches by employees, such as training and Number Proportion (%) the implementation of our employee counselling and discipline process. Women (Total) 13,336 39.8 Managers 649 33.7 Workforce profile On 1 July 2010, Australia Post was restructured Executives 95 29.1 into four strategic business units and four Indigenous Australians (Total) (Includes 48 traineeships) 588 1.8 supporting functional business units to enable the delivery of our strategic objectives. Managers 10 0.5 At the end of the reporting period, our total Executives 3 0.9 number of employees was 33,472 (2.9 per cent People with a disability (Total) 2,616 7.8 lower than in the previous year). The mix of our workforce, in terms of permanent and partManagers 152 7.9 time employment, did not change significantly. Executives 23 7.0 Our indirect workforce, which includes People from non-English-speaking backgrounds (Total) 7,612 22.7 contractors, licensees, franchisees and agents, Managers 355 18.4 is not included in the employment data. Executives 31 9.5 Attendance Despite a period of transition, we have Age (Total under 30 years) 3,047 9.1 continued to achieve a good rate of employee Age (Total 30–50 years) 18,537 55.4 attendance this year. At 94.0 per cent, this is similar to previous years’ rates (94.3 per cent Age (Total above 50 years) 11,888 35.5 in 2009–10 and 94.6 per cent in 2008–09). 36 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review I AM FOR ZERO: DEVELOPING A SAFETY CULTURE About In May 2011, as part of our Safety strategy, we launched our new safety campaign I Am for Zero. Australia Post The multi-channel campaign reached every employee through a DVD sent to homes, posters displayed at all sites and stories in our internal magazine Post Journal. A dedicated intranet site was established to ensure that safety information is relevant, up-to-date and easy to find. Our people were invited to provide ideas and ask Core businesses safety-related questions through a number of channels. In the last two weeks of June, safety workshops focusing on local issues and priorities were held across the country for all employees to “down tools” and focus solely on safety. Championed by our managing director and CEO, I Am for Zero aims for every employee to adopt safe practices and collectively build a workplace with zero injuries. “I think this is a fantastic initiative to really make us stop and think about our actions and how they will impact on those around us.” Feedback from employee Corporate workshop session. responsibility Financial and To support our people, Australia Post uses These include a financial education program, national guidelines to maintain attendance confidential staff counselling services, Mensline People policies rates across the business. (a telephone counselling service for men) Our employee programs are managed statutory reports and Staying Connected (workshops for fathers through a policy framework which Turnover and retention who have limited access to their children). comprises diversity and inclusion, Staff turnover rates were higher this year, occupational health and safety, ethics, increasing from 9.4 per cent to 11.5 per cent. Under our new FWA 2010, we have a number safety-related conditions – including meal workplace flexibility, whistleblower, Due to the changes occurring across our break entitlements and a limit on work hours grievance procedures and our human business, this year turnover rates were – that are designed to protect our drivers resources manual. These policies are comparable between full-time and part-time from fatigue-related accidents. governed by the Human Resources employees, genders and age groups. Committee of the board and managed For full people data, please visit by the People and Community We acknowledge that the changes across the www.auspost.com.au/2011annualreport. functional business unit. business have presented a range of challenges for our people this year. In anticipation of these challenges, we implemented a number of programs to provide support for our people. Health and wellbeing Employment by type Employment by occupation We continuously strive to improve our Full-time 23,369 Retail 15.6% workplace, including practices that support Part-time 10,103 Delivery 43.5% the health and wellbeing of our people. Australia Post’s employment conditions Processing & transport 25.7% reflect reasonable working hours, meal Business breaks and leave entitlements. support 15.2% We provide supportive and flexible working arrangements, particularly for employees returning from leave. This year 89 per cent of employees returned to employment with us after parental leave. Employment by region Overall turnover rates Through our Health and Wellbeing strategy, we aim to promote productivity and address NSW/ACT 07 10.8% absenteeism through a range of programs. 11,928 08 12.3% VIC 10,362 TAS 573 09 9.4% QLD 5,324 10 9.4% WA 3,114 11 11.5% SA/NT 2,171 Note: Data is based on average headcount for permanent full-time and part-time staff only. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 37 INVESTING IN COMMUNITIES Through our UCan2 program young people of refugee background, like Achol Majok, can access mentoring support and work experience opportunities. Australia Post is committed to being an active Measuring our reach and impact Workplace Giving member of the communities in which it This year, we invested $3.35 million in the Australia Post is committed to helping operates. Through our community engagement community (or 1.4 per cent of net profit) which employees support charities through program we aim to build support for our includes cash, time and in-kind contributions. our Workplace Giving program. Our nine business activities, ensuring that we make While this was lower than in 2009–10 (when staff-nominated charities include: a positive contribution to Australian society. we invested $4.37 million or 4.9 per cent • Heart Foundation Supporting sustainable communities of net profit) it reflects our new approach • McGrath Foundation to community involvement, which aims This year, our program focused on educating • World Wildlife Fund to identify ways in which we can use young Australians, sustainability, social our vast retail and delivery network and • State Emergency Service (SES) cohesion and disaster relief. iconic brand to add greater value to our • RSPCA As part of our Future Ready business community partnerships. transformation, we reviewed our approach • Red Kite Our investment covers a range of community • Cancer Council to community engagement to ensure that the programs, as shown in the chart at right. program aligned with our enterprise strategy. • Children’s Hospital Foundations Australia As a result, we refreshed our approach to We are a member of the London Benchmarking • Red Cross Victorian Floods Appeal 2011. community engagement and established Group (LBG) and use their internationally new goals, which are to: recognised approach to measure our community Since launching the program on 1 July 2009, • continue investing in initiatives that are investment. This provides us with a consistent we have exceeded our annual employee relevant to our business and our people and comparable method for reporting and participation targets. Last year, we achieved verifying our investment figures. a 3.2 per cent participation rate against • contribute positively to the wider community our target of 3 per cent. This year’s target • more closely align our community Our community engagement program is of 5 per cent was also surpassed, with engagement and sponsorship programs. managed by our community engagement 5.9 per cent of our people participating team, which regularly report activities to in the program*. Implementing these goals will be a priority the Australia Post executive committee. during 2011–12. *This figure includes donations made to our Queensland Floods Employee Relief Fund, which provided support to employees affected by the natural disasters. 38 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review Highlights Challenges Outlook About • Revised our approach to community • Ensuring that our community • Achieve a greater level of staff Australia Post engagement to align with our investment and partnerships engagement across our programs. enterprise strategy. are relevant to our business • Expand our Workplace Giving program Core businesses and align with our values. • Achieved our target 5 per cent to include volunteering activities. employee participation rate for • Increasing participation in our • Establish new programs and our Workplace Giving program. Workplace Giving program as our partnerships to reflect our revised employees gave personally to a variety • Contributed $600,000 to the State community engagement strategy. of natural disaster relief appeals. Emergency Service to support Corporate disaster relief efforts. • Ensuring that we continue to meet the needs of the community responsibility as we adapt our business to the changing marketplace. Financial and statutory reports This year, our people donated a total Kids Teaching Kids Allocation of community investment of $458,903 to our charity partners. Since 2009, we have played a key role (includes cash, time and in-kind contributions) Employee donations were matched by in supporting Kids Teaching Kids, a national Australia Post (up to a cap of $200 per school-based education program that aims person), which contributed $190,688 to increase young Australians’ awareness to the total. of local environmental issues and encourage Our goal next year is to maintain our learning and personal development through participation rate and to expand the scheme peer education. to include volunteering opportunities. This year, we piloted Kids Teaching Kids Week Educating young Australians with extremely successful results. The week achieved a participation rate of 15,997 Australia Post has a long history of Arts and culture 24.8% students and 886 teachers – higher than encouraging learning and literacy within Economic development 9.4% the cumulative participation total since the schools, and supporting initiatives that Education and young people 5.9% Kids Teaching Kids program was launched educate young people across Australia. Emergency relief 19.1% a decade ago. We also provided 23 grants to the value of $500 each to assist schools Environment 27.6% with the cost of running the events. Health 5.0% Social welfare 8.2% Note: This data has been verified by London This year, we invested $3.35 million in the community (or 1.4 per cent Benchmarking Group Australia/New Zealand. of net profit) which includes cash, time and in-kind contributions. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 39 Investing in communities SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES AFFECTED BY THE QUEENSLAND FLOODS In January, Queensland experienced one of its worst floods in history, with more than 75 per cent of the state affected. Australia Post quickly developed a multi-faceted response to the disaster. Employees in the field provided support to affected areas and worked hard to ensure that mail still reached its destination. This was achieved through deliveries by boat where possible and the provision of free mail redirection and mail hold services. Through our postal network, disaster relief funds were distributed on behalf of the Queensland Department of Communities to people affected by flood. Australia Post donated $100,000 to the Premier’s Flood Relief Appeal and released its first ever charity stamp, which generated $135,758 in donations. “At a time when people had lost so much, it was wonderful to be able to provide support to our customers, our colleagues and the Queensland community.” Anita Britcher, Area Manager Southern Region (QLD), Australia Post. Photo courtesy of Paul Wheeler. Oz Opera teachers and students through our education UCan2 Australia Post is a Hero Partner of Opera website (www.auspost.com.au/education). One of the key highlights this year was the Australia, one of the nation’s flagship arts Next year, we plan to relaunch our education signing of a memorandum of understanding organisations. Through the partnership program so that it is relevant in today’s digital (MOU) with Foundation House (also known we are principal sponsor of Oz Opera. world and supports the focus areas of our as the Victorian Foundation for the Survivors A key highlight this year was the introduction community engagement program. of Torture) to support its UCan2 program. of the Oz Opera Community Program, We also co-ordinated more than 150 school Through the partnership, Australia Post provides through which the Oz Opera Schools Company visits to our facilities located in capital cities. young people of refugee background with delivered free performances to six primary Promoting social cohesion valuable work experience opportunities and schools affected by the 2009 Black Saturday access to Australia Post volunteer employees bushfires in Victoria. With more than 33,000 employees, who act as business mentors. Australia Post has one of the most diverse Free opera workshops were also provided workforces in Australia. We recognise that Since signing the MOU, casual work to Indigenous youth in regional Victoria. social cohesion is important to our employees opportunities for 24 program participants Next year, we will expand the Oz Opera and their families, and to the wider Australian were provided at our Dandenong Letters Centre Community Program to include a stage concert community. Through our focus on social and Melbourne Parcels Facility and 14 young in flood-affected regions of Queensland. cohesion, we aim to provide support and people were mentored. Education programs assistance to those most in need and promote We continued our support of National Literacy a more tolerant and inclusive society. We have and Numeracy Week and provided free a number of programs in place to help us curriculum-based education resources for achieve this. Funds raised for charity through employee activities (including auctions) Charities HQ NSW VIC QLD SA WA TAS TOTAL Starlight Foundation (National) $22,255 $8,930 $30,934 $33,538 $16,506 $246 $3,044 $115,454 Victorian Cancer Council (VIC) – – $30,934 – – – – $30,934 Children with Disability (TAS) – – – – – – $3,044 $3,044 AEIOU (QLD) – – – $32,000 – – – $32,000 Multiple Sclerosis Australia (QLD) – – – $32,000 – – – $32,000 Australian Leukodystrophy Support Group (NSW) – $8,930 – – – – – $8,930 Special Olympics (NSW) – $8,930 – – – – – $8,930 Jane McGrath (SA) – – – – $16,506 – – $16,506 Newel Foundation (SA) – – – – $16,506 – – $16,506 UN Women Australia $1,671 – – – – – – $1,671 TOTAL $23,926 $26,790 $61,868 $97,538 $49,518 $246 $6,088 $265,975 40 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review We also commissioned Foundation House Supporting disaster relief efforts Preserving our national heritage to conduct a study into the impacts of social A key highlight this year was our response We are one of the nation’s oldest continually cohesion through sport. The results will to the natural disasters that occurred along operating organisations and we own more be used to inform the further development About the east coast of Australia and in than 70 buildings that have been nominated of our social cohesion program. Western Australia. for inclusion in the Commonwealth Heritage List. Next year, we will strengthen our partnership With the state of Queensland worst hit, We are committed to preserving our national Australia Post with Foundation House, which will include we executed a multi-faceted program to heritage and have a National Heritage strategy funding to expand the UCan2 program. support our employees, our customers and (available on our website), which ensures Supporting charities the broader community. (See the case study that we conserve the heritage of these Core businesses We continued to support a number of for more details.) sites through appropriate management charities through over-the-counter donations and maintenance. Community donations were accepted and merchandise sales across our national through our retail outlets for a number During 2010–11, Australia Post invested retail network ($2.9 million), as well as of appeals, including the Queensland $2.5 million in works to conserve the heritage fundraising activities undertaken by our and Victorian floods, the Japan and Pacific of buildings. A further $2.5 million has been Corporate people ($265,975). disaster and the New Zealand earthquake. earmarked for heritage works during 2011–12. As a result of these combined activities we Through this initiative, we were able to Supporting the environment responsibility were able to distribute a total of $3,165,975 facilitate the collection of almost $3 million in community donations. One of the most significant ways we support to a number of not-for-profit organisations. the environment is through our community The table opposite provides a breakdown We added the Red Cross Victorian Floods recycling programs in partnership with of funds raised for charity by our employees Appeal 2011 as the ninth charity partner Cartridges 4 Planet Ark and Mobile Muster. Financial and during the year. in our Workplace Giving program. And we deepened our partnership with the State This year we collected 539,035 cartridges We also donated 50 used Australia Post and 7,460 kilograms of mobile phones and statutory reports motorcycles to the Rotary Club of Kew Emergency Service (SES). Announced in June 2011, the $600,000 investment will accessories for recycling through our to assist in the delivery of medical aid and retail outlets. education to remote communities in Cambodia provide replacement emergency equipment as part of its Cambodia Rural Poor project. for SES units at the forefront of the disaster We continued our partnership with Banksia recovery. Australia Post and the SES will work Environmental Foundation, which includes together in 2011–12 to deliver the equipment naming rights sponsorship of its People’s to the units in most need. Choice Award, in recognition of inspirational environmental initiatives or actions. More information on our environmental performance is provided on pages 46 to 49. This year we collected 539,035 cartridges and 7,460 kilograms of mobile phones and accessories for recycling through our retail outlets. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 41 CONNECTING WITH OUR CUSTOMERS Our new approach to sales and marketing is delivering valuable whole-of-business solutions for customers like Greg Curcio of Origin Energy. Australia Post is committed to providing As a result, we restructured our sales force Australian Postal Corporation (Performance relevant and high-quality products and into a national sales segmentation model Standards) Regulations 1998 that form part services that meet its customers’ needs that aligns with industry verticals and customer of our community service obligations (CSOs). and expectations, now and into the future. size. This approach ensures that our product, See page 115 for more details on these And we recognise that we have a duty sales and marketing team have a much more standards and our CSOs and how we performed to do this in a responsible and ethical way. targeted understanding of customer needs against them this year. to enable the delivery of more relevant and To achieve this, we have guidelines in place to Community consultation valued solutions. We also established a team monitor and measure our customer performance Occasionally, as the marketplace and dedicated to managing the overall customer standards, community service obligations and customer needs change, we modify our experience so as to enhance the value for complaint resolution procedures. These are network, facilities, products and services. our customers in choosing Australia Post outlined within our customer service charter, as a trusted partner. We have a commitment to include the which is available on our website. Our corporate responsibility program also manages and Improving the overall customer experience community and local stakeholders in our monitors the environmental performance and how we engage with our business and planning and decision-making process. of our Australia Post-branded products and government customers will help us to build This involves advising relevant groups of the our corporate sourcing procedures. stronger and more valuable relationships. proposed change and what it means to them, and considering their views before a decision Responding to customer needs Providing a reliable and is made. We also provide adequate notice This year, we consulted with our customer accessible service before the change takes effect. segments, in particular small and medium-sized We aim to provide a reliable and accessible To guide our consultation process, we have businesses, to assess how well we are meeting service to all Australians, wherever they reside. in place a National Community Participation their needs and expectations. This process has To achieve this, we maintain a high standard Procedure to ensure that relevant managers enabled us to identify potential for improvement of network services and meet the prescribed consider the impact of a proposed change on in the areas of sales, service and value. performance standards set out under the the community. We also have a Community Mail Polling Process, which aims to quantify community support for local delivery arrangements, and a Street Posting Box policy Improving the overall customer experience and how we (available on our website), which covers the engage with our business and government customers will removal or relocation of street posting boxes. help us to build stronger and more valuable relationships. 42 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review Highlights Challenges Outlook About • Met our target to have 90 per cent • Engaging with the large number • Continue to focus on achieving Australia Post of contracted suppliers covered of suppliers through our supply high customer satisfaction results. by our supplier code of conduct. chain program. • Provide our customers with Core businesses • Restructured our sales force to • Maintaining customer satisfaction sustainable products and services better meet customer needs and levels throughout a period and adapt to the changing marketplace. deliver relevant and valued solutions. of significant change. • Achieved high customer satisfaction levels for business Corporate and residential customers. • Reduced the time it takes to respond to customer queries responsibility and complaints by 8 per cent. Financial and statutory reports Managing customer enquiries Postal Industry Ombudsman Our corporate security group manages This year, we reviewed customer interactions Customers who are not satisfied with the fraud-related issues and conducts regular across our business to ensure that we provide outcome of the Australia Post complaint reviews of our business units to monitor fraud a consistent, accessible and quality service. handling process have the option of referring and risk-related activity. Our corporate risk the matter to the Postal Industry Ombudsman and compliance teams continually review Key improvement initiatives included: procedures across the corporation and provide (PIO) for investigation. • investing in new technology to broaden staff with awareness programs and local our range of self-service options and deliver Established in 2006, the PIO is an independent fraud control plans. a better online experience for customers authority whose role is to investigate customer using our corporate website (This included complaints relating to Australia Post and other Protecting customer privacy improved track and trace capability, postal or courier operators that have registered As one of Australia’s most trusted organisations, a frequently asked questions library and as private postal operators under the Australia Post recognises the importance of improved email management technology.) Commonwealth Ombudsman Act 1976. protecting its customers’ information. • expanding our customer care activity Details on the volume and nature of complaints We maintain a national privacy compliance into social media, including Twitter investigated by the PIO are published in the program, which aims to ensure that our (@auspost), Facebook, YouTube and blogs Commonwealth Ombudsman’s annual report. employees comply with the Privacy Act 1988, (We now connect with a greater proportion In addition to dealing with complaints, the the Spam Act 2003 and the Do Not Call Register of our customers via digital channels, which Ombudsman may also conduct its own major Act 2007, as well as our internal privacy policy. enables us to manage customer feedback investigations into aspects of the operations of During 2010–11, there were no determinations in a more immediate and effective way.) the agencies under its jurisdiction. The findings against Australia Post by any of the federal, • introducing the Voice of Our Customer of these investigations are published in a report state or territory privacy commissioners. program, which provides valuable insights on the Ombudsman’s website (www.pio.gov.au). into the service quality of our telephone Competition and consumer compliance Preventing fraud and corruption and online channels. (Since December 2010 One of our key obligations to customers is we have sought feedback from more than Implemented in 1997, our board-approved fraud to ensure that information about our products 135,000 customers.) control policy aims to protect Australia Post and services is not misleading or deceptive. from fraudulent and corrupt activity by setting Such conduct is required by the Competition Since we moved to a national model for our out responsibilities and principles that all and Consumer Act 2010 (which replaced the customer contact centres, we have improved employees and business partners must Trade Practices Act 1974) and our internal our customer service performance, with the comply with. compliance policy. number of escalated queries or complaints falling by 8 per cent. The time taken to resolve escalated enquiries was 9.7 days (our customer service charter stipulates an average of 10 days). CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 43 Connecting with our customers To ensure that we comply with our Measuring customer satisfaction expenditure on goods and services amounting obligations, we operate a comprehensive Australia Post commissions Sweeney to approximately $1.9 billion, we recognise national competition and consumer compliance Research to survey a representative sample that the conduct of our suppliers can have program that comprises biennial staff training of our customers to measure satisfaction and a significant environmental and social impact. and an advertising clearance procedure for perceptions of our brand image. Surveys are We promote sustainable sourcing across all materials. The procedure requires all conducted continuously throughout the year. the supply chain and have in place a supplier promotional material to be checked and This year, 1,476 residential and 2,363 business code of conduct (available on our website) endorsed by an executive from the corporate customers were surveyed. Results show to encourage our suppliers to meet ethical, secretariat, the strategy and marketing group that we maintained high levels of customer social and environmental standards of conduct. and our legal services team. This year, more than 632 clearances were processed. satisfaction, similar to those of previous years. Our target this year was to ensure that (See tables below for survey results.) 90 per cent of contracted suppliers are covered During the year, there were no reported Next financial year, we will expand our customer by our code. We exceeded this target, incidents of material non-compliance. satisfaction research to reflect our renewed with 93 per cent of suppliers covered. Our online training program was also focus on improving customer experience. Our procurement team is continuing to develop updated this year to bring it into line with Responsible sourcing and implement evaluation and decision-making recent changes to competition and consumer tools that assist in assessing product and legislation. The new training schedule will Australia Post’s suppliers are vital to the service sustainability criteria. be rolled out in 2011–12. success of our business. With our annual Business customer satisfaction with Australia Post 2007–08 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 Satisfaction with letter and postal services (%) 96 96 94 94 Satisfaction with retail outlets (%) 97 96 94 94 Satisfaction with customer contact centres (%) 89 85 83 84 * Overall satisfaction with Australia Post (%) 96 96 90 93 * Previously reported as 96. Residential customer satisfaction with Australia Post 2007–08 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 Satisfaction with letter and postal services (%) 97 97 97 97 Satisfaction with retail outlets (%) 96 95 96 95 Satisfaction with customer contact centres (%) 79 84 89 82 Overall satisfaction with Australia Post (%) 98 97 97 97 Source: Australia Post Corporate Image Monitor conducted by Sweeney Research. Note: Results for 2007–08 vary slightly from this year as we are now reporting on financial year results, rather than year ending April, as has been reported previously. 44 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review Product packaging ratio has improved from 20.1:1 kilograms to our gift box range by removing the individual This year, we completed our five-year action 21.1:1 kilograms. This indicates that many of our packaging and grouping the boxes into packs plan developed under the National Packaging products have minimal packaging or none at all. of five. And we continued to work with our suppliers to review our pallet configurations About Covenant (now known as the Australian A number of activities this year helped to Packaging Covenant) to minimise the impact and reduce the number of pallets required improve the environmental performance for transportation. Australia Post of Australia Post-branded packaging. of our products. We re-branded our Postpak Since implementing this action plan, we have packaging products and Post Office Supplies Our new five-year plan under the Australian successfully increased the recycled content stationery, which are sold through our retail Packaging Covenant will be rolled out from in our packaging from an average of 28 per outlets. The re-branded products use fewer 2011–12. This plan demonstrates our ongoing Core businesses cent in 2005–06 to 49 per cent in 2010–11. inks, and highlight the recycled content and commitment to reducing the environmental Australia Post-branded packaging is 91 per cent recyclability of the packaging. We reduced impact of our products. Targets under the recyclable and our product-to-packaging the amount of plastic packaging used for five-year plan are to: • increase the amount of packaging that is recyclable to 94 per cent • increase our overall waste diversion We have successfully increased the recycled content in our packaging from landfill of non-hazardous solid Corporate from an average of 28 per cent in 2005–06 to 49 per cent in 2010–11. waste to 70 per cent. responsibility Recycled input materials in Australia Post-branded products 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 Percentage of input materials that are recycled (%) 41 44 49 Financial and statutory reports Percentage of packaging and packaging products that are recyclable (%) 90 92 91 Tonnes of material used in Australia Post-branded products Locally Total Recycled Recyclable/ produced Imported materials content non-recyclable packaging packaging used % Paper Recyclable 3,912.11 504.95 4,417.06 43.38 Cardboard Recyclable 1,942.05 201.25 2,143.30 67.57 Plastic 3 – PVC Recyclable 0.08 0.57 0.65 0 Plastic 4 – LDPE/LLDPE Non-recyclable 263.54 342.78 606.32 20.96 Plastic 5 – PP Non-recyclable 21.24 8.86 30.10 45.71 Plastic 6 – PS/EPS Non-recyclable – 0.11 0.11 – Plastic 7 – Other Non-recyclable – 0.02 0.02 – Composites Non-recyclable – 2.56 2.56 48.68 Note: Data in this table has been collected and measured in accordance with the Australian Packaging Covenant guidelines. Our suppliers provide a detailed analysis of the packaging materials used on each product, and the volumes are captured through the recording of sales transactions for all products at our retail counters. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 45 MANAGING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Through our energy management program and other important initiatives, we’re on track to meet our carbon reduction target of 25 per cent by 2020. Part of being Future Ready is having a good Environmental management Monitoring and reporting understanding of how our business affects Reducing our environmental footprint and Our EMS is regularly audited to ensure the environment and introducing measures building an environmentally sustainable that it helps us manage Australia Post’s to manage these effects. Due to the nature business has been a high priority for the environmental risks and opportunities of our business, our key impact is through corporation since the implementation of effectively and to achieve high standards the energy that we use to run our vast retail our environmental management system of compliance. As a result, there were no and delivery network. This year we made good (EMS) in 1997. significant environmental incidents, fines progress in achieving our carbon reduction or prosecutions during the reporting period. targets and minimising other environmental Australia Post’s EMS, which is aligned with impacts of our business. the International Standard ISO14001, provides Reporting on our performance, including our the framework required to effectively manage legal requirements, is a key aspect of our our environmental footprint according to our commitment to environmental improvement, Reporting period board-endorsed environment policy and and this is monitored by the board’s Audit and This year, due to improved data the principles under the UN Global Compact. Risk Committee. collection processes, we have been able Our EMS is focused on the environmental This year, we continued to meet our to report our Scope 1 and 2 emissions impacts resulting from the operations over environmental reporting obligations under on a financial year basis. In previous which we have full control, including our the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting years, we were only able to report on owned and operated facilities, our fleet Act 2007 (NGERS), the Energy Efficiency calendar year performance. We have and our subsidiaries. Impacts resulting Opportunities Act 2006 (EEO), the National converted our Scope 1 and 2 data from from operations outside our direct control Environmental Protection Measures (NEPM), previous years to a financial year basis are still considered, and we provide regular and the Australian Packaging Covenant so that it can be compared year-on-year communication and support to our licensees, (formerly the National Packaging Covenant). in this report. franchisees and mail contractors. (See page 45 for information related to the To ensure that our data is complete and packaging of Australia Post-branded products.) The EMS is overseen by our sustainability correct we engaged a third party auditor team, which is responsible for communicating Our monitoring and reporting of greenhouse to validate the data within this section. our policy and objectives to staff, licensees, gases is undertaken in accordance with The audit confirmed that the data (at the franchisees and contractors and educating the international standard for corporate time of reporting) exceeds a 95 per cent them in how they can reduce their greenhouse gas reporting (the Greenhouse accuracy level, and the data management, environmental impacts. Gas Protocol) and with standards defined calculations and conversions have been by the Federal Government in its National verified as accurate. Greenhouse Accounts (NGA) factors. 46 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review Highlights Challenges Outlook About • Reduced greenhouse gas emissions • Finding new strategies to • Continue to increase our energy Australia Post by 5 per cent for the year. further reduce our dependence efficiency through the National on energy and fuel derived from Energy Management program. • On track to meet our 25 per cent Core businesses non-renewable resources. carbon reduction target by 2020. • Undertake trials of new building • Successfully aligning our carbon and vehicle technology to identify • Completed our first five-year Energy reduction strategy with our business long-term strategies to reduce Efficiency Opportunities program. transformation program. carbon emissions. • Promote an understanding of our Corporate carbon reduction strategy and show our people how they can help us responsibility to achieve our targets. Financial and statutory reports Carbon reduction target The graph at right outlines the various 2010–11 greenhouse gas emissions profile This year, we made good progress towards impacts on our 2010–11 emission levels. (CO2-e tonnes) achieving our carbon reduction target of Next year, we will continue to implement 309,999 +106 +1,000 -9,842 25 per cent by 2020 (based on our year our carbon reduction strategy and introduce 2000 levels). This 2020 target was endorsed initiatives to reduce our carbon emissions -3,500 -2,766 294,997 by the Australia Post board in June 2010. further. This will include the launch of a staff Our total Scope 1 and 2 emissions produced awareness program to ensure that our people this year was 294,997 tonnes of CO2. understand what we are doing to reduce Through our carbon reduction strategy emissions and how they can contribute to the we have reduced our emission levels program. While these activities were identified Acquisitions & divestments by 15,002 tonnes of CO2, or 5 per cent. for implementation this year, the Future Ready transformation program was given priority Temperature variations We achieved this by reducing our energy 2009–10 emissions Reduction initiatives and the initiatives were put on hold. 2010–11 emissions consumption by 14.2 million kilowatt-hours Emission factors and fuel use by 1.2 million litres. Our emissions We will also implement our new environmental are now on par with our year 2000 levels, reporting tool, which will enable us to efficiently which is a significant milestone in our drive and accurately assess our performance and to achieve our 2020 target. Other make improvements. The main indicator that we use to measure our performance is tonnes of CO2-e per million dollars of operating cost. This year, this has decreased from 60 to 56. Greenhouse gas emissions (CO2-e tonnes) Greenhouse gas emissions (CO2-e tonnes) Building energy efficiency – per $ million of operating cost per full-time employee kg CO2-e/m2 of floor space 06–07 68 06–07 9.5* 06–07 169 07–08 62 07–08 9.1 07–08 175 08–09 60 08–09 9.2 08–09 176 09–10 60 09–10 9.4 09–10 176 10–11 56 10–11 9.3 10–11 167 Note: Figure has been restated to be consistent with data in later years. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 47 Managing our environmental impact ELECTRIC POWER In 2009–10, Australia Post undertook a trial of electronically assisted pushbikes and tricycles at various delivery centres in an effort to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. The trial was a success and this year 200 bikes and trikes were introduced nationally, with a further 1,000 currently being deployed. By the end of June 2012 it is anticipated that the initiative will have saved 390 tonnes of CO2-e by reducing the amount of fuel consumed by some 200 kilolitres. These savings will increase year on year as we continue to add 500 bikes and trikes to the delivery fleet annually. This long-term initiative will be an important factor contributing to Australia Post achieving its 25 per cent carbon reduction target by 2020. “The scheme demonstrates our ongoing commitment to reducing the environmental impact of our operations.” Andy Trott, Head of Sustainability, Australia Post. Our facilities Our fleet To maximise our fuel efficiency, we Across Australia there are 1,258 facilities Australia Post operates one of the nation’s implemented a number of programs during owned or operated by Australia Post, and these largest transport fleets, with around 9,845 the year, including a driver training course account for 73 per cent of our total Scope 1 vehicles. We also rely on a number of and a program to optimise delivery routes and 2 emissions. During 2010–11, the amount contractor vehicles – both road and air (which in some cases reduced the number of energy consumed by our facilities decreased – to transport mail via interstate routes and of vehicles needed). We also introduced by 4 per cent. to deliver parcels into metropolitan areas. electronically assisted pushbikes and tricycles as replacements for some motorbikes Our key performance indicator for building Carbon emissions produced by the vehicles (see the case study for more details). energy efficiency, which is kilograms of CO2-e under our direct control – that is, from emitted per square metre of floor space, Australia Post’s own fleet – account for Australia Post’s contractor fleet, which is improved this year from 176 kilograms to 27 per cent of our Scope 1 and 2 emissions. reflected in our Scope 3 emissions, accounts 167 kilograms. (See chart on page 47.) This year, we reduced fuel consumption for the highest proportion of our greenhouse by 1.2 million litres (or 4 per cent relative gas emissions. While we don’t have direct The reduction in this year’s emissions control over our contractors, we are to last year) and by 3,200 tonnes of CO2-e. can be attributed to the mild summer, which investigating ways in which we can encourage A breakdown of our fuel consumption made us less reliant on air conditioning. them to adopt fuel efficient practices. and fleet is available on our website. Further reductions were achieved through energy efficiency initiatives at our major To manage our emissions, we maintain our Noise mail facilities and delivery centres and fleet to a high standard and regularly replace Another environmental impact of our fleet is an upgrade to our air conditioning systems vehicles with hybrid models or ones that noise. As suburban areas expand, we find that at a number of sites. are more fuel efficient and provide greater our facilities are increasingly surrounded by pollution control. Currently, 56 per cent residential housing. We aim to resolve in a Next year we will continue to develop our consultative and timely manner any complaints of our heavy vehicles are Euro 4 or Euro 5 energy efficiency program and build on the or issues raised by the community. compliant (which is the European standard energy saving initiatives implemented following for engine emissions) and 10 per cent the completion of our five-year Energy of our sedans are hybrid vehicles. Efficiency Opportunities program (part of the Energy Efficiency Opportunities Act 2006). Facility energy consumption (gigajoules) Fleet efficiency – kg CO2 per 100 km Energy source 2006–07 2007–08 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 06–07 47 Electricity 840,126 819,963 820,417 837,222 786,134 07–08 46 Natural gas 101,232 105,033 122,493 99,259 116,352 08–09 47 LPG – non-transport 7,893 11,575 12,025 11,770 12,185 09–10 47 Diesel – non-transport 0 0 0 630 573 10–11 46 Heating oil 19 10 0 0 0 Total energy 949,270 936,581 954,935 948,881 915,244 Note: Figures have been adjusted to reflect the change to financial year reporting and to include consumption data that was not billed by energy retailers in previous years. 48 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review Waste Next year we will continue to focus Biodiversity We have in place an enterprise-wide waste on increasing our recycling rate through Australia Post undertakes surveys of areas management program to help maximise the a number of initiatives, including a staff within its sites that are protected or have high awareness program. About recycling of non-hazardous waste from our biodiversity, so that endangered species are operations. This year, the total waste produced Water identified and protected. Currently, two of our Australia Post by our corporation was 233,957 cubic metres, sites have endangered species in the vicinity. During 2010–11, 366,295 kilolitres of potable a 2 per cent decrease on last year’s figure. water (or approximately 11.5 litres per full-time Dandenong Letters Centre in Melbourne has This year we sent 160,295 cubic metres of equivalent employee) were consumed at two protected species – the growling grass our general waste to landfill and 73,662 cubic our facilities (up 13 per cent on last year). frog and galaxia fish – living in the wetlands Core businesses metres (or 31 per cent) of our non-hazardous This increase is due to improvements made area, which was established when the site waste for recycling. to the data capturing process. was constructed more than a decade ago. The health of the wetland is monitored Hazardous waste, including printer cartridges, Water is mainly consumed through amenities and managed by Melbourne Water. tyres, computers, batteries and light globes and air conditioning, with a small proportion is recycled through specific programs, some used for washing vehicles and landscaping. The protected acacia pubescens grows Corporate of which are community-based initiatives such We have reduced consumption at several at the Sydney West Letters Facility. as Mobile Muster and Cartridges 4 Planet Ark. facilities by replacing air conditioning systems, Unfortunately, the area was affected responsibility (See page 41 for more details.) and we will continue to monitor water usage by last year’s bushfires. We are currently and improve water efficiency. monitoring the revegetation of the species. For full environment data, please visit www.auspost.com.au/2011annualreport. Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions (tonnes) – by source Financial and Emission source 1999–2000 2006–07 2007–08 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 Scope 1 – Natural gas 5,444 5,243 5,424 6,288 5,095 5,972 statutory reports Direct emissions LPG – non-transport 75 467 690 720 705 730 Diesel – non-transport 0 0 0 0 44 40 Heating oil 68 49 26 0 0 0 Diesel 57,258 69,610 67,811 69,103 67,934 65,304 Petrol 15,443 15,589 15,002 14,053 12,807 12,279 LPG transport 0 8 490 1,724 1,690 1,592 Total 78,288 90,966 89,443 91,888 88,275 85,917 Scope 2 – Electricity 219,597 226,813 219,756 218,885 221,724 209,080 Indirect emissions Scope 1 and 2 – Total of all Scope 1 and 2 emissions 297,885 317,779 309,199 310,773 309,999 294,997 Direct and indirect emissions Note: The emission factors used to calculate this data were sourced from the Federal Government’s National Greenhouse Accounts workbook. Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions (tonnes) – by source Emission source 1999–2000 2006–07 2007–08 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 Scope 3 – Electricity generation and transfer 31,128 32,804 29,890 29,145 32,554 30,557 Other indirect emissions Natural gas production and transfer 1,577 1,573 1,375 1,333 1,039 839 Fuel production 7,871 9,442 7,854 6,460 6,387 5,605 Subcontracted road transport * * * 122,897 139,788 108,673 Subcontracted rail transport * * * 414 684 709 Subcontracted air transport * * * 325,511 294,911 341,033 Subcontracted ship transport * * * 70 63 58 Business travel * * * 13,814 4,376 4,146 LPOs electricity consumption * * * 13,932 18,031 16,704 Waste disposal 29,031 12,482 22,510 20,243 17,830 14,106 Total 69,607 56,301 61,629 533,819 515,663 522,430 Note: Scope 3 emissions are based on calendar-year period due to time constraints (except energy and fuel production/transfer as data was available). * Data not available. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 49 Contents Corporate governance 52 18 Current liabilities – trade and other payables 89 Statements by directors, chief executive officer 56 19 Interest-bearing liabilities 90 and executive general manager finance 20 Provisions 90 and business services 21 Other non-current liabilities 91 22 Movements in retained profits 91 Financial statements audit report 57 23 Analysis of reserves 92 Statement of comprehensive income 59 24 Information relating to Australian Postal Corporation 92 Balance sheet 60 25 Dividends paid 93 Cashflow statement 61 26 Auditor’s remuneration 93 27 Operating segments 93 Statement of changes in equity 62 28 Key management personnel remuneration 97 Schedule of commitments 63 and retirement benefits Schedule of contingencies 64 29 Related parties 101 30 Financial and capital risk management 102 Notes to and forming part of the financial report 65 31 Leases 111 1 Summary of significant accounting policies 65 32 Notes to the cashflow statement 112 2 Revenues and other income 76 33 Corporate information 114 3 Expenses 77 34 Events after balance date 114 4 Finance costs 78 5 Income tax 78 Community service obligations 115 6 Current assets – trade and other receivables 80 Auditor-General’s report – performance standards 116 7 Current assets – inventories (held for sale) 81 Statutory reporting requirements 123 8 Other current assets 81 9 Non-current assets – trade and other receivables 81 Australia Post – the statistics 130 10 Investments in controlled entities 82 Index and glossary 132 11 Investments in jointly controlled entities 83 About this report 135 12 Superannuation 84 Assurance statement 135 13 Analysis of property, plant and equipment 87 14 Analysis of intangibles 88 GRI index 136 15 Investment property 88 Contact details IBC 16 Impairment testing of goodwill 89 17 Other non-current assets 89 Understanding our reports Australia Post’s 2010–11 financial report enables readers The statements by directors, chief executive officer, to assess the corporation’s results for the year – its present executive general manager finance and business services financial position, its future outlook and the value of its assets. and the Auditor-General’s Report are standard legal declarations To gain a complete understanding, the financial report should be that are required in all annual financial reports. read in conjunction with the accompanying explanatory notes. Comparative measures are provided for the previous year The report includes consolidated reports only which reflect and all figures are rounded to the nearest $100,000 (unless transactions between Australia Post or its subsidiary companies otherwise stated). and third parties. 50 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Financial and statutory reports FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 51 Corporate governance General Board committees Australia Post maintains a comprehensive system of corporate Two permanent committees assist the board in the discharge of governance practices designed to provide appropriate levels its responsibilities. of disclosure and accountability. The committee’s charters, which are reviewed annually by the board, These practices derive principally from the provisions of the can be accessed in the corporate governance section of the Australian Postal Corporation (APC) Act 1989, the Commonwealth Australia Post website. Authorities and Companies (CAC) Act 1997 and the Governance Both committees meet five times a year. Meeting attendance details Arrangements for Commonwealth Government Business Enterprises for 2010–11 are provided in the table on page 55. (1997). They are also guided by the ASX Corporate Governance Council’s Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations. Audit and Risk Committee A dedicated corporate governance section on the Australia Post Consisting entirely of non-executive directors, the Audit and Risk website (www.auspost.com.au) provides a detailed description Committee provides a forum for regular communication between the of the corporation’s governance framework and associated practices, board and the corporation’s external and internal auditors. with links to key documents. Membership during 2010–11 was: Shareholder ministers Margaret Gibson (Chairman – retired 1 September 2010) As Minister for Broadband, Communications and the Digital Economy Peter Carne (Chairman – appointed 27 October 2010) Senator the Hon Stephen Conroy has portfolio responsibility for David Mortimer Australia Post. Under a dual shareholder model, overall responsibility Ian Warner for the enterprise is exercised jointly with the Minister for Finance Jennifer Seabrook (appointed 15 February 2011 – retired 20 June 2011). and Deregulation, Senator the Hon Penny Wong. The committee focuses in particular on the areas of financial reporting, The board risk management and internal controls. Among other things it reviews: The board of Australia Post comprises up to nine directors. With the • the annual financial statements before their consideration exception of the managing director, all serve in a non-executive capacity. and adoption by the board • the clarity and quality of the corporation’s financial policies, Non-executive directors are appointed by the Governor-General on the practices and disclosures nomination of the portfolio minister. Appointments can be for up to five years, with reappointment permissible. In practice, terms of appointment • internal and external auditor plans, reports and performance are generally three years. • significant existing and emerging risks and mitigation activities Before nominating a person for appointment, the minister is required • the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls to consider the balance of expertise on the board and also to consult • compliance with laws and regulations. with the chairman. Committee meetings are attended by the external and internal The managing director is appointed by the board. auditors as well as by the managing director, executive general Board membership during 2010–11 was: manager finance and business services, and chief finance officer. David Mortimer (Chairman) Prior to each meeting, the committee holds separate private discussions Mark Darras (Deputy Chairman) with the external auditors, the internal auditor and chief finance officer. Ahmed Fahour (Managing Director and CEO) Similar discussions are held annually with both internal legal counsel Penelope Bingham-Hall (appointed 12 May 2011) and the group manager of security. Peter Carne Human Resources Committee Margaret Gibson (retired 1 September 2010) William Mansfield (deceased 3 February 2011) The Human Resources Committee provides a governance framework Jennifer Seabrook (appointed 8 July 2010 – retired 20 June 2011) for the consideration of strategic matters relating to Australia Post’s Ian Warner staff and culture. Matters that the committee particularly address The Hon Trish White (appointed 8 July 2010). and make recommendations to the board about, as appropriate, are: • recruitment, selection and succession planning Profiles of each director and details of their relevant skills, experience and expertise are provided on pages 14 to 15. • remuneration • occupational health and safety Role of the board • culture and ethics Under s23 of the APC Act, the role of the board is to: • learning and development • decide the objectives, strategies and policies to be followed by Australia Post • terms and conditions of employment • ensure that Australia Post performs its functions in a manner that • organisational structure. is proper, efficient and, as far as practicable, consistent with sound Membership during 2010–11 was: commercial practice. Mark Darras (Chairman) Directors set the corporation’s key objectives and strategies through Ahmed Fahour a rolling three-year corporate plan which is submitted annually to William Mansfield (deceased 3 February 2011) shareholder ministers. Progress against the plan is reported quarterly. The Hon Trish White (appointed 24 March 2011). Ministers and their departments are also kept informed on a regular basis about developments of significance. 52 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review Superannuation Committee Director remuneration The Superannuation Committee has been temporarily established Remuneration for Australia Post’s non-executive directors is determined to review Australia Post’s strategy regarding superannuation programs by the Commonwealth Remuneration Tribunal. For 2010–11 this was: and associated obligations. It is anticipated that this responsibility will revert to the board Human Resources Committee once the review Chairman $164,550 is complete. Deputy chairman $91,800 About Australia Post Membership during 2010–11 was: Directors $82,280 David Mortimer (Chairman) Audit and Risk Committee chairman $19,020 Ahmed Fahour Mark Darras Audit and Risk Committee member $9,515 Core businesses Peter Carne. In addition, fees will now be paid to the Human Resources and The committee meets at least quarterly or more frequently as required. Superannuation subcommittees. Annual amounts for committee Board performance members are expected to be $12,000 and for the chairman $18,000. Amounts shown in the disclosures above reflect these subcommittee An externally facilitated board performance appraisal is undertaken entitlements from 1 January 2011. Total amounts received or receivable biennially focusing on board, board committee and individual director Corporate in 2010–11 by each non-executive director are provided in Note 28 to effectiveness. The next review will occur towards the end of 2011. the financial statements (see page 99). responsibility Director induction and education Details of amounts received in 2010–11 by each non-executive director A comprehensive induction program provides newly appointed are provided in Note 28. directors with an understanding of their role and responsibilities and Executive remuneration exposes them to key features of the corporation including operations, Financial and policies and strategies. Additional supplements are tailored to meet The board is responsible for setting the remuneration arrangements particular needs or interests. for the managing director. In doing so it follows a set of principles approved by the Remuneration Tribunal which are designed to link statutory reports Ongoing director education is provided through facility visits and the level of remuneration with the financial and operational performance presentations on matters of interest. of the corporation. Independent professional advice Remuneration arrangements for other senior executives are reviewed Directors have the right (with the prior agreement of the chairman) and determined by the managing director within parameters set by to obtain at the corporation’s expense relevant independent professional the Human Resources Committee. advice in connection with the discharge of their responsibilities. Advice is sought annually from independent specialised remuneration Conflict of interest consultants on the: Directors who may have a material personal interest in a matter to be • structure of remuneration packages applying in the external market considered by the board or a board committee are required to make the • quantum of increases that have occurred in comparable Australian nature of that interest known, and must not be present while the matter corporations over the previous 12 months. is being considered. Details of such disclosures are recorded in the On the basis of this advice, the managing director ensures that payments minutes of the meeting. to senior executives are in line with market practice and are competitively Where an issue to be considered by the board or a board committee placed to attract and retain the necessary talent for the work required is thought to present a director with a potential conflict of interest, by these roles. the director in question will not be provided with the associated Incentive rewards payable to the managing director and other senior background material. executives for meeting or exceeding specific key annual business objectives Ethical standards are linked to the annual business planning process at a corporate and Australia Post seeks to conduct its business with integrity, honesty, individual level. Measures and targeted achievement levels are reviewed fairness and in compliance with all relevant laws, regulations, codes annually to reflect changes in the business priorities for the forthcoming year. and corporate policies and procedures. The measures include financial, customer satisfaction, employee engagement and other individual measures that support the key business objectives. The Our Ethics guide, which was launched in 2009 and has been promulgated through every level of the business, makes it clear that Before a reward is payable, a threshold must be reached according to directors, employees, licensees and contractors of Australia Post predefined measures. In the case of the managing director and some are responsible for leading by example, upholding the corporation’s senior executives, part of their incentive payment is deferred and values and always acting consistently with the ethical standards in their expensed over the deferral period. dealings with customers, suppliers, the corporation and each other. Managers and supervisors have a special responsibility to encourage and foster a culture in which ethical conduct is valued, recognised, demonstrated and expected. Under Australia Post’s whistleblower policy, an independently operated contact service is in place to facilitate the confidential disclosure of serious breaches of ethical standards. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 53 Corporate governance The managing director and other senior executives are employed under Risk identification, measurement and mitigation strategies are included individual contracts of employment that are not limited to a specific in all business-related proposals considered by the board. There are also duration. Continuation of employment is subject to ongoing satisfactory a number of programs in place to manage risk and compliance in specific performance. Where Australia Post terminates the managing director’s or areas such as fraud, the environment, injury prevention and management, other senior executive’s employment for reasons other than performance competition and consumer law, information security and privacy, IT, or misconduct, they are entitled, in the case of the managing director, to: emergency procedures and business continuity planning. • a payment of 12 months fixed annual remuneration in lieu of notice The potentially adverse financial impacts associated with catastrophic and a termination payment of 12 months fixed annual remuneration risk exposures are limited by the purchase of appropriate insurance cover. less any payments in lieu of notice The effectiveness of the corporation’s risk management and compliance and, for other senior executives, to: framework is reviewed annually by the board. To ensure the maintenance • 90 days payment in lieu of notice and a termination payment of better practice, independent external reviews of risk management and calculated based on length of service and capped at 12 months compliance processes across the corporation are undertaken every four fixed annual remuneration including the payment in lieu of notice. years. The most recent review was undertaken by Deloitte in late 2008. All of the above payments are based on the total fixed annual remuneration. Internal control framework Remuneration details for the managing director and other key executives Australia Post’s internal control includes strategic, financial, operational are provided in Note 28 to the financial statements (see page 99). and compliance elements established across multiple internal control layers. Controls include financial planning and reporting, commitment External audit and expenditure delegations, due diligence, procurement contract Under Section 8 of the CAC Act, the Auditor-General is responsible tendering, expenditure gating, external performance reporting and for auditing the financial statements of Australia Post and its subsidiaries. corporation-wide risk management and internal audit practices. The Auditor-General is also responsible for auditing compliance with Financial reporting and business system integrity are assured through the performance standards prescribed for Australia Post under the maintenance of extensive operating procedure policies and practices. Section 28C of the APC Act. Ernst & Young has been retained by the Australian National Audit Office to assist in both of these assignments. Before adopting the annual financial statements, the board receives written confirmation from the managing director and the chief finance The board has in place a comprehensive set of audit independence officer that the integrity of the statements is founded on a sound system principles in relation to the external auditors. Among other things, of risk management and internal compliance and control, and that all these principles exclude the engagement of the external auditors for material risks have been managed effectively. the provision of certain non-statutory audit-related services, such as internal auditing, taxation planning, treasury policy and operations, Treasury and business and strategic planning. In addition, the senior audit partner A comprehensive and prudent treasury policy exists to manage cash on the corporation’s account must be rotated at least every five years. and liquidity, interest rate, foreign exchange, fuel price, counterparty and operational risks. Reviewed by the board at least annually, the policy Internal audit provides for the use of hedging instruments to protect the corporation Australia Post’s internal audit service brings a systematic and against adverse movements in interest rates and minimise the impact disciplined approach to risk management, control and governance of volatility in foreign exchange rate and oil price movements. The aim processes. Empowered by the board to direct a wide-ranging program is to ensure reasonable certainty against budget estimates and in the of internal auditing, it has full and unrestricted access to all functions, cost of imported capital equipment and other supplies. property, personnel, records, accounts, files and other documentation. Established treasury procedures incorporate risk control principles of The internal audit work program is endorsed annually by the Audit segregation of duties, dual control access and independent reconciliations. and Risk Committee, with results, progress and performance regularly An internal Treasury Risk Management Committee meets monthly and reviewed by both the committee and the external auditors. reviews/recommends appropriate hedging strategies to the chief finance The internal auditor also meets privately with the committee before officer within policy parameters. Treasury activities are reported quarterly each meeting, without other management present. to the board and are subject to review by auditors as part of the annual external audit process. Risk management The board has established a comprehensive risk management and Corporate security compliance policy framework covering significant operational, strategic Corporate security is an internal service group that provides consultancy and compliance-related business risks. The framework and underpinning and investigation services for Australia Post. It is chartered to maintain processes are consistent with the principles of the relevant standards the integrity of the mail, ensure staff safety and protect the assets of (ISO31000 and AS3806). the corporation. The group has a 24-hours-a-day, seven-days-a-week response capability. The specialist group maintains close internal As part of the risk management and compliance framework all working relationships with legal, risk and audit, as well as externally business units maintain a risk profile detailing their material business with international, national, state and territory law enforcement risks, associated mitigation strategies and progress against their services and agencies. implementation. The status of higher rated risks is reported to the executive committee and the board Audit and Risk Committee each quarter. In addition, each year the status of each major compliance program is provided to the board’s Audit and Risk Committee. 54 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review Competition and consumer law Corporate responsibility To facilitate compliance with relevant legislation, Australia Post Australia Post’s corporate responsibility (CR) program is an has a national competition and consumer law compliance program important element of the corporation’s strategy. The policy that which is maintained by legal. In addition to undertaking comprehensive underpins this provides for clear accountability in meeting the About biennial competition and consumer law training, the corporation program’s goals and objectives. Performance is continually monitored. has in place a detailed formal clearance process for all promotional As part of the Future Ready business renewal program, the CR and advertising material. Australia Post strategy and governance framework are currently being reviewed Privacy with a view to implementing a new approach next year. The corporation has a privacy contact officer who is accountable for the maintenance of the corporation’s privacy compliance program. Core businesses Under this program, policies, processes and procedures are in place to facilitate compliance with privacy law, to safeguard customers’ personal information and to foster a corporate culture that values privacy. Corporate Directors’ attendance at meetings – 2010–11 Audit and Risk Human Resources Superannuation responsibility Board Committee Committee Committee (a) (b) (a) (b) (a) (b) (a) (b) Financial and David Mortimer 8 8 5 5 – – 2 2 Ahmed Fahour 8 8 – – 5 5 2 2 Penelope Bingham-Hall 1 1 – – – – – – statutory reports Peter Carne 8 8 4 4 – – 2 2 Mark Darras 8 8 – – 5 5 2 2 Margaret Gibson 2 2 1 1 – – – – William Mansfield 4 2 – – 1 1 – – Jennifer Seabrook 8 8 2 2 – – – – Ian Warner 8 8 5 5 – – – – The Hon Trish White 8 7 – – 1 1 – – (a) Number of meetings held while a director/committee member. (b) Number of meetings attended. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 55 Statements by directors, chief executive officer and executive general manager finance and business services 2010–11 Financial report In our opinion: (a) the accompanying financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011: (i) gives a true and fair view of the matters required by the Finance Minister’s Orders made under the Commonwealth Authorities and Companies Act 1997, as amended (ii) has been prepared based on properly maintained financial records (b) at the date of this report, there are reasonable grounds to believe that the corporation will be able to pay its debts as and when they fall due. This statement is made in accordance with a resolution of the directors. D A Mortimer AO A Fahour E K Stafford Chairman Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer EGM Finance and Business Services Melbourne Melbourne Melbourne 25 August 2011 25 August 2011 25 August 2011 2010–11 Financial report certification Prior to the adoption of the 2010–11 financial report, the board received and considered a written statement from the managing director and chief executive officer and executive general manager finance and business services to the effect that the: • report presented a true and fair view, in all material respects, of the corporation and the consolidated entity’s financial position and performance and were in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards and other mandatory professional reporting requirements in Australia as required by the Finance Minister’s Orders under the Commonwealth Authorities and Companies Act 1997 • integrity of the financial report is founded on a sound system of risk management, internal compliance and control that operated effectively and efficiently in all material respects, consistent with the Australian Standard on Risk Management (AS/NZS 31006:2009) and policies adopted by the board of directors. D A Mortimer AO Chairman Melbourne 25 August 2011 2010–11 Report of operations In the opinion of the directors, the requirements under section 9 of the Commonwealth Authorities and Companies Act 1997 for the preparation and content of the “report of operations” as specified in orders issued by the Minister for Finance and Deregulation are met in the general body of this report (pages 2 to 49) and in the statutory report (pages 123 to 129). This statement is made in accordance with a resolution of the directors. D A Mortimer AO Chairman Melbourne 25 August 2011 56 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 About Corporate Financial and Year in review Australia Post Core businesses responsibility statutory reports 57 FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS Finance statements audit report Finance statements audit report 58 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 30 June 2011 Consolidated Year in review 2011 2010 Note $m $m Revenue 2,27 Goods and services 4,864.8 4,753.4 About Interest 31.8 25.7 Australia Post 4,896.6 4,779.1 Other income Rents 38.2 32.6 Core businesses Other income and gains 51.6 44.5 89.8 77.1 Total income 4,986.4 4,856.2 Expenses (excluding finance costs) 3 Employees 2,254.0 2,225.3 Corporate Suppliers 2,054.1 2,054.6 Depreciation and amortisation 198.4 213.5 responsibility Net loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.0 4.6 Net foreign exchange losses 13.0 4.1 Financial and Write-down and impairment of assets 35.8 52.4 Restructuring 42.0 150.2 statutory reports Other expenses 42.3 34.4 Total expenses (excluding finance costs) 4,640.6 4,739.1 Profit before income tax, finance costs and share of net profits of jointly controlled entities 345.8 117.1 Finance costs 4 33.7 28.5 Share of net profits of jointly controlled entities 11 20.2 14.4 Profit before income tax 332.3 103.0 Income tax expense 5(c) 91.1 13.5 Net profit for period 241.2 89.5 Other comprehensive income Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 23 0.7 (0.7) Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit plans 12 114.8 (291.5) Fair value revaluation of land and buildings 23 – 2.7 Movement in hedging reserve 23 0.5 0.9 Income tax on items of other comprehensive income 5(b) (34.5) 86.4 Movements in jointly controlled entity reserves and actuarial losses 0.9 (2.0) Income tax on jointly controlled entity reserves and actuarial losses (0.3) 0.6 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 82.1 (203.6) Total comprehensive income for the period 323.3 (114.1) Net profit for the period is attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 240.8 89.8 Non-controlling interest 0.4 (0.3) 241.2 89.5 Total comprehensive income for the period is attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 323.0 (113.8) Non-controlling interest 0.3 (0.3) 323.3 (114.1) The above statement of comprehensive income should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 59 Balance sheet as at 30 June 2011 Consolidated 2011 2010 Note $m $m Assets Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 32(a) 602.2 500.7 Trade and other receivables 6 465.3 369.2 Inventories 7 49.7 44.1 Accrued revenues 126.1 137.4 Other current assets 8 83.2 78.1 Total current assets 1,326.5 1,129.5 Non-current assets Trade and other receivables 9 226.8 227.1 Investments in jointly controlled entities 11 292.1 295.6 Superannuation asset 12 287.4 172.6 Land and buildings 13 742.4 795.4 Plant and equipment 13 474.7 509.6 Intangible assets 14 317.2 234.8 Investment property 15 183.3 224.9 Deferred tax assets 5(d) 279.1 315.0 Other non-current assets 17 5.6 10.7 Total non-current assets 2,808.6 2,785.7 Total assets 4,135.1 3,915.2 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade and other payables 18 726.3 726.7 Interest-bearing liabilities 19 232.5 0.6 Provisions 20 636.4 711.8 Total current liabilities 1,595.2 1,439.1 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 19 323.6 558.4 Provisions 20 164.8 167.6 Deferred tax liabilities 5(d) 224.5 171.1 Other non-current liabilities 21 23.1 19.9 Total non-current liabilities 736.0 917.0 Total liabilities 2,331.2 2,356.1 Net assets 1,803.9 1,559.1 Equity Contributed equity 400.0 400.0 Reserves 23 6.8 6.2 Retained profits 22 1,397.1 1,153.2 Parent interest 1,803.9 1,559.4 Non-controlling interest – (0.3) Total equity 1,803.9 1,559.1 The above balance sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 60 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Cashflow statement for the year ended 30 June 2011 Consolidated Year in review 2011 2010 Note $m $m Operating activities Cash received About Goods and services 5,329.5 5,264.3 Interest 31.2 26.0 Australia Post Dividends 18.2 14.0 Total cash received 5,378.9 5,304.3 Core businesses Cash used Employees 2,315.3 2,248.9 Suppliers 2,343.9 2,364.4 Financing costs 32.5 24.9 Income tax 54.1 77.5 Corporate GST paid 225.7 217.7 Total cash used 4,971.5 4,933.4 Net cash from operating activities 32(b) 407.4 370.9 responsibility Investing activities Financial and Cash received Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 47.2 53.1 statutory reports Total cash received 47.2 53.1 Cash used Payments for investments in controlled entities (net of cash acquired) 32(c) 43.3 – Payments for investment property 0.7 1.7 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 107.0 127.2 Purchase of intangibles 117.9 129.5 Total cash used 269.3 258.4 Net cash used by investing activities (222.1) (205.3) Financing activities Cash used Repayment of borrowings 32(c) 5.3 – Dividends paid 25 78.5 171.9 Total cash used 83.8 171.9 Net cash used by financing activities (83.8) (171.9) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 101.5 (6.3) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the reporting period 500.7 507.0 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the reporting period 32(a) 602.2 500.7 The above cashflow statement should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 61 Statement of changes in equity for the year ended 30 June 2011 Consolidated Foreign Asset currency NonContributed revaluation translation Hedging Retained Owners of controlling Total equity reserve reserve reserve profits the parent Interest equity $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Balance at 1 July 2009 400.0 4.8 0.2 (1.2) 1,441.3 1,845.1 – 1,845.1 Comprehensive income Profit for the period – – – – 89.8 89.8 (0.3) 89.5 Other comprehensive income – 2.7 (0.7) 0.9 (291.5) (288.6) – (288.6) Tax on other comprehensive income – (0.8) – (0.3) 87.5 86.4 – 86.4 Jointly controlled entity items – – (0.1) 1.0 (2.9) (2.0) – (2.0) Tax on jointly controlled entity items – – – (0.3) 0.9 0.6 – 0.6 Total comprehensive income for the period – 1.9 (0.8) 1.3 (116.2) (113.8) (0.3) (114.1) Transactions with owners Distributions to owners Dividends (refer note 25) – – – – (171.9) (171.9) – (171.9) Balance at 30 June 2010 400.0 6.7 (0.6) 0.1 1,153.2 1,559.4 (0.3) 1,559.1 Comprehensive income Profit for the period – – – – 240.8 240.8 0.4 241.2 Other comprehensive income – – 0.7 0.5 114.8 116.0 – 116.0 Tax on other comprehensive income – – – (0.1) (34.4) (34.5) – (34.5) Transfer net of tax – – (0.1) – 0.2 0.1 (0.1) – Jointly controlled entity items – – (0.1) (0.4) 1.4 0.9 – 0.9 Tax on jointly controlled entity items – – – 0.1 (0.4) (0.3) – (0.3) Total comprehensive income for the period – – 0.5 0.1 322.4 323.0 0.3 323.3 Transactions with owners Distributions to owners Dividends (refer note 25) – – – – (78.5) (78.5) – (78.5) Balance at 30 June 2011 400.0 6.7 (0.1) 0.2 1,397.1 1,803.9 – 1,803.9 62 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Schedule of commitments as at 30 June 2011 Consolidated Year in review 2011 2010 $m $m By type Commitments receivable: About Lease rental receivables (1) 210.3 131.9 GST recoverable on commitments (2) 210.7 223.7 Australia Post Total commitments receivable 421.0 355.6 Commitments payable: Core businesses Capital commitments: Land and buildings 3.9 10.3 Plant and equipment 40.9 75.4 Other 34.6 0.1 Total capital commitments 79.4 85.8 Other commitments: Corporate Operating leases (3) 1,265.8 1,059.9 Other commitments (4) 1,590.6 1,526.1 responsibility Total other commitments 2,856.4 2,586.0 Total commitments payable 2,935.8 2,671.8 Financial and Net commitments 2,514.8 2,316.2 By maturity statutory reports Commitments receivable: (1) Within one year 116.4 105.0 From one to five years 237.5 182.5 Over five years 67.1 68.1 Total commitments receivable by maturity 421.0 355.6 Commitments payable: Capital commitments due: Within one year 79.4 85.8 Total capital commitments 79.4 85.8 Operating lease commitments due: Within one year 226.4 173.1 From one to five years 709.2 476.3 Over five years 330.2 410.5 Total operating lease commitments 1,265.8 1,059.9 Other commitments due: Within one year 576.9 650.2 From one to five years 1,013.3 875.8 Over five years 0.4 0.1 Total other commitments 1,590.6 1,526.1 Total commitments payable by maturity 2,935.8 2,671.8 Net commitments 2,514.8 2,316.2 (1) This relates to $50.2 million (2010: $14.0 million) of sub-lease rent receivables and operating lease receivables. (2) Of these commitments, $45.9 million (2010: $38.5 million) relates to jointly controlled entities. (3) Of these commitments, $539.2 million (2010: $419.9 million) relates to jointly controlled entities. (4) The majority of these commitments relate to carriage and delivery of letters and parcels by contractors. $11.9 million (2010: $4.0 million) relates to jointly controlled entities. This schedule is prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Finance Minister’s Orders published by the Department of Finance and Deregulation. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 63 Schedule of contingencies as at 30 June 2011 Consolidated Claims for damages Guarantees (1) or other costs (2) Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 $m $m $m $m $m $m Balance from previous period 182.7 191.1 2.5 24.4 185.2 215.5 New 1.2 4.1 2.4 0.4 3.6 4.5 Re-measurement (2.9) (6.6) 0.5 0.8 (2.4) (5.8) Liabilities recognised – – (2.7) (3.1) (2.7) (3.1) Obligations expired (1.0) (5.9) – (20.0) (1.0) (25.9) Total contingent liabilities 180.0 182.7 2.7 2.5 182.7 185.2 Balance from previous period 7.7 7.7 1.1 55.4 8.8 63.1 New – – 0.7 0.1 0.7 0.1 Assets recognised – – – (3.8) – (3.8) Obligations expired (0.1) – (0.8) (50.6) (0.9) (50.6) Total contingent assets 7.6 7.7 1.0 1.1 8.6 8.8 Net contingent liabilities 172.4 175.0 1.7 1.4 174.1 176.4 (1) Relates to non-financial guarantees, including bank guarantees over projected workers’ compensation claims liabilities and other guarantees provided by jointly controlled entities. (2) Relates to legal liability claims that have been lodged against the corporation and subsidiaries, including motor vehicle accident and personal injury claims. This schedule is prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Finance Minister’s Orders published by the Department of Finance and Deregulation. 64 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 Year in review 1 Summary of significant accounting policies (a) Basis of preparation The financial report is a general-purpose financial report, which has been prepared in accordance with: • Finance Minister’s Orders (being the Commonwealth Authorities and Companies (Financial Statement) Orders) for reporting periods ending on or after 1 July 2010; and • Australian Accounting Standards and Interpretations issued by the Australian Accounting Standards Board. About Australia Post The financial report has been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for investment properties and derivative financial instruments, which have been measured at fair value. The carrying values of recognised assets and liabilities that are hedged items in fair value hedges, and are otherwise carried at cost, are adjusted to record changes in the fair values attributable to the risks that are being hedged. The financial report is presented in Australian dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand dollars ($0.1 million) unless Core businesses otherwise stated. (b) Statement of compliance The Australian Postal Corporation (the corporation) is incorporated under the provisions of the Australian Postal Corporation Act 1989 as amended. Financial statements are required by clause 1 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Commonwealth Authorities and Companies Act 1997. The financial report complies with Australian Accounting Standards as issued by the Australian Accounting Standards Board and International Financial Reporting Corporate Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. Australian Accounting Standards and Interpretations that have recently been issued or amended but are not yet effective have not been adopted for the annual reporting period ending 30 June 2011. The standards are as follows: responsibility Application Application Reference Title Nature of change to accounting policy date of standard date for group Financial and AASB 9 Financial Instruments AASB 9 includes requirements for the 1 January 2013 1 July 2013 classification and measurement of financial assets resulting from the first part of Phase 1 of the IASB’s project to replace IAS 39 statutory reports Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement (AASB 139 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement). These amendments are not expected to have any impact on the group’s financial report. AASB 2009–11 Amendments to Australian Accounting These amendments are not expected to have 1 January 2013 1 July 2013 Standards arising from AASB 9 [AASB 1, 3, 4, any impact on the group’s financial report. 5, 7, 101, 102, 108, 112, 118, 121, 127, 128, 131, 132, 136, 139, 1023 & 1038 and Interpretations 10 & 12] AASB 124 Related Party Disclosures (December 2009) The revised AASB 124 simplifies the definition 1 January 2011 1 July 2011 (Revised) of a related party, clarifying its intended meaning and eliminating inconsistencies from the definition. These amendments are not expected to have any impact on the group’s financial report. AASB 2009–12 Amendments to Australian Accounting These amendments are not expected to have 1 January 2011 1 July 2011 Standards [AASBs 5, 8, 108, 110, 112, 119, any impact on the group’s financial report. 133, 137, 139, 1023 & 1031 and Interpretations 2, 4, 16, 1039 & 1052] AASB 2009–14 Amendments to Australian Interpretation – These amendments are not expected to have 1 January 2011 1 July 2011 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding any impact on the group’s financial report. Requirement AASB 1053 Application of Tiers of Australian Accounting This Standard establishes a differential 1 July 2013 1 July 2013 Standards financial reporting framework consisting of two Tiers of reporting requirements for preparing general purpose financial statements: • Tier 1: Australian Accounting Standards • Tier 2: Australian Accounting Standards – Reduced Disclosure Requirements The new framework is not expected to have any impact on the group’s financial report. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 65 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 Application Application Reference Title Nature of change to accounting policy date of standard date for group AASB 1054 Australian Additional Disclosures This standard is as a consequence of Phase 1 1 July 2011 1 July 2011 of the joint Trans–Tasman Convergence project of the AASB and FRSB and is not expected to have any impact on the group’s financial report. AASB 2010–4 Further Amendments to Australian Accounting These amendments are not expected to 1 January 2011 1 July 2011 Standards arising from the Annual have any material impact on the group’s Improvements Project [AASB 1, AASB 7, financial report. AASB 101, AASB 134 and Interpretation 13] AASB 2010–5 Amendments to Australian Accounting These amendments are not expected to 1 January 2011 1 July 2011 Standards [AASB 1, 3, 4, 5, 101, 107, 112, have any material impact on the group’s 118, 119, 121, 132, 133, 134, 137, 139, 140, financial report. 1023 & 1038 and Interpretations 112, 115, 127, 132 & 1042] AASB 2010–6 Amendments to Australian Accounting These amendments are not expected to 1 July 2011 1 July 2011 Standards – Disclosures on Transfers of have any material impact on the group’s Financial Assets [AASB 1 & AASB 7] financial report. AASB 2010–7 Amendments to Australian Accounting These amendments are not expected to 1 January 2013 1 July 2013 Standards arising from AASB 9 (December have any material impact on the group’s 2010) [AASB 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 101, 102, 108, 112, financial report. 118, 120, 121, 127, 128, 131, 132, 136, 137, 139, 1023, & 1038 and interpretations 2, 5, 10, 12, 19 & 127] AASB 2010–8 Amendments to Australian Accounting These amendments are not expected to 1 January 2012 1 July 2012 Standards – Deferred Tax: Recovery of have any material impact on the group’s Underlying Assets [AASB 112] financial report. AASB 2011–1 Amendments to Australian Accounting These amendments are not expected to 1 July 2011 1 July 2011 Standards arising from the Trans–Tasman have any material impact on the group’s Convergence project [AASB 1, AASB 5, AASB financial report. 101, AASB 107, AASB 108, AASB 121, AASB 128, AASB 132, AASB 134, Interpretation 2, Interpretation 112, Interpretation 113] IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 10 establishes a new control model 1 January 2013 1 July 2013 that applies to all entities. These amendments are not expected to have any material impact on the group’s financial report. IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in 1 January 2013 1 July 2013 Joint Ventures and SIC-13 Jointly-controlled Entities – Non-monetary Contributions by Ventures. These amendments are not expected to have any material impact on the group’s financial report. IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities New disclosures have been introduced 1 January 2013 1 July 2013 about the judgements made by management to determine whether control exists, and to require summarised information about joint arrangements. These amendments are not expected to have any material impact on the group’s financial report. IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IFRS 13 establishes a single source of 1 January 2013 1 July 2013 guidance under IFRS for determining the fair value of assets and liabilities. These amendments are not expected to have any material impact on the group’s financial report. 66 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review (c) Basis of consolidation (d) Significant accounting judgements, estimates The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements and assumptions of the corporation and its subsidiaries (the group) as at and for the period (i) Significant accounting estimates and assumptions ended 30 June each year. Interests in jointly controlled entities are equity The preparation of the financial statements requires management to accounted and are not part of the consolidated group. About make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported Subsidiaries are all those entities over which the group has the power amounts in the financial statements. Management continually evaluates its judgements and estimates in relation to assets, liabilities, contingent Australia Post to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from their activities. The existence and effect of potential voting rights liabilities, contingent assets, revenue and expenses. Management bases that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when its judgements and estimates on historical experience and on other assessing whether a group controls another entity. The financial various factors it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the result of which form the basis of the carrying values of assets and Core businesses statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies. liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, all intercompany Management has identified the following critical accounting policies balances and transactions, income and expenses and profit and losses for which significant judgements, estimates and assumptions are resulting from intra-group transactions have been eliminated in full. made. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control assumptions and conditions and may materially affect financial results Corporate is obtained by the group and cease to be consolidated from the date or the financial position reported in future periods. on which control is transferred out of the group. Further details of the nature of these assumptions and conditions may Investments in subsidiaries held by the corporation are accounted for be found in the relevant notes to the financial statements. responsibility at cost in the separate financial statements of the parent entity less Investment property any impairment charges. Dividends received from subsidiaries are The group obtains independent third party valuations of its investment recorded as a component of other revenues in the separate statement property portfolio annually. The basis of these valuations are outlined of comprehensive income of the parent entity, and do not impact the in note 15 and include certain significant assumptions. Financial and recorded cost of the investment. Receipt of dividend payments from Impairment of jointly controlled entities, goodwill and intangibles with statutory reports subsidiaries are one of the factors considered by the parent entity when assessing whether any indicators of impairment of the carrying value indefinite useful lives of the investment in the subsidiary exist. Where such indicators exist, The group determines whether jointly controlled entities, goodwill and to the extent that the carrying value of the investment exceeds its intangibles with indefinite useful lives are impaired at least on an annual recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recognised. basis. This requires an estimation of the recoverable amount of jointly controlled entities and cash-generating units, to which the goodwill The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition and intangibles with indefinite useful lives are allocated. Recoverable method of accounting. The acquisition method of accounting involves amount is assessed using a value in use discounted cashflow recognising at acquisition date, separately from goodwill, the methodology. The assumptions used in the estimation of recoverable identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any nonamount of goodwill and intangibles with indefinite useful lives are controlling interest in the acquiree. The identifiable assets acquired and discussed in note 16. the liabilities assumed are measured at their acquisition date fair values. Make good provisions The difference between the above items and the fair value of the Management have made assumptions in arriving at their best estimate consideration (including the fair value of any pre-existing investment in of the likely costs to “make good” premises which are currently occupied the acquiree and any contingent consideration) is goodwill or a discount under operating lease. Such estimates involve management forecasting on acquisition. A change in ownership interest of a subsidiary that does the average restoration cost per square metre and is dependent on the not result in a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. nature of the premises occupied. The provision recognised is periodically After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any reviewed and updated based on the facts and circumstances available accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, at the time. Changes to the estimated future costs are recognised in goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition the balance sheet by adjusting both the expense or asset (if applicable) date, allocated to each of the group’s cash-generating units that are and provision. The related carrying amounts are disclosed in note 20. expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether Employee benefits other assets or liabilities of the acquirer are assigned to those units. Various assumptions are required when determining the group’s Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the superannuation, separation and redundancy, long-service leave, annual operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with leave and workers’ compensation obligations. Note 12 describes the key the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the assumptions used in calculating the group’s superannuation obligation, operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. whilst note 1 (ee) details the basis and certain significant assumptions Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the for the other employee benefits. relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the Unearned postage revenue cash-generating unit retained. The group makes allowance for the assessed amount of revenue from Non-controlling interests are allocated their share of net profit after tax postage sales as at balance date in respect of which service has not yet in the statement of comprehensive income and are presented within been provided. Actuarial valuations are obtained every three years and equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent the provision is reassessed every six months based on factors provided shareholders’ equity. by the group’s external actuaries. Losses are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 67 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 (ii) Significant accounting judgements The group recognises an accrual for the amount of revenue earned Investment property classification from delivery of international mail in respect of which statements The group has determined that those properties classified as have not been received. Revenue is determined based on a number investment properties are primarily held to earn rentals or for capital of factors including the volume of articles delivered, the international appreciation. Where a property is also used for internal use, the group postal organisation for which we are delivering mail and with reference has determined whether this is an insignificant portion of total floor to the International Postal Union guidelines. space and if so, classified the property as investment property. (ii) Interest revenue Operating lease commitments – group as lessor Revenue is recognised as interest accrues using the effective interest The group has commercial property leases on its investment property method. This is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial portfolio. The group has determined that it retains all the significant asset and allocating the interest income over the relevant period using risks and rewards of ownership of these properties and has thus the effective interest rate, which is the rate that exactly discounts classified the leases as operating leases. estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to the net carrying amount of the financial asset. (e) Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition (iii) Dividends method. The consideration transferred in a business combination shall Revenue is recognised when the group’s right to receive the payment be measured at fair value, which shall be calculated as the sum of the is established. acquisition-date fair values of the assets transferred by the acquirer, the (iv) Rental income liabilities incurred by the acquirer to former owners of the acquiree and Rental income from investment properties is accounted for on the equity issued by the acquirer and the amount of any non-controlling a straight-line basis over the lease term. Contingent rental income interest in the acquiree. For each business combination, the acquirer is recognised as income in the periods in which it is earned. Lease measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. rental income. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and included in other expenses. (g) Operating segments When the group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets An operating segment is a component of an entity that engages in and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses in accordance with the contractual terms, economic conditions, the (including revenues and expenses relating to transactions with other group’s operating or accounting policies and other pertinent conditions components of the same entity), whose operating results are regularly as at the acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded reviewed by the entity’s chief operating decisionmaker to make derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree. decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance and for which discrete financial information is available. If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition Management will also consider other factors in determining operating date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the segments, such as the level of segment information presented to the acquiree is measured at fair value as at the acquisition date through board of directors. profit or loss. Operating segments have been identified based on the information Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be provided to the chief operating decisionmakers – being the executive recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes management team. to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with AASB 139 Operating segments that meet the quantitative criteria as prescribed by Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement either in profit AASB 8 Operating Segments are reported separately. Information about or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income. If the contingent other business activities and operating segments that are below the consideration is classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until quantitative criteria are combined and disclosed in a separate category it is finally settled within equity. as an “Unallocated” segment. (f) Revenue recognition (h) Government grants Government grants are recognised when there is reasonable assurance Revenue is recognised and measured at the fair value of the that the grant will be received and all attaching conditions will be consideration received or receivable to the extent it is probable that the complied with. When the grant relates to an expense item, it is economic benefits will flow to the group and the revenue can be reliably recognised as income over the periods necessary to match the grant measured. The following specific recognition criteria must also be met on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate. before revenue is recognised: When the grant relates to an asset, the fair value is credited to (i) Sale of goods and services a deferred income account and is released to the statement of Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of comprehensive income over the expected useful life of the relevant ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the costs incurred asset by equal annual instalments. or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably. Risks and rewards of ownership are considered passed to the buyer at (i) Leases the time of delivery of the goods to the customer. Recognition is at point The determination of whether an arrangement is or contains a lease of sale in the case of postage items and provision of agency services, is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date. It also point of lodgement in the case of bulk mail and when control of goods requires an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is has passed to the buyer in the case of retail products. Allowance is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement made for the assessed amount of revenue from postage sales as at conveys a right to use the asset, even if that right is not explicitly balance date in respect of which service had not yet been provided. specified in an arrangement. 68 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review (i) Group as a lessee • Raw materials – purchase cost on a first-in, first-out basis. The cost Finance leases, which transfer to the group substantially all the risks of purchase comprises the purchase price including the transfer from and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised equity of gains and losses on qualifying cashflow hedges of purchases at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, of raw materials, import duties and other taxes (other than those if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease subsequently recoverable by the entity from the taxing authorities), payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction transport, handling and other costs directly attributable to the About of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the acquisition or raw materials. Volume discounts and rebates are remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are recognised included in determining the cost of purchase; and Australia Post as an expense in profit or loss. • Finished goods and work-in-progress – cost of direct materials and Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the labour and a proportion of variable and fixed manufacturing overheads estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term if there is no based on normal operating capacity. Costs are assigned on the basis Core businesses reasonable certainty that the group will obtain ownership by the end of weighted average costs. of the lease term. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the estimated Operating lease payments are recognised as an operating expense in costs necessary to make the sale. the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Operating lease incentives are recognised as a liability (m) Derivative financial instruments and hedging Corporate when received and subsequently reduced by allocating lease payments The group uses derivative financial instruments (including forward between rental expenditure and reduction of the liability. currency contracts, oil swap contracts and interest rate swaps) to (ii) Group as a lessor hedge its risks associated with interest rate, foreign currency and responsibility Leases in which the group retains substantially all the risks and benefits oil/diesel price fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments of ownership of the leased asset are classified as operating leases. are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to fair value. Financial and the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised as an expense Derivatives are carried as assets when their fair value is positive and over the lease term on the same basis as rental income. Contingent as liabilities when their fair value is negative. statutory reports rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned. Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives, except for those that qualify as cashflow hedges, are taken directly (j) Cash and cash equivalents to net profit or loss for the year. Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity Derivative assets and liabilities are classified as non-current when of three months or less that are readily convertible to known amounts the remaining maturity is more than 12 months, or current when the of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in remaining maturity is less than 12 months. value. For the purposes of the cashflow statement, cash and cash The fair value of non-optional derivatives is determined based equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, on discounted cashflow analysis using the applicable yield net of any outstanding bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are included curve or forward curve (currency or commodity) for the duration within interest-bearing liabilities in current liabilities on the balance sheet. of the instrument. (k) Trade and other receivables For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: Trade receivables, which generally have 30–90-day terms, are • fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability or unrecognised amortised cost using the effective interest method, less an allowance firm commitments; for impairment. Other receivables are initially recorded at the fair • cashflow hedges when they hedge exposure to variability in value of the amounts to be received and are subsequently measured cashflows that is attributable either to a particular risk associated at amortised cost. with a recognised asset or liability or to a highly probable forecast transaction; or Collectability of trade receivables is reviewed on an ongoing basis • hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation (the group does at an operating unit level. Individual debts that are known to be not currently have such hedges in place). uncollectible are written off when identified. An impairment provision Hedges that meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted is recognised when there is objective evidence that the group will for as follows: not be able to collect the receivable. Financial difficulties of the debtor, default payments or outstanding debts more than 60 days overdue (i) Fair value hedges may be considered objective evidence of impairment. The amount Fair value hedges are hedges of the group’s exposure to changes in of the impairment loss is the receivable carrying amount compared the fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm to the present value of estimated future cashflows, discounted at commitment, or an identified portion of such an asset, liability or firm the original effective interest rate. commitment, that is attributable to a particular risk and could affect (l) Inventories profit or loss. For fair value hedges, the carrying amount of the hedged Inventories including raw materials, work in progress and finished goods item is adjusted for gains and losses attributable to the risk being are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs incurred hedged, the derivative is remeasured to fair value and gains and losses in bringing each product to its present location and condition are from both are taken to profit or loss. accounted for as follows: FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 69 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 The group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging (o) Investment in jointly controlled entities instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no The group’s investments in jointly controlled entities are accounted longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the group revokes for using the equity method of accounting in the consolidated financial the designation. Any adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged statements and at cost less any impairment loss in the corporation’s financial instrument for which the effective interest method is used financial statements. Jointly controlled entities are entities where is amortised to profit or loss. Amortisation may begin as soon as an decisions regarding the financial and operating policies essential to the adjustment exists and shall begin no later than when the hedged item activities, economic performance and financial position of that venture ceases to be adjusted for changes in its fair value attributable to the require the consent of each of the venturers that together jointly control risk being hedged. the entity. (ii) Cashflow hedges Under the equity method, the investment in the jointly controlled entity Cashflow hedges are hedges of the group’s exposure to variability is carried in the consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition in cashflows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with changes in the group’s share of net assets of the jointly controlled a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction entities. Goodwill relating to a jointly controlled entity is included in that could affect profit or loss. the carrying amount of the investment and is not amortised. After application of the equity method, the group determines whether it is The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is necessary to recognise any additional impairment loss with respect recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised to the group’s net investment in the jointly controlled entities. Goodwill in profit or loss. Amounts taken to equity are transferred out of equity included in the carrying amount in the investment in jointly controlled and included in the measurement of the hedged transaction when entities is not tested separately, rather the entire carrying amount of the forecast transaction occurs. the investment is tested for impairment as a single asset. If impairment For cashflow hedges if the risk is over-hedged, the ineffective portion is recognised, the amount is not allocated to the goodwill of the jointly is taken immediately to other income/expense in the statement controlled entity. of comprehensive income. The consolidated statement of comprehensive income reflects the If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts group’s share of the results of operations of the jointly controlled entity previously recognised in equity are transferred to the statement of and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised comprehensive income. If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, in reserves. The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its against the carrying amount of the investment. Dividends receivable designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised from jointly controlled entities are recognised in the parent entity’s in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs. statement of comprehensive income as a component of other income. (n) Foreign currency translation After application of the equity method, the group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an additional impairment loss on the group’s (i) Functional and presentation currency investment in its jointly controlled entities. The group determines at Both the functional and presentation currency of the corporation and each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that the its Australian subsidiaries is Australian dollars ($). Each entity in the investment in the jointly controlled entity is impaired. If this is the case group determines its own functional currency and items included the group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference in the financial statements of each entity are measured using that between the recoverable amount of the jointly controlled entity and its functional currency. carrying value and recognises the amount in the “share of net profits of (ii) Transactions and balances jointly controlled entities” in the Statement of comprehensive income. Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional Accounting policies of jointly controlled entities have been changed currency by applying the exchange rates ruling at the date of the where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign by the corporation. Where reporting dates of jointly controlled entities currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the differ to the corporation, necessary adjustments have also been made. reporting date. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a (p) Income tax foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date Current tax assets and liabilities for the current periods are measured of the initial transaction. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date authorities, based on the current period’s taxable income. The tax rates when the fair value was determined. and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. (iii) Translation of group companies functional currency to Current income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity presentation currency is recognised directly in equity and not in the income statement. The results of the overseas subsidiaries are translated into Australian Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns dollars as at the date of each transaction. Assets and liabilities are with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are translated at exchanges rates prevailing at balance date. subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate. On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation Deferred income tax is provided on all temporary differences at the of the net investment in overseas subsidiaries are taken to the foreign reporting date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their currency translation reserve. If an overseas subsidiary were sold, the carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes. Deferred income tax proportionate share of exchange differences would be transferred out liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except: of equity and recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. 70 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review • when the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition The net amount of GST recoverable from, or payable to, the of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables business combination and that, at the time of the transaction, affects in the balance sheet. neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; or Cashflows are included in the cashflow statement on a gross basis • when the taxable temporary difference is associated with investments About and the GST component of cashflows arising from investing and in subsidiaries or jointly controlled entities, and the timing of the financing activities, which is recoverable from, or payable to, the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is Australia Post taxation authority, is classified as part of operating cashflows. probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Commitments and contingencies are disclosed inclusive of GST recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority. Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to Core businesses (r) Acquisition of assets the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against Assets are recorded at cost on acquisition except as stated below. which the deductible temporary differences and the carry-forward of The cost of acquisition includes the fair value of assets transferred unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: in exchange and liabilities undertaken. Financial assets are initially • when the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible measured at their fair value plus transaction costs where appropriate. temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, Assets acquired at no cost, or for nominal consideration, are initially at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit recognised as assets and revenues at their fair value at the date of Corporate nor taxable profit or loss; or acquisition, unless acquired as a consequence of restructuring of • when the deductible temporary difference is associated with administrative arrangements. In the latter case, assets are initially responsibility investments in subsidiaries or jointly controlled entities in which case recognised as contributions by owners at the amounts at which they a deferred tax asset is only recognised to the extent that it is probable were recognised in the transferor authority’s accounts immediately that the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future prior to the restructuring. Financial and and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary (s) Property, plant and equipment difference can be utilised. Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less statutory reports The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable Such cost includes the cost of replacing parts that are eligible that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the for capitalisation when the cost of replacing the parts is incurred. deferred income tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred income Similarly, when each major inspection is performed, its cost is tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised recognised in the carrying amount of the plant and equipment to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit as a replacement only if it is eligible for capitalisation. All other will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. Deferred income repairs and maintenance are recognised in the profit or loss tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are as incurred. expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted disposal or when no further future economic benefits are expected or substantively enacted at the reporting date. from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset only if a legally of the asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in statement liabilities and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to the same of comprehensive income in the year the asset is derecognised. taxable entity and the same taxation authority. Depreciable property, plant and equipment assets are written off to Tax consolidation legislation their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives using Australian Postal Corporation and its wholly-owned Australian resident the straight-line method of depreciation. subsidiaries have implemented the tax consolidation legislation as Depreciation rates (useful lives) and methods are reviewed annually of 1 July 2004. The head entity, Australian Postal Corporation and the and necessary adjustments are recognised in the current, or current Australian resident subsidiaries in the tax consolidated group continue and future reporting periods, as appropriate. to account for their own current and deferred tax amounts. The members of the tax consolidated group have entered into a tax sharing agreement Depreciation rates applying to items in each class of depreciable asset in order to allocate income tax expense across the group on a pro-rata are based on the following useful lives: basis. In addition, the agreement provides for the allocation of income tax liabilities between the entities should the head entity default on its 2011 2010 tax payment obligations. At the balance date, the possibility of default Buildings – GPOs 70 years 70 years is remote. Refer to note 5 for further tax consolidation disclosures. Buildings – other facilities 40–50 years 40–50 years Leasehold improvements Lower of lease Lower of lease (q) Other taxes term and 10 years term and 10 years Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount Motor vehicles 3–10 years 3–10 years of GST except: • when the GST incurred on a purchase of goods and services is Specialised plant and equipment 10–20 years 10–20 years not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the GST Other plant and equipment 3–10 years 3–10 years is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable; The aggregate amount of depreciation allocated for each class of asset • receivables and payables, which are stated with the amount during the reporting period is disclosed in note 3. of GST included. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 71 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 (t) Investment properties Subsequent measurement Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including (i) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss transaction costs. The carrying amount includes the cost of replacing Financial assets classified as held for trading are included in the category part of an existing investment property at the time that cost is incurred “financial assets at fair value through profit or loss”. Financial assets if the recognition criteria are met, and excludes the costs of day-to-day are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose servicing of an investment property. Subsequent to initial recognition, of selling in the near term with the intention of making a profit. investment properties are measured at fair value, which is based on Derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are active market prices, adjusted if necessary, for any difference in the designated as effective hedging instruments. Gains or losses on nature, location or condition of the specific asset at the reporting date. financial assets held for trading are recognised in profit or loss. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair values of investment properties are recognised in profit or loss in the year in which they arise. (ii) Held-to-maturity investments Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments Investment properties are derecognised either when they have been and fixed maturity are classified as held-to-maturity when the group disposed of or when the investment property is permanently withdrawn has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity. Investments from use and no future economic benefit is expected from its disposal. intended to be held for an undefined period are not included in this Any gains or losses on the retirement or disposal of an investment classification. Investments that are intended to be held-to-maturity, property are recognised in profit or loss in the year of retirement such as bonds, are subsequently measured at amortised cost. This cost or disposal. is computed as the amount initially recognised minus principal repayments, Transfers are made to investment property when there is a change plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using the effective interest in use, evidenced by ending of owner-occupation, commencement method of any difference between the initially recognised amount and of an operating lease to another party. Transfers are made from the maturity amount. This calculation includes all fees and points paid investment property when and only when, there is a change in use, or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of evidenced by commencement of owner-occupation or commencement the effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums and of development with a view to sale. discounts. For investments carried at amortised cost, gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the investments are derecognised For a transfer from investment property to owner-occupied property or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process. or inventories, the deemed cost of property for subsequent accounting is its fair value at the date of change in use. If the property occupied (iii) Loans and receivables by the group as an owner-occupied property becomes an investment Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed property, the group accounts for such property in accordance with or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. the policy stated under property, plant and equipment up to the date Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest of change in use. rate method. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through (u) Investments and other financial assets the amortisation process. These are included in current assets, except Investments and financial assets in the scope of AASB 139 Financial those with maturities greater than 12 months after balance date, which Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are categorised as either are classified as non-current. financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments, or available-for-sale financial assets. (iv) Available-for-sale securities The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments Available-for-sale securities are those non-derivative financial assets were acquired or originated. Designation is re-evaluated at each that are designated as available-for-sale or are not classified as any of financial year end, but there are restrictions on reclassifying to other the three preceding categories. After initial recognition available-for-sale categories. When financial assets are recognised initially, they are securities are measured at fair value with gains or losses being measured at fair value, plus, in the case of assets not at fair value recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment through profit or loss, directly attributable transactions costs. is derecognised or until the investment is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity Recognition and derecognition is recognised in profit or loss. All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date i.e. the date that the group commits to purchase (v) Impairment of financial assets the asset. Regular way purchases or sales are purchases or sales An assessment is made at each reporting date whether a financial of financial assets under contracts that require delivery of the assets asset or group of financial assets is impaired. within the period established generally by regulation or convention in the marketplace. Financial assets are derecognised when the right (i) Financial assets carried at amortised cost to receive cashflows from the financial assets have expired or when the If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and entity transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of the financial receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount assets. If the entity neither retains nor transfers substantially all of the of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying risks and rewards, it derecognises the asset if it has transferred control amount and the present value of estimated future cashflows (excluding of the asset. future credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate (i.e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition). The criteria used to determine that there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has occurred include whether the financial asset is past due and whether there is any other information regarding increased credit risk associated with the financial asset. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced either directly or through use of an allowance account. The amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss. 72 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review The group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually group’s cash-generating units, or groups of cash-generating units, significant. If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination, exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the group are or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar assigned to those units or groups of units. Each unit or group of units About credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively to which the goodwill is so allocated represents the lowest level within assessed for impairment. Assets that are individually assessed for the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management Australia Post impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be purposes and is not larger than an operating segment determined recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment. in accordance with AASB 8 Operating Segments, and includes: If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases • Messenger Post Core businesses and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after • SecurePay the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment • Other loss is reversed. Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of recognised in profit or loss, to the extent that the carrying value of the the cash-generating unit (group of cash-generating units), to which asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date. the goodwill relates. The corporation performs its impairment testing annually or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances (ii) Available-for-sale investments indicate that the balance may be impaired. The corporation uses a Corporate If there is objective evidence that an available-for-sale investment value in use, discounted cashflow methodology for the above listed is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost cash-generating units to which goodwill and indefinite life intangibles responsibility (net of any principal repayment and amortisation) and its current fair have been allocated. Further details on the methodology and value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in profit or loss, assumptions used are outlined in note 16. is transferred from equity to the statement of comprehensive income. Financial and Reversals of impairment losses for equity instruments classified as When the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit (group of available-for-sale are not recognised in profit. Reversals of impairment cash-generating units) is less than the carrying amount, an impairment losses for debt instruments are reversed through profit or loss if loss is recognised. When goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit statutory reports the increase in an instrument’s fair value can be objectively related (group of cash-generating units) and an operation within that unit is to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of in profit or loss. is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of (w) Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities in this manner is measured based on the relative values of the operation (i) Financial assets disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained. A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset Impairment losses recognised for goodwill are not subsequently reversed. or part of a group of similar financial assets) is derecognised when: • the rights to receive cashflows from the asset have expired; (y) Intangible assets • the group retains the right to receive cashflows from the asset, Intangible assets acquired separately or in a business combination but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material are initially measured at cost. The cost of an intangible asset acquired delay to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; or in a business combination is its fair value as at the date of acquisition. • the group has transferred its rights to receive cashflows from Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less the asset and either (a) has transferred substantially all the risks any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. and rewards of the asset, or (b) has neither transferred nor retained Internally generated intangible assets, excluding capitalised development substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has costs, are not capitalised and expenditure is recognised in profit and transferred control of the asset. loss in the year in which the expenditure is incurred. (ii) Financial liabilities The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability or indefinite. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their is discharged, cancelled or expires. When an existing financial liability useful life and tested for impairment whenever there is an indication is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the life are reviewed at least at each financial year end. Changes in the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in profit or loss. economic benefits embodied in the asset are accounted for prospectively by changing the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, which (x) Goodwill is a change in accounting estimate. The amortisation expense on Goodwill acquired in a business combination is initially measured at intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in profit or loss in the cost of the business combination being the excess of the consideration expense category consistent with the function of the intangible asset. transferred over the fair value of the group’s net identifiable assets Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment acquired and liabilities assumed. If this consideration transferred is annually either individually or at the cash-generating unit level consistent lower than the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the subsidiary with the methodology outlined for goodwill above. Such intangibles are acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss. Following initial not amortised. The useful life of an intangible asset with an indefinite recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated life is reviewed each reporting period to determine whether indefinite impairment losses. life assessment continues to be supportable. If not, the change in the useful life assessment from indefinite to finite is accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate and is thus accounted for on a prospective basis. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 73 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 Computer software is carried at cost and is amortised on a straight-line is increased to its recoverable amount. That increased amount cannot basis over its anticipated useful life, being four to eight years. exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of Customer contracts are carried at cost and amortised on a straight-line depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in basis over the contract terms, being an average of seven years. prior years. Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss unless the asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal is treated Trademarks and trade names are carried at cost and amortised as a revaluation increase. After such a reversal the depreciation charge on a straight-line basis over its anticipated useful life, not exceeding is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised carrying ten years. amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life. Research and development costs Research costs are expensed as incurred. An intangible asset arising (aa) Trade and other payables from development expenditure on an internal project is recognised only Trade and other payables are carried at amortised cost and due to their when the group can demonstrate the technical feasibility of completing short-term nature they are not discounted. They represent liabilities the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale, its intention for goods and services provided to the group prior to the end of the to complete and its ability to use or sell the asset, how the asset financial year that are unpaid and arise when the group becomes obliged will generate future economic benefits, the availability of resources to make future payments in respect of the purchase of these goods to complete the development and the ability to measure reliably the and services. expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development. (bb) Interest-bearing liabilities Following the initial recognition of the development expenditure, the cost model is applied requiring the asset to be carried at cost less All borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. received less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial Any expenditure so capitalised is amortised over the period of expected recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are subsequently measured benefits from the related project. at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities that are yield related are included The carrying value of an intangible asset arising from development as part of the carrying amount of borrowings. expenditure is tested for impairment annually when the asset is not yet available for use or more frequently when an indication of impairment Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the group has arises during the reporting period. an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and (cc) Finance costs the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in profit or loss Finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or when the asset is derecognised. production of a qualifying asset (i.e. an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale) (z) Impairment of non-financial assets (other than goodwill are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset. The group does not and indefinite life intangibles) currently hold qualifying assets. The group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur. that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when Finance costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the group makes in connection with the borrowings of funds. an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in (dd) Provisions (excluding employee benefits) use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does Provisions are recognised when the group has a present obligation (legal not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow other assets or groups of assets and the asset’s value in use cannot be of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle estimated to be close to its fair value. In such cases the asset is tested the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of for impairment as part of the cash-generating unit to which it belongs. the obligation. When the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset or cash-generating unit is considered When the group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually In assessing value in use, the estimated future cashflows are discounted certain. The expense relating to any provision is presented in the to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current statement of comprehensive income net of any reimbursement. market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Impairment losses relating to continuing operations are Provisions are measured at the present value of management’s best recognised in those expense categories consistent with the function estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation of the impaired asset unless the asset is carried at revalued amount at the reporting date. The discount rate used to determine the present (in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease). value reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the An assessment is also made at each reporting date as to whether there increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may as a financing cost. no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset 74 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review (ee) Employee leave benefits The defined benefit asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet (i) Wages, salaries, annual leave and sick leave represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation, adjusted Liabilities for wages and salaries (including non-monetary benefits), for unrecognised past service cost, net of the fair value of the plan expected to be settled within 12 months of the reporting date are assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service recognised in other payables in respect of employees’ services up costs, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future to the reporting date. contributions to the plan. About Australia Post Liabilities for annual leave where the corporation does not have (gg) Financial guarantees an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least Financial guarantees are initially measured at fair value. At each 12 months after the reporting date are recognised in current provisions subsequent reporting date, they are carried at the higher of the initial fair at the amounts expected to be paid when the liabilities are settled. value amount less cumulative amortisation or the amount determined Core businesses No liability is recognised for sick leave as benefits lapse with termination under AASB 137 Provisions, Contingent Assets and Contingent Liabilities. of employment and experience indicates that the pattern The fair value of financial guarantee contracts discussed in note 18 has of sick leave taken is less than the entitlement accumulating. been assessed using a probability weighted discounted cashflow approach. In order to estimate the initial fair value under this approach, (ii) Long service leave the following assumptions are made: The liability for long service leave is recognised and measured as • Probability of Default (PD): represents the likelihood of the guaranteed Corporate the present value of expected future payments to be made in respect party defaulting over the terms of relevant agreements and is assessed of services provided by employees up to the reporting date using the based on historical default rates of companies rated by Standard responsibility projected unit credit method. & Poor’s. The range used in the model is between 0 per cent and Consideration is given to expected future wage and salary levels, 5 per cent. experience of employee departures, and periods of service. Expected • Loss Given Default (LGD): represents the proportion of the exposure future payments are discounted using market yields at the reporting date that is not expected to be recovered in the event of a default Financial and on national government bonds with terms to maturity and currencies by the guaranteed party and is based on the result of studies into that match, as closely as possible, the estimated future cash outflows. the recovery rate for unsecured debt obligations. The range used in the model is between 0 per cent and 50 per cent. statutory reports (iii) Workers’ compensation • Exposure at Default (EAD): represents the maximum loss that the The corporation is a licence holder under the Safety, Rehabilitation corporation is exposed to if the guaranteed party was to default and and Compensation Act 1988 (SRC Act). The corporation self-insures is the maximum possible exposure at the time of default and hence, its liability for workers’ compensation. Claims are recognised in the equates to the values disclosed in note 18. financial statements and measured by the discounted value of an • The discount rate adopted was based on the Commonwealth annuity. The adequacy of the provision is established by reference to Government bond yield. the work of an actuary as at balance date, with the estimate of present When the uncertainty associated with an assumption was sufficient to value taking into account pay increases, attrition rates, interest rates warrant consideration of a range of possible assumptions, the maximum and the time over which settlement is made. in the range was used for valuation purposes. In accordance with its SRC Act licensing conditions, the corporation has a bank guarantee to cover its outstanding actuarial established claims (hh) Contributed equity liability (refer schedule of contingencies). The corporation also complies Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly with a requirement to maintain reinsurance to limit its workers’ attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity compensation liabilities. as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. The corporation has recognised a liability for workers’ compensation (ii) Insurance of $103.3 million at balance date (refer note 20) of which $9.6 million Generally, the corporation self-insures its own risks. However, with respect relates to claims made in the 2010–11 financial year (2009–10: to catastrophic losses, appropriate insurance coverage for both the $8.7 million). corporation and its controlled entities has been arranged with general insurers. Payments on account of losses and insurance premiums paid (iv) Separation and redundancy in any year are charged against revenue for the year. Where appropriate, Restructuring provisions are only recognised when general recognition the controlled entities insure their other risks with general insurers. criteria provisions are fulfilled. Additionally, the group needs to follow a detailed formal plan about the business or part of the business (jj) Contingent liabilities and contingent assets concerned, the location and number of employees affected, a detailed Contingent liabilities and contingent assets are not recognised in the estimate of the associated costs, and appropriate timeline. The employees balance sheet but are reported in the relevant schedules and notes. affected have a valid expectation that the restructuring is being carried They may arise from uncertainty as to the existence of a liability or asset, out or the implementation has been initiated already. Refer note 20. or represent an existing liability or asset in respect of which settlement (ff) Pensions and other post-employment benefits is not probable or the amount cannot be reliably measured. Contingent assets are reported when settlement is probable, and contingent The defined benefit plan requires contributions to be made to a liabilities are recognised when settlement is not considered remote. separately administered fund. The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit (kk) Comparatives actuarial valuation method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised Where necessary, comparatives have been reclassified and repositioned in retained earnings. for consistency with current year disclosures. Past service costs are recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 75 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m 2 Revenues and other income Revenue: Rendering of services to: Related entities (1) 185.8 184.6 External entities (2) 4,349.6 4,224.8 4,535.4 4,409.4 Sale of goods to external entities (2) 329.4 344.0 4,864.8 4,753.4 Interest income calculated using the effective interest method from: Cash on hand and promissory notes 21.5 15.4 Loans and receivables 10.3 10.3 31.8 25.7 Total revenue 4,896.6 4,779.1 Other income and gains: Rents from operating leases 28.1 26.8 Income from investment properties 10.1 5.8 38.2 32.6 Other revenues and gains Other services: Related entities (government grants) (1) 1.8 3.0 External entities (2) 20.7 19.0 22.5 22.0 Net gain on disposal of assets: Land and buildings 6.5 22.5 Investment property 16.5 – 23.0 22.5 Change in fair value of investment properties 6.1 – Total other revenues and gains 51.6 44.5 Total other income and gains 89.8 77.1 Total income 4,986.4 4,856.2 (1) Related entities – related to the Commonwealth Government. (2) External entities – not related to the Commonwealth Government. 76 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Consolidated Year in review 2011 2010 $m $m 3 Expenses (excluding finance costs) About Employees: Australia Post Salaries and wages 1,851.1 1,820.9 Defined benefit superannuation expense 135.3 129.3 Leave and other entitlements 187.0 216.7 Separation and redundancy 30.6 8.6 Core businesses Workers’ compensation 24.6 24.5 Other employee expenses 25.4 25.3 2,254.0 2,225.3 Suppliers: Purchase of services from: External entities (1) 1,733.6 1,698.4 Corporate responsibility 1,733.6 1,698.4 Cost of sales – goods purchased from external entities (1) 179.1 212.8 Investment property expenditure 8.4 6.3 Operating lease rentals (refer note 31 (i)) 133.0 137.1 Financial and 2,054.1 2,054.6 Depreciation and amortisation: statutory reports Depreciation: Buildings 50.9 52.3 Plant and equipment 87.4 92.0 Plant and equipment under finance lease 4.3 9.2 Amortisation: Computer software 54.2 57.6 Other intangibles 1.6 2.4 198.4 213.5 Net loss on disposal of assets: Plant and equipment 1.0 4.3 Intangibles – 0.3 1.0 4.6 Net foreign exchange losses – non-speculative 13.0 4.1 Write-down and impairment of assets: Inventory 0.2 3.3 Land and buildings 14.9 – Plant and equipment – 2.2 Intangibles 13.6 24.6 Financial: Receivables 2.6 0.2 Related party loan (0.3) 1.3 Investments 4.5 1.7 Goodwill 0.3 19.1 35.8 52.4 Restructuring costs (2) 42.0 150.2 Other expenses 42.3 34.4 Total expenses 4,640.6 4,739.1 (1) External entities – not related to the Commonwealth Government. (2) Costs related to impairment of property, plant and equipment, redundancy and other restructuring costs. (2010: costs related to separation and redundancy costs attributable to the business renewal program to streamline the Australia Post structure.) FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 77 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m 4 Finance costs Bonds (1) 31.8 31.7 Interest rate swaps (1) 0.4 (6.3) Loss/(Gain) arising on interest rate swaps in a designated fair value hedge relationship 0.8 (3.3) Loss on adjustment to hedged item in a designated fair value hedge relationship – 5.3 Unwinding of discount (refer note 20) 0.7 1.1 Total finance costs 33.7 28.5 (1) Interest expense calculated using the effective interest method. Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m 5 Income tax Major components of income tax expense for the years ended 30 June are: (a) Statement of comprehensive income Current income tax Current income tax charge 53.5 60.5 Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years (5.9) (4.3) Deferred income tax benefit Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 54.6 (42.7) Adjustments in respect of deferred income tax of previous years (11.1) – Income tax expense reported in the statement of comprehensive income 91.1 13.5 (b) Amounts charged directly to equity Deferred income tax related to items charged or credited directly to equity Net gain on revaluation of cashflow hedges 0.1 0.3 Net gain on revaluation of land and buildings – 0.8 Net actuarial gains/(losses) 34.4 (87.5) Income tax expense reported in equity 34.5 (86.4) (c) Numerical reconciliation between aggregate tax expense recognised in the statement of comprehensive income and tax expense calculated per the statutory income tax rate A reconciliation between tax expense and the product of accounting profit before income tax multiplied by the group’s applicable income tax rate is as follows: Accounting profit before income tax 332.3 103.0 At the group’s statutory income tax rate of 30% (2010: 30%) 99.7 30.9 Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years (5.9) (4.3) Investment property 0.8 0.4 Unrecognised tax losses 0.2 1.5 Tax incentives (4.5) (8.8) Income not assessable for income tax purposes (3.0) (8.1) Write-down and impairment not allowable for income tax purposes 5.8 6.6 Share of net profits of jointly controlled entities (6.1) (4.3) Sundry items 4.1 (0.4) At effective income tax rate of 27.4% (2010: 13.1%) 91.1 13.5 Income tax expense reported in the statement of comprehensive income 91.1 13.5 78 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Statement of Year in review Balance Sheet Comprehensive Income 2011 2010 2011 2010 $m $m $m $m 5 Income tax (continued) About (d) Recognised deferred income tax Deferred income tax at 30 June relates to the following: Australia Post Consolidated (i) Deferred income tax liabilities Core businesses Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes (43.9) (39.5) 4.4 (10.4) Superannuation asset (86.2) (51.8) – (1.1) Sydney GPO lease receivable (31.0) (31.0) – – International income (50.9) (43.4) 7.5 (10.5) Net gain on revaluation of cashflow hedges (0.3) 0.1 – (0.1) Corporate Sundry (12.2) (5.5) 6.7 2.4 Gross deferred income tax liabilities (224.5) (171.1) 18.6 (19.7) responsibility (ii) Deferred income tax assets Provisions 227.7 256.5 28.8 (37.4) Capital losses available for offset against future taxable income 2.4 6.0 3.6 2.0 Financial and Sydney GPO refurbishment 5.3 5.3 – 0.2 International expenditure 21.1 21.1 – 13.3 statutory reports Government grant 0.9 1.5 0.6 0.9 Make good 13.8 14.0 0.2 (0.4) Net loss on revaluation of cashflow hedges – (0.1) – 0.3 Sundry 7.9 10.7 2.8 (1.9) Gross deferred income tax assets 279.1 315.0 36.0 (23.0) Deferred income tax expense/(benefit) 54.6 (42.7) (e) Unrecognised temporary differences At 30 June 2011, there were no unrecognised temporary differences (2010: $nil) associated with the group’s investments in controlled entities or jointly controlled entities, as the group has no liability for additional taxation should unremitted earnings be remitted. (f) Tax consolidation Australian Postal Corporation and its 100% owned Australian resident subsidiaries have formed a tax consolidated group with effect from 1 July 2004. Australian Postal Corporation is the head entity of the tax consolidated group. Members of the group have entered into a tax sharing arrangement in order to allocate income tax expense to the wholly owned subsidiaries on a pro-rata basis. In addition, the agreement provides for the allocation of income tax liabilities between the entities should the head entity default on its tax payment obligations. No amounts have been recognised in the financial statements in respect of this agreement on the basis that the possibility of default is remote. Tax effect accounting by members of the tax consolidated group Members of the tax consolidated group have entered into a tax funding agreement. The tax funding agreement provides for the allocation of current taxes to members of the tax consolidated group in accordance with their contribution to the actual tax payable by the head entity for the period, while deferred taxes are allocated to members of the tax consolidated group in accordance with the principles of AASB 112 Income Taxes and UIG 1052 Tax Consolidation Accounting. Allocations under the tax funding agreement are made on an annual basis. The allocation of taxes under the tax funding agreement is recognised as an increase/decrease in the subsidiaries’ intercompany accounts with the tax consolidated group head company, Australian Postal Corporation. Because under UIG 1052 Tax Consolidation Accounting the allocation of current taxes to tax consolidated group members on the basis of accounting profits is not an acceptable method of allocation given the group’s circumstances, the difference between the current tax amount that is allocated under the tax funding agreement and the amount that is allocated under an acceptable method is recognised as a contribution/distribution of the subsidiaries’ equity accounts. The group has applied the group allocation approach in determining the appropriate amount of current taxes to allocate to members of the tax consolidated group. The amounts receivable or payable under the tax funding agreement are due upon receipt of the funding advice from the head entity, which is issued as soon as practicable after the end of each financial year. The head entity may also require payment of interim funding amounts to assist with its obligations to pay tax instalments. All tax related contingencies are included in the schedule of contingencies. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 79 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m 6 Current assets – trade and other receivables Goods and services receivable (1) 383.4 351.4 Allowance for doubtful debts (5.9) (4.2) 377.5 347.2 Proceeds receivable 43.8 – Finance lease receivable (refer note 31 (ii)) 6.5 6.5 Interest receivable 1.5 0.9 Trade receivables from jointly controlled entities (refer note 29) 1.4 1.4 Income tax receivable 18.6 5.5 Other receivables (2) 16.0 7.7 Total current assets 465.3 369.2 Receivables not impaired are aged as follows: Not past due 430.4 337.8 Past due less than 30 days 12.2 11.5 Past due 30–60 days 10.8 8.8 Past due 61–90 days 2.1 0.8 Past due more than 90 days 9.8 10.3 465.3 369.2 Receivables individually determined to be impaired are aged as follows: Not past due 0.5 0.4 Past due less than 30 days 0.2 – Past due 30–60 days 0.2 – Past due 61–90 days 0.5 0.2 Past due more than 90 days 4.5 3.6 5.9 4.2 Movements in the allowance for doubtful debts during the financial year, are set out below: Balance at 1 July 4.2 5.0 Charge for the year 2.6 0.2 Acquisition of subsidiary 0.1 – Disposal of subsidiary (0.4) – Amounts written off (0.6) (1.0) Balance at 30 June 5.9 4.2 (1) Goods and services receivable are interest-free and are normally on settlement terms of between 10 and 30 days. Included within goods and services receivable are international debtors which are settled in accordance with Universal Postal Union (UPU) arrangements which may be longer than 30 days. (2) Receivables are interest-free with various maturities. 80 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Consolidated Year in review 2011 2010 $m $m 7 Current assets – inventories (held for sale) Raw materials (at net realisable value) 0.6 1.1 About Australia Post Work in progress (at cost) 1.0 1.1 Finished goods (at net realisable value) 48.1 41.9 Total current inventories at lower of cost and net realisable value 49.7 44.1 Inventory write-down expense recognised totalled $0.2 million (2010: $3.3 million) for the group. Core businesses This expense is included in the write-down of inventory. Refer to note 3. Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m Corporate 8 Other current assets Prepayments 79.9 77.7 responsibility Foreign currency exchange contracts – 0.4 Oil commodity swaps 1.0 – Interest rate swap contracts 2.3 – Total other current assets 83.2 78.1 Financial and statutory reports Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m 9 Non-current assets – trade and other receivables (1) Loans to jointly controlled entities (refer note 29) 130.5 130.7 Provision for impairment of loans to jointly controlled entities (1.0) (1.3) 129.5 129.4 Finance lease receivable (refer note 31 (ii)) 97.0 97.0 Other receivables 0.3 0.7 Total non-current assets 226.8 227.1 (1) There are no non-current trade and other receivables that are past due (2010: $nil). There are no non-current trade and other receivables whose terms have been renegotiated that would otherwise be past due (2010: $nil). The terms of loans agreements with jointly controlled entities are reviewed and updated prior to expiry or on an as needs basis to ensure they are appropriate in light of the current financial position of the jointly controlled entity. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 81 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 % of equity held by immediate parent Country of 2011 2010 Note Incorporation % % 10 Investments in controlled entities Sprintpak Pty Ltd (1) Australia 100.0 100.0 Postcorp Developments Pty Ltd (1) Australia 100.0 100.0 Geospend Pty Ltd (1) Australia 100.0 100.0 corProcure Pty Ltd (1) Australia 100.0 100.0 Post Fulfilment Online Pty Ltd (1) Australia 100.0 100.0 SnapX Pty Ltd (1) Australia 100.0 100.0 Decipha Pty Ltd (2) Australia 100.0 100.0 AP International Holdings Pty Ltd (1) Australia 100.0 100.0 PostLogistics Pte Ltd (3) Hong Kong 100.0 100.0 Australia Post Transaction Services Pty Ltd (2) Australia 100.0 100.0 SecurePay Holdings Pty Ltd (1) Australia 100.0 – SecurePay Pty Ltd (1) Australia 100.0 – Post Logistics Australasia Pty Ltd (2) Australia 100.0 100.0 Lakewood Logistics Pty Ltd (1) Australia 100.0 100.0 PrintSoft Holdings Pty Ltd (4) Australia – 100.0 PrintSoft Development Pty Ltd (4) Australia – 100.0 PrintSoft Products Pty Ltd (4) Australia – 100.0 PrintSoft Americas, Inc (4) USA – 100.0 PrintSoft Systems Ltd (4) UK – 100.0 PrintSoft Solutions Ltd (4) UK – 100.0 Program Products Services Ltd (4) UK – 100.0 PrintSoft SAS (4) France – 100.0 PrintSoft Systems GmbH (4) Germany – 100.0 PrintSoft Slovenska Republika S.R.O (4) Slovak Republic – 68.0 PrintSoft Ceska Republika S.R.O (4) Czech Republic – 72.0 PrintSoft Italia SRL (4) Italy – 100.0 (1) These entities are incorporated in Australia and are small proprietary companies. As such, they are not required to prepare and lodge audited financial statements with the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC). (2) These entities are incorporated in Australia and are large proprietary companies required to lodge audited financial statements with ASIC. (3) These entities are not audited by the Australian National Audit Office. (4) On 30 June 2011, Australia Post disposed of its investment in the PrintSoft group. 82 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Consolidated Year in review 2011 2010 $m $m 11 Investments in jointly controlled entities About Carrying amounts of investments Australia Post Balance at the beginning of the financial year 295.6 298.3 Share of profits for the year 20.2 14.4 Net actuarial gain/(loss) 0.8 (2.0) Impairment of investment (4.5) (1.7) Core businesses Disposal of investments (0.7) – Share of reserves (0.3) 0.8 Dividends received/receivable (19.0) (14.2) Balance at the end of the financial year 292.1 295.6 Ownership interest Corporate responsibility Country of 2011 2010 Principal activity incorporation Balance date % % AUX Investments (1) Express air freight Australia 30 June 50.0 – Australian air Express Pty Ltd – ordinary shares (1) Express air freight Australia 30 June – 50.0 Financial and Star Track Express Holdings Pty Ltd – ordinary shares (1) Express freight Australia 30 June – 50.0 Wetherill Park Partnership Warehousing facilities Australia 30 June 50.0 50.0 statutory reports Sai Cheng Logistics International Company Limited International 4PL – ordinary shares (2) logistics services China 31 Dec 49.0 49.0 iPrint Corporate Pty Ltd – ordinary shares (3) Printing services Australia 30 June – 50.0 Multi Media Logistics Pty Ltd – ordinary shares (4) Logistics services Australia 30 June – 50.0 (1) Australia Post holds a 50% investment in AUX Investments, which holds the 100% investment in Star Track Express Holdings Pty Ltd and Australian air Express Pty Ltd. (2) This investment is held by the corporation’s 100% owned subsidiary AP International Holdings Pty Ltd. (3) This investment was sold on 30 June 2011. (4) This investment was held by the corporation’s 100% owned subsidiary Post Logistics Australasia Pty Ltd and was sold on 1 July 2010. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 83 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m 11 Investments in jointly controlled entities (continued) Share of jointly controlled entities’ profits Revenues 664.7 614.1 Expenses (645.4) (593.5) Net profits before income tax 19.3 20.6 Income tax expense 0.9 (6.2) Net profits after income tax 20.2 14.4 Share of assets and liabilities Current assets 98.3 90.8 Non-current assets 420.8 436.1 Total assets 519.1 526.9 Current liabilities (75.8) (73.4) Non-current liabilities (151.2) (157.9) Total liabilities (227.0) (231.3) Net assets 292.1 295.6 Retained profits of the consolidated entity attributable to jointly controlled entities Balance at the beginning of the financial year 29.6 31.4 Share of profits for the year 20.2 14.4 Net actuarial gain/(loss) 0.8 (2.0) Dividends received/receivable (19.0) (14.2) Balance at the end of the financial year 31.6 29.6 The group’s investment in the Wetherill Park Partnership was impaired during the year by $4.5 million (2010: $1.7 million impairment of Multi Media Logistics Pty Ltd). The consolidated entity’s share of the jointly controlled entities’ net commitment payable is $501.8 million (2010: $385.5 million) and is included in the schedule of commitments. The consolidated entity’s share of the jointly controlled entities’ contingent liabilities is $32.0 million (2010: $31.1 million) and is included in the schedule of contingencies. 12 Superannuation (i) Superannuation plan The corporation is an employer sponsor of the Australia Post Superannuation Scheme (APSS) of which almost all of its employees are members. The APSS provides employer-financed defined benefits to all employees who are members and member-financed accumulation benefits to those who elect. Some of the corporation’s current and past employees are also entitled to benefits under the Superannuation Act 1976, but the corporation has no contribution obligation in respect of these benefits. A small percentage of Australia Post employees have elected not to be members of the APSS and are not entitled to benefits under the Superannuation Act 1976. Australia Post pays the Superannuation Guarantee contribution to the nominated superannuation funds of these employees. The consolidated amounts shown below are materially consistent with the corporation. Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m (ii) Amount recognised in the statement of comprehensive income Current service cost 199.0 200.9 Interest cost on benefit obligation 353.3 363.5 Expected return on plan assets (447.8) (465.0) Plan expenses 12.3 12.3 Contributions tax reserve 18.5 17.6 Defined benefit superannuation expense 135.3 129.3 84 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review 12 Superannuation (continued) Consolidated 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 $m $m $m $m $m About (iii) Amount recognised in the balance sheet Present value of benefit obligation (wholly funded) (5,584.7) (5,347.2) (5,298.0) (5,333.3) (5,003.4) Fair value of plan assets 5,829.0 5,493.9 5,695.8 6,688.8 6,514.5 Australia Post Contributions tax reserve 43.1 25.9 70.2 239.2 266.7 Net superannuation asset – non-current (1) 287.4 172.6 468.0 1,594.7 1,777.8 Core businesses (1) Australia Post’s entitlement to any surplus in the Fund is limited by the terms of the relevant Trust Deed and applicable superannuation laws. On termination, any money and other assets remaining in the fund after the payment of benefits and expenses of the fund would ultimately be realised and the proceeds distributed to the employers (including Australia Post) in such shares as determined by Australia Post. Outside termination, there is scope for Australia Post to request a return of surplus, which may be no more than the amount (as determined by the fund’s actuary) by which the total fund value exceeds the total accrued benefit value. In addition, Australia Post benefits from the surplus through reduction in future superannuation expense and contributions. Consolidated 2011 2010 Corporate $m $m responsibility (iv) Reconciliations Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation is as follows: Opening defined benefit obligation at 1 July 5,347.2 5,298.0 Financial and Interest cost 353.3 363.5 Current service cost 199.0 200.9 statutory reports Benefits paid and payable (282.5) (617.4) Curtailment costs (net of tax) – 3.3 Member contributions 60.1 67.9 Actuarial (gain)/loss (92.4) 31.0 Closing defined benefit obligation at 30 June (2) 5,584.7 5,347.2 Changes in the fair value of the plan assets is as follows: Opening fair value of plan assets at 1 July 5,493.9 5,695.8 Expected return on plan assets 447.8 465.0 Contributions by employer 135.3 129.3 Member contributions 60.1 67.9 Benefits paid and payable (282.5) (617.4) Actuarial gain/(loss) 5.2 (216.8) Plan expenses (12.3) (12.3) Contributions tax reserve (18.5) (17.6) Fair value of plan assets at 30 June (2) 5,829.0 5,493.9 The group expects to contribute approximately $129.3 million to its defined benefit pension plan in 2011–12. (2) Included in the obligation and plan assets above is $2,702.8 million (2010: $2,467.2 million) relating to member financed accumulation benefits. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 85 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 12 Superannuation (continued) Consolidated 2011(3) 2010 % % (v) Categories of plan assets The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of the fair value of total plan assets is as follows: Public Market Equities 5 3 Public Market Debt 10 6 Cash 20 20 Private Market Real Estate 28 29 Private Market Equities and Debt 37 42 The expected rate of return on assets is determined based on the valuation of assets prevailing on that date, applicable to the period over which the obligation is to be settled. There are no in-house assets included in the fair value of the APSS assets, however there may be an immaterial amount of indirect investments in shopping centres where the corporation has leased certain areas for retail outlets. (3) Within the Private Market Real Estate and Private Market Equities and Debt category included in the 2011 year above, approximately 1% of the assets were valued at or prior to 31 December 2010, 82% were valued between 31 March and 31 May 2011, 17% were valued at 30 June 2011 and 0% were valued at cost. All Public Market Equities and Debt were valued at 30 June 2011. Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m (vi) Actual return on plan assets Actual return on plan assets 429.9 248.2 (vii) Cumulative actuarial (gains) and losses Actuarial (gains)/loss recognised in the year in the statement of comprehensive income (97.6) 247.8 Contributions tax (17.2) 43.7 (114.8) 291.5 Cumulative actuarial losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 582.4 697.2 Consolidated 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 $m $m $m $m $m (viii) Experience adjustments Experience adjustments on plan liabilities (21.5) 58.9 377.6 (68.7) (308.8) Experience adjustments on plan assets 5.2 (216.8) (1,343.3) (118.0) 547.1 (ix) Actuarial assumptions The principal actuarial assumptions used in determining superannuation obligations for the group’s plan are shown below (expressed as weighted averages): Consolidated 2011 2010 % % Discount rate 5.2 5.1 Expected after tax rate of return on assets 8.3 8.3 Future salary increases (for 3 years to 30 June 2014) 3.5 5.0 Future salary increases (the period thereafter) 5.0 5.0 (x) Superannuation Act 1976 The superannuation asset or liability under the Superannuation Act 1976 is recognised in the financial statements of the Commonwealth and is settled by the Commonwealth in due course. The Commonwealth takes full responsibility for the Commonwealth Superannuation Scheme (CSS) liabilities for any Australia Post employees (past and present) remaining in the CSS. Disclosures regarding the CSS Scheme are located in the Department of Finance and Deregulation (Finance) Annual Financial Report. 86 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Consolidated Year in review Total land Plant & Land Buildings & buildings equipment Total $m $m $m $m $m 13 Analysis of property, plant and equipment About Australia Post Reconciliation of the opening and closing balances of property, plant and equipment Gross book value 217.8 1,061.5 1,279.3 1,367.4 2,646.7 Accumulated depreciation – (463.8) (463.8) (826.4) (1,290.2) Core businesses Net book value at 30 June 2009 217.8 597.7 815.5 541.0 1,356.5 Additions 2.6 33.0 35.6 80.3 115.9 Depreciation – (52.3) (52.3) (101.2) (153.5) Disposals (1.6) (0.8) (2.4) (8.3) (10.7) Impairment loss – – – (2.2) (2.2) Transfers to investment properties (0.1) (0.9) (1.0) – (1.0) Corporate Gross book value 218.7 1,069.2 1,287.9 1,338.5 2,626.4 Accumulated depreciation – (492.5) (492.5) (828.9) (1,321.4) responsibility Net book value at 30 June 2010 (1) 218.7 576.7 795.4 509.6 1,305.0 Additions 1.1 26.2 27.3 83.0 110.3 Financial and Acquisition of subsidiary – – – 1.7 1.7 Depreciation – (50.9) (50.9) (91.7) (142.6) statutory reports Disposals (0.8) (5.2) (6.0) (14.3) (20.3) Impairment loss (14.9) (8.5) (23.4) (13.1) (36.5) Disposal of subsidiary – – – (0.4) (0.4) Gross book value 204.1 1,070.1 1,274.2 1,346.4 2,620.6 Accumulated depreciation – (531.8) (531.8) (871.7) (1,403.5) Net book value at 30 June 2011 (1) 204.1 538.3 742.4 474.7 1,217.1 (1) Were the entity to apply the fair value methodology, the net book value of land and buildings would be $1,422.4 million (2010: $1,430.2 million). Reconciliation of the opening and closing balances of plant and equipment assets held under finance lease included in the net book value of assets As at 30 June 2009 – – – 50.1 50.1 Depreciation – – – (9.2) (9.2) As at 30 June 2010 – – – 40.9 40.9 Depreciation – – – (4.3) (4.3) As at 30 June 2011 – – – 36.6 36.6 FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 87 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 Consolidated Computer Other Total software Goodwill intangibles intangibles $m $m $m $m 14 Analysis of intangibles Reconciliation of the opening and closing balances of intangibles Gross book value 716.1 30.4 16.3 762.8 Accumulated amortisation (524.5) – (14.5) (539.0) Net book value as at 30 June 2009 191.6 30.4 1.8 223.8 Additions by purchase 113.2 – 1.8 115.0 Amortisation expense (57.6) – (2.4) (60.0) Impairment loss (24.6) (19.1) – (43.7) Disposals (0.3) – – (0.3) Gross book value 804.4 11.3 18.1 833.8 Accumulated amortisation (582.1) – (16.9) (599.0) Net book value as at 30 June 2010 222.3 11.3 1.2 234.8 Additions by purchase 109.2 – 2.0 111.2 Acquisition of subsidiary 0.9 32.2 10.8 43.9 Amortisation expense (54.2) – (1.6) (55.8) Impairment loss (13.6) (0.3) – (13.9) Disposals (0.3) – – (0.3) Disposal of subsidiary (0.2) – (2.5) (2.7) Gross book value 886.7 43.2 28.4 958.3 Accumulated amortisation (622.6) – (18.5) (641.1) Net book value as at 30 June 2011 264.1 43.2 9.9 317.2 Goodwill is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment testing (refer note 16). Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m 15 Investment property Opening balance as at 1 July 224.9 219.5 Additions 0.7 1.7 Net transfer to investment property – 3.7 Disposals (48.4) – Net gain from fair value adjustments 6.1 – Closing balance as at 30 June 183.3 224.9 Investment properties are stated at fair value, which has been determined based on valuations performed by Savills Pty Ltd for all property as at 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2010. Savills is an industry specialist in valuing these types of investment property. The fair value considers the capitalised rental streams where the property is leased to a third party and the amount at which the assets could be exchanged between a knowledgeable willing buyer and a knowledgeable willing seller in an arm’s length transaction at the date of valuation, in accordance with Australian Valuation Standards. In determining fair value, the expected net cashflows applicable to each property have been discounted to their present value using a market determined, risk-adjusted, discount rate applicable to the respective asset. 88 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Consolidated Year in review 2011 2010 $m $m 16 Impairment testing of goodwill Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to individual cash-generating units as follows: About Australia Post Messenger Post 9.9 9.9 SecurePay 32.2 – Other 1.1 1.4 43.2 11.3 Core businesses The recoverable amount of all cash-generating units (CGUs) has been determined based on a value in use calculation using cashflow forecasts extracted from three year corporate plans approved by senior management and the board. The forecasts are extrapolated for a further two years and a terminal value applied. These forecasts use management estimates to determine income, expenses, capital expenditure and cashflows for each CGU. Revenue growth rates applied by all CGUs to the two year period outside the corporate plan is 3.5% (2010: 4.0%). After this period a 2.5% (2010: 1.5% to 2.5%) revenue growth rate is applied. A pre-tax discount rate applicable to the specific CGU has been applied. This rate is Corporate 12.5% (2010: between 11.8% and 12.5%). Management believes that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of any cash-generating units containing goodwill, to exceed their recoverable amount. responsibility Consolidated Financial and 2011 2010 $m $m statutory reports 17 Other non-current assets Interest rate swap contracts – 5.5 Prepayments 5.6 5.2 Total other non-current assets 5.6 10.7 Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m 18 Current liabilities – trade and other payables Trade creditors (1) 224.3 244.4 Other: Agency creditors (1) 162.9 145.1 Salaries and wages 61.9 53.9 Borrowing costs (2) 8.6 8.1 Unearned postage revenue 62.5 68.0 Other advance receipts 101.4 91.5 Deferred government grant income 3.1 4.9 Payables to jointly controlled entities (refer note 29) 5.0 8.7 Goods and services tax payable 19.7 20.7 Financial guarantees (3) 0.0 0.0 Forward exchange contracts 0.3 – Other payables 76.6 81.4 502.0 482.3 Total current payables 726.3 726.7 (1) Trade creditors and agency creditors are non-interest bearing and normally settled on 30-day and next business day terms respectively. Included within trade creditors are international creditors which are settled in accordance with Universal Postal Union (UPU) arrangements, which may be longer than 30 days. (2) Borrowing costs are normally settled on a half-yearly basis throughout the year. (3) As described in note 1(gg), the group has provided financial guarantees to third parties, which commit the group to make payments on behalf of these parties upon their failure to perform under the terms of the relevant contracts. The account estimates and/or assumptions used in determining the fair value of the guarantees has been disclosed in note 1(gg). The maximum credit risk associated with these contracts is $52.0 million (2010: $64.3 million) and is included within the disclosures of note 30(i). FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 89 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m 19 Interest-bearing liabilities Current Fixed-rate unsecured bonds payable – within one year 232.5 – Oil commodity swaps – within one year – 0.5 Finance lease and hire purchase liabilities payable – within one year – 0.1 Total current interest-bearing liabilities 232.5 0.6 Non-current Fixed-rate unsecured bonds payable – in one to five years 314.6 547.0 Interest rate swaps – in one to five years 9.0 11.4 Total non-current interest-bearing liabilities 323.6 558.4 $555 million bonds These bonds are unsecured and repayable in full, with $230 million maturing on 23 March 2012 and the remaining $325 million due on 25 March 2014. Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m 20 Provisions Current provisions Annual leave 168.6 174.8 Long service leave 314.9 338.8 Workers’ compensation 24.3 23.7 Separations and redundancies (1) 65.4 141.9 Other employee 46.3 32.6 Restructuring (2) 16.9 – Balance at 30 June 636.4 711.8 Non-current provisions Long service leave 39.9 38.0 Workers’ compensation 79.0 83.0 Property make good (3) 45.9 46.6 Balance at 30 June 164.8 167.6 Total provisions 801.2 879.4 (1) The provision recognised comprises the expected severance payments, employee entitlements (including notice period), outplacement costs and payroll tax based on the location of the employee, staff level affected by the restructuring and their anticipated years of service. In estimating the expected severance payments, historical severance payments have also been considered. (2) Provision is made for the restructuring of non-core operations and primarily consists of redundancies and surplus lease costs. (3) Provision is made for the estimated cost to make good operating leases entered into by the group. The estimated cost is based on management’s best estimate of the cost to restore a square metre of floor space and is dependant on the nature of the building being leased. The expected timing of the make good cost is based on the expiry of each underlying individual lease agreement. 90 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Consolidated Year in review 2011 2010 $m $m 20 Provisions (continued) About Movements in provisions Australia Post Movements in the property make good and restructuring provisions during the year, are set out below: Property make good provision Balance at 1 July 46.6 45.4 Reassessments and additions 2.5 3.4 Core businesses Unused amount reversed (1.4) (1.9) Payments made (2.5) (1.4) Unwinding and discount rate adjustment 0.7 1.1 Balance at 30 June 45.9 46.6 Restructuring provision Balance at 1 July – – Corporate Additions 42.0 – Amounts utilised/transferred (1) (21.6) – responsibility Payments made (3.5) – Balance at 30 June 16.9 – Financial and (1) These relate to $8.5 million of property impairment and $13.1 million of fixed asset write downs which are included in note 13. Consolidated statutory reports 2011 2010 $m $m 21 Other non-current liabilities Other payables 23.1 19.9 Total other non-current liabilities 23.1 19.9 Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m 22 Movements in retained profits Balance at 1 July 1,153.2 1,441.3 Net profit 240.8 89.8 Dividends paid (78.5) (171.9) Net actuarial gain/(loss) on superannuation asset 80.4 (204.0) Other movements in retained profits 1.2 (2.0) Balance at 30 June 1,397.1 1,153.2 FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 91 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 Consolidated Foreign Asset currency revaluation translation Hedging Total reserve(1) reserve(2) reserve(3) reserves $m $m $m $m 23 Analysis of reserves Balance at 1 July 2009 4.8 0.2 (1.2) 3.8 Translation differences on group operations – (0.7) – (0.7) Movement in jointly controlled entities’ reserves – (0.1) 0.7 0.6 Revaluation – land and buildings 2.7 – – 2.7 Deferred tax (0.8) – – (0.8) Revaluation of fuel cashflow hedge – gross – – (0.3) (0.3) Deferred tax – – 0.1 0.1 Revaluation of foreign exchange cashflow hedge – gross – – 1.2 1.2 Deferred tax – – (0.4) (0.4) Balance at 30 June 2010 6.7 (0.6) 0.1 6.2 Translation differences on group operations – 0.7 – 0.7 Disposal of group operations – (0.1) – (0.1) Movement in jointly controlled entities’ reserves – (0.1) (0.3) (0.4) Revaluation of fuel cashflow hedge – gross – – 1.0 1.0 Deferred tax – – (0.3) (0.3) Revaluation of foreign exchange cashflow hedge – gross – – (0.5) (0.5) Deferred tax – – 0.2 0.2 Balance at 30 June 2011 6.7 (0.1) 0.2 6.8 (1) The asset revaluation reserve relates to the revaluation of land and buildings prior to its reclassification as investment property. (2) The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries. (3) This hedging reserve records the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cashflow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge. 2011 2010 $m $m 24 Information relating to Australian Postal Corporation (“the parent entity”) Current assets 1,298.8 1,100.3 Total assets 4,069.4 3,848.4 Current liabilities 1,574.7 1,406.0 Total liabilities 2,308.9 2,321.0 Issued capital 400.0 400.0 Retained earnings 1,353.4 1,120.7 Asset revaluation reserve 6.7 6.7 Hedging reserve 0.5 – Net equity 1,760.6 1,527.4 Net profit of the parent entity 230.9 81.6 Total comprehensive income of the parent entity 311.8 (119.9) The parent has contingent liabilities which relate to legal liability claims that have been lodged against the corporation, including motor vehicle accident and personal injury claims in the amount of $2.7 million (2010: $2.3 million). The parent has contractual obligations which relate to sub-lease rent receivables and operating lease receivables in the amount of $210.0 million (2010: $131.5 million). Capital commitments of the parent entity in relation to land and buildings and plant and equipment amount to $78.4 million (2010: $85.2 million). The parent has operating lease commitments of $617.5 million (2010: $552.1 million) and other commitments relating to carriage and delivery of letters and parcels by contractors of $1,578.6 million (2010: $1,522.0 million). 92 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Consolidated Year in review 2011 2010 $m $m 25 Dividends paid Final ordinary dividend (from prior year results) – 92.8 About Australia Post Interim ordinary dividend 78.5 79.1 Total dividends paid 78.5 171.9 Dividend not recognised as a liability 94.7 – Core businesses Consolidated 2011 2010 $ $ 26 Auditor’s remuneration (1) Amounts received or due and receivable by the corporation’s auditors for: Corporate responsibility An audit or review of the financial report of the entity and any other entity in the consolidated entity 1,468,800 1,467,900 Other services in relation to the entity and any other entity in the consolidated entity – assurance related 174,200 165,700 – special audits required by regulators (2) 95,000 100,000 Financial and – other non-audit related (2) 726,000 – Total auditor’s remuneration 2,464,000 1,733,600 (1) The corporation’s auditor is the Australian National Audit Office who has retained Ernst & Young (Australia) to assist with the assignment. statutory reports (2) These services are performed by Ernst & Young (Australia) directly and include due diligence, governance, compliance and research services. 27 Operating segments The group has identified its operating segments based on the internal reports that are reviewed and used by the executive management team (the chief operating decision-makers) in assessing performance and in determining the allocation of resources. The operating segments are identified by management based on the manner in which the product is sold and the nature of the services provided. Discrete financial information about each of these operating businesses is reported to the executive management team on at least a monthly basis. The reportable segments are based on aggregated operating segments determined by the similarity of the products sold and/or the services provided, as these are the sources of the group’s major risks and have the most effect on the rates of return. The following represent the segments the group operates in: Letters The collection, processing and distribution of letters and associated services. Parcels The processing and distribution of parcels, and the provision of associated logistical services. Retail, agency and merchandise services Provision of postal products and services, agency services and other retail merchandise, principally stationery, telephony, greeting cards, gifts and souvenirs. Unallocated It is the corporation’s policy that if items of revenue and expense are not allocated to operating segments then any associated assets and liabilities are also not allocated to segments. This is to avoid asymmetrical allocations within segments which management believe would be inconsistent. The following are not allocated to operating segments as they are not considered part of the core operations of any segments: • Revenues include miscellaneous revenue, rent received, revaluation of investment properties, licence fees received and net gains on disposal of available-for-sale investments; • Expenses represent costs that are attributable to unallocated revenues; • Assets include investment properties, assets under construction and cash investments; • Liabilities include interest-bearing liabilities and deferred tax. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 93 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 27 Operating segments (continued) Operating segments The following tables present revenue and profit information and certain asset and liability information regarding operating segments for the years ended 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2010. Retail, agency and merchandise Letters Parcels services Unallocated Total $m $m $m $m $m 2011 Revenue Revenue and other income – Reserved Letter Services 1,887.5 – – – 1,887.5 Revenue and other income – Non-Reserved Services 840.6 1,434.0 708.5 84.0 3,067.1 Total segment revenue 2,728.1 1,434.0 708.5 84.0 4,954.6 Interest revenue 31.8 Consolidated revenue 4,986.4 Result Segment result – Reserved Letter Services (91.3) – – – (91.3) Segment result – Non-Reserved Services 116.8 212.1 80.1 (3.7) 405.3 Share of net profits of equity accounted jointly controlled entities – 20.2 – – 20.2 Profit before interest and income tax expense 25.5 232.3 80.1 (3.7) 334.2 Income tax expense (91.1) Net interest (1.9) Net profit for period 241.2 Assets Segment assets 1,208.7 834.3 422.0 1,090.6 3,555.6 Superannuation asset – – – 287.4 287.4 Investments in jointly controlled entities – 292.1 – – 292.1 Total assets 1,208.7 1,126.4 422.0 1,378.0 4,135.1 Liabilities Segment liabilities 892.3 363.3 271.2 804.4 2,331.2 Other segment information Capital expenditure 122.2 66.7 31.1 2.2 222.2 Depreciation and amortisation expense 131.8 50.0 14.1 2.5 198.4 Other non-cash expenses 131.8 50.0 14.1 2.5 198.4 94 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review 27 Operating segments (continued) Retail, agency and merchandise Letters Parcels services Unallocated Total About $m $m $m $m $m 2010 Revenue Australia Post Revenue and other income – Reserved Letter Services 1,829.3 – – – 1,829.3 Revenue and other income – Non-Reserved Services 828.8 1,361.7 712.0 98.7 3,001.2 Core businesses Total segment revenue 2,658.1 1,361.7 712.0 98.7 4,830.5 Interest revenue 25.7 Consolidated revenue 4,856.2 Result Segment result – Reserved Letter Services (250.1) – – – (250.1) Segment result – Non-Reserved Services 74.0 156.4 78.9 32.2 341.5 Corporate Share of net profits of equity accounted jointly controlled entities – 14.4 – – 14.4 responsibility Profit before interest and income tax expense (176.1) 170.8 78.9 32.2 105.8 Income tax expense (13.5) Net interest (2.8) Financial and Net profit for period 89.5 Assets Segment assets 1,231.2 745.6 395.2 1,075.0 3,447.0 statutory reports Superannuation asset – – – 172.6 172.6 Investments in jointly controlled entities – 295.3 – 0.3 295.6 Total assets 1,231.2 1,040.9 395.2 1,247.9 3,915.2 Liabilities Segment liabilities 948.0 360.2 260.9 787.0 2,356.1 Other segment information Capital expenditure 130.8 53.0 43.1 5.7 232.6 Depreciation and amortisation expense 133.4 56.1 21.0 3.0 213.5 Impairment loss on goodwill 9.1 10.0 – – 19.1 Other non-cash expenses 142.5 66.1 21.0 3.0 232.6 FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 95 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 27 Operating segments (continued) Geographical segments The group primarily operates in Australia with no significant portion of assets or operations located outside of Australia. Accounting policies The accounting policies used by the group in reporting the segments internally are the same as those contained in note 1(g) to the accounts. Segment revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are those that are directly attributable to a segment and the relevant portion that can be allocated to the segment on a reasonable basis. Segment assets include all assets used by a segment and consist primarily of operating cash, receivables, inventories, property, plant and equipment, computer software and goodwill, net of related provisions. Segment liabilities consist primarily of trade and other creditors, employee entitlements and advance receipts. Corporate charges comprise of support costs that are allocated to each business segment using an activity based costing methodology. Inter-segment sales and transfers Segment revenue, expenses and results include sales and transfers between segments. Such transactions generally are priced on an arm’s-length basis and are eliminated on consolidation. Use of fair value accounting As outlined in note 1(s) to these accounts, the group uses cost as the basis for valuing land and buildings for its statutory accounts. Were fair values applied to land and buildings, the total segment assets would be as follows: Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m Letters 1,604.8 1,592.8 Parcels 1,226.2 1,140.4 Retail, agency and merchandise services 505.0 472.4 Unallocated 1,479.1 1,344.4 Total 4,815.1 4,550.0 96 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review 28 Key management personnel remuneration and retirement benefits (a) Details of key management personnel (i) Directors David Mortimer Chairman (non-executive) About Ahmed Fahour Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Penelope Bingham-Hall Appointed as director (non-executive) 12 May 2011 Australia Post Peter Carne Director (non-executive) Mark Darras Deputy Chairman (non-executive) Margaret Gibson Retired as director (non-executive) 1 September 2010 William Mansfield Director (non-executive) – deceased 3 February 2011 Core businesses Jennifer Seabrook Appointed as director (non-executive) 8 July 2010 and retired 20 June 2011 Ian Warner Director (non-executive) The Hon Trish White Appointed as director (non-executive) 8 July 2010 (ii) Executives Chris Blake Appointed Executive General Manager People and Community 5 July 2010 Christine Corbett Appointed Executive General Manager Retail Services 1 July 2010 James Marshall Executive General Manager Postal and Distribution & Express Services Corporate Peter Meehan Resigned as Chief Finance Officer 8 October 2010 Terry Sinclair Resigned as Executive General Manager Distribution & Express Services 28 January 2011 responsibility Ewen Stafford Appointed Executive General Manager Corporate Services 23 August 2010 and Executive General Manager Finance and Corporate Services 9 October 2010 Richard Umbers Appointed Executive General Manager eServices and Strategy & Marketing 5 October 2010 Financial and (b) Compensation policies for key management personnel statutory reports The performance of the group depends upon the quality of its directors and executives. To achieve its financial and operational objectives, the group must attract, motivate and retain highly skilled directors and executives. In accordance with best practice corporate governance, the structure of non-executive director and executive compensation is separate and distinct. Director compensation The compensation of the corporation’s non-executive directors is determined independently by the Commonwealth Remuneration Tribunal. Refer to the executive compensation section below for details of the managing director and chief executive officer’s compensation arrangements. Remuneration levels for Australia Post’s non-executive directors for 2010–11 were as follows (rates were effective 1 August 2010): $ Chairman 164,550 Deputy Chairman 91,800 Directors 82,280 Audit Committee Chairman 19,020 Audit Committee Member 9,515 In addition the board has a Human Resources subcommittee and a Superannuation subcommittee for which fees will now be paid. Annual amounts for committee members are expected to be $12,000 and for the Chairman $18,000. Amounts shown in the disclosures above reflect these subcommittee entitlements from 1 January 2011. Total amounts received or receivable in 2010–11 by each non-executive director are provided in part (e) of this note. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 97 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 28 Key management personnel remuneration and retirement benefits (continued) (b) Compensation policies for key management personnel (continued) Executive compensation Executive officers are those who are concerned with, or take part in, the management of entities in the consolidated group (excluding the managing director and chief executive officer). Compensation arrangements for senior executives are reviewed and determined by the managing director and chief executive officer, within parameters set by the Human Resources Committee. Advice is sought from independent specialised compensation consultants to ensure that payments to executives are in line with market practice and are competitively placed to attract and retain necessary talent for the work required by these roles. The board is responsible for the remuneration arrangements for the managing director and chief executive officer and senior executives. In doing so it has adopted a set of principles approved by the Remuneration Tribunal designed to link the level of remuneration with the financial and operational performance of the corporation. On a periodic basis advice is sought from independent specialised remuneration consultants on the structure of remuneration packages and the quantum of increases that apply in other comparable Australian corporations. On the basis of this advice, the managing director and chief executive officer ensures that payments to other senior executives are in line with market practice and are competitively placed to attract and retain the necessary talent for the work required by these roles. Incentive rewards for the managing director and chief executive officer and other senior executives for meeting or exceeding specific key annual business objectives are linked to the annual business plan at a corporate and individual level. Measures and targeted achievement levels are reviewed each year to reflect changes in the business priorities for the forthcoming year. The measures include financial, customer satisfaction, employee engagement and other individual measures that support the key business objectives. Before a reward is payable, a threshold must be reached, according to predefined measures. Both the managing director and chief executive officer and other senior executives are employed under individual contracts of employment that are not limited to a specific duration. Continuation of employment is subject to ongoing satisfactory performance. Where Australia Post terminates the managing director and chief executive officer’s or other senior executive’s employment for reasons other than performance or misconduct, they are entitled to: in the case of the managing director and chief executive officer, 12 months’ notice or payment in lieu of notice and a termination payment which, including any payment in lieu of notice, cannot exceed 12 months’ fixed annual remuneration; and for other senior executives, generally 90 days’ notice or payment in lieu of notice and a termination payment based on years of employment but not exceeding 52 weeks fixed annual remuneration, including the payment in lieu of notice. (c) Other transaction and balances with key management personnel There were no significant transactions between the corporation and key management personnel. Any transactions were of a trivial nature. Consolidated 2011 2010 $ $ (d) Compensation of key management personnel by category Short-term benefits 9,896,431 8,308,193 Post-employment benefits 758,419 1,567,138 Other long-term benefits 691,966 143,448 Termination benefits 978,982 – Total compensation 12,325,798 10,018,779 Less: Executives retiring in 2010–11 (1,638,861) – Adjusted total compensation 10,686,937 10,018,779 98 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review 28 Key management personnel remuneration and retirement benefits (continued) (e) Compensation of key management personnel The remuneration received or due and receivable directly or indirectly by the corporation’s directors and executives is as follows: Post Other Termination/ About employment long-term retirement Year ended 30 June 2011 ($) Short-term benefits benefits benefits benefits Total NonSuperLong Australia Post Cash Committee Annual At risk monetary annuation service At risk Termination/ salary(1) fees(2) leave(3) component(4) benefits(5) benefits(6) leave(3) component(7) retirement Directors Core businesses David Mortimer 164,012 18,484 – – 5,799 26,097 – – – 214,392 Ahmed Fahour(8) 1,390,508 – 118,192 874,200 35,406 192,622 36,416 242,833 – 2,890,177 Penelope Bingham-Hall(9) 11,271 – – – – 1,014 – – – 12,285 Peter Carne 82,012 18,871 – – – 14,426 – – – 115,309 Mark Darras 91,500 15,000 – – – 15,230 – – – 121,730 Corporate Margaret Gibson(10) 13,933 3,221 – – – 2,453 – – – 19,607 William Mansfield(11) 48,423 1,118 – – – 7,084 – – – 56,625 Jennifer Seabrook(9)(12) 78,691 3,702 – – – 7,415 – – – 89,808 responsibility Ian Warner 82,012 9,484 – – – 13,084 – – – 104,580 Patricia White(9) 80,494 3,255 – – – 11,976 – – – 95,725 2,042,856 73,135 118,192 874,200 41,205 291,401 36,416 242,833 – 3,720,238 Executives Financial and Chris Blake(9) 605,712 – 10,443 533,750 9,273 86,617 11,680 21,875 – 1,279,350 Christine Corbett 486,320 – 18,097 419,375 129,790 63,681 63,482 17,187 – 1,197,932 statutory reports James Marshall 792,531 – 98,279 711,000 9,375 107,469 128,583 40,500 – 1,887,737 Peter Meehan(13) 139,681 – 9,849 – 12,626 18,368 4,335 – 426,121 610,980 Terry Sinclair(14) 356,479 – 5,105 – 24,961 47,571 40,904 – 552,861 1,027,881 Ewen Stafford(9) 550,833 – 10,422 510,938 8,014 78,769 11,654 36,718 – 1,207,348 Richard Umbers(9) 551,347 – 24,901 460,833 256,909 64,543 9,549 26,250 – 1,394,332 3,482,903 – 177,096 2,635,896 450,948 467,018 270,187 142,530 978,982 8,605,560 Total key management personnel 5,525,759 73,135 295,288 3,510,096 492,153 758,419 306,603 385,363 978,982 12,325,798 (1) Included in cash salary are allowances paid in cash. (2) Consists of fees paid to directors who were members of additional committees. (3) Represents movements in executives’ annual leave and long service leave entitlements. (4) Represents a cash incentive reward that is payable subject to the employee meeting or exceeding specific key annual business objectives linked to the annual business plan at a corporate and individual level. (5) Non-monetary benefits include relocation, car parking, spouse travel and other expenses paid on behalf of the directors and executives. Amount also includes fringe benefits tax paid by the corporation on these benefits. (6) The above amount for superannuation approximates the benefit to be received by the directors and executives (calculated at 14.3% of the directors’ and executives’ salary for superannuation purposes) and cannot decrease from previous years. If a director is not a member of APSS, this benefit is calculated at 9%. (7) The at risk component of other long-term benefits relates to deferred bonus payments which are recognised for reporting purposes proportionally over the deferral period and paid at the end of the relevant period. In the case of the managing director, the total deferred amount represents 40% of his eligible bonus. (8) The Fixed Annual Remuneration of the managing director increased from $1,575,000 to $1,900,000, effective 22 June 2011. (9) Remuneration disclosed from date of commencement in the role. (10) Retired as director 1 September 2010. (11) Deceased 3 February 2011. (12) Retired as director 20 June 2011. (13) While Peter Meehan ceased to be Chief Finance Officer on 8 October 2010, he continued to be employed by the corporation until 6 January 2011. The total remuneration disclosed includes salary up to the date he ceased to be Chief Finance Officer. (14) Compensation reflects the period of the year during which the executive occupied a key management position. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 99 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 28 Key management personnel remuneration and retirement benefits (continued) (e) Compensation of key management personnel (continued) Post Other employment long-term Termination Year ended 30 June 2010 ($) Short-term benefits benefits benefits benefits Total NonSuperLong Cash Committee Annual At risk monetary annuation service salary (1) fees (2) leave (3) component (4) benefits (5) benefits (6) leave (3) Termination Directors David Mortimer 158,210 9,150 – – 9,224 23,932 – – 200,516 Mark Birrell 58,766 – – – – 8,404 – – 67,170 Ahmed Fahour (7) 568,562 – 42,182 656,250 7,425 172,592 17,238 – 1,464,249 Graeme John (8) 1,366,998 – (390,949) 420,000 37,790 600,762 59,942 – 2,094,543 Margaret Gibson 79,120 18,290 – – – 13,930 – – 111,340 Ian Warner 79,120 9,150 – – 4,555 12,623 – – 105,448 Mark Darras 79,496 – – – – 11,368 – – 90,864 William Mansfield 79,120 – – – – 11,314 – – 90,434 Peter Carne (9) 43,137 – – – – 6,169 – – 49,306 2,512,529 36,590 (348,767) 1,076,250 58,994 861,094 77,180 – 4,273,870 Executives Mark Howard (10) 512,759 – 5,427 165,337 11,781 126,723 16,824 – 838,851 James Marshall 633,800 – (43,138) 616,400 7,833 172,916 9,308 – 1,397,119 Rodney McDonald 391,300 – 9,670 179,400 15,276 79,304 8,990 – 683,940 Peter Meehan 509,834 – (8,894) 215,664 23,202 103,694 9,065 – 852,565 Bill Mitchell 529,800 – (20,583) 371,488 99,287 123,021 7,032 – 1,110,045 Terry Sinclair 509,000 – (23,252) 234,000 27,206 100,386 15,049 – 862,389 3,086,493 – (80,770) 1,782,289 184,585 706,044 66,268 – 5,744,909 Total key management personnel 5,599,022 36,590 (429,537) 2,858,539 243,579 1,567,138 143,448 – 10,018,779 (1) Included in cash salary are movements in the executives’ annual leave entitlement and allowances paid in cash. (2) Consists of additional fees paid to directors who are also members of the audit committee. (3) Represents movements in executives’ annual leave and long service leave entitlements. (4) Represents a cash incentive reward that is payable subject to the employee meeting or exceeding specific key annual business objectives linked to the annual business plan at a corporate and individual level. (5) Non-monetary benefits include relocation, car parking, spouse travel, motor vehicles and other expenses paid on behalf of the directors and executives. Amount also includes fringe benefits tax paid by the corporation on these benefits. (6) The above amount for superannuation approximates the benefit to be received by the directors and executives (calculated at 14.3% of the directors’ and executives’ salary for superannuation purposes) and cannot decrease from previous years. (7) Commenced the role of Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer on 1 February 2010. (8) While Graeme John ceased to be the Managing Director on 31 January 2010, he continued to be employed by the corporation, utilising accrued leave benefits. The total remuneration disclosed relates to the benefits received or receivable to the planned exit date. (9) Commenced the role of a director on 14 December 2009. (10) While Mark Howard ceased to be the General Manager, Corporate Infrastructure Services Division, on 30 April 2010, he continued to be employed by the corporation, utilising accrued leave benefits. The total remuneration disclosed relates to the benefits received or receivable to the planned exit date.` 100 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review 29 Related parties The consolidated financial statements consist of Australian Postal Corporation and the subsidiaries listed in note 10. Remuneration and retirement benefits About Information on remuneration of directors and amounts paid in connection with the retirement of directors is disclosed in note 28. The following table provides the total amount of transactions that were entered into with jointly controlled entities for the relevant financial year (for information regarding outstanding balances at year-end, refer to notes 6, 9 and 18). Australia Post Consolidated Core businesses 2011 2010 $m $m Other transactions with jointly controlled entities Payments for collection and delivery services 66.1 58.3 Payments for management and administrative services 36.1 49.0 Payments for accommodation 2.1 1.9 Revenue from collection and delivery services 18.1 17.4 Corporate responsibility Revenue from administrative services 12.4 9.4 Interest received 10.3 10.3 Aggregate amounts receivable from and payable to Financial and jointly controlled entities at balance date were as follows: Current receivables 1.4 1.4 statutory reports Current payables 5.0 8.7 Loans receivable (1) 130.5 130.7 (1) Refer Note 30(i) for details of credit risk on loans to jointly controlled entities. Australia Post performs administrative services on behalf of its superannuation fund, APSS. These services are provided on normal commercial terms. Payment received by Australia Post for these services for year ended 30 June 2011 is $15.5 million (2010: $16.5 million). Transactions entered into directly by directors or director-related entities with the Australian Postal Corporation have been either domestic or trivial in nature. For the year ended 30 June 2011, the group has expensed $29.3 million with respect to amounts owed by related parties (2010: $14.5 million). An impairment assessment is undertaken each financial year by examining the financial position of the related party and the market in which the related party operates to determine whether there is objective evidence that a related party receivable is impaired. When such objective evidence exists, the group recognises an allowance for the impairment loss. Transactions with directors A number of directors of the Australian Postal Corporation are also directors of or have interests in other entities which have transacted with the Australian Postal Corporation Group. One of these entities, Gresham Partners Limited is considered to be a director-related entity of Jennifer Seabrook. Gresham Partners Limited was entitled to fees of $0.2 million for services performed to 30 June 2011. These transactions have occurred on terms and conditions no more favourable than those which it is reasonable to expect the group would have adopted if dealing with any third party on normal commercial terms. Ultimate controlling entity The Commonwealth is the ultimate parent and controlling entity of the Australian Postal Corporation Group. The Australian Postal Corporation is the parent entity in the group comprising Australia Post and its controlled entities. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 101 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 30 Financial and capital risk management (a) Financial risk management objectives The corporation’s risk management policy is to identify, assess, and manage risks, which are likely to adversely impact on the financial performance, continued growth and its survival. In terms of financial and commodity risk management, the corporation will take a risk averse approach to financial risk management in that it will seek to minimise risk, provided it is cost effective to do so. The group’s principal financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise of bonds, finance leases and hire purchase contracts, cash and short-term deposits. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to provide finance for the group’s operations. The group has various other financial assets and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations. The group also enters into derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps, forward currency contracts and commodity swap contracts. The purpose is to manage the interest rate, currency and commodity risks arising from the group’s operations and its sources of finance. It is, and has been throughout the period under review, the group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken. The main risks arising from the group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, commodity risk, foreign currency risk and credit risk. The board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below. Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 1 to the financial report. (b) Capital risk management The group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the ability to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to the Commonwealth Government. The group recognises the impact on shareholder returns of the level of equity capital employed and seeks to maintain a prudent balance between the advantages and flexibility afforded by a strong capital position and the higher returns on equity possible with some leverage. A further consideration when managing capital is maintenance of an investment grade rating. The group holds a AA+rating (2010: AA+) from the independent ratings agency Standard & Poor’s. The capital structure of the group consists of debt, which includes the bonds payable disclosed in note 19, cash and cash equivalents disclosed in note 32(a) and equity attributable to equity holders of the corporation, comprising contributed equity, reserves and retained profits disclosed in notes 22 and 23. The capital structure is reviewed annually as part of the corporate plan, which includes analysis of the return on equity, return on average operating assets and debt to debt plus equity ratios implicit in the corporate plan. Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m (c) Categories of financial instruments Financial assets Loans and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents) 1,420.1 1,233.7 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 3.3 5.9 Financial liabilities Other financial liabilities at amortised cost 726.0 726.8 Other financial liabilities designated in fair value hedge relationships at amortised cost and adjusted by the gain/loss attributable to interest rate risk 547.1 547.0 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 9.3 11.9 102 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review 30 Financial and capital risk management (continued) (d) Net gain or loss on loans and receivables and financial liabilities measured at amortised cost and held-to-maturity investments The net gain or net loss on the loans and receivables category of financial instruments (including cash and cash equivalents) is determined as interest revenue, plus or minus foreign exchange gains or losses arising from the revaluation of the financial asset and minus any impairment recognised in About profit or loss as shown below. Consolidated Australia Post 2011 2010 $m $m Core businesses Interest revenue (refer note 2) 31.8 25.7 Foreign exchange loss (19.9) (13.6) Impairment loss (refer note 3) (2.3) (1.5) Net gain on loans and receivables 9.6 10.6 The net gain or net loss on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost is determined as interest expense, plus or minus foreign exchange gains Corporate or losses arising from the revaluation of financial liabilities measured at amortised cost as shown below. Consolidated responsibility 2011 2010 $m $m Financial and Interest expense (refer note 4) 31.8 31.7 Foreign exchange gain (6.9) (9.5) statutory reports Net loss on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 24.9 22.2 (e) Market risk The group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates (refer note 30(f)), commodity prices (refer note 30(g)) and interest rates (refer note 30(h)). The group is a party to derivative financial instruments in the normal course of business in order to hedge exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. Reference should also be made to note 1(m) relating to derivative financial instruments. At a group level, market risk exposures are managed through sensitivity analysis and stress scenario analysis. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 103 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 30 Financial and capital risk management (continued) (f) Foreign currency risk management Foreign currency risk refers to the risk that the fair value or future cashflows of a financial instrument will fluctuate due to changes in foreign exchange rates. The group is exposed to foreign currency risk primarily through undertaking certain transactions denominated in foreign currency. A major source of foreign exchange transaction risk is as a result of obligations with overseas postal administrations which are invoiced in Special Drawing Rights (SDR) and settled in Euros (EUR) and United States dollars (USD). The SDR is a basket currency composed of fixed quantities of the four major traded currencies (USD, Japanese Yen, EUR and Pound Sterling). The composition of the basket is set by the International Monetary Fund. International mail receipts and payments are highly variable in amount and timing as well as being ongoing in nature. The group operates foreign currency denominated bank accounts. Immaterial bank account balances are not included. The carrying amount of monetary assets and monetary liabilities as at balance date is as follows: Consolidated 2011 2010 (AUD) $m (AUD) $m Trade and other receivables 187.8 161.5 Trade and other payables (57.9) (82.7) Cash on hand 1.5 5.5 Net exposure 131.4 84.3 Other major sources of foreign exchange transaction risk are as a result of foreign sourced and priced capital equipment, purchases or sales in foreign currencies (including fuel purchases), commitments in respect to overseas jointly controlled entities and foreign currency bank accounts. Each foreign currency exposure, other than SDR, is measured and managed on an item by item basis and individual exposures over $500,000 are hedged through the use of forward currency contracts. Forward currency contracts The following table details the forward currency contracts outstanding as at balance date. Consolidated 2011 2010 Average Notional Average Notional exchange amount exchange amount rate (USD) $m rate (USD) $m BUY USD 0–6 months 1.050 12.0 0.880 8.4 7–12 months 0.936 0.9 0.780 0.3 12.9 8.7 BUY EUR 0–6 months 0.685 0.4 – – 0.4 – All forward currency contracts are entered into on the basis of known or projected exposures. The group has elected to adopt cashflow hedge accounting in respect of some of its foreign currency hedging activities. The fair value of forward currency contracts designated as hedging instruments is a liability of $0.3 million (2010: asset of $0.4 million) for the group. The portion of the gain or loss on the designated forward currency contracts that are determined to be effective hedges are deferred and will be recognised in the measurement of the underlying transaction. As at balance date, the aggregate amount of unrealised gains/losses under forward currency contracts deferred in the hedging reserve related to contracted future payments for inventory, computer software and computer equipment. It is anticipated that the payments will take place in the 12 months (2010: 12 months) after reporting date at which stage the amount deferred in equity will be included in the initial cost of the inventory, computer software and equipment. It is anticipated that the amounts in relation to inventory will impact profit or loss over the next one year and amounts in relation to computer software and equipment will impact profit or loss over the next 5 to 20 years after the assets are available for use. Foreign exchange translation exposures for jointly controlled entities are currently immaterial and therefore not hedged. 104 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review 30 Financial and capital risk management (continued) (f) Foreign currency risk management (continued) Foreign currency sensitivity The following table details the effect on profit after tax as at 30 June from a 15 per cent (2010: 14 per cent) favourable/unfavourable change in the Australian dollar with all other variables held constant. The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to foreign About currencies from financial instruments at the reporting date. The possible risk of 15 per cent is based on Australian Government Department of Finance and Deregulation guidance. Australia Post A positive number indicates an increase in profit after tax, while a negative number indicates a reduction in profit after tax. Core businesses Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m Impact on profit after tax at reporting date, with all other variables held constant of a: Strengthening of the Australian dollar from: Financial assets (17.3) (14.6) Corporate Financial liabilities 5.3 7.1 (12.0) (7.5) responsibility Weakening of the Australian dollar from: Financial assets 23.3 16.6 Financial and Financial liabilities (7.2) (8.1) 16.1 8.5 statutory reports Impact on equity after tax at reporting date, with all other variables held constant of a: Strengthening of the Australian dollar from: Financial assets – (0.6) Financial liabilities (1.2) – (1.2) (0.6) Weakening of the Australian dollar from: Financial assets – 0.7 Financial liabilities 1.1 0.1 1.1 0.8 The receivables and payables denominated in SDR, on which the sensitivity is shown in the table above, are not necessarily representative of the group’s exposure to currency risk for the years ended 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2011. The receivables and payables denominated in SDR are highly variable in amount and timing, in particular due to the timing of receipts and settlements with overseas postal administrations. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 105 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 30 Financial and capital risk management (continued) (g) Commodity price risk management Commodity price risk refers to the risk that the fair value or future cashflows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in commodity prices. The group’s objective on commodity price risk management is to ensure that movements in commodity prices do not adversely affect operating costs. The group is exposed to commodity prices through the use of fuel. The risk is measured by reviewing forecast commodity exposures monthly and managed by entering into long-term supply contracts and through the use of commodity swap contracts. The hedging strategy is set annually as part of the planning process and the hedging activities are evaluated monthly. Commodity price sensitivity There were fuel swap contracts in place during the years ended 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2011, which matured prior to reporting date and as such the sensitivity analysis on profit after tax and equity as at 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2011 is not representative of the commodity price risk inherent in the use of fuel swap contracts during the current and prior year. The following table details the commodity contracts outstanding as at balance date. Consolidated 2011 2010 Exposure Exposure amount amount (AUD) $m (AUD) $m BUY BARRELS 0–6 months 5.5 9.8 7–12 months 5.5 10.3 11.0 20.1 All commodity swap contracts are entered into on the basis of known or projected exposures. The group has elected to adopt cashflow hedge accounting in respect of some of its commodity hedging activities. The fair value of commodity swap contracts designated as hedging instruments is an asset of $1.0 million (2010: liability of $0.5m) for the group. The portion of the gain or loss on the designated commodity swap contracts that are determined to be effective hedges are deferred and will be recognised in the measurement of the underlying transaction. As at balance date, the aggregate amount of unrealised gains/losses under commodity swap contracts deferred in the hedging reserve related to contracted future payments for fuel expenses. It is anticipated that the payments will take place within 12 months after reporting date at which stage the amount deferred in equity will be reclassified as an expense. The following table details the effect on profit and equity after tax as at 30 June from a 15 per cent (2010: 14%) favourable/unfavourable change in the fuel price with all other variables held constant. The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on the exposure to fuel from financial instruments at the reporting date and the stipulated change taking place at the beginning of the financial year and being held constant throughout the reporting period. A positive number indicates an increase in profit or equity after tax, while a negative number indicates a reduction in profit or equity after tax. Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m Impact on profit after tax at reporting date, with all other variables held constant of a: Increase in fuel prices – 0.8 Decrease in fuel prices – (0.8) Impact on equity after tax at reporting date, with all other variables held constant of a: Increase in fuel prices 1.2 1.2 Decrease in fuel prices (1.2) (1.2) 106 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review 30 Financial and capital risk management (continued) (h) Interest rate risk management Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the fair value or future cashflows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The group is exposed to interest rate risk from interest-bearing cash and cash equivalent balances, receivables and payables, with the main About exposure from bonds payable. The group’s objective in managing interest rate risk is to minimise interest rate exposure by matching, as far as practical, the interest rate profile or re-pricing of investments (financial) and borrowings to achieve a natural hedge whilst ensuring that an appropriate level Australia Post of flexibility exists to accommodate potential changes in funding requirements. Interest rate risk is measured by regularly reviewing the net exposure from interest-bearing assets and liabilities. The risk is managed by the use of interest rate swap contracts on the basis of known borrowing obligations. The group’s exposure to interest rate risks and the effective interest rates of interest-bearing financial assets and financial liabilities are set out below. Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial instruments classified as Core businesses fixed rate is fixed until maturity of the instrument. Consolidated 2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average average Corporate Carrying effective Carrying effective amount interest rate amount interest rate responsibility Note $m % $m % Financial assets Fixed rate Financial and Loans to jointly controlled entities 9 130.5 8.0 130.7 8.0 Floating rate statutory reports Cash and cash equivalents 32(a) 602.2 5.1 500.7 4.2 Financial liabilities Fixed rate Bonds payable 19 547.1 5.7 547.0 5.7 Interest rate swaps (547.1) 5.7 (547.0) 5.7 Floating rate Interest rate swaps 553.8 5.7 552.9 4.5 Interest rate swap contracts Under interest rate swap contracts the group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating rate interest amounts calculated on agreed notional principal amounts. Such contracts enable the group to mitigate the risk of changing interest rates on the fair value of issued fixed rate debt held. The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts as at balance date. Consolidated 2011 2010 Fixed Notional Fixed Notional interest principal interest principal rate amount rate amount % $m % $m Fixed for floating interest 1–2 years 6.25 230.0 6.25 230.0 2–5 years 5.25 325.0 5.25 325.0 555.0 555.0 The interest rate swap contracts settle on a six-monthly basis. The floating rate on the $230 million tranche is six-monthly BBSW minus 6.75 basis points, and the floating rate on the $325 million tranche is six-monthly BBSW plus 118.125 basis points. Interest rate swap contracts are designated as fair value hedges in respect of interest rates. The gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recorded in profit or loss and to the extent that the hedge is effective, the carrying amount of the borrowing is adjusted by the gain or loss attributable to the hedged risk through profit or loss. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 107 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 30 Financial and capital risk management (continued) (h) Interest rate risk management (continued) Interest rate sensitivity The table below details the interest rate sensitivity analysis of the group at the reporting date, holding all other variables constant. A 175 basis point (2010: 150) change is used to quantify the possible risk based on Australian Government Department of Finance and Deregulation guidance. The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates from financial instruments at the reporting date and the stipulated change taking place at the beginning of the financial year and being held constant throughout the reporting period. A positive number indicates an increase in profit after tax, whilst a negative number indicates a reduction in profit after tax. There is no sensitivity on equity. Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m Impact on profit after tax at reporting date, with all other variables held constant of a: 175 (2010: 150) basis point increase in interest rates 3.1 4.7 175 (2010: 150) basis point decrease in interest rates (3.1) (4.7) The interest-bearing assets and liabilities on which the sensitivity is shown in the table above, are considered representative of the group’s average interest rate exposure for the years ended 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2011. (i) Credit risk management Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the group. Counterparty exposure is measured as the total value of the exposures to all obligations of any single legal or economic entity (eg. a group of companies). It is the group’s policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures. The carrying amount of trade and other receivables reflects the maximum credit exposure when collateral held and other credit enhancements are not considered. Bank guarantees, parent company guarantees, directors personal guarantees, deposits, property mortgages and fixed or floating charges over assets are held in respect of receivable balances from some customers. In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the exposure to bad debts is not significant. The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are high investment grade as rated by Standard & Poor’s, bank counterparties are all rated A– or better (2010: A– or better) by Standard and Poor’s and counterparty limits have been established and are endorsed annually by the board and reviewed regularly by the Treasury Group. The credit risk on derivative financial instruments is managed using the principle of the APRA ‘Current Exposure Method’ as described in its guidance note AGN 112.2 which takes into account both the current credit exposure and the potential future credit exposure from derivative financial instruments. The group has a significant credit risk exposure from the long-term loan advanced to Star Track Express, a jointly controlled entity, of $128.2 million (2010: $128.2 million). There are no other significant credit risk exposures to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics. Except as detailed in the following table, the carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements as summarised in Note 30 (c), net of any allowances for losses, represents the group’s maximum exposure to credit risk without taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements. Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m Maximum credit risk from financial assets and other credit exposures Drawn loans to jointly controlled entities (1) 130.5 130.5 Undrawn loan commitments to jointly controlled entities 4.3 4.3 Guarantees provided (2) 232.0 247.0 (1) The carrying amount of loans to jointly controlled entities differs from the maximum exposure to credit risk as a loan advanced to a jointly controlled entity is non-interest bearing and the loan carrying amount has been discounted under the effective interest method. (2) Relate to bank guarantees over projected workers’ compensation claims liabilities, financial guarantee contracts and other guarantees provided by jointly controlled entities. 108 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review 30 Financial and capital risk management (continued) (j) Liquidity risk management Liquidity risk refers to the risk of encountering difficulties in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities. Liquidity risk management is associated with ensuring that there are sufficient funds available to meet financial commitments in a timely manner and planning for unforeseen About events which may curtail cashflows and cause pressure on liquidity. The group measures and manages liquidity risk by forecasting liquidity and funding requirements for the next three years as a minimum, which is reviewed annually by the board as part of the Treasury Strategy Paper. Australia Post In addition, the group prepares and reviews a rolling daily cash forecast for the quarter, on a daily basis. Liquidity risk tables The following tables detail the group’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities. The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cashflows based on the earliest date on which the group can be required to pay. The tables include both interest and principal Core businesses cashflows. Where interest flows are floating rate, the undiscounted amount is derived from the interest rate curves at the end of the reporting period. For financial guarantee contracts and undrawn loan commitments, the maximum amount of the guarantee and undrawn loan commitment is allocated to the earliest period in which the guarantee or loan commitment can be called. The tables also include cash outflows arising from derivative financial instruments. The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted net cash outflows on derivative instruments that settle on a net basis and the undiscounted gross cash outflows on those derivatives that require gross settlement. The amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected cash outflows illustrated by the yield or forward curves existing at reporting date. Corporate responsibility Consolidated As at 30 June 2011 As at 30 June 2010 Contractual maturity (nominal cashflows) Contractual maturity (nominal cashflows) On Less than 1 to 2 2 to 5 On Less than 1 to 2 2 to 5 Financial and demand 1 year years years demand 1 year years years statutory reports $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Trade and other payables – 726.3 – – – 726.7 – – Finance lease and hire purchase liabilities payable – – – – – 0.1 – – Forward exchange contracts – 0.3 – – – 10.1 – – Bonds payable – 261.4 17.1 342.1 – 23.0 261.5 359.1 Interest rate swaps – (0.2) 3.1 4.6 – (1.0) (0.1) 8.0 Financial guarantee contracts (1) – 52.0 – – – 64.3 – – Undrawn loan commitments to jointly controlled entities 4.3 – – – 4.3 – – – 4.3 1,039.8 20.2 346.7 4.3 823.2 261.4 367.1 (1) This represents the maximum amount that could be called on by the group. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 109 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 30 Financial and capital risk management (continued) (k) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities is based on market prices (where a market exists) or by discounting back the expected future cashflows using the applicable yield curve for assets and liabilities with similar risk profiles. Fair value of financial instruments not measured at fair value in the balance sheet Except as detailed in the following table, the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the balance sheet approximates their fair value. Consolidated 2011 2010 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value $m $m $m $m Financial assets Finance lease receivable 103.5 73.9 103.5 83.5 Loans to jointly controlled entities 129.5 132.2 129.4 133.5 Financial liabilities Bonds payable 547.1 548.2 547.0 550.1 Fair value measurements recognised in the balance sheet The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: • Level 1: fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities • Level 2: fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable from the asset or liability, either directly (as prices) or indirectly (derived from prices) • Level 3: fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). Consolidated 2011 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Foreign currency exchange contracts – – – – 0.4 – Interest rate swaps – 2.3 – – 5.5 – Commodity swaps 1.0 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Foreign currency exchange contracts – 0.3 – – – – Interest rate swaps – 9.0 – – 11.4 – Commodity swaps – – – – 0.5 – There were no transfers between level 1, 2 and 3 during the year. 110 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review 31 Leases (i) Operating leases The group leases a total of 787 properties. These are under operating leases with various occupancy terms that are due to expire in the next one to ten years. The leased property portfolio comprises 17 commercial, 226 industrial, 8 residential, 527 retail and 9 general sites. Leases generally provide About the group with a right of renewal, at which time the commercial terms are renegotiated. Lease payments generally comprise a base amount plus an incremental contingent rental based on movements in the Consumer Price Index and reviews to market-based levels. Australia Post Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m Core businesses Minimum lease payments 131.7 135.6 Contingent rentals 1.3 1.5 Operating lease rentals (refer note 3) 133.0 137.1 Full details of the ageing of the group’s operating lease commitments is contained in the schedule of commitments. Corporate (ii) Finance lease receivable The group has a finance lease receivable relating to the disposal in 1996–97 of the Sydney GPO heritage site under a 99-year lease. responsibility The agreement includes a seven-year rent-free period to the lessee, followed by a guaranteed minimum rental. Financial and Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m Reconciliation of minimum lease payments to lease receivable: statutory reports Gross minimum finance lease rentals receivable 549.3 555.7 Finance lease revenue not yet recognised (445.8) (452.2) Finance lease receivable (notes 6 and 9) 103.5 103.5 Minimum finance lease rentals receivable: (a) within one year 6.4 6.5 (b) from one year to five years 25.5 26.0 (c) over five years 517.4 523.2 Total 549.3 555.7 The lease commitments receivable at year-end equal the minimum lease payments, as there are no material contingent payments or unguaranteed residual value relating to this lease agreement. (iii) Finance lease payable The group has certain hire purchase and finance lease agreements. The present value of these minimum lease payments is $nil (2010: $0.1 million) which will be made within a year. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 111 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 32 Notes to the cashflow statement (a) Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cashflow statement, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand and in banks, promissory notes and floating rate notes. Cash and cash equivalents on hand at the end of the period as shown in the cashflow statement are reconciled to the related items in the balance sheet as follows: Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m Cash on hand 556.5 447.1 Promissory notes (1) 45.7 53.6 Total cash and cash equivalents 602.2 500.7 (1) There are $nil (2010: $nil) promissory notes that are past due or impaired. (b) Reconciliation of net profit after tax to net cash provided by operating activities Consolidated 2011 2010 $m $m Net profit for the period 241.2 89.5 Depreciation and amortisation 198.4 213.5 Changes in jointly controlled entities not received as dividends (1.2) (0.4) Net revaluation gain on investment property (6.1) – Write-down of investments 4.5 1.7 Write-down of property, plant and equipment 36.5 2.2 Write-down of intangibles (including goodwill) 13.9 43.7 Write-down of receivables and inventory 2.2 1.5 Net gain from sales of property, plant and equipment (22.0) (17.9) 226.2 244.3 Changes in assets and liabilities adjusted for the acquisition and disposal of businesses (Increase)/decrease in debtors (28.2) 25.6 (Increase)/decrease in inventories (5.6) 6.0 (Increase)/decrease in interest receivable (0.6) 0.3 (Increase)/decrease in other current assets (3.5) (15.0) (Increase)/decrease in deferred income tax asset 34.2 (21.9) Increase/(decrease) in creditors and other payables 4.0 (54.8) Increase/(decrease) in accrued interest expenditure 0.5 2.5 Increase/(decrease) in advance receipts 2.6 12.6 Increase/(decrease) in employee entitlements (69.3) 121.7 Increase/(decrease) in income tax payable (13.1) (21.0) Increase/(decrease) in deferred income tax liability 19.0 (18.9) 166.2 281.4 Net cash from operating activities 407.4 370.9 Loan facilities Fully drawn loan facilities of $555 million (2010: $555.0 million) and $nil (2010: $0.1 million) hire purchase and finance leases were held at 30 June 2011 (refer note 19). 112 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review 32 Notes to the cashflow statement (continued) (c) Details of the acquisition of controlled entities On 23 December 2010, the corporation acquired 100% of the issued share capital of SecurePay Holdings Pty Ltd. SecurePay operated as an independent provider of electronic business-to-business (B2B) and business-to-consumer (B2C) payment gateway services at the date of acquisition. Details of the acquisition are as follows: About The fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities of SecurePay Holdings Pty Ltd as at the date of acquisition were: Australia Post Consolidated fair value at acquisition date $m Core businesses Cash 0.3 Receivables and accrued income 1.4 Property, plant and equipment 1.7 Intangible assets 11.7 15.1 Corporate Payables 1.1 Loans 5.3 Deferred tax liability 0.4 responsibility 6.8 Provisional fair value of identifiable net assets 8.3 Goodwill arising on acquisition (note 16) 32.2 Consideration transferred 40.5 Financial and statutory reports The cash outflow on acquisition is as follows: Net cash acquired with the subsidiary (0.3) Cash paid 44.0 Payments for investments for controlled entities (net of cash acquired) 43.7 Repayment of debt 5.3 Total consolidated cash outflow 49.0 The consolidated statement of comprehensive income includes sales revenue and net profit for the year ended 30 June 2011 of $6.3 million and $1.4 million respectively, relating to SecurePay Holdings Pty Ltd. Had the acquisition of SecurePay Holdings Pty Ltd occurred at the beginning of the reporting period, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income would have included revenue and profit of $12.1 million and $3.1 million respectively. Direct costs of $2.1 million relating to the acquisition and integration of SecurePay Holdings Pty Ltd were incurred and are disclosed as part of supplier expenses. Key factors contributing to the $32.2 million of goodwill are the synergies existing within the acquired business, and synergies expected to be achieved as a result of combining SecurePay Holdings Pty Ltd with the rest of the group. Included in the business acquired were receivables with a gross contractual and fair value of $1.2 million resulting from trade sales with customers. Management expects these amounts to be collected in full and converted to cash consistent with customer terms. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 113 Notes to and forming part of the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 33 Corporate information The financial report of Australian Postal Corporation for the year ended 30 June 2011 was authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 25 August 2011. Australian Postal Corporation is a for-profit entity and a government business enterprise (GBE) established pursuant to the Postal Services Act 1975, the existence of which is continued by section 12 of the Australian Postal Corporation Act 1989. The nature of the operations and principal activities of the group are outlined in the corporation’s annual report. National head office: 111 Bourke Street Melbourne VIC 3000 Australia 34 Events after balance date There are no matters or circumstances that have arisen since the end of the financial year which significantly affected or may significantly affect the operations of the group, the result of those operations, or the state affairs of the group in future financial years. 114 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Community service obligations for the year ended 30 June 2011 Year in review Australia Post’s community service obligations (CSOs) are set out in s27 of the Australian Postal Corporation Act 1989 (the Act), which requires that: • the corporation provide a letter service for both domestic and international letter traffic • the service be available at a single uniform rate within Australia for standard letters • the service be reasonably accessible to all Australians wherever they reside • the performance standards for the service reasonably meet the social, industrial and commercial needs of the community. About Performance standards Australia Post Regulations made under s28C of the Act detail the particular standards required to meet these obligations. Performance against these standards is subject to independent audit by the Australian National Audit Office (ANAO). All of the prescribed standards were met or exceeded in 2010–11. The actual result for each standard is outlined in the table below. The associated ANAO Audit Report is reproduced on pages 116 to 117. Core businesses Organisational arrangements To maintain an appropriate ongoing focus on CSO compliance, Australia Post has a national CSO manager at its headquarters and nominated CSO representatives nationally. CSO costs Corporate There is a financial cost associated with meeting CSOs. That cost arises when the charge made for any mandated service does not recover the cost of its delivery. The cost is measured on a net basis (that is, after reduction of related revenue) and is funded by internal cross-subsidy within responsibility the letters service. For 2010–11 (calculated on the avoidable cost methodology), CSO costs are estimated to be $142.1 million. Performance standards Financial and Standard 2010–11 performance Lodgement 10,000 street posting boxes 16,036^ statutory reports Delivery timetables Same state Metro – next business day Maintained Metro to country – second business day Maintained Between country areas – second business day Maintained Interstate Metro to metro – second business day Maintained Between metro and country – third business day Maintained Between country areas – fourth business day Maintained On-time delivery 94.0% of non-bulk letters 96.0%^ Access 4,000 retail outlets (2,500 in rural and remote areas) 4,419^ (2,552^ in rural and remote areas) Retail outlets located so that: • in metropolitan areas at least 90.0% of residences are within 2.5km of an outlet 93.7%^ • in non-metropolitan areas at least 85.0% of residences are within 7.5km of an outlet 87.9%^ Delivery frequency 98.0% of delivery points to receive deliveries five days a week 98.8%^ 99.7% of delivery points to receive deliveries no less than twice a week 99.9%^ ^ Results as at 30 June 2011. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 115 Auditor-general’s report – performance standards for the year ended 30 June 2011 116 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 About Corporate Financial and Year in review Australia Post Core businesses responsibility statutory reports 117 FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS Domestic letter service monitor for the year ended 30 June 2011 118 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 About Corporate Financial and Year in review Australia Post Core businesses responsibility statutory reports 119 FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS Survey certification for the year ended 30 June 2011 120 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 About Corporate Financial and Year in review Australia Post Core businesses responsibility statutory reports 121 FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS Reserved/non-reserved services for the year ended 30 June 2011 Results of product dissection between reserved and non-reserved services Reserved Non-reserved Total $m % $m % $m % Consolidated results Revenue 1,887.5 38.1 3,067.1 61.9 4,954.6 100.0 Expense 1,978.8 42.6 2,661.8 57.4 4,640.6 100.0 Profit from ordinary activities before net interest and income tax (91.3) (29.1) 405.3 129.1 314.0 100.0 Interest and net profits related to jointly controlled entities 30.5 100.0 Profit before third party interest and tax 344.5 Return on revenue (1) (4.8) 13.2 6.3 Average operating assets (2) 953.5 30.3 2,196.3 69.7 3,149.8 100.0 Return on average operating assets (3) (9.6) 18.5 10.9 (1) Excludes interest and share of net profits of jointly controlled entities. (2) Assets reflect average operating assets for 2009–10 and 2010–11. (3) Total return on average operating assets includes interest and share of net profits relating to jointly controlled entities. Reserved and non-reserved return on average operating assets excludes all interest and share of net profits of jointly controlled entities. 122 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Statutory reporting requirements index for the year ended 30 June 2011 Year in review Australia Post has reported in accordance with the requirements of the Commonwealth Authorities and Companies Act 1997, the Australian Postal Corporation Act 1989, the Freedom of Information Act 1982, the Occupational Health and Safety (Commonwealth Employment) Act 1991, the Superannuation Benefits (Supervisory Mechanisms) Act 1990, and the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999. This index shows where the relevant information can be found in the 2010–11 Annual Report. About Commonwealth Authorities and Companies Act 1997 – Schedule 1 reporting requirements Section Subject Location Pages Australia Post s.1(a) Report of operations Report of operations 1–49 Financial statements 56 Core businesses Statutory report 126–129 s.1(b) Financial statements Financial statements 59–114 s.1(c) Financial statements Financial statements audit report 57–58 s.2(3) Directors’ statement Financial statements 56 Corporate Australian Postal Corporation Act 1989 – general reporting requirements s.43(a) Statement of corporate objectives under the corporate plan Statutory report 126 responsibility s.43(b)(i) Overall strategies and policies under the corporate plan Chairman’s report 6 Statutory report 126 Financial and s.43(b)(ii) Performance indicators and targets under the corporate plan Statutory report 126 s.43(c) Assessment of extent to which objectives under s.43(a) have been achieved Chairman’s report 6 statutory reports Managing director’s report 7 Financial report 8-9 Community service obligations 115 Statutory report 126 s.43(d) Strategies and policies relating to Community Service Obligations (CSOs) Letters 20 Community service obligations 115 s.43(e) Directions by the Minister under s.40(1)(CSOs) N/A s.43(f) Assessment of appropriateness and adequacy of strategies Letters 20 and policies for CSOs Community service obligations 115 s.43(fa) Performance standards relating to CSOs Letters 20 Community service obligations 115 Statistical summary 130–131 s.43(g)(i) Notifications by the Minister under s.28 of the CAC Act Statutory report 126 (general policies of the Commonwealth) s.43(g)(ii) Directions by the Minister under s.49 of the APC Act (public interest) N/A s.43(h)(i) Impact of Ministerial notifications under s.28 of the CAC Act and directions Statutory report 126 under s.49 of the APC Act s.43(h)(ii) Impact of other Government obligations Statutory report 126 s.43(j) Ministerial power under s.33(3) to disapprove postage determinations N/A s.43(k) Companies and other associations established or sold N/A s.43(m)(i)&(ii) Shares purchased and disposed of Financial statements 82,113 s.43(m)(iii) Subsidiaries Our business partners 13 Letters 22–23 Financial statements 82 s.43(n) Authority to open or examine the contents of postal articles Statutory report 128 s.43(o) Disclosure of information Statutory report 128–129 s.44(a) Financial targets Statutory report 126 FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 123 Statutory reporting requirements index for the year ended 30 June 2011 Australian Postal Corporation Act 1989 – general reporting requirements (continued) Section Subject Location Pages s.44(b) Ministerial direction under s.40(i) to vary the financial targets N/A s.44(c) Progress in achieving the financial targets Statutory report 126 s.44(d) Dividend payable to the Commonwealth Financial report 8–9 Statutory report 126 s.44(e) Ministerial direction under s.54(3) as to dividend N/A s.44(f) Capital repaid to the Commonwealth N/A s.44(g)(i) Cost impact of CSOs Community service obligations 115 s.44(g)(ii) Cost impact of Ministerial notifications under s.28 of CAC Act N/A s.44(g)(iii) Cost impact of Ministerial directions under s.49 of APC Act N/A s.44(g)(iv) Cost impact of other Government obligations Statutory report 126 s.44(h)(i)&(ii) Financial information requested by the Minister in relation to the reserved services N/A and other activities Freedom of Information Act 1982 – reporting requirements s.8(1)(a)(i) Information on organisation and functions About Australia Post 13 Statutory report 127 s.8(1)(a)(ii) Consultative arrangements Statutory report 127 s.8(1)(a)(iii) Categories of documents Statutory report 128 s.8(1)(a) (iv)&(v) Access to documents and initial inquiries Statutory report 128 Occupational Health and Safety (Commonwealth Employment) Act 1991 – reporting requirements s.74(1)(c) Occupational health and safety policies, including agreement with employees, Statutory report 127 establishment of committees and selection of health and safety representatives s.74(1)(d) Measures taken to ensure health, safety and welfare of employees and contractors Statutory report 127 s.74(1)(e) Statistics requiring the giving of notice under s.68 Statutory report 127 s.74(1)(f)&(g) Details of investigations and other matters as prescribed Statutory report 127 Superannuation Benefits (Supervisory Mechanisms) Act 1990 s.6(1)(b) Report on operation of superannuation arrangement Statutory report 126 Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 s.516A(3)(6) Report on the implementation of the Ecologically Sustainable Development Corporate responsibility 32–49 program within Australia Post, including social, economic, cultural and environmental performance Commonwealth Authorities and Companies (Report of Operations) Orders 2008 Division 2 – General information about operations and activities s.8(a) Enabling legislation Statutory report 126 s.8(b) Ministers responsible Corporate governance 52 s.9 Organisational structure Corporate governance 52 Board of directors 14–15 About Australia Post 13 Statutory report 127 s.10(1)(a)(i) Performance measured against statutory objectives Community service obligations 115 s.10(1)(a)(ii) Corporate plan Statutory report 126 124 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review Division 2 – General information about operations and activities (continued) Section Subject Location Pages s.10(1)(a)(iii) Principal outputs and contributions Chairman’s report 6 Managing director’s report 7 Financial report 8–9 About Year in review, Performance summary at a glance 5,11 Australia Post s.10(1)(b) Current and future events and trends, including risks and opportunities Future ready 2–3 Chairman’s report 6 Core businesses Managing director’s report 7 Financial report 8–9 s.10(1)(c) Significant events under s.15 of CAC Act Managing director’s report 7 Financial report 8–9 s.10(1)(d)(i) Operational and financial results – principal outputs Managing director’s report 7 Financial report 8–9 Corporate s.10(1)(d)(ii) Major investing and financial activities Chairman’s report 6 Managing director’s report 7 responsibility Financial report 8–9 s.10(1)(d)(iii) Financial and non-financial performance indicators Financial report 8–9 Financial and Community service obligations 115 Statutory report 126 statutory reports s.10(1)(e) Significant changes in affairs or principal activities during the year N/A s.10(1)(f) Significant developments since end of financial year N/A s.11(a) Judicial tribunal decisions that have had a significant impact N/A s.11(b) Reports by the Auditor-General, a Parliamentary Committee or Financial statements audit report 57–58 Commonwealth Ombudsman Performance standards audit 116–117 s.12(1)(a)(i) Any directions by responsible ministers during the financial year N/A s.12(1)(a)(ii) Since the end of the financial year N/A s.12(1)(a)(iii) Continuing from previous financial years N/A s.12(1)(b)(i) Government policies under s.28 of the CAC Act during the financial year N/A s.12(1)(b)(ii) Since the end of the financial year N/A s.12(1)(b)(iii) Continuing from previous financial years Statutory report 126 s.13(1)(a)(i) Significant changes in financial structure N/A s.13(1)(a)(ii) Events that may affect future operating results N/A s.13(1)(b) Dividends paid or recommended Financial statements 93 s.13(1)(c) Community service obligations Community service obligations 115 Division 3 – Specific information s.14(1)(a) Directors’ details Board of directors 14–15 s.14(1)(b) Directors’ meetings Corporate governance 55 s.15(1) Main governance practices Corporate governance 52–55 s.15(2) Board committee details (including Audit and Risk Committee) Corporate governance 52–53 s.16(1)(a) Indemnity for officers Statutory report 126 s.16(1)(b) Premium paid Statutory report 126 FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 125 Statutory reporting requirements for the year ended 30 June 2011 Introduction Targets Australia Post is subject to various statutory reporting requirements Key financial and non-financial performance measures set out under the Australian Postal Corporation Act 1989, the Commonwealth in the plan were: Authorities and Companies Act 1997, the Freedom of Information Act 1982, • profit before tax of $303.8 million in the first year of the plan the Occupational Health and Safety (Commonwealth Employment) Act • dividends paid of $85 million in the first year of the plan, based 1991, the Superannuation Benefits (Supervisory Mechanisms) Act 1990, on the existing dividend policy. and the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Act 1999. Specific targets for 2010–11 and performance against these targets The index on pages 123 to 125 shows where the relevant information were as follows: can be found in this annual report. Performance indicator Target Performance A number of matters are dealt with in the main body of the report. On-time letter delivery 94% 96% Others are covered below. Profit before tax $303.8 million $332.3 million Legislation Shareholder return on equity 11.8% 13.4% The powers and functions of Australia Post are set out in Sections 14–19 Ordinary dividend declared for 2010–11 $169.8 million $173.2 million of the Australian Postal Corporation Act 1989 (the Act). Indemnities and insurance premiums for directors and officers Government policies Australia Post has in place a directors’ and officers’ liability insurance In February 2004, the Minister of Communications, Information policy. The policy, which expires on 31 August 2011, provides cover in Technology and the Arts provided formal notification under section 28 respect of any person who is or was a director or officer of Australia Post, of the Commonwealth Authorities and Companies Act 1997 that the when acting in these capacities. Australia Post also maintains a separate Government’s National Code for the Construction Industry and associated insurance policy, which provides cover to all former directors or officers implementation guidelines were to apply to all construction-related of the corporation. This policy, which expires on 31 August 2020, activity undertaken by and on behalf of Australia Post. The notification provides cover in respect of any matters arising from the time such persons has had no major impact on the corporation as Australia Post had, since were a director or officer of Australia Post. Confidentiality requirements their introduction in 1997, made compliance with the code and guidelines within the insurance contracts prohibit any additional disclosures. a condition of all of its construction related tenders. Directors of Australia Post are also indemnified by the corporation to Section 49 of the Australian Postal Corporation Act 1989 empowers the the extent permitted by law against any liability incurred in their capacity Minister to give the board written directions in relation to the performance as a director. of Australia Post’s functions as appear to be necessary in the public interest. No notification or direction has been issued under this provision. Corporate plan Each year, Australia Post provides a rolling three-year corporate plan. Other government obligations The 2010–11 plan and associated Statement of Corporate Intent were Administrative law submitted to the shareholder ministers in June 2010. As pre-agreed The cost of meeting Commonwealth administrative requirements with the shareholder ministers, a revised 2010–11 corporate plan in 2010–11 is estimated at approximately $1.5 million. was submitted in December 2010, detailing Australia Post’s strategic direction under the Future Ready program. Postal Industry Ombudsman During 2010–11, the PIO has estimated the costs of investigating Objective complaints relating to Australia Post to be $270,000. Our primary objective is to provide high-quality, efficient services ACCC record keeping to the community. As much as possible, we will grow dividends The cost of the regulatory audit and compliance with the ACCC’s and enhance shareholder value. record keeping rules in 2010–11 is estimated at $500,000. Strategies Maintaining heritage properties The corporation has developed three enterprise strategies, aimed The costs of repairing and maintaining heritage listed properties at achieving volume growth and positioning us to win in a highly in 2010–11 was $2.5 million. competitive environment. The strategies and their main programs of work are as follows. Medical/Educational Remote Area Parcel service The Medical/Educational Remote Area Parcel service provides reduced 1 Restore a self-sustaining letters business: postage rates for parcels containing health and educational material • Reduce letter costs through our Future Delivery Design program, that are sent to and from people living in remote communities. In the realigning our delivery services to our CSO performance standards 2010–11 reporting period, revenue foregone is estimated at $149,500. and reducing overhead costs. Generate letters revenue growth through price movements, volume and new product development. Superannuation 2 Grow across the full value chain in parcels and win in e-commerce: All Australia Post employees are covered by superannuation. • Increase market share in our business-to-consumer and consumerDuring 2010–11, Australia Post complied with all relevant guidelines to-consumer parcel offer. Restore value in our business-to-business and made no significant changes to superannuation arrangements offer, predominantly through our joint venture businesses. for employees. 3 Build a trusted services offer with multi-channel delivery: • Build a more convenient and efficient retail network. Grow the identity and financial services businesses. Grow our digital and telecommunications offer. 126 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review Occupational health and safety (OH&S) report During the year: The following information is presented in accordance with the • 552 incidents were notified to Comcare in accordance with requirements of s74 of the Occupational Health and Safety Act 1991 s68 of the OH&S Act 1991. (OH&S Act 1991). • 18 Provisional Improvement Notices (s29) given. • No Prohibition Notices (s46) given. About A number of measures were taken during the year to assist in providing for the health, safety and welfare at work of employees and contractors • No Improvement Notices (s47) given. • 8 investigations were conducted relating to: Australia Post of the Corporation. – plant and machinery safety (5) These included: – emergency and fire procedures (1) • directing OH&S improvements through OH&S plans at national, – mail delivery including motorcycle operations (1) state and workplace facility levels. These plans provide for OH&S – incidents involving contractors (1). Core businesses management systems and supervisory accountability; auditing the Freedom of information report effectiveness of the OH&S management system; induction and skills training; compliance with corporate and statutory OH&S requirements; In the year to 30 June 2011, Australia Post received 46 applications workplace safety audits for hazard identification and control; accident under the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth). prevention initiatives targeted at priority accident types; and OH&S These were handled as follows: communication and consultation with employees and contractors Granted in full 26 Corporate • auditing OH&S legislative and Corporation OH&S policy compliance through the Australia Post Occupational Health and Safety Management Granted in part 2 System Quality Assurance Program. The Corporation recorded an overall Access refused 12 responsibility high level of conformance with the OH&S audit criteria Withdrawn 3 • maintaining OH&S committees throughout the corporation • providing OH&S related training for Health and Safety Representatives, On hand at 30 June 2011 3 Financial and managers, supervisors and staff throughout Australia Post to develop a greater understanding of corporate and statutory requirements There were two applications for internal review during the year – • implementation of high-visibility clothing and coloured panniers both applications resulted in the decision of the Freedom of Information statutory reports for motorcycles to improve the visibility of Postal Delivery Officers Officer being substantially affirmed. to other road users No additional costs were incurred in the handling of Freedom of • training motorcyclists in safe riding behaviour, undertaking risk Information requests and related responsibilities in 2010–11. reviews of motorcycle rounds; reinforcing existing safe work practices, including regular motorcycle maintenance inspections and auditing Freedom of Information Act, Section 8 compliance with procedures The following information is presented in accordance with section 8 • launch of the I Am for Zero safety campaign led by the of the Freedom of Information Act 1982. managing director and CEO Organisation and functions • implementation of safety cultural transformation program through Australia Post has a Melbourne based headquarters, which is currently the I Am for Zero initiatives made up of strategic business units supported by a number of functional • introduction of a new IT system to replace the ageing Incident business units. There are also two joint ventures. Management and Workers Compensation/Rehabilitation systems • introduction of new capability for OH&S governance and OH&S risk Consultative arrangements management on the new IT system Australia Post consults directly with major mail users, customers • enhanced “Safety Observation and Feedback Program” training and various bodies to respond to customers needs. to managers and supervisors encouraging a two way interaction A joint Mailing Industry Advisory Committee operates with the Major • implementation of sequence machinery to improve safety in Mail Users Association for the purpose of enhancing relationships mail processing, in addition with separate mail bundling processes between Australia Post and its major customers. and bags • development of electric bicycles and tricycles to improve safety The Stakeholder Council provides a further external forum for discussing • continuing raising awareness through the “Safe Postie Campaign” Australia Post’s services and performance. The council’s charter also and understanding about common hazards includes a corporate responsibility role. • continuing to implement “Our Ethics” policies and procedures to Australia Post also consults extensively with private mail users through assist managers and employees understand these issues and provide local managers and customer contact services. for diagnostic tools to determine if a situation might be bullying and Market research is undertaken regularly to monitor how well Australia a guide for managers to assist in preventing and managing bullying Post is satisfying customer needs and how the postal system is regarded • finalisation of obligations under an enforceable undertaking entered by the public. into with Comcare in relation to an alleged failure by Australia Post to observe it duties under the OH&S Act Australia Post’s letter delivery performance is independently audited. • advising contractors on safe work practices Formal reports are published on a quarterly basis. • continuing implementation of the corporation’s Employee Health and Wellbeing strategy, including confidential staff counselling services for our employees. As a result of these and other initiatives, the corporation met the injury prevention performance targets of the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 127 Statutory reporting requirements for the year ended 30 June 2011 Categories of documents The Corporate Audit Services Group applies a systematic risk-based, The categories of documents maintained by Australia Post include control and governance methodology to review business operations those relating to: and related systems, including policies and procedures, which make • corporate organisation and administration up the control environment. • Australia Post’s financial management The Corporate Security Group is a specialised internal group that • management of assets provides security consultancy, crime analysis and investigative services • internal administration, including policy development and program to Australia Post. The Corporate Security Group works closely with administration, reports, briefings, correspondence, minutes, law enforcement agencies both within Australia and internationally. submissions, statistics and other documents There are a number of programs in place to manage risk and • Board submissions relating to the business of Australia Post compliance in specific areas, including fraud. • reference material used by staff, including guidelines and manuals • working files Examination of mail • legal advice. International mail The categories of documents listed above are maintained by Australia Post is authorised under the Australia Postal Corporation Act Australia Post in a variety of formats. Some of these documents, to open mail, as required by the Australian Customs Service, in the along with information on Australia Post’s organisation, structure and following circumstances: activities, can be obtained free of charge by accessing Australia Post’s • when it is suspected that articles may contain prohibited substances; or website at www.auspost.com.au. • to determine that appropriate duties/taxes are met. Access to documents Australian Customs Service personnel have also been authorised Access to documents under the Freedom of Information Act can be under section 90T of the Act to remove and open articles in excess obtained by forwarding a written request together with the prescribed of a particular weight that Customs reasonably believes may fee to: contain certain drugs or other chemical compounds being carried in contravention of a law of the Commonwealth. Customs has also been Freedom of Information Officer authorised under section 90FB (3) of the Act to act as an authorised Legal Services examiner for the purpose of examining mail without opening (ie by Governance and Assurance X-ray or with drug detection dogs). Australia Post Headquarters GPO Box 1777 Domestic mail MELBOURNE VIC 3001 Quarantine inspection officers from a prescribed state or territory (ie Western Australia, Tasmania or Northern Territory) are authorised under Privacy and access to personal information section 90U of the Act to request Australia Post to open, for inspection, Under the Commonwealth Privacy Act 1988 individuals have, subject any article for delivery in that prescribed state or territory; where the to certain exceptions permitted by law, a right to request access to inspection officer has reasonable grounds to believe the item consists their personal information that is held by Commonwealth agencies of, or contains, quarantine material. and private-sector organisations. Section 90UA authorises Australia Post to remove articles from the mail Individuals may apply for access to their personal information held stream where it is suspected that the article consist of, or contain scam by Australia Post by writing to: mail. Suspected scam mail may also be withdrawn from the mail upon Privacy Contact Officer receipt of a written request from a consumer protection agency. Legal Services In accordance with Section 90FB, Australia Post has appointed Governance and Assurance authorised examiners at designated locations where mail can be Australia Post Headquarters opened for inspection. GPO Box 1777 MELBOURNE VIC 3001 Authorised Australia Post staff may open undeliverable articles at approved locations for the purpose of identifying intended or return Fraud control addresses. They may also open mail to repair an article or its contents Australia Post has in place an internal control framework, which includes so that the article can be made safe for carriage by post. strategic, financial, operational and compliance elements designed to deter and detect instances of fraud. This framework is supported by Disclosure of information a national fraud control policy and the corporation’s Our Ethics policy. The corporation is authorised to disclose information to agencies that have the legislative power to obtain such information. This includes The corporation’s Governance and Assurance Group comprises a number instances relating to enforcement of the criminal law, the protection of of specialist groups responsible for providing risk and compliance, audit, the public revenue, the reduction of threats to life and notification of next assurance, legal, and security and investigation services to Australia Post. of kin. The Corporate Risk Management Group is responsible for an enterpriseAs required under s.43 (o) (i) (ii) of the Australian Postal Corporation Act 1989, wide approach to risk management, including identification, measurement Tables 1 and 2 overleaf, detail the number of times that such information and mitigation of business risks across all areas of the business. The was disclosed during the year and the authorities or bodies to which framework and underpinning processes are consistent with the principles it was disclosed. of the relevant standards. 128 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review Table 1: Disclosure of Information/documents (Section 90J “Authority”)* (Applies to all information or documents) Authority for disclosure Number of Disclosures made to disclosures Disclosure under warrants [s. 90J(3)] 40 Australian Customs Service, State Police (QLD), State Police (VIC) About Disclosure under a law of the 2,724 Australian Crime Commission (Federal), Australian Competition & Consumer Australia Post Commonwealth [s. 90J(5)] Commission (Federal), Australian Customs Service (Federal), Australian Taxation Office (Federal), Civil Aviation Authority (Federal), Child Support Agency (Federal), Centrelink (Federal), Medicare Australia (Federal), Department of Immigration and Core businesses Citizenship (Federal), Insolvency & Trustee Services Australia (Federal), Department of Veterans Affairs (Federal) Disclosures under certain laws 18 Crime Commission (NSW), Corruption & Crime Commission (WA), Independent establishing commissions [s. 90J(6)] Commission Against Corruption (NSW) * There were no disclosures made under s. 90J (7) (8) or (9). Corporate Table 2: Disclosure of information/documents (Section 90K “Authority”)* responsibility (Applies to information or documents not specially protected) Authority for disclosure Number of Disclosures made to Financial and disclosures Disclosure to authorised ASIO officer 27 Australian Security Intelligence Organisation statutory reports [s. 90K(4)] Disclosure for the enforcement of laws 4,706 Australian Communications Authority (Federal), Australian Fisheries Management or protection of public revenue [s. 90K(5)] Authority (Federal), Police (Australian Federal), Attorney General’s Department (Federal), Australian Quarantine Inspection Service (Federal), Australian Securities & Investments Commission (Federal), Office of Fair Trading (QLD), Office of Consumer Affairs (TAS), Office of Consumer & Business Affairs (SA), Comcare Australia (Federal), Crime & Misconduct Commission (QLD), Victorian Casino and Gaming Authority (VIC), Crown Law Division (QLD), Department of Corrective Service (NSW), Crown Solicitor’s Office (SA), Department of Environment & Conservation WA, Department of Education, Training & Youth Affairs (Federal), Department of Environment & Heritage (Federal) (Incorp. EPA), Department of Employment and Workplace Relations and Small Business (Federal), Police (Defence Force – Including Military, RAAF) (Federal), Department of Fisheries (WA), Department of Justice (QLD), Department of Agriculture, Fisheries & Forestry (Federal), Department of Fair Trading (NSW), Consumer Affairs Victoria (VIC), Department of Consumer & Employment Protect. (WA), Department of Gaming and Racing (NSW), Office of Gaming Regulation (QLD), Queensland Health (QLD), Department of Health & Aged Care (Federal), Inspector General Division (Federal), Liquor Licensing Division (QLD), Department of Justice (WA), NSW National Parks and Wildlife Services (NSW), National Parks & Wildlife (Federal), Department of Primary Industries (VIC), Police (New South Wales), Police (Northern Territory), Corrections Victoria, Passport Fraud Section (DFAT), Police Integrity Commission (NSW), Department of Primary Industries (Qld), Department of Primary Industries (SA), Office of Police Integrity (VIC), Police (Queensland), RSPCA (Federal), Residential Tenancies Authority (QLD), Police (South Australia), Department of Sustainability and Environment (VIC), Fisheries Compliance Unit (SA), Sheriff’s Office (VIC), Sheriff’s Office (WA), Office of State Revenue (NSW), Office of State Revenue (QLD), State Revenue Office (VIC), Revenue SA (SA) formerly State Taxation Office SA, Police (Tasmanian), Police (Victoria), Police (Western Australia), WorkCover New South Wales (NSW), WorkCover Queensland (QLD), Workcover Corporation (SA), WorkCover Authority (VIC) * There were no disclosures made under s. 90K (2) or (3). Note: Commonwealth agencies, unless otherwise indicated. FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 129 Australia Post – the statistics for the year ended 30 June 2011 1 Five-year statistical summary 2006–07 2007–08 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 Consolidated Revenue ($m) 4,711.1 4,959.2 4,985.3 4,870.6 5,006.6 Expenditure ($m) 4,149.4 4,367.0 4,604.4 4,767.6 4,674.3 Profit before income tax ($m) 561.7 592.2 380.9 103.0 332.3 Total assets ($m) 5,490.0 5,477.0 4,270.2 3,915.2 4,135.1 Return on average operating assets (%) 19.6% 19.4% 12.2% 3.8% 10.9% Unprofitable cost of community service obligations ($m) 97.3 108.5 113.8 147.7 142.1 Total taxes and government charges ($m) 474.9 548.1 499.5 448.6 436.2 Ordinary and special dividends ($m) 296.9 446.2 222.4 79.1 173.2 Corporation Total mail articles (m) 5,515.8 5,609.4 5,323.4 5,145.0 5,034.5 Full-time employees (excluding casuals) 25,027 25,042 25,107 24,172 23,369* Part-time employees (excluding casuals) 9,497 9,936 10,196 10,086 10,103* Labour productivity improvement (%) 1.40 2.60 (3.10) 0.0 1.70 Number of corporate outlets 846 831 827 810 786 Number of licensed post offices (1) 2,969 2,977 2,969 2,963 2,948 Number of community postal agencies 634 645 637 642 685 Delivery points (m) 10.3 10.5 10.6 10.7 10.9 (1) Includes 29 franchised post offices. * Excludes fixed-term employees. 2 Basic postage rate (1) (BPR) and the consumer price index (CPI) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 BPR cents 50 50 55 60 60 Year on year change in CPI all groups 157.5 164.6 167.0 172.1 178.3 BPR index (base 1989–90 = 100) 122.0 122.0 134.1 146.3 146.3 Year on year change in BPR 0.0% 0.0% 10.0% 9.1% 0.0% Year on year change in CPI 2.1% 4.5% 1.5% 3.1% 3.6% Change in real postage (2.0)% (4.3)% 8.5% 6.0% (3.6)% (1) Postage rates applicable to standard letters carried within Australia by ordinary post. 3 Australia Post outlets at 30 June 2011 NSW/ACT VIC/TAS QLD WA SA/NT Total Corporate offices 1 July 2010 268 221 160 87 74 810 30 June 2011 263 213 151 86 73 786 Licensed post offices/franchises 1 July 2010 904 976 467 297 319 2,963 30 June 2011 903 964 466 297 318 2,948 Community postal agencies 1 July 2010 107 73 188 82 192 642 30 June 2011 112 79 192 95 207 685 Total outlets 1 July 2010 1,279 1,270 815 466 585 4,415 30 June 2011 1,278 1,256 809 478 598 4,419 130 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Year in review 4 Australia Post outlets by state and geographic classification Geographic (1) classification NSW ACT VIC QLD SA WA TAS NT Oth Terr Australia Metro 610 55 518 266 178 187 43 10 0 1,867 Rural 563 1 515 374 271 157 145 8 0 2,034 About Remote 54 0 19 168 53 137 6 73 8 518 1,227 56 1,052 808 502 481 194 91 8 4,419 Australia Post (1) Geographic Classifications use DPIE/HSH November 1994 Metropolitan, Rural Remote Areas Classifications by 1991 Census SLA. Note: This table uses Geographic States, not Australia Post Administrative States. Core businesses 5 Frequency of service to delivery points (% of total points as at 30 June 2011) Frequency per week Metro areas Rural areas Remote areas Total One 0 0.1 0.3 0 Two to four 0.1 3.9 4.7 1.2 Five or more 99.9 96.0 95.0 98.8 Corporate responsibility Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 6 Overall letter service performance in 2010–11 Financial and Full year Quarter ended Quarter ended Quarter ended Quarter ended 2010–2011 30/6/11 31/3/11 31/12/10 30/9/10 statutory reports Per cent on time NSW 96.4 96.4 97.4 96.0 96.0 Vic 96.0 95.9 96.7 95.3 96.3 Qld 94.9 95.1 95.5 93.5 95.3 SA 95.5 96.3 95.9 94.2 95.6 WA 96.1 96.4 96.6 94.9 96.4 Tas 97.7 97.9 98.3 97.2 97.5 NT 95.6 94.1 96.9 94.9 96.0 ACT 96.3 96.8 96.5 94.5 96.7 National averages 96.0 96.1 96.7 95.2 96.0 Per cent + One day NSW 98.9 98.7 99.5 98.7 98.8 Vic 99.1 99.0 99.4 98.8 99.3 Qld 98.9 99.0 99.2 98.7 98.6 SA 98.7 99.0 98.8 98.4 98.7 WA 99.1 99.0 99.1 99.0 99.4 Tas 99.5 99.4 99.7 99.4 99.4 NT 99.2 99.2 99.6 99.2 99.0 ACT 99.2 98.9 99.6 98.3 99.7 National averages 99.0 98.9 99.3 98.7 99.0 7 Total articles through Australia Post’s network (millions) (1) 2006–7 2007–8 2008–9 2009–10 2010–11 Posted in Australia for delivery in Australia 5,224.1 5,330.6 5,074.9 4,867.2 4,780.3 Posted in Australia for delivery overseas 141.6 115.9 103.4 91.7 81.7 Total posted 5,365.7 5,446.5 5,178.3 4,958.9 4,862.0 Posted overseas for delivery in Australia 150.1 162.8 145.1 186.1 172.5 Total articles through network 5,515.8 5,609.3 5,323.4 5,145.0 5,034.5 (1) Mail volume statistics exclude articles that do not generate revenue, eg official mail, redirected mail and international mail (eg Singapore to New Zealand via Australia). FINANCIAL AND STATUTORY REPORTS 131 Index Information that satisfies a statutory reporting requirement is indexed separately depreciation and amortisation 59, 71, 74, 77, 79, 87, 94, 95, 112 (see pages 123 to 125). digital communications and economy IFC, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 28 IFC = inside front cover disability, people with a 36 disaster relief (see also Queensland floods) 10, 38, 39, 40, 41 A Pages disclosure of information 128, 129 About this report 135 diversity, workforce 35, 36, 37 access to mail services 42, 115 dividends 6, 8, 9, 13, 68, 93, 126 accountability 7, 11 donations, public and charity 5, 39, 41 accounting policies, estimates and assumptions 65, 67 Driving Business Online initiative 17, 24 assets 8, 9, 50, 54, 59, 60, 64–130 passim assurance 135 E audit (see also committees) 54, 57, 58 eBay 7, 19, 24, 25, 26 Auditor-General’s Report on performance standards 116–22 e-commerce 2, 3, 6, 19, 24, 25, 126 Australian Accounting Standards and Interpretations 65 election mailings 8, 20, 21 Australian air Express 13, 25, 27, 83 electronic substitution/alternatives: see digital communications/economy Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) 17, 22, 126 eLetter mail house 23 Australian dollar 7, 8, 22, 25, 26, 105 employees/employment: see workforce energy consumption and efficiency 17, 33, 46, 47, 48 B Energy Efficiencies Opportunities 17, 46, 47, 48 balance sheet 60 Enterprise Event Management project 25 banking services 7, 11, 28, 29, 31 environmental imperatives, standards and performance IFC, 5, 6, 10, 46–9 Banksia Environmental Foundation 17, 41 ePacket 27 basic postage rate 7, 8, 20, 21 eParcel 27 benefits paid/payable 67, 75, 77, 84–5, 97, 98, 99–100, 101 eParcel Post Returns 25 bill payment 6, 7, 11, 28, 29, 30, 31 ethical standards 53 board of directors 3, 6, 7, 11, 14–15, 16, 46, 52 examination of mail 128 bonds 72, 75, 90, 102, 107 Express Courier International 26 borrowings 61, 74, 107 Express Post 20, 25, 26, 29, 30 brand, the Australia Post 2, 3, 13, 16, 19, 24, 28 Brisbane GPO 29, 30 F bulk mail 20, 21 Fair Work Agreement (FWA) 2, 3, 5, 7, 17, 35, 36, 37 business combinations 68 feedback 139, 141 business plan 17 females employed 5, 34, 36 business-to-business (B2B) and business-to-customer (B2C) finance costs 59, 74, 78 transactions 13, 19, 26, 27, 113, 126 financial guarantees 75, 89, 108, 109 financial services 7, 8, 13 C Financial Statements Audit Report 57 capital expenditure 8, 9 financing activities 61, 71 carbon emissions 11, 17, 33, 46, 47, 48 fleet, transport 16, 46, 48 cashflow hedges 69–70, 79, 92, 104, 106 foot traffic, retail 2, 6, 7, 11, 28, 29, 30, 31 cashflow statement 61, 112 foreign currency/exchange 28, 30, 31, 54, 59, 62, 70, 77, 81, 92, 102, 103, 104–5, 110 cashflows 8, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 88, 89, 104, 106, 107, 109, 110 franchisees and franchises 6, 13, 36, 46, 130, 131, 135, 139 Channel Enablement – Point of Sale upgrade 19, 30, 31 fraud control 43, 54, 128, 129 charities: see donations freedom of information 126 Commitments, Schedule of 63 fuel, production, purchase, consumption and efficiency of 11, 33, 47, 48, 49, 54, 92, committees, board 15, 33, 37, 46, 52, 53, 54, 55, 139 104, 106 community consultation, investment and engagement 6, 10, 11, 17, 33, 38, 39, 40, 42 Future Delivery Design program 11, 19, 20, 21, 23 community postal agencies/agents 130, 131, 135, 139 Future Leaders initiative 35 community service and CSOs 2, 5, 6, 7, 13, 20, 33, 42, 115 Future Ready business renewal program passim complaint handling 42, 43 Future Skills initiative 2, 3, 5, 10, 17, 35 compliance 44, 65 conflict of interest 53 GH Contingencies, Schedule of 64 gift/greeting cards and gifts 11, 28, 29, 30 corporate governance 52–5 GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) 16, 33, 139, 140 corporate information 114 goodwill 67, 70, 71, 73, 74, 77, 88, 89, 95, 96, 112, 113 corporate plan 52, 126 government services 13, 29 corporate responsibility (CR) performance and strategy 10, 16, 33, 42, 55 greenhouse gas emissions 2, 5, 10, 11, 33, 46, 47, 48, 49 corporate responsibility (CR) report, Australia Post’s IFC, 10, 16, 32–49 harassment and discrimination 36 counselling, staff 37 health: see occupational health and safety courier services (see also Express Courier International, Messenger Post Couriers) 13 heritage properties 126 culture pillars 3, 7, 11, 34, 35 customer contact centres 43, 44 I customer service and satisfaction 11, 42, 43, 44 I Am for Zero: see Safety program customers, focus on and response to 3, 7, 8, 11, 18, 20, 24, 28, 42, 43, 44 identity services 7, 8, 13, 28, 29, 30 image capture service 29, 30 D impairment 59, 67, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 77, 78, 81, 83, 84, 87 Decipha 13, 21, 22, 82 income tax 9, 59, 61, 70, 71, 78, 79, 80, 84, 94, 95, 112, 130 delivery, mail Indigenous Australians, employment of 6, 36 addresses for 11, 20, 21 injuries/injury prevention 7, 34 domestic and international 13, 22, 26 instruments, debt, equity, hedging and financial 54, 65, 68, 69, 72, 73, 102–110 passim frequency and timeliness of 2, 5, 7, 13, 20, 21, 22, 25, 126 insurance 54, 74, 75, 126 processes 23 intangibles 61, 67, 73, 74, 77, 88, 112 132 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 interest 59, 68, 69, 70, 74–112 passim people, Australia Post’s (see also workforce) 2, 34 interest cover 8, 9 performance against targets 2, 126 interest rates/rate swaps 54, 69, 72, 78, 102, 103, 107, 108, 109 Performance Ready program 3, 10, 11, 33, 34, 35 International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 65–6 philatelic products and services 29, 30 international mail 7, 8 Post Logistics Hong Kong 13 International Women’s Day 17 postage rate: see basic postage rate inventories 60, 69, 81, 96 Postal Industry Ombudsman 43 investing activities 61 Postbillpay 22, 29 investment property 67, 68, 88 PreSort 21, 22 investments in controlled and jointly controlled entities 82–3 Print Post 21 IPC Sustainability Report 17 PrintSoft 7, 23 iPrint 7 privacy 16, 43, 54, 55, 128 procurement, sustainable 43, 44 JK productivity 9, 23, 26, 27, 37, 130 joint ventures/jointly controlled entities 13, 25, 27, 59–95 passim, 101–13 passim profit 2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, 59, 112, 126 Kahala Postal Group 27 profit and loss 3, 23, 27, 67, 73 key performance indicators 10, 22 property, plant and equipment 59, 61, 71, 72, 77, 87, 92, 96, 112, 113 Kids Teaching Kids 39 protected species 49 L QR land and buildings 59, 77, 78, 87, 92, 96 Queensland floods 8, 10, 38, 40 leases 63, 111 receivables, trade and other 60, 63, 69, 71, 72, 76, 77, 80, 81, 92, 96, 101–13 passim leave entitlements 37, 99, 100 Recognition Improvement project 23 letters: see delivery; volumes Reconciliation Action Plan 6, 17, 33, 35, 36 letters business 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 19, 20–23, 27, 126 recruitment 37, 52 liabilities 60, 64, 89, 90, 91 recycling 5, 17, 33, 41 licensed post offices (LPOs) 17, 130, 131, 135 redundancy 35, 37, 67, 75, 77, 90 licensees 6, 13, 17, 36, 46, 53, 139 Registered Post 26, 31 liquidity risk 102, 109 reliability of service 42, 115 loans and loan commitments 72, 74, 76, 77, 81, 101–13 passim remuneration 53, 93, 97 lost time injury frequency rate/LTIFR (see also injuries) 34, 35 reporting requirements, statutory 123–9 reserved letters/services 7, 9, 22, 94, 95, 122 M reserves 60, 70, 83, 92, 102 restructuring, costs of 8, 59 mail 11, 21, 22, 23 retail, agency and merchandise services portfolio 8, 28, 93, 94, 96 Mail Redirection and Mail Holding services 23, 31, 40, 135 retail model, next-generation 2, 29 materiality IFC, 16, 22 retail business 3, 6, 7, 8, 28–31 Medical/Educational Remote Area Parcel service 126 retail outlets: see network merchandise 8, 28, 30, 41, 43, 93 return on equity 9, 126 Messenger Post Couriers 13, 27 revenue(s) 2, 3, 6, 7, 9, 24, 25, 27, 28, 29, 59, 67, 76 minister responsible 52 risks and risk management 33, 46, 54, 102–10 money orders and transfer services 7, 28 rural and remote areas/communities 13, 16, 28, 29, 115 morale, staff 10, 11, 35 multi-channel services (see also SecurePay) 3, 6, 11, 19, 22, 25, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 126 My Mentor program 36 S safety 3, 7, 11, 16, 35, 37 NO Safety strategy 3, 7, 10, 11, 17, 32, 33, 34, 35, 37 Sai Cheng Logistics International 13, 14, 27, 83 National Energy Management program 47 Sales Capability initiative 35 National Environmental Protection Measures (NEPM) 46 sales force 11, 23, 42, 43 national greenhouse and energy reporting 17, 46 Sample Post 22 National Literacy and Numeracy Week 40 SecurePay 7, 13, 19, 24, 25, 26, 89, 113 network security mail delivery 2, 3, 7, 20, 21, 25 aviation 25, 26 retail 2, 3, 5, 8, 11, 13, 28, 31 corporate 43, 44, 54, 128 non–English speaking backgrounds, employees from 36 segments, operating 68, 73, 93–6 non-reserved services 7, 94, 95, 122 self-service 11, 27, 28, 29, 30, 43 occupational health and safety 34, 35, 37, 127 Send Me service 22 office supplies, online 28, 30 service quality 3, 19 Off-Peak service 22 shareholder and shareholder ministers 7, 16, 17, 52 ombudsman, postal industry 126 shareholder return on equity 9, 102 online trading and services 8, 11, 19, 21, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31 significant accounting policies, summary of 65 operating segments and activities 61, 93–6 smartphone app 7, 19, 25, 29 outlets, retail 2, 5, 7, 8, 12, 13, 19, 27, 28, 29, 30, 33, 41, 44, 45, 115, 130, 131, 132, 135 social cohesion 10, 38, 40–41 Oz Opera 40 social imperatives and performance IFC, 5, 6, 10, 33, 44, 139 P social media 43 sourcing: see procurement packaging and product packaging 13, 30, 33, 45 speed of action 3, 7, 11, 34 Parcel Post 25, 29 stabilisation, business 2, 3, 5, 6, 8, 19 parcels 7, 11, 13, 19, 24, 25, 26, 27, 30, 43, 63, 126 staff: see workforce parcels business 3, 6, 7, 8, 11, 23, 24–7, 93, 126 Stakeholder Council 10, 16, 139 partners and partnerships (see also eBay) 7, 17, 22, 24, 26, 27, 29 stakeholders, engagement with 3, 10, 16–17, 33 passport services 29, 31 stamps (see also philatelic products and services) 13, 29, 30, 31, 40, 132 PayPal 7, 24 standards, financial reporting and accounting 67, 68 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 133 Index Star Track Express 13, 25, 27 UV Statement of Changes in Equity 62 UCan2 program 10, 36, 38, 40 Statement of Comprehensive Income 59 Universal Postal Union (UPU) 7, 22, 24, 26 Statements by directors, CEO and EGM finance & business services 56 Voice of Our Customer program 43 statistics, Australia Post 130–35 volumes stores-in-store 19, 28, 30 domestic letter 2, 7, 8, 20 strategies, enterprise 2, 3, 8, 10, 11, 126 domestic parcel 25 street posting boxes 13, 115, 132 international mail 22, 25, 26 superannuation 53, 60, 67, 77, 79, 84–6, 91, 95, 99, 100, 101, 126 overall mail 3, 9 supplier code of conduct 17, 33, 43, 44 survey, workforce 35–6 sustainability 10, 11, 33, 38 W waste management 49 T whistleblower policy 37, 53 women employed: see females employed track and trace capability 25, 43 workers’ compensation 64 trade payables and receivables 69, 80, 102 workforce, Australia Post 13, 17, 28, 29, 33, 35, 37 travel-related products 28, 31 workforce diversity 36, 40 treasury 54, 108, 109 Workplace Giving program 5, 10, 33, 38, 39 turnover, staff 37 workplace flexibility 37 Glossary balance sheet A statement of Australia Post’s assets and liabilities and the amount Scope 3 emissions Indirect emissions generated by other organisations on of the Commonwealth Government’s investment at the end of the financial year. Australia Post’s behalf, eg outsourced transport. cashflow statement Shows the derivation of the corporation’s cash resources statement of comprehensive income The revenue and running costs of the during the financial year and its cash outlays. corporation for the financial year. CO2-e There are six greenhouse gases that are converted to units of carbon dioxide store-in-store A third-party retail “shop” within an Australia Post retail outlet, to provide a more simplified measure. Collectively these are called carbon dioxide offering customers the convenience of purchasing related products and services equivalents or CO2-e. at the one location. community service obligations A set of legal obligations imposed on an two-speed economy An economy such as Australia’s in which one sector enterprise to provide additional services to the community in which it operates. (such as mining) is booming and others are suffering a downturn said to be These are usually loss-making services based on human need or quality of life. exacerbated by higher interest and exchange rates associated with the boom. current assets Assets that are likely to be converted to cash within the next 12 months. Abbreviations current liabilities Liabilities that are due and payable within the next 12 months. 24/7 24 hours a day, seven days a week digital economy The economy that derives from global economic and social ACCC Australian Competition and Consumer Commission connection and collaboration between individuals and businesses. This activity is APRA Australian Prudential Regulation Authority made possible by the Internet as well as mobile and sensor networks. A successful ATM automated teller machine digital economy is essential for Australia’s economic growth and our ability to B2B business-to-business maintain our international standing. B2C business-to-customer digital substitution The replacement of traditional forms of communication BPR basic postage rate with those generated electronically – for example, replacing letters with email. CBD central business district e-commerce Business activity based on electronic forms of communication CEO chief executive officer such as online transactions. CE-POS Channel Enablement – Point of Sale equity The corporation’s total capital and reserves plus profits that have been CGUs cash-generating units reinvested over the years. CPI consumer price index hedging A risk-management strategy used to limit or offset a likely loss from CR corporate responsibility fluctuations in the prices of currencies, commodities or securities. CSO community service obligation multi-channel services Services whereby a customer uses a combination EMS environmental management system of means (or “channels”) to complete a transaction – for example, government FDS First Direct Solutions application forms accessed and completed online then printed and lodged in person FWA Fair Work Agreement at an Australia Post retail outlet. GRI Global Reporting Initiative non-current assets Assets that will be held for a long-term period. IPC International Postal Corporation non-current liabilities Liabilities that that will be owed for a long period. LTIFR lost time injury frequency rate reserved services Letter services that Australia Post is required to perform MOU memorandum of understanding as part of its community service obligations and that may not be offered by any MPC Messenger Post Couriers other business. These services are subject to price constraints and operate at a loss. NGA National Greenhouse Accounts (Conversely, non-reserved services are offered in a competitive environment and NEPM National Environmental Protection Measures are profitable for Australia Post.) NGERS National Greenhouse Energy Rating Scheme Scope 1 emissions Direct emissions generated by Australia Post through its OH&S occupational health and safety use of gas or diesel and petrol. PIO Postal Industry Ombudsman Scope 2 emissions Direct emissions generated by Australia Post through its SCLI Sai Cheng Logistics International use of electricity. UPU Universal Postal Union 134 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 About this report Reporting aims and rationale Assurance Our first integrated annual report provides a detailed account of our We undertake a thorough assurance process for our integrated financial, social and environmental performance. The purpose of the report annual report, which includes the following: is to communicate to our stakeholders our overall performance, and how • The board Audit and Risk Committee checks the financials statements we address and manage our social, environmental and economic issues. to ensure that they are accurate and complete. To produce a report that is in line with best-practice, information is • Our financial statements and our performance against our prescribed prepared according to legislative requirements, GRI G3.1 Guidelines and performance standards are independently audited by the Australian the GRI Transport and Logistics Sector Supplement, and the principles National Audit Office. of the UN Global Compact Initiative. • Research International verifies the delivery performance of our domestic Target audience letters service and Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu independently assures Our integrated annual report is targeted at key stakeholders, including Research International’s report. our people, our customers, the Australian community and our shareholder, • Our internal audit group checks the accuracy of most of the data the federal government. However, the content in this report would also reported in the sections on people, community and customer, be of interest to a broader range of stakeholders, including regulators, and some data in the environment section. suppliers, industry bodies, community and non-government • Most of our environmental data is independently verified by organisations, the media and opinion leaders. Genesis Now to ensure that it is complete and correct. More information on our stakeholders, including our materiality process • Halcrow Pacific Pty Ltd provides independent quality assurance and the engagement activities we undertook this year, are provided of our application level and our report against the GRI framework. on pages 16 to 17. GRI application level Reporting period Our integrated annual report has been self-declared and third party The information contained in this annual report covers the 2010–11 checked as a B application level. A summary GRI table is provided financial year. on the following page. Our full GRI table, UN Global Compact table In previous years, environmental data has been reported in and our disclosure to management approach is available on our website calendar years. This year, due to improved data collection processes, at www.auspost.com.au/2011annualreport. our environment data has been reported for the financial year. Unless Stakeholder Council review otherwise stated, figures from previous years have been adjusted to a Our Stakeholder Council conducted a review of our integrated report financial year basis to allow for year-on-year comparison. and our corporate responsibility performance. Their statement is Report scope and boundary provided on page 10 of this report. This report covers the activities of the Australian Postal Corporation and its associated companies. Our licensees, franchisees, community postal agents and mail contractors fall outside the parameters of this report. However, there are some references to them in the people section (see page 36), the environment section (see pages 46 to 49) and in Australia Post – the statistics (see page 130). Assurance statement Quality assurance Halcrow considers that Australia Post has reported against key Australia Post commissioned Halcrow Pacific Pty Ltd (Halcrow) to provide corporate responsibility impacts, risks and opportunities. Halcrow it with external quality assurance on its Integrated Annual Report 2010–11. recommends that Australia Post further refine its materiality assessment This is Australia Post’s first integrated report covering its financial, social process to continue to report against material corporate responsibility and environmental performance. topics of interest to stakeholders. Over time, Australia Post will also be able to develop and report against a broad suite of measures and Halcrow based this quality assurance assignment on the Global Reporting targets for all material corporate responsibility topics. Initiative (GRI) sustainability reporting guidelines and best practice corporate responsibility reporting. Halcrow has not assured underlying data Halcrow has also performed a “Third Party Check” of the GRI Application or systems that supported the preparation of the Integrated Annual Report Level and confirms that Australia Post has achieved a GRI “B Application 2010–11, or the accompanying financial statements or statutory reporting. Level” through this Integrated Annual Report. Key conclusions Our opinion Halcrow considers that Australia Post is actively demonstrating leadership Halcrow considers that Australia Post’s Integrated Annual Report 2010–11 on integrated annual and corporate responsibility reporting through provides an appropriate and balanced representation of its response to, preparation of its first Integrated Annual Report 2010–11. Australia Post and performance on, corporate responsibility. Halcrow has also prepared can build off this process, and further integrate and embed corporate a detailed quality assurance statement and commentary for Australia Post. responsibility within its corporate strategy, systems, processes and operations. Australia Post is setting a leading example for other Halcrow Pacific Pty Ltd corporations to follow in terms of integrated reporting. Phil Hughes Principal Consultant: Sustainability & Water Management 12 August 2011 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 135 GRI index GRI Standard Disclosures Number Page(s) Report sections Strategy and analysis 1.1, 1.2 6–7 Chairman’s report; and Managing Director and CEO’s report Organisational profile 2.1–2.10 2–3 Future Ready 12–13 About Australia Post Inside back cover Awards and acknowledgements Report profile 3.1–3.4 135 About this report 16–17 Stakeholder engagement Report scope and boundary 3.5–3.11 135 About this report GRI index 3.12 136 GRI index – full GRI index on website Assurance 3.13 135 Quality assurance Governance 4.1–4.10 52 Corporate governance Commitments to external initiatives 4.11–4.13 54 Risk management Inside back cover Global sustainability initiatives Stakeholder engagement 4.14–4.17 16–17 Stakeholder engagement Disclosure on management approach 33 Managing our impacts – full disclosure on website GRI Performance Indicators Page(s) Report section Coverage Environmental EN1 45 Connecting with our customers Partial EN2 45 Connecting with our customers Full EN3 46–48 Managing our environmental impact Full EN4 46–48 Managing our environmental impact Full EN5 47–48 Managing our environmental impact Full EN8 49 Managing our environmental impact Full EN11 49 Managing our environmental impact Full EN12 49 Managing our environmental impact Full EN16 46–47 Managing our environmental impact Full EN18 46–47 Managing our environmental impact Full EN22 49 Managing our environmental impact Full EN23 46 Managing our environmental impact Full EN26 45 Managing our environmental impact Full EN27 45 Managing our environmental impact Full EN28 46 Managing our environmental impact Full Human rights HR3 36 Supporting our people Partial HR4 36 Supporting our people Partial HR5 36 Supporting our people Full Labor practices LA1 36–37 Supporting our people Full and decent work LA2 37 Supporting our people Full LA4 36 Supporting our people Full LA7 35 Supporting our people Partial LA13 36–37 Supporting our people Partial LA15 37 Supporting our people Partial Society SO1 16–17 Stakeholder engagement Full 42 Connecting with our customers 48 Managing our environmental impact SO2 43 Connecting with our customers Partial SO8 44 Connecting with our customers Partial Product responsibility PR5 44 Connecting with our customers Full PR6 43–44 Connecting with our customers Full PR7 44 Connecting with our customers Full PR8 43 Connecting with our customers Partial PR9 44 Connecting with our customers Full Economic EC1 51 Financial report Full EC2 33 Managing our environmental impact Partial EC3 84, 126 Financial and statutory reports Full Transport and Logistics LT2 48 Managing our environmental impact Full Sector Supplement LT9 37 Supporting our people Partial (Pilot, 2006) LT12 35 Supporting our people Partial LT14 28–31 Retail: Providing trusted services Full 115 Community service obligations GRI indicator EC9: Indirect economic impacts has not been reported in 2010–11. 136 AUSTRALIA POST ANNUAL REPORT 2010–11 Copies of the report Credits This report can be viewed online as an interactive Editor/project manager PDF at www.auspost.com.au/2011annualreport. Mary Gillman If you’d like to receive a printed copy, please email annualreport@auspost.com.au Design Amanda Roach Design Photography Contact details Jamie MacFadyen Print Australia Post headquarters Gunn & Taylor Printers: 111 Bourke Street ISO14001 compliant and FSC-certified MELBOURNE VIC 3000 Ink GPO Box 1777 Vegetable-based MELBOURNE VIC 3001 Paper Phone 13 POST (13 7678) Front section: ENVI super smooth contactus.auspost.com.au Financial statements: ENVI 50/50 Twitter @auspost Feedback We would like to hear your feedback so that we can continue to improve our business, including how we report on our performance. Feedback can be provided online at www.auspost.com.au/2011annualreport. Awards Established in 1950 Australia Post received a gold award for its 2009–10 annual report at the 2011 Australasian Reporting Awards. www.arawards.com.au Commitment to external initiatives Australia Post is an active supporter of leading international initiatives in sustainability and community investment. This integrated annual report is A signatory since 2010. A supporter since 2007. A member since 2009. based on the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. www.unglobalcompact.org www.earthhour.org www.lbg-australia.com www.globalreporting.org www.thehub.ethics.org.au/ungc
