UN GLOBAL COMPACT OCTOBER 2011 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS company description CEBRAlogy CEBRA is a Danish architectural office, based in Aarhus. The office was how to involve the house’s residents, the children at school, the library’s founded in 2000 by architects Mikkel Frost, Carsten Primdahl and Kolja users, etc. Not only do we create beautiful architecture we design the Nielsen and has currently 30 employees. CEBRA has clients throughout framework for the life within it. Denmark and is experiencing a growing interest in the office’s work from As architects and designers, we play a central role as the discipline that abroad. interprets both official and unofficial intentions and objectives for the physical structures objects, buildings and cities that define our lives We deal with all scales of architecture and we design almost anything, and create the framework for the way we live. We are broadly committed focusing on much more than just the project’s size. We have dealt with to take an active part in communicating and meeting future challenges. many types of projects from industrial design to urban planning. We In these years, we have a unique opportunity to steer the development of have designed housing, schools and master plans. We believe that both our global society in a sustainable direction by being both progressive a residential building and an airport can revolutionize architecture, as and philanthropic. Sustainability is, in our view, the most significant well as they both can be totally meaningless. The key for us is the design paradigm shift in architecture since Modernism. concept and the forms it generates. Method Approach Our ideology is project related. We develop a unique ideology for each At CEBRA we believe in a holistic, sustainable approach to architecture. and every project instead of solving all tasks with the same approach We insist on thinking all our projects within a sustainable context. and attitude. This is because the conditions and constraints that we Essentially, sustainable development is about establishing the are operating in are constantly changing sometimes even during the conditions for ‘the good life’ for all of us – meeting the demands of the actual design and construction phases. Our ideology is very spacious present without compromising the opportunities of future generations it mutates and adapts according to circumstances. It is always current to meet their own needs. Therefore, we work with complete solutions and always modern. which take environmental, economic, social and cultural sustainability into account. Despite the ideological diversity, there is a recurring theme common through our architecture a general way of doing things in relation to Our goal is to challenge the world we and our architecture live in. Our design and architectural spaces. It may be too superficial to call it a ambition is to liberate the humanist idea in Danish architecture – from CEBRA style, but in many ways it’s exactly that an aesthetic preference, the classical ideal of creating beautiful design towards the question on which ties the projects together. 2 CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT CEBRA joined the UN Global Compact in 2008 and we hereby state our continued support of the initiative. We commit ourselves to continuously implementing the Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption in our vision, strategy and every-day practice. At CEBRA, we insist on thinking all our business aspects within a sustainable context. Keeping the Global Compact principles in mind, we work with the belief that through our professional expertise as architects, we are able to promote, develop and initiate significant and substantial changes, which provide a lasting and sustainable framework for our societies. Our goal is to challenge the world our architecture and we live in through a holistic approach to sustainability, which takes environmental, social, economic and cultural aspects into account. Hence, I am pleased to place my signature and post our Communication on Progress, stating our continued support and efforts regarding the application and instrumentalisation of the ten principles. Kolja Nielsen CEO, architect maa CEBRA a/s, architects maa 3 CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. CEBRA complies with the 30 articles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and with Danish national legislation, which meets the standards of international conventions. As architects, we have the privilege and the proffesional responsibility to design lasting and sustainable frames for human life aiming at increasing life quality continuously. At CEBRA, social responsibility and user needs are make up the creative fuel of our architecture.Thereby, we actively support, promote and contribute to the development of environments, which secure the enjoyment of human rights. Amongst these environments, CEBRA works intensively with the development and design of the school and educational institutions of the future. 4 CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info PlAY AND lEARN The school of the future has been one of CEBRA’s main fields of interest. One of these schools, Bakkegaardskolen, was nominated for the Through debate, concepts and different projects we aim at creating international architecture award ‘Mies van der Rohe Award’. attractive educational environments with room for exercise, play and learning. In addition to the Gentofte projects, CEBRA has won the competition for a reconstruction and extension of Kristiansand Katedralskole Gimle, a CEBRA has been adviser to National Research and Education Buildings technical college, which has just been completed with CEBRA in the role (SFOU) and has in this context elaborated concept and idea development of planning architects. for the physical design of the university and researchbased educational institutions of the future. The results are published in the book ‘Fremtidens Most recently, CEBRA has won the competitions for an extension of universitet. Videnindsamling og skitserende programanalyse’. the school at Bülowsvej, Frederiksberg and for a new school in Larvik, Norway. Both schools are in the planning phase at CEBRA. Due to CEBRA’s wide range of school and education projects, the majority of our staff is well experienced with idea development, sketching and Besides the school buildings, CEBRA has attracted attention through planning within this field. a series of innovative and untraditional educational institutions: Lucina Garden in Taulov near Fredericia a combined kindergarten and CEBRA has designed 7 schools, which have been built, including most of nursery school and the Designkindergarten in Vonsild near Kolding the schools in Gentofte Municiplity’s school devekopment project SKUB a kindergarten that focuses on design, art and sustainability. The (4 school extensions and 2 reconstruction projects under the aegis of Designkindergarten is constructed according to energy class 1. SKUB. In connection with these schoolprojects, CEBRA has designed and The SKUB projects were based on intensive user involvement processes developed a series of landscapes and playgrounds in order to complement with the citizens and users in Gentofte and in close cooperation with the buildings’ focus on play and learning. Gentofte Municipality, developing the school of the future according to new pedagogical principles. 5 CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. CEBRA supports the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and complies with Danish work legislation. CEBRA is a member of the Danish Association of Architectural Firms, which collaborates with The Danish Union of Salaried Architects and the Danish Architects’ Association. These organizations safeguard and balance individual and commercial interests as regards collective bargaining, legislation concerning salaried employees, labor market, industrial and educational policies etc. and CEBRA is committed to and supports this system. CEBRA’s hiring policy and collaborative relations are solely based on educational and professional experience and skills, and do neither take race, gender, sexuality, religion nor political beliefs of the involved persons into account. 6 CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. As architects, we are in the prominent and exacting porition of designing the physical surroundings of the future. Therefore, the implementation of the three principles concerning environmental responsibility are quintessential in every aspect of our practice. In the following we describe the mindset and actions, which form a red line through our our office and practice. 7 CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY Essentially, sustainable development is about establishing the in the Danish pavillion ‘Co-Evolution’, which focused on sustainable conditions for ‘the good life’ for all of us – meeting the demands of the urban development in China. The project revieved the prestigiuos Golden present without compromising the opportunities of future generations Lion Award. to meet their own needs. Therefore, we work with complete solutions which take environmental, economic, social and cultural sustainability At the Venice Architecture Biennale 2008 CEBRA curated the Danish into account. contribution ‘Ecotopedia walk the talk’ in cooperation with the Danish Architecture Center (DAC). Subsequently, CEBRA was in 2009 asked by As developing, executing and advising company we therefore have to be The Climate Consortium and The Ministry of Economic and Business prepared to the fact that a sustainable society meets individuals as well Affairs to develop an information platform on sustainable initiatives for as local and global companies with radically different demands than the COP15 climate conference followed by a series of satelite exhibitions previously. with the title ‘Global Ad On’. Sustainability, which up till rencently has been equated with CEBRA has developed the project Design Kindergarten in the city environmental and climate issues, covers much more than the selfof Kolding a low-energy institution which has recieved the Kolding evident environmental considerations;; the term comprises social and Municipality Architecture Award. economic aspects as well. At present time, our school project on Bülowsvej, Frederiksberg Therefore, sustainability has the potenial of formulating an entirely Municipality, which meets the low-energy building requirements is new foundation for architecture. That is the reason why sustainability under construction. The lowenergy standard 2015 residential buildings has become a consistent concept for CEBRA’s architectural practice. TK2 and Marina House, both located at the port of Aarhus, are also under We insist on thinking our projects within a sustainable context, without construction. turning towards fanaticism. Basically, it ia all about common sense. The new sustainable club house for the Sports Club Lystrup (LIF) has At CEBRA we have addressed sustainability issues in a long line of entered the palnning stage. The club house is constructed as a CO2 different projects, both tangible buldings and theoretical concepts, in neutral building and stands as a pilot project for Aarhus Municipality, order to develop the office’s architectural univers towards a holistic, which will define new standards for the municpality’s own buildings. sustainable direction. Most recently, CEBRA has won two large scale international projects: In 2009 we elaborated a charter for sustainable property management Larvik Vertical Campus, which complies with Energy Class A (Norwegian and project development for Freja Properties. On several occasions we standard), and the Experimentarium of the Future in Hellerup, which held workshops on energy efficent buidling in cooperation with The uses both passive and active measures in order to achieve a energy Danish Building Research Institute (SBi). neutral performance. At the Venice Architecture Biennale 2006 CEBRA participated together with a group of young Danish architecutre offices and Chinese universities 8 CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTALMANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT CEBRA is conducting environmental managment according to PAR & Environmentally responsible planning will on the other hand often lead FRI’s guidelines to solutions, which can be economically beneficial when the building’s overall economy, including the total costs of construction and operation As developing, executing and advising company we have to be prepared during the building’s complete lifetime, is quantified. for the society’s ever increasing demands concerning a sustainable development of the building sector, which e.g. includes restrictions An overall economic quantification includes an evaluation of the possible regarding the energy and ressource consumption and the usage of advantage of accepting higher acquisition costs i norder to achieve lower materials with minimum impact on the environment. operation costs for electricity, water, heating, climate control, waste treatment, fewer sick days and less ressource-intensive maintenance With the implementation of well prepared and made-to-measure throughout the building’s lifetime. environmentally responsible planning we can meet the demands and wishes of developers and the society, weither it is to contribute to a Looking at a buildings lifespan, only a few percent of the building’s total sustainable development, reduce operating costs, create a good indoor energy consumption derive from its construction, while by far the largest climate for employees and visitors, strengthen the building’s image or part is used to operate it. From a construction economical point of view, heighten the buildings overall quality financial austerity hardly ever pays off in the long run. Environmentally responsible planning and sustainable initiatives are Responsibility and competence regarding possible environmental all about ensuring environmental optimum resutls within the given activities during the programming, planning, construction and operation framework stated by the client in the competition or building programme, phase are determined parallel to the project organisation. based on a general main environmental policy and the building task’s preconditions. Depending on the client’s wishes and the complexity of the task at hand, a environmental coordinator is involved in the project’s planning In order to achieve these objectives, the group of advisers can, on the management. clients initiative, contribute to: • map environmental impacts and effects, The environmental coordinator adopts the coordinating position across • determine environmental goals individual professional disciplines and secures the connection between • lay down an environmental program and plan, incl. description of the environmental initiatives within the disciplines and the processing of activities, organisation, schedule and budget, the programme’s environmental goals. • carry out environmental assessments, • propose instruments and prioritize those in consultation with the The environmental coordinator reports to the planning manager, client, whereas the planning manager retains the general responsibility for • ensure that all executing parties live up to the environmental goals the environmental managment durig the planning phase, because it is stated in the environmental programme. deemed vital that environmental issues are addressed on equal footing with the rest of the project’s considerations. This reduces the risk of Regarding environmentally responsible planning, it can be stated that significant conflicts between environmental aspects and the demands if it is implemented early into the programming and overall planning, it made upon architecture, exhibition priciples, function, technology and will normally not increase the project’s construction costs and merely economy during the later stages of the proces. encrease planning costs to a very limited extent. 9 CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. CEBRA supports The United Nations Convention Against Corruption. We fully comply with Danish and International legislation and dissociate ourselves from all forms of corruption, bribery and extortion. Our practice and business relationships are based on democratic values, mutual respect and transparency. 10 CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info OUTCOME: SELECTED PROJECTS NYE Suburb of the Future VB08 Exhibition Venice Biennale 2008 Gellerup Design Kindergarten Paletten Cairn Jøssing Fjord Centre Vertikal Campus Larvik Experimentarium 11 CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info suburb of the future Name: NYE Over the past 50 years the population of Aarhus has doubled. However, Commission: Private the town footprint has grown fourfold in line with the increased Type: Development popularity of single family housing. Since it is believed that Aarhus Category: Planning will further increase by 75,000 people over the next 20 years, the Client: Tækker Group municipality recommends more dense development to avoid sprawl in Place: Elev, Aarhus, DK the future. These facts are the prime motivation for CEBRA and Tækker Year: 2006, in progress Group’s development of NYE, a sustainable suburb that will eventually Purpose: Sustainable suburb house 15,000 people to the north of Aarhus. Surface area: 260 acres / 105 hectares The master plan is shaped by sustainable ideas and systems, such as public transportation, proximity and daylight orientation. rainwater treatment is one of the major sustainable initiatives, as NYE is surrounded by natural streams, ground water reservoirs and a lake. Green roofs, open canals, pools and new lakes are used to gradually treat rain water, before leading it back into the natural circuit. In NYE, everything revolves around environmental thinking. 12 CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info VB08 Name: VB08 The VB08 project was an exhibition co-operation between DAC and Commission: Private CEBRA at the 2008 Venice biennale. The show was held in the Danish Type: Exhibition pavilion, a building consisting of three connected spaces. Client: Danish Architecture Centre / DAC The first room served as an introduction space in which the state of the Place: Venice, Italy planet and the challenges of mankind were visualized. In the second Year: 2008 room, a link between the main spaces, the Kyoto protocol was displayed Purpose: Danish Biennale Pavilion on the walls, ceiling and floor and represented the international attempt Surface area: 5.382 ft2 / 500 m2 to meet these challenges. In cooperation with: DAC In the third room, we presented seven Danish sustainability projects showing the Danish attempt to act in a more hands-on way. The walls were covered with data and drawings and in the centre of the room there was a giant information table with computers inviting visitors to surf the internet. This provided an opportunity for guests to take the discussion further and look for more information. The main idea was that the global challenge calls for international action as well as national and individual commitment. 13 CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info gellerup Name: Gellerup Gellerup will become a district in Aarhus with a very significant identity, Commission: Public where residents settle with respect for nature, each other and the Type: Competition community. Category: Planning It is necessary to focus on minimizing the environmental impact in and Client: Aarhus Municipality from the area as a important generator in order to achieve a collective Place: Aarhus, DK social, economical and environmental responsibility. The synergies Year: 2008 created between those three areas of action are substanital and will be Purpose: Masterplan an important aspect in the district’s positive development. Size: 1.112 acres / 450 hectares The main concept consists of two superior structures, the pedestrian Budget: – axis and two educational/cultural axes, which divide the area into new Prize: – neighborhoods. Those crossing axes connect the new Gellerup with the Service: Architectural services surrounding districts and tie the development’s main internal functions Energy Class: – together. Here, public city life will unfold and the different resident Cooperation: Metopos ApS, GBL ApS groups meet with each other and visitors to the are. 14 CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info design kindergarten Name: Paletten Paletten (the Palette) is what our client calls a design kindergarten. Commission: Public This is the first in a series of themed daycare centers that specialize in Type: Master contract different areas, such as the arts and sports. The overall aim is to offer Category: Play and Learning children and parents different opportunities for daycare and to create Client: Kolding Municipality new daycare centers with strong identities. The special theme for Place: Vonsild, DK Paletten is design, architecture and the visual arts. Year: 2009 We wanted to clearly indicate to the children, and potential designers Purpose: Designkindergarten of the future, that creativity is partly about breaking rules and seeking Size: 12.916 ft2 / 1.200 m2 solutions beyond the ordinary. To do this, we designed a house that Budget: DKK 21 mio. ex. VAT demonstratively contrasts with the standard house we see in typical Prize: Kolding Municipality Architecture Award 2010 children’s drawings. It has very few right angles and most corners are Service: Architectural services incl. landscape gently rounded. Instead of traditional materials like brick and wood, we Energy Class: Energy Cass 1 have chosen abstract white fiberboards and colorchanging chameleon Cooperation: D.A.I. gruppen a/s, HuskMitNavn surfaces for the skylights. From the very first day in the daycare center, any child will intuitively recognize that in a building like Paletten anything goes. 15 CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info cairn Name: Jøssing Fjord Center The Jøssing Fjord Center is a combined museum for mining and geology. Commission: Public If the outside exhibition areas are also taken into consideration, the area Type: Competition is really a small magma park. The museum building is set just outside Category: Culture Jøssing in beautiful natural surroundings, next to the former mines and Client: Dalane Municipality the power station that produced electricity for the mining activities. Place: Jøssing Fjord, NO The basic structure – a four-armed star plan – is cast in concrete around Year: 2010 an intermediate massive core built from bales of straw. As the heavy Purpose: Mining museum concrete weighs down the straw, which is already slightly uneven, a Size: 16.146 ft2 / 1500 m2 bumpy and unpredictable space comes into existence. When the straw is Budget: – removed, an exhibition space, very similar to a traditional mine, appears. Prize: Honorable mention On the outside, the main structure is covered with large rocks turning it Service: Architectural services into a big pile of stones, like a gigantic cairn with occasional panoramic Energy Class: – windows. It blends harmoniously into the surroundings in an almost camouflage-like manner, and yet it also manages to stand as a beacon in the landscape, a point to aim at and explore. 16 CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info Larvik verticaL campus Name: Vertical Campus Vertical Campus is a substantial extension to the local school. In Commission: Public the northern hemisphere, it makes sense to build compact buildings Type: Competition because they are economic and reduce heat loss, and also because Category: Education this ensures short internal distances and synergies between different Client: Larvik Municipality functions. In addition to being a compact school, the Vertikal Campus Location: Ahlfeldtsgata, Larvik, NO has a small footprint. First of all, this makes it possible to reuse the old Year: 2011, under construction foundations, which is important due to highly complicated geotechnical Purpose: School, 1st to 10th grade circumstances. Secondly, it leaves more outdoor park area for the Size: 61.354 ft2 / 5700 m2 children and creates distance to neighboring houses. Budget: NOK 125 mio. Due to the combination of a compact body and a small footprint, the Prize: 1. prize central common atrium of the school is like a vertical campus, where Service: Architectural services the building seems as if it has been flipped on its side. This vertical Energi class: Energy Class A space is similar to a traditional theater space with a tiny stage-like floor Collaboration: Østengen & Bergbo Landskapsarkitekter and a number of cantilevering balconies from which the pupils of the school can overlook a variety of subject rooms and facilities. The vertical campus is the heart of the school and even has a similar shape. 17 CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info experimentarium Name: Experimentarium, Copenhagen Experimentarium the science center in Copenhagen, needs more Commission: Private room and wants more visibility in the public space. However, this has Type: Competition to happen within the footprint of the existing building, a former bottling Category: Culture plant for soft drinks, which means that the only way to extend is by Client: Experimentarium building inwards and upwards. Location: Tuborg Havnevej, Hellerup, DK We have reorganized the building completely by adding new floors and Year: 2011 2014 cutting it across in two places. The resulting atriums divide the science Purpose: New science museum center into three zones: private areas for the staff, exhibition spaces for Size: approx. 28.000 m² paying visitors and an open public front where people can go without Budget: EUR 50.4 mio. excl. VAT tickets. Functional boxes containing a café, a stage and a conference Prize: 1. prize room are added onto this basic structure, and finally a metal cloth is Service: Full-service consultancy thrown over the whole thing to join the different building parts and Energi class: Low energy 2015 improve insulation. The triangulated and vector-like cloth is pulled down Collaborating architect: Wilkinson Eyre tightly, with only the functional boxes penetrating this new skin. They Collaboration: Orbicon, Die Asta, Kollision serve as the eyes of the center as they let people see the surroundings from the exhibition spaces, as well as serving as interactive media screens exposing the inside activities. 18 CEBRA a/s, architects maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. floor, DK-8000 Aarhus C, P: +45 8730 3439, E: cebra@cebra.info, W: www.cebra.info CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info
