Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 Pulmuone Holdings Co., Ltd., 8th Floor Rosedale Building, 724 Suseo-dong, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Tel 02-2040-4400 Overview of 2010 Report Since the first sustainability Report in 2006, Pulmuone has published its fifth sustainability Report in 2010. Being the general report that includes all of it’s subsidiaries and affiliates’ achievements, Pulmuone sustainability Report 2010 reports its efforts and results for sustainability management to become a ‘LOHAS (Lifestyles Of Health And Sustainability) company caring for both human and nature with a comprehensive perspective since 2008. Reporting Principles G3 guideline of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), 02 Overview of 2010 Report BEST guideline (BEST Sustainability Reporting Guideline) Scope of Report Pulmuone Holdings, Subsidiary Companies (Pulmuone Foods, Exofresh Logistics, Foodmerce, ECMD, 04 CEO’s Message Pulmuone Health & Living, Pulmuone Waters), Affiliate Companies (ORGA Whole Foods, NHO) 06 Pulmuone’s Businesses and Brand Reporting Period January 1st, 2010 to December 31st, 2010, Presents 3 year’s worth of data from 2008 to 2010 for time-series analysis 08 Value Enhancing Story Reporting Cycle Annual Report Assurance The report has been reviewed by the Pulmuone management and verified by the IPS 24 Heart Sharing Story (Institute for Industrial Policy Studies), an independent assurance organization 28 Hope Making Story Contact for Sustainability Report 34 Love Dreaming Story Tel 02-2040-4470 Fax 070-7016-1165 Suseo-dong, Gangnam-gu, Seoul 48 Green Dream Nurturing Story Holdings Strategy Office (HSO), Pulmuone Holdings Co., Ltd. Sustainability Report link www.pulmuone.co.kr What is different from 2009 report? CSR activities Pulmuone’s responsive and strategic CSR activities are introduced in a special page to systematically introduce Pulmuone’s CSR activities Emphasis on DMA There is emphasis on DMA (Disclosure on Management Approach) and DMA in each field has been integrated for comprehensive understanding of its sustainability management activities. * Pulmuone Holdings, Subsidiaries, and Affiliates are all hereinafter referred to as ‘Pulmuone’ Respected stakeholders, Pulmuone became the first local food company to join the UN Global Compact in April 2007. In 2010, Pulmuone made strong efforts in support of the values and spirits championed by the UN and the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact including human rights, labor, environment and Last year, Pulmuone has gone through a tough time due to delay in recovery of domestic and anti-corruption. overseas economy, increase in raw material prices, and ever-more fierce market competition. Pulmuone actively practices corporate social responsibility management by fulfilling its This was no exception for Pulmuone. However, even in those tough times, our employees responsibilities relating health, environment, and safety along with contributing to the society have come together to wisely overcome the troubles in both inside and outside of the company. As a through its essential activities. It newly presents the value standard of creating ‘Authentic result, we were able to achieve various financial results in becoming a global LOHAS company includWholesome Foods for my family’s health and happiness’ in the food business and takes the lead in ing enhancement of profit structure as well as our base stamina for overcoming risks. Moreover, we the food culture. Since 2010, it began for the first time in Korea to conduct education for food label were able to establish the foundation for ‘Global DP5', Pulmuone's vision, through development of new checking to elementary students through its ‘Good Food Campaign’ so that we may be able to pass products, differentiation strategy, and enhancement of global organization capacity based on activities on Authentic Wholesome Food culture to the future generation. Through this campaign, we will be relating consumer happiness management. able to establish the Authentic Wholesome Food labeling culture in our society including complete labeling system, production history information system, and production date labeling system, all Along with meaningful financial results, we have also continuously received high assesswhich are systems lead by Pulmuone. Pulmuone will continue to throw massive campaign named ments in fields of ethics management, environmental management, and corporate social responsibiliGood Food Campaign in the food industry to fulfill corporate social responsibility. ty management. In 2010, it has been selected as 30 Most Respected Companies in Korea and has also been awarded as one of 2010 Great Work Place. In addition, it was selected as number 1 in General Dear Stockholders, Consumers, Board Members, Employees, Cooperatives, and stakeholders Foods area of Korean Sustainability Index. This means that Pulmuone has received recognition for its in the regional society! potential of sustainable growth and high corporate competitiveness by conducting TISO (Trust Integrity Solidarity Openness) management under its mission to become a 'LOHAS (Lifestyles of Health and Pulmuone will exert its best efforts in sustainability management to fulfill the responsibility Sustainability) company caring for both human and nature'. of providing Authentic Wholesome Food for the health and happiness of our families as well as our children’s’ health and future. The board members and employees will come as one in endeavoring Pulmuone's core value is TISO management. To realize this core value, Pulmuone trains TISO to become a Global LOHAS company of trust and love, not only within Korea but worldwide. We ask management ethics to all of its board members and employees as well as establishing and for continuous encouragement and support and we are trying to reach the state of becoming a conducting action standards for TISO management. It also places much effort in mutual survival manLOHAS company. agement by developing technologies and sharing the results with cooperatives. In 2010, 3 subsidiaries including Pulmuone Foods have been recognized for their excellence in the level assessment of Thank you. Compliance Program hosted by Korea Fair Trade Commission. Pulmuone also takes a leading role in consumer happiness management activities. In 2010, it has received authentication for expanding and introducing CCMS (Consumer Complaints Management System) from Pulmuone Foods to Pulmuone Health & Living, Foodmerce, and ORGA Whole Foods. Having its growth based on ‘love for neighbors’ and ‘respect for lives’, Pulmuone identified the environmental influences in all of its products’ processes to conduct environmental management by introducing environmental-friendly materials, packaging, and manufacture technologies. Total amount of CO2 generated from the Stock Holder’s General Meeting and Factory tour event has been cut down to 0 through Carbon-Neutral Program implement. March 2011 Nam, Seung-Woo ‘To become Chairman and CEO of Pulmuone Holdings Co., Ltd. a Global LOHAS Company!’ Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 5 Pulmuone’s Businesses and Brands Pulmuone's businesses can be categorized into 3 fields: production/sales of fresh foods and health functional foods, food service, and organic food sales. This Sustainability Report is based on domestic business units. Each of Pulmuone's subsidiaries and affiliates has its own unique brands. Subsidiaries Sub-Subsidiaries Affiliates Pulmuone Foods Pulmuone Health & Living ECMD Foodmerce Produces and sells fresh foods to provide authentic Produces health functional foods and performs door-toSpecializes in food service and provides services Specializes in food distribution service that provides wholesome food door sales so that consumers can supplement and conincluding contract food service, restaurant, catering carefully selected fresh and safe foods through diverse sume diverse nutrients difficult to be consumed through services purchase channels in the contract food service/ restaurant/ regular diet raw material markets Beijing Pulmuone Green Foods, Pulmuone Waters Pulmuone USA Shanghai Pulmuone Foods Exofresh NHO, Natural House Organic ORGA Whole Foods Provide delivery service of premium Acquired Wildwood Natural Foods in Entered the Chinese market in 2010 Logistics company dealing with Specialty shop for health functional Deals with agricultural produce mineral water containing calcium 2004 and Monterey Gourmet Foods by establishing exclusive sale comrefrigerated and frozen product, foods authenticated to be environmentaland conduct large capacity water in 2009 and plans for expansion panies in Beijing and Shanghai conducting 24 hour real-time monifriendly, fresh foods that comply with dispenser rental/sales business for strategy in US market with refrigerwhich are Beijing Pulmuone Greed toring on its warehouses located product principles including Animal the homes or offices ated and frozen products Foods and Shanghai Pulmuone throughout the country and perWelfare System and 3 Non-Additive Foods forming its operations in a very effi(no antifoaming agent, no emulsifying cient manner agent, no chemical coagulation agent) Fair Trade, processed foods complying Ethical Consumption Principles, and environmentalfriendly daily goods 6 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 7 “What is world’s most precious thing in one word?” “Me!” The shout spreading throughout the early woods is fresh. “Then in two words? ‘Again, Me!’ Then in three words? ‘Of course, Me!’ Then in four words? ‘Still it is, Me!’ Then in five words? ‘And yet once again, Me!’ So far, what was taught was answered. However, it didn’t seem to stop here. Like this, the morning of ‘Goodbye Atrophy Camp’ began with the heart of loving oneself. Sustainability Management Value Enhancing Story Pulmuone is a LOHAS company caring for both human and nature. LOHAS is a conscious lifestyle that thinks of both health and environmental sustainability. The strict production principles including Pulmuone’s additive principles are derived from LOHAS values, and this is an attitude of caring for both human and nature. Promotion of Sustainability Promotion System for Sustainability Management Overview Management Pulmuone desires to be a company that develops not only externally, but to be a LOHAS company that develops along with the enhancement of the health of consumers, society, and environment. To reach the state of becoming a LOHAS company that loves both nature and human, subsidiaries and affiliates are promoting sustainability management activities through organizations in charge of each field including econoSustainability my, consumer, board members and employees, cooperatives, local community, and environment. Along Governance Structure with the Management Board, each organization of Pulmuone aims to achieve sustainable management and concentrates on TISO’s values; Trust, Integrity, Solidarity, and Openness. Management Stockholder Status TISO Pulmuone is a company listed in the stock market and its stocks are owned as follows: 57.3% by the major stockholder, 7.5% by institutional investors and foreigners, and 35.2% by minority stockholders. Mission and Vision LOHAS(Lifestyles Of Health And Sustainability) Referring management [Stockholder Status] (As of end of December 2010) to general effort to pursue social/ environmental sustainability and improve customer health, LOHAS is long-term Stockholder Number of Owned Stocks Number of Stockholders Ownership ratio (%) direction of Pulmuone that gives us reason to exist. Our (Number of Stocks) (Number of People) management aspiration thinking of both human and nature Economic Major Stockholder 2,183,578 1 57.3 is applied not only to our customer but even to corporate members, society and nature. Institutional Investor and Foreigner 284,295 60 7.5 Minority Stockholder 1,341,222 2,738 35.2 Global DP5 Corporate vision, reaching 5 trillion KRW in Performances Total 3,809,095 2,799 100.0 revenue, reveal out ambition to grow up to be a core LOHAS company in the global authentic wholesome food business, Social by achieving true global leadership and taking the lead in Organization and Authority of the Board of Directors domestic food market by gaining unlimited trust not only for Management its exterior size of the company but for all of its products, Pulmuone’s Board of Directors is consisted of 5 Executive Directors and 5 Outside Directors, experts in and to become the Number 1 LOHAS company in the counvarious area including professional managers, professors, and civil activists. The Directors selected in the try. General Meeting of Stockholders are those possessing management experience and expert knowledge Environmental Trust for abiding by promises and regulations who work to improve stockholder value and enhance interests of stakeholders. Integrity for operational honesty in conducting good work Solidarity for collective conscience of correlating one's Management Role and Operation of the Board of Directors work with the company's objective Openness for maintaining open heart and cooperating A total of 8 Board Meetings have been held in between January 2010 to December 2010 to address 16 agendas including investment for the factory relocation in the US and committee member selection within [Sustainable Management Organization] the Board of Directors. The average attendance of 2010 Board Meetings is 79%. There are a total of 5 committees under the Board of Directors: Audit Committee, Outside Director Nomination Committee, Compensation Committee, Outside Director Evaluation Committee, and Management Committee. Pulmuone’s economic outcomes and social/environmental results are reported to and evaluated by the Board of Directors every quarter and every year, respectively. The 3rd regular Board Meeting was held on August 13th, 2010. (Main agendas of the Board Meeting and roles of each committee can be found by visiting www.pulmuone.co.kr) Prevention and Management of Risks Risk Management Committee Once every month, Pulmuone operates Risk Management Committees for itself and each of its companies to grasp, prevent, and manage risk factors. The Risk Management Committee is lead by the CEO and the risks are classified in three phases to be managed in accordance to the manual: Phase 1, controllable risk; Phase 2, potential risk; Phase 3, risk relating to brand and media. 10 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 11 Pulmuone’s CSR Activities Responsive CSR Overview Definition of CSR Activity Contribution to Local Community, Cultural Support Many companies are promoting diverse CSR activities, but not all of these efforts are being conducted in a Pulmuone places its greatest efforts to fulfill its social responsibility through social contribution activities productive manner. There are many cases where CSR activities are fragmental or disconnected with the and cultural support. It has promoted activities including Goodbye Atrophy Campaign, support for malSustainability business strategies as a corporation pursues conventional methods without taking it into consideration it’s nourished children, activities for environmental preservation, and support for Korean classical music percorporative circumstances, not fully reflecting on inter relationship between business and society. formance as well as operating the Kimchi Museum for the development of cultural succession of traditionPulmuone places efforts to use CSR activities as an engine to surpass the level of cost or charity actions al food. Management and attain new opportunity, innovation, and competitive advantage by analytically and strategically TISO approaching the relationship between social responsibility and corporate strategy. Pulmuone has introduced Responsive CSR and Strategic CSR to promote sustainable management in a management more systematic manner. Responsive CSR refers to activities being promoted to cope with important social issues or stakeholders’ requests and Strategic CSR refers to activities being strategically promoted to reach the vision of LOHAS Company, cares for both human and nature. Economic [Pulmuone’s CSR Activities] Performances Social Management Fair Trade, Acquisition of Excellent grade for Compliance with Fair Trade Pulmuone Foods and Foodmerce have received Grade AA and Pulmuone Health & Living has received Grade A in the CP grade evaluation hosted by Korea Fair Trade Commission in 2010. Environmental TISO, Conduction of Anti-Corruption Policy and Integrity Pact Management Under the ‘TISO action standards’, Pulmuone strictly prohibits corruptive actions including directly or indirectly receiving benefits such as bribery, entertainment, hospitality and convenience as well as encouraging or tolerating these actions. In such case, disciplinary measures are to be conducted in accordance to related regulations. Introduction of IFRS and Improvement of Governance Structure, Corporate Transparency Pulmuone is a pure holding company that owns 100% of its subsidiaries’ stocks and has established a transparent governance structure that can easily be comprehended from outside. Also, it is the first in the food industry to introduce K-IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards). Environmental Management Pulmuone establishes policies to reduce environmental influences upon conducting analysis on the environmental influences of its products and services by business units. It has selected important projects in the business process ranging from product concept development, production, logistics, and sales as well as endeavoring to reduce environmental influence. To do so, it has enforced the performing organization relating to environmental management and inspected the progress and result of projects by each business * Porter and Kramer, Strategy and Society, HBR, 2006 unit in 2010. 12 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 13 Strategic CSR Overview standard including remaining oxygen amount, metal, and weight; as well as other steps including pass box installation for prevention of cross-pollution, automatic packaging to prevent inletting of micro-organisms, low-temperature Conduction of full disclosure, Expansion of indicating Functional Ingredients sterilization to enhance safety, maintenance of safe temperature through rapid cooling, and maintenance of temperature below 5°C during delivery. In 2010, functional ingredients have been labeled to enhance reliability and to provide precise information to consumers in 10 products that are renewed or newly launched including a ‘Full-of-fruit & Vegetable Sustainability juice’, ‘Kid-high green juice’, and ‘Purifying-me tofu’. Nutrient Supplement Product Management Products that can help achieve healthy life by adding nutrients that cannot be regularly consumed in Disclosure of production history information, Provision of Transparent and Reliable Information general diet. To ensure the consumers’ right to know, Pulmuone is trying to build up customer trust by providing trans'My kid’s Series' Pulmuone launched “My Kid”, which is the first children’s food brand in Korea. TISO parent and reliable information through disclosure of production history information. “My Kid” products in which nutritionists have engaged from the design phase are management introduced to manage nutritional safety of food for children. It has reduced calories, fat, Disclosure of production date, to Provide Products at Their Freshest State saturated fat, trans-fat, cholesterol, sugar, and sodium while enhancing protein, fiber and Pulmuone has voluntarily introduced the ‘Disclosure of production date’ not only to supply its products at their calcium. freshest state to consumers by labeling the production date along with the expiration date, but also to fulfill the Economic consumers’ right to know relating the expiration period by providing more detailed production date information. 'Cera Ato' With the main ingredient being natural vegetable ingredient, Amorphophallus konjac extract, it is a functional drink containing zinc that helps moisturizing Good Food Campaign, Establishment of Right Diet Culture Performances children's skin and strengthen immune system. 1% of sales of this product is planned to be used to Pulmuone has conducted early education to elementary students so that they may understand what is support the public service 'Goodbye Atrophy'. Social right food, names of ingredients and nutrient indication on the product labels for right selection, and checking the expiration dates. Moreover, Pulmuone has created a foundation to establish the right diet Fresh Product Management culture in our society by helping students establish the concept of authentic wholesome food and develop Products maintaining freshness and quality of it's natural ingredient the habit of checking food labels through this campaign. Environmental 'Refrigerated Eggs' It is a product that the Cold Chain System is used for the first time Provision of Value Product, CSR Activity through Products in the country to enhance freshness of eggs by maintaining all processes ranging from Pulmuone wishes to make a contribution in improving consumer’s dietary life and social consciousness Management production to distribution and sales under 10°C. through ‘safe products’ that are managed by strict standards in clean and safe facilities, ‘nutrient supplement products’ that have been enhanced with nutrients that are often missing from general diet, ‘fresh 'I'm Real' It is a product that only 100% natural fruit is juiced. Fruit is freshly products’ that provide freshness of the ingredients under strict management, and ‘SOGA products’ that squeezed without being added with flavoring, coloring, or any other compound additive. allow more consumers to purchase excellent quality products at a reasonable price. 1 HACCP Safe Products Value Product (Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point) Non-additive (synthetic sweetener, synthetic flavor, synthetic coloring) products that have gone through It is a product that more people can easily purchase and enjoy a balanced diet by providing high quality It is a management safety management throughout all phases ranging from production to distribution so that hazardous product at a reasonable price with cost/ distribution innovation standard to prevent materials may not be included. pollution or addition of 'SOGA Tofu' Just like Pulmuone tofu, it is a product made under the compliance of non-additive principle and hazardous materials 'Pulmuone raw-eating, pure body program' Pulmuone uncooked eating, pure body strict quality management and its high quality can be enjoyed at a reasonable price. in advance program is a product to acquire the HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point) Especially, the consumers can widen the selection range to make practical purchases in each steps including authentication for the first time in its industry and it is made in accordance to Pulmuone's in today's price-hiking economy because SOGA tofu complies with the same production production, processing, non-additive principles to ensure safety. principle as Pulmuone, the premium brand, but is provided at a lower price. storage, cooking, and consumption. 'Baby Meal' It has been produced by applying '7 Step Special Safety Processing' in all process of production ranging from ingredient selection to product delivery and it is the first product to receive the HACCP 'SOGA Cold noodle and broth of radish water kimchi' While adhering to Pulmuone's (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point) authentication in the refrigerated baby food industry. production principle and strict selection of ingredients, the noodles and broth are The 7 Step Special Safety Processing refers to the following: Step 1, quality inspection where packaged separately so that they may be selected separately. Also, the prices have the QC employee checks the temperature, viscosity, and sense; Step 2, evaluation of quality been lowered but utilization has been enhanced. 14 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 15 Partners in Sustainability Management Materiality assessment Overview Pulmuone's stakeholders are classified into shareholders, employees, consumers, cooperatives, and local As a result of materiality assessment, we identified 57 issues and classified as follows according to the communities. Stakeholders are partners in Pulmuone's journey to foster sustainable management. importance of each issues. Pulmuone seeks their various opinion and shares outcome with them. Very High Stockholders People who buy and own the stocks of Pulmuone holding company which represent the 19 Sustainability business enterprise value. Open shareholders' meeting, Board of Directors' meeting, quarterly Investor Relations public 12 High 26 Issues Very High 19 Issues Management release, and Sustainability Reports www.pulmuone.co.kr Medium & General and Sustainability General and Sustainability TISO Emerging High Management Management Employees 4,450 internal partners working together to accomplish the company's mission and vision The Knowledge Worker Platform, labor-management council meetings, CEO conference, the publication of company magazines, the Industrial Safety and Health Committee, the grievance 26 ·CEO Leadership ·Management Strategy ·Strategy for Sustainability ·Performance of Sustainability Management ·Products Fulfilling Social management redress mechanism, inter-office communication magazine, the Employee Assistance Program, Management Responsibility ·Collection of Stakeholders’ C-cubic and the Sustainability Reports www.pulmuone.co.kr Economic Opinions TISO Management ·Company Governance Structure ·Ethical Management Performances Consumers All consumers who use products and services offered by Pulmuone subsidiaries and affiliates ·Compliance with Laws and CS center, e-fresh monitoring, housewives monitoring, consumer satisfaction survey (Company TISO Management Anti-Corruption magazine) 'One Big Bowl full of Nature', Sustainability Reports ·Transparent Management ·Fair Trade Economic Performance www.pulmuone.co.kr, www.pulmuoneha.co.kr, www.greenjuice.co.kr, www.pulmuonewater.com, Social ·Financial Outcomes www.foodmerce.co.kr, www.ecmd.co.kr, www.exofresh.co.kr, www.orga.co.kr, www.nho.co.kr, Economic Performance ·Brand Value blog.pulmuone.com, pulmuoneshop.co.kr Management ·Market Competition Innovation & Creation Partner Companies Companies that are involved in purchases, production, sales, shipping and facilities Innovation & Creation ·Development of New Products Issues ·Process Innovation ·Development of New Markets 12 management processes Environmental ·Distribution Innovation Round-table meetings with cooperatives, Sustainability Reports sourcing.pulmuone.com Social Performance Medium & ·Technology Development ·Investment Expansion Consumer Management Emerging ·Consumers’ Health and Nutrition Local Communities Public organizations including the government, local communities, and volunteer Social Performance ·Product Safety and Quality Consumer ·Consumer Communication groups, etc General and Sustainability ·Consumer Satisfaction ·Information Sharing Regular meetings with volunteer groups, Sustainability Reports www.pulmuone.co.kr Management Employee Employee ·Management Principle and Vision ·Development and Training of ·Safety in Workplace ·Participation in Global Initiative Human Resources Partner Companies ·Risk Management System ·Communication between Labor ·Win-win cooperation with Major Issues for Pulmuone’s Sustainability Management in 2010 and Management Partner Companies Economic Performance ·Recruitment Local Community Pulmuone is selecting issues that draw stakeholders' attention the most through materiality assessment, ·Value Creation and Distribution ·Respect for Human Rights ·Social Contribution Activity and writing the sustainability report based on those selected issues. ·Fair HR Management and ·Development of Local Community Social Performance Compensation Employee ·Win-win between Labor and Environmental Management The Method Used for the Materiality Assessment ·Employee Satisfaction Management ·Efforts to Reduce Environmental We used IPS Materiality Test Model TM for the materiality assessment and it involved a 4-stage test, Partner Companies ·Differentiated Organizational Culture Influence ·Fairness and Transparency ·Welfare ·Environmental Investment including company policy research, surveys on stakeholder, benchmarking, and media search. in Selection Partner Companies ·Environmental Protection Category Details ·Communication with ·Trade with Companies Company Policy Research The company policy of each company in 2010 Partner Companies of Sustainability Management Local Community Local Community The direction of each company's business strategy in 2010 ·Cooperation with the Government ·Social Contribution Strategy Surveys on Stakeholder Once in December 2010, A stakeholder survey conducted online and offline ·Media Influence ·Cultural Development Support Consumers (101 People),Employees (648 People), Cooperatives (110 Entities), ·Voluntary Activity of Employees ·Local Community Communication Local Communities (33 Entities) Environmental Management Environmental Management Benchmarking Danone, Nestle, Ajinomoto ·Environmental Investment ·Environmental Management Media Search Media Reports from January 1, 2010 until December 31, 2010 ·Biological Diversity Strategy 16 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 17 Management Approach Method DMA Overview Important issue Vision and Goals Dedicated Organizations Plans and Achievements Sustainability TISO Management Management ·Ethics Core value of TISO management TISO Management office (TISO office) 2010 Plans ·Received AA rank in fair trade compliance ·Compliance with laws ·Trust: Strict compliance with its regulations ·Manages policies regarding bribery and program & Anti Corruption and promises corruption ·Conducted TISO Management education TISO ·Integrity: Honesty in executing business plan ·Solidarity: Alignment of the company’s interests Management Assessment Department 2010 Achievements·Pulmuone Foods/Foodmerce received AA; with the interests of individual employees ·Fair trade compliance Pulmuone Health & Living received A management ·Openness: Cooperation with each other ·Implemented TISO Management education to 78 with an open mind new employees Economic Survey result 79.4% 2011 Plans ·Monitoring to prevent fair trade risks is advance operating ethics management ·Conduct TISO Management education Performances system well Social Management Important issue Vision and Goals Dedicated Organizations Plans and Achievements Economic ·Financial Achievement Global DP (Defining Pulmuone) 5 Strategic Planning/ 2010 Plans ·Constantly create new markets to achieve Performance ·Brand Value ·Accomplish 5 trillion KRW in revenue Management Support Team global DP5 Environmental ·Development of New Products ·Provides strategy and business planning ·Implement brand recognition survey every quarter and Markets guideline Management 2010 Achievements·Entry into new expansion categories and sales Financial Management Team generation ·Business/finance/taxes management ·Received 69.8 points in brand loyalty Brand Management Committee 2011 Plans ·Development of large-scale products ·Promote activities to maximize brand value and new product ·Implement brand recognition survey every quarter Strategic planning Team, TISO management office, CR Team, Innovation Support Committee, PI Progress Report, SCS meeting ·Responsible for innovative management ·Support settling innovative culture Strategic Planning Teams of each subsidiary and affiliate, Food culture research center Survey result ·Responsible for tasks of creative 76.4% management ·Actively pursue creative management putting their efforts in creating new markets 18 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 19 Important issue Vision and Goals Dedicated Organizations Plans and Achievements Overview Social Management ·Health and nutrition for consumer Provide authentic wholesome foods for the Pulmuone food safety center, Foodmerce 2010 Plans ·Expand CCMS operation _Consumers ·Safety and quality of product health and happiness of All food safety center ·Reestablish food safety standard ·Communication with consumer ·Abide by consumer related regulations and ·Conducts food safety management activity ·Conduct 110 times of Pulmuone factory tour ·Sharing information conduct consumer satisfaction management to find out solution to the consumer complaints Nestle water research center 2010 Achievements·Pulmuone Health & Living, ORGA whole Foods, and reflect those needs. ·Conducts safe water management activity and Foodmerce obtained CCMS certification Sustainability Management ·Foodmerce food safety points increased 3.5(82.7) CS center/team of each subsidiary compared to 2009 and affiliate ·2,538 participated in 88 times of factory tour TISO Survey result ·Manages consumer satisfaction 80.2% 2011 Plans ·Push ahead with ECMD obtaining CCMS certification management taking the responsibility and solve the ·Strengthen food safety problem upon product/service ·Conduct 110 time of factory tour defects reported Economic Performances Important issue Vision and Goals Dedicated Organizations Plans and Achievements Social Management ·Safe Workplace Enhance HR management for works and HR planning Division 2010 Plans ·Promote support organization (C-cubic) to create _Employees employees to be performance-oriented ·Manage HR related tasks a productive corporate culture Social ·As a strategic partner to support and ·Education ·Zero labor strike by building trust act upon company's management policy and ·Responsible for communication ·Industrial accident rate down by 20% from 2009 Management business strategy, we pursue transparent HR with employees affairs and promotion based on performance 2010 Achievements·Received the ‘2010 Fortune Best Company and enhance pride of employees as HR teams of each subsidiary and affiliate to Work for Award’ hosted by GWP Fortune Korea Environmental members of Pulmuone ·Responsible for personnel and labor force ·Managed to settle time-off through collective bargaining ·Industrial accident rate decreased by 0.14 %(0.34%) Management than 2009 2011 Plans ·Make better workplace with the 3rd C-cubic ·Zero labor strike and quickly settle wage bargaining Survey result ·Industrial accident rate down by 50% from 2010 72.1% considering the prevention of safety-accident in workplace Important issue Vision and Goals Dedicated Organizations Plans and Achievements Social Management ·Cooperate with partner companies Practice TISO Management Integrated Purchase Division, 2010 Plans ·Increase opportunities to hear opinions from _Partner Companies ·Fair trade with business partners Purehase planning team of each subsidiary partner companies ·No corruption in relations and affiliate ·Host meetings 5 times with business partners ·Tasks related to purchase 2010 Achievements·Hosted Meetings (Pulmuone Foods 1, Pulmuone Health & Living 1, Organic Farm 3, QC 2) Survey result 72.1% 2011 Plans ·Expand education opportunities and increase consumer satisfaction through two QC meetings going through impartial steps ·Proceed meetings with partner companies when selecting partner companies 20 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 21 Important issue Vision and Goals Dedicated Organizations Plans and Achievements Social Management Overview ·Contribution to local communities ·Contribute to local communities based on Group PR Team, CSR employees of subsidiary 2010 Plans ·Proceed and vitalize business with local _Local Community ‘Respect for life’ and ‘Love for neighbor’ and affiliate, every subsidiary’s communities spirit and vitalize employee’s volunteer Social Volunteer office participation ·Plan and practice social volunteer 2010 Achievements·Offered 'Goodbye Atrophy' education campaign, activities went camping, made reports and homepage ·Promoted marketing activities in connection with Sustainability Management beautiful shops to generate public interest ·Conduct pilot education in 3 primary schools regarding good food campaign. 2011 Plans ·Develop social volunteer campaign using social TISO management network ·Expand good food campaign Survey result ·110 times of factory tour 69.0% Economic Performances being actively pursuing social volunteer activity Social Important issue Vision and Goals Dedicated Organizations Plans and Achievements Environment Management ·Efforts to reduce ·In the process of product development, Group Environment Safety Committee 2010 Plans ·Expand carbon footprint labeling Management environmental effect production and distribution, put environment ·Environmental safety strategy and policies ·Run environment & safety day ·Respond to climate change and safety as priority value ·Environmental protection ·By 2013 reduce 10% CO2 and 10% ES (Environment & Safety) Office 2010 Achievements·Constructed green house gas inventory (2 facilities) water usage from 2007 ·Implements strategy, policies and tasks ·Calculated carbon footprint of beverage products Environmental Management devised by Group Environment Safety ·Zero-carbon general meeting of shareholders Committee and operates a council 2011 Plans ·Expand green house gas inventory ·Expand products of carbon footprint ·Run environment & safety day Survey result 71.2% leading environmental protection 22 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 23 We believe that Pulmuone people must be honest, so that we are able to make authentic wholesome foods. For those who make authentic wholesome foods for their child and family, even a smallest amount of greed is not permitted. “Don’t accept any holiday’s gifts”, a motto every Pulmuone people follows is a way having honest minds. Heart TISO management Sharing Story TISO, the core value that Pulmuone pursues, stands for ‘Trust’ for strict compliance with its regulations and promises, ‘Integrity’ for honesty in executing business plan, ‘Solidarity’ for alignment of the company’s interest with the interests of individual employees, and ‘Openness’ for cooperation with each other with an open mind, our employees are willing to pursue those initiatives and follow given guidelines. TISO Management Overview Sustainability Pulmuone’s Core Value, TISO Day of Fair Trade Compliance Program Every year on the first Monday of January and July Pulmuone has established fair trade compliance program Management day of action to help fair trade compliance culture to quickly settle as part of corporate culture by Foundation for TISO Management TISO strengthening the will of employees to comply with fair trade. TISO Management Office and Management Assessment Department are responsible for practicing TISO management core values. TISO Management Office and Management Assessment Department directly report to Chief Establishing Fair Trade Violation Cases through Electronic books (E-books) Compliance Officer (CCO) and TISO management charter specifies and guarantees CCO's independency in In March, 2010, Fair Trade Violation cases have been published through E-books and on the homepages of his task performance. Pulmuone Foods, Pulmuone Health & Living, and Foodmerce. Economic Education of TISO Management Pulmuone regularly runs TISO management education. Through cyber education, every organizational Performances member must complete TISO Management course as compulsory. Also, TISO management training is a Social mandatory course included in the Pride of Pulmuone (POP) training course which all the new employees are required to complete. So far, the numbers of graduates among new employees are 68 in 2007, 57 in Management 2008, 85 in 2009, and 78 in 2010. Other than POP education, in 2010 Pulmuone conducted TISO management course 10 times to 500 applicants such as ECMD nutritionists, promoters, and professionals in factories, who find it difficult to attend classes due to field work, to make sure that the TISO culture naturally Environmental becomes part of corporate culture. [Number of graduates within new employees] Management Year No. Voluntary Monitoring of Fair Trade Compliance Program 2008 57 Twice a year, the Fair Trade Compliance Council members and leaders of the fair trade related departments 2009 85 conduct voluntary violation risk monitoring and correct any potential incompliance. Any newly developed or 2010 78 amended fair trade related laws and regulations are monitored every month and reported to the Risk Management Committee. By including the voluntary monitoring of fair trade related laws in the group-level control items of the internal accounting control system as an internal control tool, the company monitors TISO Management Activity them internally which are audited by external auditors to be disclosed to stakeholders through audit reports. Operation of Gift Return Policy during Holidays Since 2004 Pulmuone has issued a notice that no one will receive any gifts from stakeholders. Despite the notice, any gifts that arrived are being returned. As for the gifts which cannot be returned, the company sells TISO Management Achievement them at price within 50 % of the market price to employees. The money received is used for charities such as love neighbor fund. Gift return system is gradually settling in and the number of gifts sent during holidays is Pulmuone's 3 Subsidiaries Received 'Excellent' in Fair Trade Compliance decreasing. In 2010 total of 28 gifts were sent and 1,046,000 won has been raised as love neighbor fund. Pulmuone has revised CP manual and Fair Trade regulations. This is disclosed on the e-book and to comply [Number of reported claims on gift return during holidays and amount] with fair trade Pulmuone has regularly published CP quiz and CP news. Also by evaluating CP management Year No. of claims Amount (KRW) and observing violation actions, Pulmuone constantly tries to settle fair trade compliance culture. Hence, 2008 26 1,362,000 in 2010, Pulmuone Foods and Foodmerce received AA and Pulmuone Health & Living received A in CP 2009 35 1,449,000 ratings review hosted by fair trade commerce. Thus, Pulmuone Holdings, Pulmuone Foods, Foodmerce, 2010 28 1,046,000 and Pulmuone Health & Living hold CP ratings. 26 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 27 To create better products, The tide of suggesting their idea is thriving in Pulmuone. Without any inconvenient processes, the idea is automatically sent to the person in charge by posting suggestions in the integrated group software. Everyone can freely express their ideas without worrying about others. Also, to keep up with the latest trend, the company is sharing diverse information through Twitter. All of these can be seen as efforts of executives in creating authentic wholesome foods. Listening and embracing even the small suggestions, It must surely be the reason why we produce products which everyone can trust. Hope Economic Performances Making Story From hopes to beliefs, Pulmuone's vision is to achieve Global DP 5 and become a global LOHAS Company as well as to become the best food company within Korea. Especially, all Pulmuone wishes for its products to acquire the trust of its consumers as well as receiving recognition as a global LOHAS brand. Economic Performance Innovative, Creative management Overview Foundation for Innovation, Creative Management TISO Management Office, CR (Cost Reduction) Department and Strategic Planning Teams of each subsidiary/affiliate and Food Culture Research Center are responsible for practicing innovative management. Sustainability Pulmuone Innovation Support Committee and Pulmuone PI (Process Innovation) Committee are put in Major Financial Achievement place to support innovative management. TISO Management Office organizes Green Meetings and takes all After Pulmuone improved it's governance structure to become a pure holding company in 2008, Pulmuone, responsibilities related to the Irumi Innovation Proposal Scheme. CR Department is in charge of all tasks Management first among food companies, quickly adopted K-IFRS to achieve global reliability in corporate management related to CR activities. Strategic Planning Teams of each subsidiary and affiliate are pushing to create and TISO transparency and financial information. Since its establishment, Pulmuone broke through 1 trillion won in enter new markets. Food Culture Research Center pursues new product development based on consumer 2009 for the first time in terms of revenue. Also, in 2010, the revenue increased by 14% compared to last needs, registers patents and develops seeds. management year, which equaled to 1.27 trillion won. Innovative, Creative Management System Pulmuone pursues innovation in three categories: ‘product and service’, ‘quality’, and ‘process’. Only Economic Brand Evaluation when Pulmuone successfully achieves innovation in these three categories, it would satisfy consumers based on trust and increase the corporate value continuously. Pulmuone wishes to create value through Foundation of Brand Management the Innovative, Creative Management and remove potential wastes to fulfill its mission. Performances Pulmuone's brand management committee executes brand value maximizing activities. Also, the commitSocial tee is responsible for consistent brand image through efficient commercial communication. [Innovative and Creation Structure] Management Brand Evaluation Each year, Pulmuone investigates brand equity management to measure brand value. Brand Equity Management (BEM) statistic figure is collected through analysis of 1,400 housewives who live in Seoul and Environmental capital area on 1:1 face to face talk. According to the research, BEM went downhill in 2010, and this seems to be derived from economic crisis last year and the rise in main product price (tofu, eggs) due to the rising Management cost of raw materials. Hence, those aspects affected food market in a negative way. In future, we plan to strengthen communication with our consumers and carefully listen to our consumers' opinions to strategically manage our brand. [Table: BEM] (Percentile rank based on average scale of 7) 30 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 31 Activities to Practice Innovative and Creative Management Green Meeting 1, Problem-solving through work-out Overview By holding Green Meetings, Pulmuone successfully implemented innovative culture, expanded communication Pulmuone Foods launched the salt product by restoring Korea traditional way of producing among its members, and promoted learning culture for the need of solving problems in 2010. From March to salt on mud flat December, total of 107 workers have formed 19 teams and put their efforts. 'Breathing mud flat Salt' is natural low-salinity salt rich in natural mineral, soft in saltiness and low in bitSustainability terness, made through natural mud flat method—doing away with PVC sheets on the salt field—on the Successful Practices of Green Meeting soil plate made by hardening mud flat according to the Korean traditional method. Effective utilization of Twitter Company opens Twitter Marketing and PR team used Twitter for promotion in the short period of time. Marketing Innovation Team Management 1 What is Milk Thystle? Pulmuone Health & Living Launched Angelica Yogurt and Customer Satisfaction center are responsible in managing the Twitter page. As a result, 1,646 memMilk Thystle is a TISO Organic 'Angelica' contains vegetable lactic acid bacteria (L.plantarum PMO08, Patent No. 10-0264361), bers have joined within 7 months, and Twitter is used as a special channel to share diverse information medicinal plant which do survive in human intestine system. We such as the children camp operation, introduction of new products, and much more. containing large management amounts of silymarin. launched vegetable bacteria yogurt products taking (Pulmuone Twitter: www.twitter.com/pulmuone_love) It helps the liver which care of liver and intestine, with milk thystle added. is approved by Korea Irumi Innovation Proposal Scheme 2 Economic FDA as functional Since its establishment in March of 2007, Irumi Innovation Proposal Scheme has contributed in developing and ingredient. (KFDA implementing various innovation tasks in areas including product/service, quality and process. In 2010 alone, a Performances approval No. 2009-24) total of 3,121 ideas have been received and among them 1,517 ideas or 49% of the total ideas were adopted. Fresh Ramen 'Nature Is Delicious' CR (Cost Reduction) Activities 3 Fresh Ramen is not fried in oil and gets rid of 7 chemical additives widely used in the Ramen Industry. In terms of cost management, CR activity plays essential role in corporate sustainability. In 2010, the cost Social Management Pulmuone has applied Wind Drying Method (Drying in short time in extremely high temperature) to the of 4.079 billion won was actually reduced through CR activities and brought positive synergy in improving Fresh Ramen, but it still maintains 5-month shelf life. profitability. Environmental 'Safety, Health, Convenience, 'Young Leaf Product Integration & Enhancement of ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) Pulmuone launched young leaf products suitable for the customers who put significant emphasize on both After adopting the ERP system in 2006, Pulmuone Foods experienced steady progress of integrating sales, Management health and convenience. after carefully selecting European seeds and growing them without agricultural production, and distribution system in 2010. Following this, Pulmuone Foods made it possible to analyze pesticides in the whole process from planing, raising, and washing to packaging. the effect of distribution cost based on its cost driver through building up POV system(Point of View: system providing standardized report with criterion set up in advance), and Pulmuone Health & Living established the cost classification system. Constructing Human Resource Daily Business Initiative (HR DBI) ERP's DBI (Daily Business Initiative) module has been constructed to provide HR information to board of directors and person in charge of HR real time and to constantly monitor the real index of employees. Through DBI, the swift supply on integrated data of enterprise personnel, improvement in visibility of HR index and consistent index management, and improvement in productivity of person in charge of personnel Natural Coagulant (natural bay salt) have become feasible. All tofu product lines include no antifoaming agent, no emulsifying agent, nor chemical coagulating agent. Instead of using chemical coagulating agent, natural bittern from bay salt has been used to realize traditional taste and truly natural tofu. 1 Pulmuone's unique innovative program, originated from GEs Work-Out, works by selecting problems which need to be solved, forming correct Doubling the Expiration Date of Non-Thermal Juice through Ultra High Pressure Process CFT (Cross Function Team), meeting in a separate place for speaking out ideas and implementing them. 2 This is a system where all organizational members actively express innovative ideas and implement those ideas for the benefits of corporation Being applied to freshly squeezed juice for the first time in Asia, ultra high pressure process does not Boost the organization and its members' productivity by monitoring in cost perspectives and measuring in financial terms to improve any inefficient remove nutrition and taste but suppresses microorganism activity. Due to ultra high pressure process, the tasks and maximize synergy effect between functions by removing potential wastes within the process. shelf life extends from 7 to 15 days. In 2010, the product sales reached 10 billion and aims to sell 20 billion 3 Refers to general activities removing potential waste factor out of any business process by monitoring organization/employee productivity in a cost management perspective to organize it into financial information, manage any inefficient work process and maximize business synergy. won in 2013. 32 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 33 Voluntary activity during work hours? In Pulmuone one or two employees frequently leave their desks during work hours. Have they gone to drink some coffee? It's too long for just going to the bathroom. They've left their post for some time. One thing for sure is that it isn't afternoon off since they return to office late in the afternoon. And the teammates and team leader are showing great interest to where they went. Love Social Management Dreaming Story Pulmuone's authentic wholesome foods start from loving its neighbor. Pulmuone, which wishes the world full of laughter, believes Pulmuone's authentic wholesome foods are no different from a promise made between people. That's why Pulmuone can produce food everyone can trust because of the love neighbor spirit. PULMUONE 지속경영보고서 2010 35 Social Management_Consumers Pulmuone's Factory Tour Program Overview To give consumers confidence about the product they choose, Pulmuone has operated factory tour programs since 2008. In 2010, total of 2,538 consumers participated in 88 tours. The plan for 2011 is to conduct 110 tours for 3,850 consumers. Sustainability Food Safety Management Reorganize Pulmuone e-shop Pulmuone's internet shopping mall, 'Pulmuone eThe Foundation for Providing Authentic Wholesome Foods shop', provides 'shopping story' for customized cuiManagement To provide authentic wholesome foods to its consumers, Pulmuone screens safe ingredients free from residues sine and styling tip for each products, 'brand story' TISO such as pesticides. Also, Pulmuone does not use ingredients which are treated with preservatives and irradiated for providing information on Pulmuone brands such as long term storage or safety. Chemical additives are never used for taste, flavor, coloring and shelf life extension. 'Saenggadeuck, Chanmaru, SOGA, Greenche', 'wise management shopping basket', on how to healthily consume prodStrict Criteria ucts by providing information on food additives and Pulmuone has adopted its own food safety standards, more stringent than domestic regulations. Also, ORGA eco-friendly consuming. Also, for convenience and Economic Whole foods manages 3,000 products in accordance with its product handling and product ethics statement. benefits, consumers can easily check shopping baskets and delivery information. Activities to Provide Authentic Wholesome Foods Performances Set up Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS) Communication with Consumers Social Laboratory Information Management System is specially designed information management system for laboratories conducting analyses. LIMS is the system to manage all the information necessary for the operation of Management laboratories in accordance with regulations by supporting the collection, storage, analysis and report of data Foundation of Communication with Consumers and securing the reliability of data. Pulmuone CS Center and CS Teams of each company are in charge of all responsibilities related to providing accurate product information to consumers. Pulmuone adopted the KFTC (Korea Fair Trade Commission) Environmental Pulmuone Factories and Partner companies' Experiment Station Quality Control certified CCMS (Consumer Complaints Management System) in 2006. Pulmuone became the first compreTo improve the reliability of external inspection on product sites’ analytic capabilities and results, the quantitative hensive food company in Korea to have its complaints management system certified in July 2007. This was Management analysis of general bacteria, water and acid value are selected as test items. To have set up the internal introduced to Pulmuone Health & Living, Foodmerce and ORGA Whole Foods in 2009. processes for proficiency and provide another chance for test and training to partner companies that are 1 Introduction of identified to be unsuitable have contributed to the improvement of reliability on Pulmuone’s products. CCMS (ECMD) 2 CS Center_6sigma Sharing Information Expand Labeling Functional Ingredients To enhance product reliability and provide consumers with right information, functional ingredients have been labeled to 10 products such as ‘Arrow root & oriental raisin tree juice’, ‘Full-of-fruit & vegetable juice’, ‘Kid1 2 high green vegetable juice’ and ‘Purifying-me tofu’ among the products which have been renewed and newly launched in 2010. Activities for Customer Communication [Functional ingredients labeled products] Pulmuone Health & Living, Reflection of consumers’ Opinions in New Product Development Pulmuone Health & Living receives VOC (Voice of Customer) through diverse channel such as webpage, call center, and franchises. With introduction of CCMS in May of 2010, all new products must reflect customers' opinions or complaints given to previous or similar products. Hence, after May of 2010, every new product has been released taking into account customers' opinions. 36 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 37 Social Management Overview Foodmerce Analyzes VOC Each Month Foodmerce analyzes VOC each month and asks the related departments for improvements and actions based on the results. In 2010, there were some problems in resolving change/return inquiries and registering prod_Executives and Employees uct photos. To solve these problems, a mission was given to related departments, and the percentage of registering product photos went up from 26% to 100% by establishing its goal. Sustainability Pulmuone Operates VOC (Voice of customer), VOE (Voice of Employee) Employment Status The number of monthly VOC on average for 2010 was 1,245, which was 5% less than for the previous year. Management Product inquiries were down 5%, product complaints up 13%, distribution inquiries up 7%, distribution comComposition of Executive and Employees TISO plaints up 18% and other inquiries were down 40%. In the case of other inquiries, the order inquiries such as As of the end of 2010, the total number of executives and employees stood at 4,450. Majority of them were phone payments, cancellation, etc. decreased by 40%. in sales or in logistics/production. Out of the 4,450 employees, 2,496 workers were female, which were management 56% and male workers were 1,954. In office work and research, female workers accounted for 35%. employees Customer Satisfaction Management Female workers were evenly distributed across all job levels. 4,450 Economic Job Creation and Turnover Rate Customer Satisfaction Schemes The job creation rate for 2010 was 6.9% and the monthly turnover was 2.42% on average, showing a stable Pulmuone conduct various monitoring activities while commis[CS Center Service Satisfaction] trend. The average working period is getting longer every year, standing at 5.2 years as of late 2010. In all Performances sioning out product and service satisfaction surveys designed to (unit: score) employees, the senior executives accounted for 0.81% as of late 2010. Social fit each business to relevant internal or external agencies in order to quantify and confirm customer satisfaction. Irregular workers Management The portion of irregular workers increased to 12.2%, which was 1.8%p higher than 10.4% of 2009, due to Pulmuone, CS Service Survey temporary increase in sales except for the hourly event promoters. Pulmuone pursues to recruit permaThe consumer satisfaction score in 2010 was 87.4, which was 1.5 nent full-time workers with trying to provide job security to its employees. Environmental points higher compared to 2009. The satisfaction in every criteria has improved against 2009 and increased by 2.4 in the criteria ‘CS Management center connection & response’. Performance Management and Reward [Customer Satisfaction] Foodmerce, Customer Satisfaction Survey (unit: score) Performance Management System Since 2006 Foodmerce has constantly conducted customer satisPulmuone's performance management system is called CfS (Communication for Success). CfS consists of faction survey in 10 criteria such as order, product, delivery, qualevaluating performance and competency, and reflects the differences of positions in the elements and ity, etc. to its customers. The customer satisfaction score in 2010 items of evaluation. Above all, the main focus of the CfS is performance creation through active communication. was 72.5, which was 1.8 points higher compared to 2009. As a goal-oriented management system, CfS operates in all business units and obliges the communication between employees and leaders. It promotes performance improvement by collecting feedback through continuous goal monitoring and by securing the alignment of goals between company and each of employees at the time of goal establishment. It also utilizes continuous career management and establishment of career development plan, as well as systematization of feedbacks for appropriate professional development Customer Information Protection of the employees. Pulmuone has taken 3 major measures to protect private information of customer. First, it has reduced not only management scope but also the risk of information leak and infringement by integrating 9 DB into 4 DB Work and Life Balance with figuring out DB that stores customer information. Second, it has tightened up the protection of private Operation of EAP (Employee Assistance Program) information of customer by encryption technology advised by National Intelligence Service for information Pulmuone promotes work and life balance through regular lectures and professional counseling where such as social security number, bank account number and credit card number. Third, it has monitored the confidentiality is assured. As of the end of 2010, 15.7 % of employees used counseling service (as opposed access to DB storing private information all the time and has strengthened management of staffs accessible to 6.4% average in other companies), and the counseling satisfaction rating was at 90.1 points (as opposed to DB and improved their awareness. to 82 points in other companies), thus giving EAP a very positive evaluation. 38 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 39 Education System and Promotion Overview Awarded the ‘Best Company to Work For in Korea’ In order to establish a Great Work Place, Pulmuone promoted various innovation activities for organizaPulmuone's newly established education system was renewed and applied in 2010. In 2011, Pulmuone tional culture since 2009. For its performance, Pulmuone was award as the winner in sales and distribuplans to reinforce an education system focused around actual work-site operations and newly establish an tion category at the ‘2010 FORTUNE Best Company to Work For in Korea’ award ceremony, which was education system in order to contribute to the knowledge-based performance improvement. hosted by GWP Korea and Fortune Korea. Sustainability 1 C-Cubic Ceremony Mentoring Program for New Employees In 2010, Pulmuone introduced a mentoring program for the better adjustment of new employees to corpoManagement 2 2010 FORTUNE Best Company to Work For rate life and for the realization of their competence early on by helping them fit into corporate culture, in Korea Award which is one of the difficulties that new employees face when they first enter the company (total of 2 terms, Ceremony TISO 26 pairs). The mentoring program was organized to implement 3 months of mentoring activities by pairing a new employee with existing employee. In a participant survey, this program received a positive response management (3.83 out of 5.0 points) when asked if the operation of the mentoring program was beneficial for the company and the individual . 1 2 1,2,3 Mentor and Economic Mentee Activities Women-Friendly Corporate Culture Performances Women-friendly corporate culture is defined as a culture where women are able to continue her career Social and where the healthy upbringing of children, who are the future of world, is strongly supported. Therefore, Pulmuone is striving to create a cultural and institutional environment for the compatibility Management between the workplace and the household in order to recognize and foster the value of female human resource. 1 2 3 Environmental [Establishing Women-Friendly Environment] Program Contents LOHAS Value-Oriented Program Management Paternity Leave Give paternity leave (3 days) when spouse gives birth Pulmuone operates regular education programs to accumulate the LOHAS as a part of core value education Operation of Nursing Rooms Set up and operate nursery rooms in the company for female employees to take on the attitude to lead the right life and to promote the mission as a leading LOHAS company. The with infants LOHAS Value-Oriented Program is developed and operated for the employees for their personal experience Guarantee Maternal and Encourage the use of maternity and child care leave of married female and in 2010, a total of 3,145 employees participated in the program. Childcare Leave employees at their will (Maternity leave return-to-work rate at 92%, child 1,2 Panoramic View care leave return-to-work rate at 85%) of LOHAS Academy Flexible Working System Offer flexible work hours to employees for infant care in Fall Season Money Gift Money gift for birth celebration and elementary school entrance Infant Care Benefit In order to support infant care of female employees, give a certain amount of money in monthly until infant becomes 24 month old Employment Status for Female Employees 1 2 Women make up for 56% of total employees and executives, and their number is steadily increasing at 15%. Also, out of the total number of new recruitments, the employment rate of women has been steadily LOHAS Program (Experience Type) 2010 Operation increasing at 40.7% (compared to 37.6% last year). (Unit: %) LOHAS meal plan experience Total of 3145 employees participated (56 classes) Year 2008 2009 2010 Meditation . Staff: 1,154 people Female Employees 57 56 56 Chiropractic, Agricultural experience, . Partner: 1,364 people Female Office Employees 32 33 34 LOHAS Spa . Youth Camp, etc. : 627 people Female Managers 13 15 15 40 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 41 Labor and Management Communications Safe Workplace Program and Education Overview Every year, Pulmuone actively conducts discussions regarding labor union and working conditions through labor collective agreements. In addition, Pulmuone conducts various communication activities such as Program and Policy on Illness Prevention and Health Improvement notification of sales report via intranet, regular labor-management council, communication meeting with Pulmuone runs various illness prevention activities such as supporting the purchase of Pulmuone Health CEO, weekly corporate information delivery through intranet, monthly company newsletter publication, & Living products, conducting medical check-ups for illness prevention, operating fitness centers to proSustainability occupational safety & health committee meeting, grievance redress, and annual sustainability report in mote physical fitness, and participating in activities to prevent musculoskeletal illnesses. Through the order to rapidly and widely share items regarding overall management as well as the company vision. introduction of personal health consultation program since 2008, Pulmuone has actively supported the Ultimately, Pulmuone supports its employees to feel a sense of ownership and to participate in the employees' health care, and expanded the fitness centers in all Pulmuone factories as of December 2010. Management management of the company through such communication activities. Safety & Health Education and Training Grievance Redress and Joint Labor-Management Council Pulmuone has developed and operated education programs that are designed according to the condition TISO management Pulmuone has appointed a redress officer and established a special counseling room in order to conduct and situation of each worksite. Twice a year, Pulmuone conducts manager training course (2 nights 3 and resolve employees’ grievances. Pulmuone also plans to prevent grievances in advance by labor days, total of 46 hours) that aims at the activation of organizational communication, reinforcement of safety diagnose as well as constant grievance redress in the future. Labor management negotiations were policies, and the securement of all worksite managers' safety conviction and philosophy. Pulmuone also Economic conducted in every quarter in 2010, and the settlements results were notified to employees on the bullet conducts a Cultivation of Environment Safety Mind Course (1 nights 2 days, total of 36 hours) twice a year board of intranet. in LOHAS Academy where employees freshen up themselves and attend the Danger Predication Training that prevents unstable behavior for on-site employees. Performances Labor Union 1 Danger Predication Social Management Training Labor Union Member Qualification and Status 2 LOHAS Academys Pulmuone guarantees its employees the freedom to join a labor union and participate in activities as a Lecture on member, which is clearly stated in the collective agreement. As of December of 2010 Pulmuone has 7 Authentic Environmental Wholesome Foods labor unions. 62.0% of the employees have joined the union. Management Workplace Safety Industrial Accidents Rate, Number of Injured Employees, and Absence Rate Industrial accident rate at Pulmuone is 0.34% as of 2010, which is 1 0.91%p lower than the average of domestic food manufacturing industry average. The injury ratio of employees has decreased since 2008, and the total number of injured employees was 15, with the related absence rate at 0.01%. Compliance with Industrial Safety Related Regulations [Regulation Compliance Level according to Worksite Chart] Since 2008, through internal Environment Safety Council (bimonthly) by amendment status monitoring regarding environmental safety related regulations, Pulmuone has made sure there are no violations by examining the regulation compliance every year. The regulation compliance level stood at 82.5% in 2008, 89.4% in 2009, and 96.2% in 2010. In addition, Pulmuone plans to establish a system that monitors business unit/worksite compliance in 2011, 2 and also plans to examine the system every two years. 42 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 43 Social Management _Partner Companies Monitoring Activities Overview Pulmuone Foods, Regular Evaluation After the selecting its partners, Pulmuone conducts annual evaluation on certain criteria: financial soundness, deadline observance, quality competitiveness, price competitiveness, and management capacity. Since Sustainability Process to Select Partners January 2010, Pulmuone has inspected 25 partners that are supplying packing materials to Pulmuone noodle factory located in Eumsung, Chungbuk, regarding the price competitiveness, deadline observance, Pulmuone's Selection Process quality competitiveness as well as social and environmental achievement. Management First, a candidate pool is developed based on the rankings of potential partners. Then, market research Pulmuone Waters, introduction of NQMS (Nestle Quality Management System) TISO and sourcing of cooperatives are undertaken. After assessing potential cooperatives' compatibility with the business and their business capabilities, an inspection is carried out on quality and sanitary conditions Pulmuone Waters introduced Nestle Quality Management System in order to maintain the product quality management (40%), supply security (30%), and improvement after receiving complaints (30%). When evaluating quality above a certain standard, by examining and preventing any problems that may occur during the distribution and sanitary conditions, candidate companies that use green materials and exercise green management process, and to improve the management standard of franchisee. get extra scores to be considered as potential partners. Then, the CEO visits the candidate companies to Economic confirm their operation and signs a contract with the companies that have gone through the whole inspection process. Communication with Partners Performances [Material Provider Selection and Sign-up Process for Contract] Pulmuone, Communication through Sourcing Portal System Social Pulmuone is trying to secure mutual trust by managing the partners’ production and product delivery process with an on-line system called Sourcing Portal (http://sourcing.pulmuone.com) . This system Management enables proper treatments to partners’ complaints and inconveniences. In addition, The sourcing portal has the channel through which partners can propose ideas and ask to improve their complaints, which facilitates the communication between Pulmuone and partners. Environmental Pulmuone Foods, on-site based C&T (Communication & Trust) Leadership Management Pulmuone Foods holds a conference with partners once a year. The 2010 conference was held in March. Through the conferences, Pulmuone Foods strived to boost quality competitiveness by finding and introducing outstanding products, and to share the business direction and strategy of Pulmuone Foods with the partners. Win-Win Collaboration with Partners Pulmuone Health & Living, hosts its first meeting with partners In May, 2010, Pulmuone Health & Living hosted the meeting with partners for the first time. The conference Activities for Win-win Collaboration [PRM impact on partner companies] proved to be an opportunity to understand the Pulmuone spirit and to continue a strategic cooperation Pulmuone Foods, Partner Relationship Management (PRM) relation with partners. At the same time, it was a chance to share quality innovation strategies and Implementation understand where the business is headed, as well as to plan ways to manage partners' product quality Pulmuone encourages its partners to strictly follow the and Pulmuone's quality principles and to educate on electronic commerce contract for transparent Quality First policy by supporting them to improve the transactions. production process and sanitary conditions. As part of such efforts, Pulmuone established and implemented the Partner Pulmuone Waters, Sales Information System Relationship Management (PRM) policy for long-term mutual Pulmuone Waters conducts regular communication with partners through its sales information system. growth. Partner Relationship Management (PRM) refers to The sales information system is composed of management of franchise support, management of data continuous win-win activities where Pulmuone and its partners analysis, and notification board and enables activities such as sales management, sales analysis, and the collaborate in all areas based on mutual trust. The areas of sharing of company policy. collaboration include quality, production process, product, and technology. 44 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 45 Social Management _Local Community Overview Volunteer Activities Being Held throughout Worksites Executives and employees at Pulmuone formed a volunteer group to carry out regular volunteer activities such as tree planting, farm volunteering, environmental conservation as well as providing lunch to neglected Sustainability Groundwork for Social Outreach Activities children in society. Pulmuone does it's best to fulfill corporate social responsibilities with planning social outreach activities fit into our business context, building up competitive social outreach system regularly looking for new opporManagement tunities, and devising employee's voluntary participation system under the goal of 'Local community con[Participation Record] TISO tribution' and 'activation of employees' voluntary participation'. Classification 2008 2009 2010 Number of Participation(Frequency) 135 246 308 management Sharing with Local Community Duration of Participation (Hours) 9,740 6,709 7,889 Social Outreach Group, LOHAS Designer Number of Participants (People) 1,948 1,491 1,929 In order to systematically carry out the volunteer activities of its executives and employees, Pulmuone Economic organized LOHAS Designer, a corporate-scale social outreach group. In 2010, 1,031 employees volunHungry Children Aid teered for the total duration of 3,708 hours and 224 times, which was equivalent to 3.6 hours per person. Pulmuone has provided the lunch money to the students of those schools having a business relationship with Foodmerce as well as to the employees working at factories around Pulmuone facilities. The lunch Performances money donated to those starving students is raised from 'Love for Neighbor Fund' with Pulmuone employSocial ee's voluntary participation and 'The Matching Fund', equivalent amount of money donated from Pulmuone. Management [Status of Hungry Children Aid Schools and Students] Classification 2008 2009 2010 Environmental Schools with Hungry Children Aid(Numbers) 37 46 42 Students with Hungry Children Aid(People) 364 530 246 Management [Social Outreach Group Participation Record] Second half of 2009 2010 Social Outreach Activities Number of Participation (Frequency) 145 224 Cause-Related Marketing with the Beautiful Store Duration of Participation (Hours) 1,147 3,708 Pulmuone conducted relevant marketing activities with Number of Participants (People) 428 1,031 the Beautiful Store with adding the Beautiful Store logo on packages of products and donating part of the sales of products with the logo. In 2010, Pulmuone donated Love for Neighbor Fund ten million won in cash as well as 200 sets of ‘My kids’ The executives and employees at Pulmuone hold monthly fund raising activities from their salaries in products that were exclusively developed and designed order to help the neighbors in need. This fund is used to help starving people in the world and to support for children. lunch to starving Korean children through an organization, Korea Food for the Hungry International. Earth Love Mark and Earth Love Fund [Fund raising Record] (Unit: Korean Won) Since 1993, Pulmuone has included the ‘Earth Love’ marks in its product packaging Year 2008 2009 2010 and has reserved 0.1% of total sales in the ‘Earth Love Fund’ is used to support Savings 139,656,928 209,121,083 152,894,453 NGO activities such as sharing with communities and protecting environment. For Expenditure 225,500,305 173,432,848 99,545,885 2010, a total of 487,357,412 Korean Won was executed. Total Balance 75,624,872 111,313,107 164,661,675 46 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 47 Let's save the earth from carbon emissions and decrease damages from desertification! Quickly start 'Tree Planting' About 30 Pulmuone volunteers who chose to rush to Incheon World Peace Forest, giving up sweet weekend break. After receiving 300 pine trees and being instructed on how to plant them, the volunteers started planting the pine trees one by one with great care and a love for the earth. Hey! Try treading on the ground like this. Even the children that came out with the volunteers seemed rather serious. For the sake of the children's hands planting tree seedlings, even the earth seems to recover it's old green look. Green Environment Management Dream Nurturing Story In the spirit of ‘caring for both human and nature', Pulmuone, a corporate with utmost effort to provide best products and services to customers, is leading the way saving nature, the source of life while dreaming of green planet. We know that human can live like human when saving nature as it is. Environment Management Overview Sustainability Groundwork for Environment Management 2013 Environment Strategy While providing healthy foods, the fruit of nature, Pulmuone promotes environment management under In order to reflect and practically accomplish environment management in the given industrial practices, Management the belief that 'human beings will be healthy only if the environment is healthy.' Without environmental Pulmuone has established and has been promoting missions, core values, and strategies. For example, TISO awareness and specific practices, a corporate is not able to protect or improve environment. Therefore, Pulmuone has been striving to establish a quantitative environmental goal of 10% reduction in water use, from production to distribution, Pulmuone has been fulfilling specific environmental strategies and enviand has been putting efforts to achieve that goal. Although Pulmuone exceeded its goal of reduction in carmanagement ronmental visions in accordance with global standards. bon dioxide emissions, water usage did not meet the expectation due to increase in new product items and related production process along with increased use of cleaning water. Therefore, Pulmuone is currently [Ground for Environment Management Chart] considering the establishment of recycling facilities as a means to reduce water use. Economic [Pulmuone's 2013 Environment Strategy] Performances Social Management Environmental Management 50 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 51 Environment Management Records Activities Related to Production Overview Pulmuone is striving for 10% reduction in water use and carbon dioxide emission by 2013 and is applying clean Use of Renewable Energy production methods. Pulmuone is also utilizing indicators to manage energy and water use, waste generation At Pulmuone, geothermal heat, which is a type of renewable energy, is utilized to heat and cool educational and emission level for the reduction of environmental effects and the effective use of natural resources. facilities and horticulture systems. As a part of the government's dissemination of geothermal heating project Unit 2007 2008 2009 2010 to horticulture green house facilities, Pulmuone completed enclosed vertical heat pump installation in its Sustainability 1) Efficiency of Quantity of Soybeans % 3.799 3.676 3.733 3.802 greenhouse in March of 2010. The change from the previous gas oil-based greenhouse energy system to ecoRaw Material Quantity of noodle Products % 5.633 5.977 6.051 5.290 friendly heating energy system enabled the reduction in heating costs by 78.5% compared to gas oil based Use Quantity of Green Vegetable Juice % 3.162 2.978 3.031 3.896 heating system. As opposed to the previous gas oil boiler, which was only used for heating and therefore was Management 1) Energy Quantity of Direct Energy consumption kgOE/ton of product 84.1 79.5 77.5 77.1 useless during summer, the newly installed enclosed vertical heat pump can heat and cool by using geotherTISO Quantity of Indirect Energy consumption kgOE/ton of product 94.7 94.7 90.7 91.6 mal heat 150 meter below ground, with the annual average temperature at around 17℃. This therefore Water Use 1) Amount of Water Used m3/ton of product 28.5 33.4 28.7 29.2 enabled year-round operation of greenhouses. Currently, greenhouse is under pilot operation at a scale of management 3) Greenhouse Total CO2 Emission CO2 thousand t CO2/year 55 55 58 63 0.3ha out of the total area of 1ha, and 14% of the greenhouse heat pump capacity is being put into use. Gases Production Process thousand t CO2/year 32 31 32 32 Distribution Process thousand t CO2/year 23 24 26 31 1,2 Young leaf cultiEconomic Production CO2 requirement t CO2/ton of product 0.434 0.384 0.357 0.356 vating facility of Distribution CO2 requirement t CO2/million won 0.075 0.062 0.057 0.067 Pulmuone Farm and Performances Heating and Cooling Transportation and shipping t CO2/million won 0.053 0.042 0.038 0.044 1)Production sector system using Quantity of Chlorofluorocarbon used kg 54 234 226 320 (Pulmuone Foods, geothermal heat. Atmosphere 2) Sulfur Dioxide Social g/million won 0.010 0.008 0.002 0.003 Pulmuone Health & Living) Performance Management Nitrogen Oxide kg/one million won 0.454 0.388 0.432 Management 2)Distribution sector Water Quality1) Quantity of Emission in the hydrosphere m3/ton of product 12.76 12.98 13.97 13.08 (Exofresh Logistics) Management Biochemical Oxygen Demand kg/ton of product 0.17 0.23 0.24 0.25 1 2 Performance 1) Waste Generated quantity ton/ton of product 0.152 0.156 0.159 0.153 Environmental 3)Production/ Distribution Sector Disposal method recycling % 98 98 98 97 (Pulmuone Foods, landfill % 1 1 1 2 Efforts to Reduce Greenhouse Gases Management Pulmuone Health & incineration % 1 1 1 1 Eumsung noodle factory switched from Bunker A to liquefied natural gas(LNG) in 2007, which was regisLiving, Exofresh 3) Environment Environment investment and 100 million won 31.12 55.37 47.68 24.75 tered as a business of domestic greenhouse gas reduction. 2,627 tons of greenhouse gas has been Logistics) Performance Protection Costs management costs reduced for 2 years(2007.7~2009.7) after the registration and the certification for the reduction was received. In June 2010, the government purchased the total amount of reduction and then the profit of 13.6 million Korean Won was created. Activities to Reduce Environmental Impacts [Process of Greenhouse Gas Reduction Project] Activities Related to Purchase 1 Green purchase Increase in Purchase and Use of Eco-Friendly Products after the Green Purchase Voluntary Agreement. voluntary After green purchase voluntary agreement with the agreement with the Ministry of Environment in 2007, Pulmuone established Ministry of green procurement policies and started to purchase Environment more eco-friendly products: office supplies, equipments and facilities. As a result, the green purchase amounts increased by 10 times from 25 million Korean Won in 2007 to 272 million Korean Won in 2009. The green purchase agreement was renewed in June of 2010, and Pulmuone plans to expand the purchase of 1 eco-friendly products throughout the entire company. 52 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 53 Usage Activities Overview Reduction of Water Use Throughout all Pulmuone companies, recycling of process water is promoted in order to reduce water Reduction in Packaging Material Use usage. The tofu factories in Eumsung, Chuncheon, and Uiryeong were able to cut down waste heat and Through the development of sustainable packaging materials, Pulmuone applied a packaging material water use with indirect cooling water reuse in equipment cleaning process. Previously, cooling water used design that reduces the printing frequency and weight of packaging materials and used the common during the standard tofu making process was discharged into the waste water disposal treatment facility, design for internal packaging. Especially, since noodle products can distinguish from their packaging, Sustainability yet as a recycling method, Pulmuone collected the indirect cooling water in water catchment tank and proPulmuone integrated the internal packaging when applicable and simplified the color of internal packagvided it to be used as cleaning water that needs certain amount of heat. Such reduction in energy required ing. Such efforts reduced packaging materials by 23%. for heating enabled the reduction of water use by 56,000m3 and LNG use by 58,922kg annually. [Improvement of commonly used internal packaging] [Simplification of printing frequency] Management [Water Use Unit Trend] Before After Before After TISO Classification Unit 2008 2009 2010 Total Water Use m3 2,692,798 2,565,123 2,721,706 management Ratio of Underground Water % 20 22 22 Ratio of Service water % 80 78 78 Keum River Eumsung Tofu, Noodles, Been sprouts, m3 2,045,272 1,833,724 1,918,440 Economic heath supplement, Green Vegetable Juice Nakdong River Uiryeong Tofu m3 186,761 176,551 173,445 [Reduction by 23% by removing bundle packaging] [Reduction of packaging materials by 4% by reducing pouch and packaging from 4 to 3 layers] Performances Han River Chuncheon Tofu, Ice m3 251,500 296,870 354,956 Before After Before After [Water Use Unit Trend] [Recycling Indirect Cooling Water into Process Water] Social Management Environmental Efforts to Protect Ecosystem Diversity Management LOHAS Academy that strives to conserve the environment Located in 54th street, Pyungdan-Li, Cheongcheonmyun, Geosan-Gun, Chungbuk, Pulmuone LOHAS Academy has landfield site with a total area of 13ha which includes training facility, farm and youth training center. Since LOHAS academy is located in forests surrounded by two mountain ridges and beautiful natuTransportation and Shipping Activities ral environment streching to the Songnisan National Park, it enjoys diverse ecological environments such Expansion of Eco-Drive as forests, farmland, wetlands, and boulder stone areas and ecological diversity on the forest boundaries. Exofresh Logistics, which is responsible for the transportation and shipping of Pulmuone products, operates LOHAS Academy uses a heating and cooling system that does not use any fossil fuels at all in order to prean average of 526 vehicles per month. In order for the eco-friendly safe driving, it also conducted a compulsory serve the nearby ecosystem. It is also striving to achieve the coexistence and harmony with nature through eco-drive education course for all its drivers in collaboration with Korea Transportation Safety Authority. educational programs such as feeding wild animals during winter time, removing kudzu vines, making biotopes, hanging birdhouses, and realizing the benefits of forests. [Results of eco-drive in operation channels] 1 Best eco-driver Fuel efficiency improvement rate 1 Panoramic View of campaign award share of improved vehicles LOHAS Academy 103.8% 2 Feeding Squirrels 103.2% 102.4% 101.5% 101.2% 75.0% 62.2% 66.7% 64.3% 62.5% 1 Green Joint 1 2 Foodmerce vegetable juice ORGA Transportation shipping 54 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 55 Third Party’s Assurance Report Type and Level of Assurance 1 and Moderate Level of AA1000AS (2008). ·The Assurance Provider evaluated the reliability of the data compiled in the Report for Type 1 assurance, and assessed publicly disclosed information, reporting system and performance management process based on the three core principles of AA1000AS (2008), namely Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. However, this assurance engagement does not provide the evaluation of the credibility of the offered data. ·The Assurance Provider pursued moderate level of assurance where sufficient evidence has been To the Management of the Pulmuone 2010 Sustainability Report obtained and limited sampling has been conducted at each performance sector to support its Upon request of Pulmuone, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies as a “third party assurance assurance report such that the risk of its conclusion being in error is reduced but not reduced to provider” (hereinafter referred to as the “Assurance Provider”) presents the following third party’s very low or not zero. assurance report on the “Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 (hereinafter referred to as the “Report”)” Scope and Methodology The Assurance Provider carried out the following activities in order to (1) review the extent to which Accountability and Independence The Report applies the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness and (2) assess the Pulmuone is held accountable for all information and claims contained in the Report including Report’s application level of the GRI/BEST Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. sustainability management goal setting, performance management, data collection and report ·Evaluating the sources of publicly disclosed information and internal parties involved preparation. The Assurance Provider has no relations with Pulmuone regarding any of its for-profit ·Verifying the performance data collection systems and processes operations and activities. In addition, the Assurance Provider has carried out its assurance process ·Ensuring the financial data in the Report and Pulmuone’s audited financial reports correspond with independence and autonomy as it was not involved in the preparation of the Report except for ·Reviewing media reports related to Pulmuone and the original source of the information in offering comments in the process. The Report ·Conducting data sampling and analysis of the stakeholder’s survey result Objective ·Conducting a materiality test of company policy, peer review, media search, stakeholder’s The objective of this assurance report is to check whether the Report is free of material misstatement opinion survey or bias and whether the data collection systems used are robust, and to offer advice on improving the ·Reviewing the Pulmuone’s response system for material issues quality of the Report through identifying sustainable management issues and reviewing its reporting ·Conducting interviews with managers and staffs responsible for dimension-specific performance process. ·Completing on-site review focusing on the Seoul office from February 17, 2011 to February 22, 2011 ·Evaluating the Report for the extent of adherence to the GRI/BEST Guidelines Criteria for Assurance The Assurance Provider assessed the Report against the following guidelines: 1 AA1 AA1000 AS(Assurance Standard) is a sustainability reporting standard developed by Accountability in its pursuit to promote overall 1) AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008)1 organizational performance and accountability by improving the quality of social and ethical accounting. As a U. K. based not-for-profit 2 organization focusing on corporate social responsibility and business ethics, Accountability first developed AA1000AS in 1999 and amended 2) BEST Guideline the standards in 2008 for application in 2010. 3) Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines3 2 BEST Guideline or BEST Sustainability Reporting Guideline is a guideline for the preparation and assurance of sustainability reporting and offers five levels of reporting quality assessment. It was jointly developed by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy (MKE), the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS), and the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) in the Business Ethics Sustainability Management for Top Performers (BEST) forum in their endeavor to promote sustainability reporting among local companies. 3 GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines were jointly convened by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES) and UNEP in 1997. GRI announced the G3 Guideline, the third edition of its sustainability reporting guidelines, in October 2006. 56 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 57 Limitations [Materiality]: A review of whether the Report contains information of the highest ·A review of the accuracy and reliability of data and interviews with persons in charge of data collection material importance to Pulmuone stakeholders and performance-related information at management levels It is The Assurance Provider’s view that the Report does not omit or exclude any information of ·Verifying the data and inquiries into each functional manager and information collection manager material importance to the stakeholders of Pulmuone. We verified to identify and report on material ·On-site validation focused on the Seoul head office issues through a systematic assessment of materiality including an analysis of its internal policies, ·Assurance engagement based on data and publicly available information only during the current stakeholder surveys, peer benchmarking, a review of media coverage etc., with the Report providing reporting period the performance information necessary for stakeholders to formulate informed judgments, decisions, ·Evaluation of the reliability of the performance data being excluded and actions. The following points were found to be particularly commendable. ·The Report provides a categorical breakdown of the various issues to better indicate stakeholder Conclusions requirements. The Assurance Provider did not find the Report to contain any material misstatements or bias on the ·The Report adopts the DMA (Disclosures on Management Approach) to clearly outline how Pulmuone basis of the scope, methodology and criteria described above. All material findings of the Assurance has been managing key material issues specific to each of the dimensions. Provider are provided herein, and detailed findings and follow-up recommendations have been Going forward, the Assurance Provider suggests further highlighting key issues in future reports submitted to the management of Pulmuone. while outlining negative performance results and the company’s response. [Inclusivity]: A review of the adequacy of Pulmuone strategies and procedures for [Responsiveness]: A review of whether the Report provides an adequate response stakeholder participation to stakeholder requirements and interests The Assurance Provider noted that recognizing the importance of stakeholder participation in The Assurance Provider noted efforts by Pulmuone to collect stakeholder demands and interests via sustainability management, Pulmuone has been placing focus on continuous communications and diverse stakeholder channels while putting in place various programs to establish better communications interactions with its stakeholders. The company defined and categorized all stakeholder groups to with it stakeholders and provide an adequate response. The following points were found to be parput in place a regular channel of communication with the respective stakeholders. It is the Assurance ticularly commendable. Provider’s view that Pulmunone has been using these channels to better identify priority issues regarding sustainability management, while engaging stakeholders to participate in the development ·The Report provides a detailed account of the company’s organization in charge of responding to and implementation of a strategic and responsible response toward achieving sustainability management. key issues as well its role and activities. The following points were found to be particularly commendable. ·The Report presents customer view findings from the company’s satisfaction and service surveys etc. ·The continuous use of stakeholder surveys, whose results are outlined in the Report. Going forward, the Assurance Provider suggest providing stronger coverage on communication ·The fact that the company has been managing the VOC and VOE as a food business where customer results with stakeholders as well a progress report on the company’s response to various stakeholder communication is particularly important, while setting up CS Center operations for each of the demands as well as their outcomes. Also, in the interest of clarity, the company is advised to report respective subsidiaries; and the use of 6 Sigma techniques in VOC analysis and management to on issues that may be a source of misunderstanding for stakeholders although the issue itself might reflect customer vies on product development and services through process improvements. not have much direct relevance to the company’s business management and performance or demand high stakeholder interest. Going forward, The Assurance Provider suggests providing a fuller account of how customer views are reflected in the decision-making process as well as further details on issues raised through the various communication channels as well as the status of the company’s response. 58 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 59 [GRI Application Levels] For future reports, the Assurance Provider suggests the following considerations. The Assurance Provider found the Report to apply to GRI G3 Reporting Framework at the level of A+. ·Present performance results against mid-to-long terms sustainability management targets during The GRI Application Level is assessed by the following table. the reporting period ·Provide case studies on actual implementation instead of just an overview on the implemented system. ·Provide priority reporting on key issues. ·Provide stronger coverage on negative issues or performance. ·Provide details on the performance creation process ·i.e. drivers, conditions, resources, mechanism etc. Based on the findings of this statement of assurance as well as the recommendation letter that was submitted separately, the Assurance Provider recommends that Pulmuone establish a more systematic system for sustainability management and reporting Eligibility of IPS as an Assurance Provider Established in 1993, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) has accumulated broad expertise in the areas of ethics management, corporate social responsibility and sustainable management since 2002, and serves as a third party assurance provider for the sustainability reports published by local companies. IPS has conducted the assurance engagement upon request of Pulmuone, and assembled a team of five assurance practitioners (Seok-yeong Lee, Dong-su Kim, Dong-won Lee, [BEST Fulfillment Levels] Jeong-eun Park, Jeong-ah Sohn) who are professors at Korea’s top universities or professionals with The Assurance Provider found the Report to fulfill 99.5% of the reporting requirements necessary to accreditation and extensive experience in sustainability management after majoring in business qualify for a Level 5 Report (from among Level 1~ 5) management, accounting or environmental science. ·Trend of the Pulmuone Sustainability Management Report Fulfillment Reporting Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Publications 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th Level Level 3 Level 4 Level 4 Level 4 Level 5 Fulfillment 81.3% 96.4% 98.0% 99.1% 99.5% March 18, 2011 Jae-eun Kim * Assurance findings were converted uniformly into fulfillment ratios as measured against Level 1 through 5 requirements. President, The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies Recommendations The Assurance Provider found “Sustainability Management 2010” by Pulmuone, commendable on the following counts. The Report 1) constitutes level five (Mature) of the BEST Reporting Guidelines as it provides a reinforced account of its management system encompassing the company’s sustainability management strategies, organization, and future strategies; 2) informs readers on the various programs being pursued under the CEO’s strong commitment for sustainability management; and 3) presents the value of the company’s various products to its stakeholders to highlight its emphasis on sustainability management at a management strategy level. 60 Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2010 61
