SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 CONTENTS A Letter to Our Stakeholders 6 Edison’s Sustainable Development Policy 9 WHO WE ARE 10 Structure of the Group 12 Edison’s Strategies for the Future 13 Our Responsibility 17 Corporate Governance 18 Identification of Relevant CSR Issues 24 Edison and its Stakeholders 25 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 28 Trends in the Energy Industry 29 The Wealth We Created 29 Relations with the Financial Community 31 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 34 Promoting Sustainable Development 35 Protecting Biodiversity 40 Edison and Climate Change 42 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 52 Our Employees 53 Our Customers 60 Our Suppliers 67 Public Institutions 70 Our Communities 71 Strategic Projects for Italy and Europe 72 Edison and Human Rights 74 Programs for the Community 82 Socio-environmental Accounting – A Note on Methodology 83 Commitments for the Future 84 Performance Indicators 86 GRI index 95 Review report 98 3 Sustainability Report 2010 n Contents EDISON IN ITALY 4 KHR power plants (Edison 20%) Mese (12 c.li)** Campo Venina Udine (8 c.li)** Pieve Vergonte Albano Armisia Val Meduna (5 c.li) Battiggio Val Caffaro (4 c.li) Cologno Monzese Chivasso* Milan Turbigo* Piacenza* Sermide* Cavarzere Izabela Minerbio Naide Calipso Sambuceto Sulmona Termoli Ripabottoni Rome Lucito Volturara Motta Volturino Tusciano (8 c.li)** Vaglio Brindisi* Sella di Conza Otran Headquarters Thermoelectric power plant Melissa San Francesco Melissa Strongoli Cagliari R&D Center Hydroelectric power plant Wind farm Gas field Oil field Mistretta San Filippo del Mela* Storage concession LNG terminal Compressor station Galsi Planned gas pipeline Siracusa Tresauro Existing gas pipeline * Edipower thermoelectric power plant ** Edipower hydroelectric power plant EDISON WORLDWIDE Edison’s headquarters and offices Hydrocarbon concessions and permits Electric power generation Norway Trading branch Hydrocarbon branch UK Belgium Hungary Croatia Romania Italy Bulgaria Turkey Greece Iran Algeria Egipt Ivory Coast FACILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURES AT ITALY’S SERVICE 30 thermoelectric power plants 2 photovoltaic facilities ELECTRIC POWER IGI to 72 hydroelectric power plants 1 biomass power plant 31 wind farms 12,475 MW of installed capacity, including 2,161 MW in capacity from renewable sources* * Installed capacity data include those of Edipower at 50% 60 concessions and exploration permits in Italy 20 HYDROCARBONS concessions and permits for natural gas and crude oil exploration and production outside Italy 3 storage center concessions in Italy* 52.8 billion m in hydrocarbon reserves 3 3.68 thousand km of natural gas distribution networks * storage centers in operation and 1 under development A LETTER TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS T he global scenario that Edison was faced with in 2010 was characterized by a slow economic upturn, following one of the most severe crises of the past decades. In addition, recent events in North Africa heightened uncertainty both about the economic recovery and global political stability. In this challenging environment of profound change, Edison focused on countering the effects of negative economic conditions with the aim of preserving an adequate level of profitability over the medium term, without sacrificing its sustainable growth objectives. Because of the number and importance of its stakeholders, Edison is fully aware of the primary role that it is expected to play in applying a sustainable development model. Being socially responsible and knowing how to manage relations with its stakeholders is fundamentally important for the continuity and success of a business. In a context as critical as the one we are facing, sustainable development becomes even more significant among Edison’s corporate values. The progress of integrating social responsibility into the Company’s business model led to concrete actions in 2010, consistent with the guidelines outlined in the Sustainable Development Policy defined in 2009. The aim of this process was to combine the pursuit of economic objectives with a steady reduction of environmental and social impacts. In 2010, Edison continued to provide its contribution to the fight against climate change, giving concrete form to its commitment through the implementation of various projects. Significant examples include: expansion of energy production from renewable sources, research and innovation for technologies with a low environmental impact, and, through the Energy Efficiency and Sustainable Development Business Unit, support to industrial customers for a rational use of energy resources and renewable-source production. The results of these efforts were a reduction in the level of specific CO2 emissions by power plants and an increase in the contribution provided by renewable sources to Edison’s generating mix. Sustainability means more than just fighting climate change. In 2010, the International Biodiversity Year, Edison, consistent with an action plan to manage and protect biodiversity in the areas where it operates, developed a methodology to analyze biodiversity levels at its operating locations, aimed at defining concrete objectives for managing and maintaining its performance level. This is just an example of an all-encompassing commitment to sustainability that, going beyond the environment, views people as a central element whose value should be protected and maximized. 6 Fostering the development of its employees, while ensuring their This achievement was also made possible by finetuning the tools occupational health and safety, is another commitment inherent used to recognize and analyze the need of Italian consumers and in Edison’s responsibility. The adoption of management systems by a further development of the dialog and collaboration with conconsistent with international standards (BS OHSAS 18001) and sumer associations through a series of projects and programs: the the deployment of numerous programs to promote adequate Joint Conciliation Protocol, the Conciliation Guide and the Service health and safety levels, both internally and at contractors, are Charter. These programs enable Edison to monitor and improve evidence of the Group’s commitment to go beyond mere complithe level of the services it provides to its customers. ance with regulatory requirements. Edison promotes a continuous In addition to its customer focus, Edison’s commitment is aimed improvement policy designed to promote a culture of safety at at strengthening its ties with its host communities. The holding of all Company levels, involving all employees in the pursuit of the discussion workshops, the dialog with all parties and the estab“Zero Risk” objective. The Company’s occupational safety perforlishment of a lasting relationship with local players are essential mance reached levels of excellence both in Italy and abroad, also tools in Edison’s effort to play an ongoing active role in listenregarding the employees of contractors, for whom the Company ing to and engaging local communities in new projects, beginning developed numerous education and training programs about ocwith their development phase. The Edison Foundation deserves cupational safety. special mention for its economic analyses of industrial clusters and the structure of the Italian economy in the international conIt is important to keep in mind that market conditions were difficult text. In 2010, the foundation published several works, including in 2010, particularly in the natural gas market. In such an environ“The Edison Foundation: Ten years for Europe’s Economy.” In adment, transparent communications with the market and the sharedition, it partenered with other foundations, entities and non-profit holder community became even more important than in the past. organizations that are an integral part of Edison’s corporate reThrough an ongoing dialog, Edison succeeded in making the marsponsibility strategy, in that they represent an effective tool in the ket aware of the strategies that it deployed to respond to the crisis dialog with civil society. and through which it plans to stabilize its performance in future years. The electric power industry suffered from the combined efWith regard to community projects, the programs carried out by fect of a drop in demand and an increase in supply, which comthe Company in 2010 addressed issues concerning the territories pressed generating margins. In the hydrocarbon area, an already where it operates, young people and young children, focusing on complex situation was made worse by a combination of factors at a few priority areas: the promotion of sustainable development, the global level (e.g., availability of shale gas, lower consumption, energy efficiency, sports and culture. Because Edison operates abundant LNG supply) that created extreme pressure on spot gas both in Italy and abroad, its commitment in this area was important prices, which diverged by a substantial amount from prices under at the international level as well, with such projects as the “It’s my conventional long-term gas procurement contracts, which are inright” project, for the rights of women and children in Egypt, and dexed to crude oil prices and include take-or-pay clauses. the “Together for Haiti” employee volunteer program. Despite such a challenging environment, Edison’s electric power Lastly, Edison developed its owned strategic approach to the isoperations succeeded in delivering a profitability performance in sue of human rights as an integral part of its Corporate Social Responsibility values. As part of this effort, it developed a dedicate line with previous years. In the natural gas area, Edison began seminary on this issue, coordinating, in cooperation with the UN the process of renegotiation contracts with its suppliers, filing for Global Compact Italian Network, a work group tasked with providarbitration in some cases, with the aim of reestablishing a reasoning input on human rights and innovative methods for handling able profit margin. this issue. Insofar as the Group’s electric power operations are concerned, Umberto Quadrino the reduction in profit margins was compensated by an increase Chief Executive Officer in unit sales, as the Group reached the milestone of one million end customers in 2010, just two years after entering the residential electric power market. The key factors that contributed to this performance were affordability, simplicity, transparency and quality of service. 7 8 EDISON’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT POLICY S ustainability is a strategic element of Edison’s impact, can help contain global warming and provide growth opbusiness model. The creation of value is based on portunities in our markets. the ability to pursue economic objectives while at Empowering our employees and providing them with a the same time steadily reducing environmental imhealthy and safe work environment are core objectives for pacts, consistent with a sustainable development Edison, which views them as fundamental elements to guarantee approach, thereby meeting the expectations of all stakeholders. the respect and integrity of all our associates. We treasure diverThe world is faced with the global challenge of climate sity and foster the professional development of our employees by change, which can be successfully tackled only if we all get listening to their needs and expectations. involved. As an electric utility, we have a great responsibility: we Edison is committed to strengthening its ties with its lohave to manage and mitigate our environmental impact and help cal communities by respecting the aspirations of the lominimize the effects on climate, while delivering energy to all of cal population and supporting growth in the areas where our customers. it operates. We involve the communities in decisions that affect We are convinced that the promotion of a culture of energy conthem, we invest in cultural development and we promote social, servation, coupled with special services for our customers and educational and sports initiatives that benefit the community. the development of an energy system with a low environmental Edison’s Responsibilities: 4 challenges and 11 Commitments for Sustainable Development THE ENVIRONMENT THE MARKET Help fight climate change and develop an energy system Be a transparent and fair player in the market in which we with a low environmental impact: operate to establish respectful and lasting relationships ■■Position ourselves among the energy companies with the most with our counterparties: efficient facilities and the lowest level of greenhouse gas emis■■Invest in research to develop new energy-saving solutions for sions, pursuing objectives of continuous improvement as we our customers, offering them services that are respectful of the shift our energy mix towards sources with lower emissions; environment, and promote an informed use of energy; ■■Aim to play a leadership role in renewable sources in Italy; ■■Develop a dialog with customers and consumer groups to im■■Operate with the utmost respect for the environment and bioprove the services that we offer. diversity. OUR EMPLOYEES OUR COMMUNITIES Foster the development of our employees by providing a Consolidate our ties with public institutions and our local healthy and safe work environment: communities by listening to the legitimate expectations ■■Strengthen programs that empower our employees by helping of our stakeholders: them develop competencies and finding an optimum work-life ■■Communicate our values, actions and achievements, while lisbalance; tening to the expectations and changing needs of our local ■■Strengthen and improve our management system for occupacommunities and those of public institutions; tional health and safety prevention and monitoring (already one ■■As responsible citizens, support social, educational and sports of the most advanced in Europe); attain accident levels that are initiatives that benefit the community; among the lowest in our industry, while continuing to pursue a ■■Establish and maintain stable, transparent and collaborative re“zero accidents” objective. lationships with our suppliers; ■■Maintain an effective system of Corporate Governance capable of steadily creating value for our shareholders. Milan, February 11, 2011 Umberto Quadrino Chief Executive Officer 9 WHO WE ARE economic value charitable contributions generated and sponsorships number of employees millions of euros millions of euros 9,529 2009 4 2009 3,923 2009 11,295 2010 4 2010 3,939 2010 injury incidence training hours rate per employee 3.04 2009 31.9 2009 2.96 2010 32.5 2010 sales of REC certified “green energy” GWh 106 2009 658 2010 energy produced from renewable sources GWh 5,954 2009 6,463 2010 CO2 emissions avoided locations with EMS with renewable sources (environmental management systems) million/t 97% Elctric Power Oper. 3.32 2009 93% Hydrocarb. Oper. 3.80 2010 R espect for the environment, dialog with local comELECTRIC POWER – SOURCES (GWh)* munities, concern for safety, delivery of high quality 2008 2009 2010 ∆% services, and transparency and ethics in dealings Net production Edison Group 50,151 41,601 41,824 0.5% with stakeholders: these are the foundations on Thermoelectric power plants 44,606 35,646 35,361 -0.8% which Edison builds its business. Edison is Italy’s Hydroelectric power plants 5,021 5,398 5,734 6.2% second largest electric power and natural gas operator. Just two Wind farms and other renewables 524 561 730 30.7% years after entering the residential electric power and gas market, Imports 250 Edison reached the milestone of one million retail customers. Other domestic purchases and swaps** 15,040 18,771 29,820 58.9% With a net production of electric power in Italy that totaled 41.8 GWh in 2010, Edison confirmed its position in the domestic marTotal sources 65,191 60,372 71,894 19.1% ket, accounting for 14.6% of the entire national production. Production outside Italy 236 943 299.6% * One GWh is equal to one million kWh in terms of physical volumes. What makes Edison unique is the development of a well balanced ** Before expenses and excluding the trading portfolio. portfolio of highly efficient power plants that enables it to generate energy with an optimum mix, ranging from gas fired, combined NATURAL GAS – SOURCES (millions of m3) cycle facilities to hydroelectric power plants, wind farms and other 2008 (1) 2009 2010 ∆% renewables. With more than 2,160 MW in installed capacity, reProduction in Italy 662 604 509 -15.7% newables account for 17% of Edison’s total capacity. The Group’s Pipeline imports 7,554 8,678 7,671 -11.6% production from renewable sources is provided by a portfolio of LNG imports 0 1,682 5,813 245.6% 72 hydroelectric power plants (1,741 MW), 31 wind farms (410 MW), 2 photovoltaic systems and 1 biomass facility. Domestic purchases and other items* 5,281 2,246 1,846 -17.8% In 2010, the Group commissioned the Mistretta wind farm in Sicily Total sources in Italy* 13,497 13,210 15,839 19.9% (30 MW) and, in May, completed the acquisition of the San FranProduction outside Italy** 352 1,231 1,458 18.5% cesco wind farm in the municipality of Melissa (KR). * Includes changes in inventory and pipeline leaks. ** Counting volumes withheld as production tax. In the hydrocarbon area, Edison has an integrated presence, rang(1) The data for 2008 have been restated in accordance with the new classification criteria adopted. ing from exploration to production, importation, distribution and sales of natural gas and oil. As part of Edison’s commitment to improve Italy’s energy mix and OIL – SOURCES (thousands of barrels) achieve greater independence from individual hydrocarbon pro2008 (1) 2009 2010 ∆% ducing countries, the Adriatic LNG’s Rovigo regasification termiProduction in Italy 1,729 1,703 2,331 36.9% nal was commissioned in 2009. It will make it possible to import 8 Production outside Italy* 0 957 1,159 21.1% billion cubic meters of natural gas a year (6.4 billion cubic meters Total sources in Italy* 1,729 2,660 3,490 31.2% reserved for Edison). * Counting volumes withheld as production tax. In addition, Edison is developing strategic supply infrastructures (1) The data for 2008 have been restated in accordance with the new classification criteria adopted. for Italy and Europe, such as the ITGI and GALSI pipelines to import natural gas from the Caspian Sea basin and Algeria. Also in the international arena, Edison is working to further strengthen its presence in the hydrocarbon sector through the development of the Abu Qir field in Egypt and the discovery of new reserves in the North Sea. In the electric power area, Edison is present in Greece with ElpEdison, the second largest operator in that country’s electric power industry, and is seeking additional growth opportunities in southeast Europe, Turkey and the Mediterranean Basin. Fortune Showcases Edison’s Reputation In 2010, Edison was again named one of the top Italian companies with the best international reputation, ranked second in the listing of “World’s Most Admired Companies” published by Fortune, a prestigious U.S. magazine. In the global ranking, Edison finished second among the companies with the best reputation in the energy industry and fourth in the world for its social responsibility and environmental activities. http://money.cnn.com/magazines/fortune/mostadmired/2011/intl/Italy.html 11 Sustainability Report 2010 n Who We Are STRUCTURE OF THE GROUP Edison is one of the key players in the Italian energy market, active an integrated business model that reflects Edison’s commitment in the procurement, production and distribution of electric power to the energy sector. The coordinated activities of different Group and natural gas. The Group’s structure is purposely designed to opcompanies enable Edison to generate electric power with a low erate in all of the strategic areas of the electric power and natural environmental impact, which it offers in the deregulated market gas businesses. Specifically, its corporate organization is based on at increasingly competitive prices, for the benefit of its customers. ●● ELECTRIC ●● Power ●● RENEWABLE ●● Energy Marketing AND POWER assets International SOURCES management DISTRIBUTION Management of Development and Management and developDispatching and Sales of electric power thermoelectric and management of internament of wind farms and other sales on the Power and natural gas to end hydroelectric power tional thermoelectric power facilities for power generation Exchange and to customers plants plants and interconnection from renewable sources wholesalers infrastructures ●● Edipower Spa (2) ●● ElpEdison BV ●● Edison Energie ●● Edison Trading Spa ●● Edison Energia Spa Speciali Spa ●● Hydros Srl ●● Elite Spa ●● Dolomiti Edison Energy Srl ●● HYDROCARBON ●● Gas ●● Gas Supply ENERGY ASSETS International AND Logistics EFFICIENCY AND Hydrocarbon exploration and production; Development of international natural Management of procurement, SUSTAINABLE storage, transmission and distribution of gas interconnectors logistics and sales to wholeDEVELOPMENT natural gas in Italy and abroad salers and thermoelectric Solutions for the use of power plants sustainable energy ●● Edison International Spa ●● Itgi-Poseidon Sa ●● Abu Qir Petroleum Co ●● Galsi Spa l Electric Power Business Unit l Hydrocarbons Business Unit ●● Edison Stoccaggio Spa (*) l Main companies included in ●● Edison D.G. Spa (*) the scope of consolidation 1) Edison Spa, working through its Business Units and Corporate Activities, is directly engaged in the production of electric power (hydroelectric and thermoelectric) and produces , imports and distributes hydrocarbon products. 2) Edipower Spa is consolidated at 50% by the proportional method. (*) Company subject to unbundling requirements. Edison’s Commitment to Sustainability 1883 1992 Europe’s first power Edison introduces plant capable 1931 in Italy the 1994 of distributing a Edison begins 1966 combined-cycle Edison continuous supply to supply Merger with technology for publishes of power begins to natural gas to Montecatini; power plants its first operate at Milan Santa households in Montedison fueled with natural Environmental Radegonda. Milan. is born. gas. Report. 1800 1900 1881 1898 1963 1990 1993 Giuseppe Colombo founds The Bertini hyroelectric Italian electric Under the new The Edison the Committee to Promote power plant in Paderno utilities are National Energy Research the Use of Electric Power d’Adda is commissioned. nationalized. Plan, businesses Center opens in in Italy. The Committee will At that time, it was the are again allowed Trofarello (TO). become Società Generale most powerful power to build new power Italiana di Elettricità plant in Europe. plants, provided they Sistema Edison in 1884. use environmentally compatible 12 technologies. EDISON’S STRATEGIES FOR THE FUTURE Edison is ready to take up the challenge posed by the current generation market, maintainover 12,400 scenario, building on its ability to grow by anticipating changes in ing its 15% share of the nathe market. Specifically, the Company intends to: tional generating capacity. MW ■■consolidate its competitive position in the Italian electric power Future investments will focus generation market and strengthen its role as the second largest mainly on completing existing in installed operator in the natural gas procurement area; projects, such as repowering capacity ■■focus its marketing strategy on expanding its presence in the small the former CIP6 power plants business-SOHO (Small Office and Home Office) and residential at Marghera Azotati and Bussi (about 300 MW) with LMS100 segments, leveraging its ability to offer both power and gas; units, with the aim of increasing the flexibility of production for the ■■increase and fully exploit the Abu Qir reserves, with the aim of covderegulated market, and on maintaining existing facilities. ering 15% of its hydrocarbon needs from internal production; In a context characterized by diminishing spark spreads, the avail■■offset a steady reduction in margins from regulated activities genability of a portfolio of cutting-edge, efficient power plants of sigerated by CIP6 electric power production with projects to triple nificant size provides Edison with sufficient flexibility to consider storage capacity; make-or-buy options and seize opportunities to optimize margins ■■participate, over the long term and consistent with the evolution by pursuing growth in the small business-SOHO and residential of the market, in the construction of two infrastructures to import segments. natural gas from Africa and the Middle East and in the programs In the wind power area, Edison’s goal is to carry out those projects to privatize the electric power industry currently under way in the for which it has received construction permits. In addition, early Balkans and in Turkey. in 2010, the Company signed a definitive contract to buy from The Group’s rate of growth will be modulated to make sure that Gamesa 100% of Parco Eolico San Francesco Srl, a company capital expenditure levels are consistent with changes in energy that is completing construction of a 26 MW facility in the municidemand, taking also into account the need to maintain the finanpality of Melissa (Crotone). In addition, a 30 MW wind farm was cial flexibility parameters required by the credit rating assigned to commissioned in Mistretta, Sicily, in the first quarter of 2010 the Company by the rating agencies. The investments planned in the hydroelectric area will include projects to maintain the production capacity of the existing Strategies for the Electric Power Operations power plants and activities that will result in the production In the electric power sector in Italy, having completed one of the of new green certificates. In addition to producing and sellmost ambitious programs to expand generating capacity carried ing energy generated from renewable sources, Edison will be out in Europe in the past 10 years and reached an installed caincreasingly focused on developing new energy efficiency serpacity of over 12,400 MW at the end of 2010, Edison intends to vices for its customers, through a business unit established consolidate its competitive position in the Italian electric power specifically for this purpose in 2009. 1997 2007 Edison’s Bussi power plant is the first facility in A 400-MW turbogas power plant fueled 2009 Italy to receive ISO 14001 with a mixture that A Corporate environmental certification. 2004 includes “lean” natural Responsibility The CET 3 power plant Ten years after gas from local deposits Department is in Taranto is the first publishing its first is commissioned in established and Edison facility in the world to use, Environmental Report, Candela (FG). The steam publishes a Human on an industrial scale, a Edison publishes its generated by the facility Rights Policy. combined-cycle system first Sustainability is used to heat about 150 Elpedison Power, fueled with recycled gas Report and approves acres of greenhouses Greece’s second from the neighboring steel the 231 Organizational built by a local floricultural largest electric power mill complex. Model. business. operator, is created. 2000 1996 2002 2005 2008 2010 Edison commissions Edison Energie Edison joins Publication of Start of the project to its first wind farm. Speciali the U.N. Global the Sustainable adopt the guidelines of The farm is located (renewable Compact. Development Policy. the ISO 26000 standard. in Casone Romano, sources) is the A Sustainable Edison establishes a in the municipality of first organization Development Business working group on human Castelnuovo della in Italy to receive Unit is established. rights. Daunia, province of multi-site EMAS Foggia. registration. 13 At the international level, also in the electric power generation Over the long-term, taking into account market trends and condisector, Edison plans to complete the projects launched in Greece tions for the procurement of natural gas, Edison intends to particithrough Elpedison, a 50-50 joint venture with Hellenic Petroleum. pate in the development of two infrastructures to import natural Elpedison is currently Greece’s second largest electric power opgas from Africa and the Middle East that will allow Italy to play a erator, with its T-Power facility (a 390 MW CCGT system), which is key role, thanks to its preferential position in the Mediterranean: already operational, and the Thisvi power plant (a 410 MW CCGT ■■The Galsi pipeline, which will bring 8 billion cubic meters of facility). natural gas a year from Algeria to Italy (Algeria-Sardinia-Italy). Additional growth opportunities available through participation in Edison is involved with the international segment of the project. the privatization programs currently under way in the Balkans and ■■The ITGI (Interconnector Turkey-Greece-Italy) pipeline, which Turkey will be assessed taking into account the evolution of the will link Italy with the Caspian Sea basin and deliver up to 10 bilmacroeconmic scenario and the regulatory framework. lion cubic meters of natural gas a year. Edison is a 50% partner with Depa in the Italy-Greece segment of the project. The construction of these two pipelines will enable Edison to furStrategies for the Hydrocarbons Operations ther diversify its portfolio of procurement sources. In the coming years, significant amounts will be invested in hydrocarbon exploration and production activities, focusing primarily on increasing and fully exploiting the Abu Qir reserves, in Egypt. In this area, 2009 was a landmark year in the development of Edison’s strategy in the hydrocarbon area. Specifically, in January 2009, Edison, the Arab Republic of Egypt and EGPC signed a contract awarding to Edison the Abu Qir offshore concession, together with the concession’s exploration, production and development rights for 20 years, extendable by an additional 10 years at Edison’s request. The Abu Qir fields have been operational since the 1980s. Currently, they produce through three platforms about 1.5 billion cubic meters of natural gas and 1.5 million barrels of liquids a year. Based on the development plan, production should reach its peak over the next two or three years. Thanks to the Abu Qir’s contribution, Edison will be able to achieve the strategic objective of covering with internal production 15% of its hydrocarbon needs. In addition, as part of its effort to improve the reliability of Italy’s gas system, the Group will expand its projects in the gas storage area. Specifically, work started at the end of 2009 on a project to increase the capacity of the Collalto field from the current 400 million standard cubic meters of working gas to more than 800 million standard cubic meters, with the peak delivery rate rising from 3.5 million standard cubic meters a day to 9 million standard cubic meters a day in 2011. In addition, the work to standardize the capacity of the Cellino field was completed in the first half of 2010. The new San Potito and Cotignola project, for which the Group received a storage concession in 2009, will enable Edison to triple its storage capacity. This capacity expansion will provide the Company with an EBITDA flow from regulated activities, which it can use to offset the impact of a gradual decrease in the revenues generated by production from CIP6 power plants. Who We Are n Sustainability Report 2010 14 Edison’s International Development Edison intends to develop its presence in markets evaluating the possibility, currently being studied, to outside Italy, focusing initially on neighboring countries increase installed capacity, which would help reduce the and the Mediterranean Basin, with special emphasis on company’s average production cost and help support Greece, Turkey and the Balkans. margins during a period of falling market prices. The presence in Greece was developed with the aim of In addition, the exposure to highly volatile Power replicating in that market the Edison business model in Exchange prices is mitigated by the presence in the the electric power and natural gas sectors by: downstream market of Elpedison Trading. The function • establishing Elpedison, a joint venture with Hellenic of this wholly owned subsidiary of the Elpedison BV joint Petroleum, and two companies to generate electric venture (50% Edison, 50% Hellenic Petroleum), which power (Elpedison Power) and operate in the endwas established in the second half of 2009, is to operate customer market (Elpedison Trading); as a trading company for the sale of electric power. • establishing IGI Poseidon, a joint venture with DEPA, In the natural gas area, the Group’s strategy includes Greece’s largest public/private natural gas operator, both the development of the IGI pipeline and its that will develop a gas pipeline to transport to Greece, extension to the countries of Southeast Europe (IGB) Italy and the rest of Europe natural gas produced in the and a project for commercial collaboration with DEPA, Caspian Basin. which could enable Edison to supply over the medium term its gas to the Greek market and, specifically to In Turkey and the Balkans, the start of the process to Elpedison Power’s combined-cycle power plants. deregulate the electric power generation market could represent for Edison an interesting opportunity to In Turkey, in addition to the possibility of participating consider developing, through joint ventures with local in the privatization process, Edison is assessing, companies, hydroelectric power plants and thermoelectric together with local partners, several projects to develop facilities that burn fossil fuels different from gas, thereby hydroelectric power plants, renewable source facilities balancing its fuel mix and create a diversified portfolio of and facilities that burn fossil fuels different from gas. production facilities in Southeast Europe. In addition, Turkey is a country where Edison has already Similarly to many other countries in Europe, Greece established an industrial collaborative relationship experienced an unprecedented decrease in the demand in connection with the development of the ITGI for energy in 2009 (-5.8%, a smaller decline than in (Interconnector Turkey-Greece-Italy), an infrastructure Italy), which, together with a reduction in fuel prices, to import natural gas, of which the IGI project is the final caused electric power prices to plummet on the Power segment between Greece and Italy. Exchange. Despite this challenging situation, Edison Lastly, the Balkans offer attractive opportunities in continued to implement its investment projects in this connection with the deregulation process required to area, with the aim of seizing the opportunities that modernize the existing facilities, which consist mainly changing market conditions are providing. In 2010, of lignite and hydroelectric power plants. Edison is Elpedison Power completed the construction of a second participating in an international call for tenders issued combined-cycle power plant with a capacity of about 420 by the electric power agency of the Republic of Serbia MW located near Thisvi, which joined a power plant of for the purpose of choosing an industrial partner to build about 390 MW that has been operating in Thessaloniki and operate two lignite power plants with a capacity of since the end of 2005. Elpedison Power is carefully 700 MW each. 15 Sustainability Report 2010 n Who We Are Main Projects Completed in 2010 The main events with a significant impact on the development of Edison’s activities in 2010 are summarized below. ITGI Gas Pipeline: The Agreement to Build the GreeceVega Field: Italy’s Largest Offshore Oil Platform Is Bulgaria Pipeline Bypass (IGB) Is Finalized and an Back in Business Agreement Allowing Transit Through Turkey Is Signed On June 25, 2010, in Siracusa, Sicily, production from On March 4, 2010, at a meeting in Thessaloniki, BEH the Vega oil field (60% Edison, as operator, and 40% (Bulgarian Energy Holding) and IGI Poseidon Sa (a 50-50 Eni) resumed upon completion of the installation of a joint venture of DEPA, Greece’s national gas company, new oil storage system. This FSO (Floating Storage and Edison) finalized an agreement to establish an asset and Offloading) system is connected, through three company (BEH 50% and IGI Poseidon Sa 50%) that will underwater lines, with the oil platform, where the build the new IGB (Interconnector Greece–Bulgaria) production facilities are located. The mooring system natural gas pipeline. The IGB pipeline will have a length of the FSO Leonis (consisting of a buoy-yoke-tanker of about 160 km, running between Komotini (Greece) beam) was entirely designed by Edison and provides the and Stara Zagora (Bulgaria). With an annual capacity of highest level of security even under extreme weather 3 to 5 billion cubic meters of natural gas, it will provide and sea conditions. The Vega field is located in the Strait Bulgaria with access to new supply sources by way of of Sicily, about 12 miles off the Pozzallo (Siracusa) Greece. Planned investments total 140 million euros coast. The field began producing in 1987 and is currently and the project is expected to have access to about flowing oil from 20 wells. From 1987 to present, the 45 million euros in funding under the EU’s European field has produced 55.5 million barrels of oil. It has been Economic Recovery Plan. estimated that the Vega field is capable of producing an Engineering activities in preparation for construction will additional 12 million barrels of oil. begin once the agreement is officially approved by the respective companies, with the pipeline expected to go Edison Expands in Renewables Acquiring a 26-MW on stream in 2013. Wind Farm in Melissa (KR) Subsequently, meeting in Sofia (Bulgaria) on November On July 20, 2010, Edison, acting through its Edison 30, 2010, Edison, DEPA, IGI Poseidon S.A. and Bulgarian Energie Speciali Spa subsidiary, closed the purchase Energy Holding EAD signed documents establishing from Gamesa Energia Sa of 100% of Parco Eolico San a company called Natural Gas Interconnector Greece Francesco Srl, which owns a fully operational 26-MW Bulgaria EAD (IGB EAD), which will be responsible for wind farm in the municipality of Melissa (KR). The developing, building and operating a new IGB natural San Francesco facility in Melissa (KR) is capable of gas pipeline linking Greece with Bulgaria. generating about 46 Gigawatt Hours of power a year. Lastly, on June 17, 2010, at a meeting in Ankara, Edison, Edison currently operates facilities with more than 2,100 DEPA and Botas (Turkey’s national gas company) signed MW of production capacity from renewable sources. a Memorandum of Understanding allowing transit through Turkey for natural gas delivered by the ITGI Edison: New Gas Discovery in the Sea of Norway (Turkey-Greece-Italy Interconnector). This project is the first component being built in Europe of the so-called In September 2010, a new gas field was discovered in “Southern Corridor,” an infrastructure recognized by the the Sea of Norway. The new well falls within production European Union as a “Project of European Interest” and license 435 (Zidane). The well’s licensee consortium included in the European Economic Recovery Plan with includes Edison (20%), RWE (40% and operator), Maersk proposed funding of 100 million euros. The agreement Oil Norway (20%) and Norwegian Energy Company sets forth the general terms and conditions governing (20%). Estimates of the recoverable gas range between 5 the transit of the ITGI through Turkey and the use of and 18 billion standard cubic meters. the available capacity in the Turkish network operated by Botas, up to the border with Greece, for the gas Edison Joins the Main Gas Exchanges of Continental volumes required by the ITGI gas pipeline. This agreement Europe strengthens the partnership between Edison, DEPA and Botas, by creating the possibility for Botas to acquire an At the end of December, Edison completed the interest in IGI Poseidon Sa. This company, which is currently process of registering with the main gas exchanges of owned in equal shares by Edison and DEPA, is responsible Continental Europe, qualifying as an operator on the for the construction of an underwater gas pipeline Endex TTF (Holland), the EEX Gas (Germany) and the between Greece and Italy (the Poseidon gas pipeline). The newly established GME (Italy). companies involved will also jointly evaluate the possibility Edison intends to broaden the network of Gas of a collaborative arrangement for implementing the Exchanges where it can operate and will soon begin the expansion of the Turkish network that will be required to process of registering with the CEGH Gas Exchange in allow the transit of ITGI gas. Austria. Who We Are n Sustainability Report 2010 16 OUR RESPONSIBILITY UCT AND CO COND R PO E SS R S IN y Inte ATE it BU egal gri A ty CT Values and Business Conduct IN L ROT ECTION AND EM I ET P C P O Edison’s fundamental principles of ethN D ality omm WE TI E HI A en ti impr itm VI CS NT nfid ove en R ics, which are set forth in the Group’s o me t t M S ETHICS IN EM n IATES SSOC o Code of Ethics, provide the foundation t P COMMITMENT Professional LOY FA for its corporate culture and represent TO SUSTAINABLE the standard of conduct that all Group M T O Absence of conflicts DEVELOPMENT AND development Transparency employees are required to follow. E RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR Loyalty TOWARD THE PUBLIC EN C of interest Promotion Edison supports the Global Compact, an initiative launched by the of sustainable development United Nations by which companies agree to uphold and publicize Responsible behavior toward the public ten universal principles that cover human rights, labor standards, Eq na l, ua lo tio afe ty environmental protection and anti-corruption. pp p a s o rt u u ni O c c th and Since 2009, Edison has been a member of the Italian Network of ti e s heal the U.N. Global Compact, which it supports as a tangible sign of its Re s spe u al active commitment to the advancement of these issues. ct fo ivi d r t h e d i g n it y o f i n d Edison’s Mission, Code of Ethics, Company Values, Sustainable Development Policy and its new Human Rights Policy are the key elements that help define the Group’s strategies and guide the daily conduct of all of its employees. Edison’s Values: SERVICE INTEGRITY. We want to earn the confidence of all those who work with us by keeping our promises, behaving transparently and INTEGRITY EXCELLENCE assuming responsibility for all of our actions. RESPECT. We respect our employees, our customers, our shareholders and the communities and the environment in which we RESPECT SPEED work. We view contributing to improving the quality of life and to social progress as a duty. TEAM SPIRIT. We believe that the best results are achieved INNOVATION TEAM SPIRIT through team work, in collaboration with our colleagues and our customers. SERVICE. We are firmly committed to providing effective and flexible solutions for the needs of our customers and to establishing lasting partnerships with them. EXCELLENCE. We pursue with all our energy the commitment to continuously improve our results and our services. For us, a job Edison’s Values, which are rooted in its well done is not enough: we want to be the best. Code of Ethics, guide us in the way we SPEED. We always want to be ahead of the curve, ready to anticdo business and interact with others. ipate changes and respond with agility and flexibility to the needs of the market. Our people don’t just work hard, they work quickly. INNOVATION. We want to deserve our pioneering reputation by challenging conventional wisdom and seeking new ways to produce and distribute energy. Edison’s mission is to supply its customers with high quality energy and services, working in partnership with its suppliers to develop and deploy more efficient technologies that are compatible with the environment and increase safety. 17 Sustainability Report 2010 n Who We Are corporate governance ●● SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING l MANAGEMENT ENTITIES l CONTROL ENTITIES Approves the financial statements, elects the Board of Directors and l MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL ENTITIES the Board of Statutory Auditors, appoints the Independent Auditors and approves amendments to the Bylaws ●● BOARD OF ●● BOARD OF STATUTORY ●● INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS AUDITORS AUDITORS Defines the Company’s overall Monitors compliance with Audit the Company’s strategy and is responsible for the law and the Bylaws and financial statements and overseeing its implementation the Company’s operating perform regular reviews of its performance accounting records ●● STRATEGY ●● cOMPENSATION ●● AUDIT COMMITTEE ●● COMMITTEE OF ●● OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Supports the Board of INDEPENDENT BOARD Develops, evaluates Makes recommendations Directors in assessing the DIRECTORS Ensures that the “231 and recommends to about the compensation effectiveness of the system Performs the tasks required Model” is functioning the Board of Directors of Directors with special of internal controls, the by the Consob Regulations effectively and is regularly strategic options for assignments and about accounting principles and governing related-party updated Edison and the Group incentive and compensation the audit plan transactions and relevant plans for top management Company procedures Edison’s system of corporate governance is the set of standards Edison’s governance structure also includes the support commitand behavior guidelines deployed by the Company to ensure that its tees established by the Chief Executive Officer, whose members governance bodies and control systems are functioning efficiently are the managers of the various departments and business units, and transparently. In developing its governance structure, Edison the system of internal controls, the Code of Ethics, the system of adopted the principles and implementation criteria recommended by powers and proxies and the organizational structure. the Corporate Governance Code promoted by Borsa Italiana (2006 version). This structure includes the following governance bodies: ■■Shareholders’ Meeting ■■Board of Directors ■■Board of Statutory Auditors ■■Independent Auditors CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Unit of measure 2008 2009 2010 Total number of BoD (Board of Directors) members 13 13 13 Number of Directors with executive authority on the BoD 1 1 1 Number of independent Directors on the BoD 3 3 3 Number of women on the BoD 0 0 0 Number of BoD meetings 8 8 7 Average attendance of BoD meetings by Directors % 97.1 96.1 90.0 Average attendance of BoD meetings by Statutory Auditors % 83.3 83.3 87.9 Number of Audit Committee meetings 6 5 5 Number of Compensation Committee meetings 4 7 4 Number of Strategy Committee meetings 4 6 5 Number of meetings of the Board of Statutory Auditors 11 11 14 (1) The Chairman does not perform any function requiring executive authority. Who We Are n Sustainability Report 2010 18 Sustainability Governance The corporate governance system adopted by Edison defines Over the years, Edison adopted the tools needed for an effecand regulates a series of activities reserved for the BoD, such tive and efficient governance of its corporate social responsibility. as transactions with related parties, determination of Directors’ Starting in 2009, Edison began the process of making CSR an compensation and assessment of their performance, and provides integral part of its business activities, further developing it thanks procedures to prevent the occurrence of conflicts of interest. More to the adoption of new policies and the launch of important new information is provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, projects in such areas as human rights and biodiversity. which is available online at: www.edison.it. A Corporate Social Responsibility function was officially estabIn the performance of its tasks, the Board of Directors is assisted lished in September 2009. This new function is responsible for by the following four consulting committees: managing and coordinating communication and reporting activi■■Strategy Committee; ties concerning Corporate Social Responsibility processes, spe■■Compensation Committee; cifically with regard to the Group’s Sustainability Report, and for ■■Audit Committee; providing specialized support to the Group’s Departments and ■■Committee of Independent Directors (operational as of Business Units in the process of identifying and assessing enviJanuary 1, 2011). ronmental and social responsibility issues suitable for integration in their respective operating programs. System of Internal Controls The manager of the CSR function reports directly to the manager Edison’s system of internal controls is a structured and organic set of the External Relations and Communications Department, which of rules and procedures and organizational structures designed to is a staff function of the Chief Executive Officer. prevent or minimize the impact of unexpected results and allow At the end of 2009, the Company adopted a Human Rights Policy the Company to achieve its strategic and operating objectives, that provides a more comprehensive and systemic coverage of comply with statutory and regulatory requirements and provide fair sustainability issues formerly addressed in part by the Environand transparent disclosures internally and to the market. ment, Safety and Quality Policy and the Code of Ethics and by the Operational audits covered all of the Company’s businesses, inSustainable Development Policy. cluding issues with a social and environmental impact. Lastly, at the end of 2010, Edison launched a project aimed at Work carried out in this area in 2010 included six major audit determining and assessing the level of compliance with the “core engagements that concerned mainly customer relations, external subjects” identified in the ISO 26000 guidelines. relations, counterparty risk and occupational safety. In 2011, the Company plans to perform the same number of audits focused mainly on customer relations, external relations, hydroelectric operating activities and projects for the development of renewable source facilities, wind farms in particular. In addition, most audit engagements will include specific modules to assess compliance with the Code of Ethics. In 2010, with regard to training concerning topics covered by Legislative Decree No. 231/01 and fraud prevention, 30 Edison Group employees attended courses that covered updates to the Organizational Model. As for the specific occupational safety issues incorporated into the Model in 2008, Edipower developed a training program in the first quarter of 2010 to bring all of the relevant parties up to date with regard to regulatory changes and the new model. 19 Sustainability Report 2010 n Who We Are Edison and ISO 26000 Management Systems and the Audit Process Edison addresses environmental and safety issues by means of ISO 26000, the standard that provides voluntary management systems, which, thanks to their adoption at virtuCorporate Social Responsibility (CSR) guidelines ally all production facilities, enabled the Group to achieve levels applicable to any type of organization, was published on November 1, 2010. of excellence with regard both to its ability to communicate and interact with third parties who are affected by or involved in the The ISO 26000 standard provides organizations with a framework for understanding CSR and performance of its environmental activities and to its ability to acto help them integrate, implement and promote tivate, motivate and maximize the contributions of all interested socially responsible conduct within the organization parties within the organization. and throughout its sphere of influence. Edison was the first company in Italy to receive ISO 14001 and ISO 26000 is not a certifiable standard. However, EMAS environmental certifications. it is a model that organizations can use as a Presently, 96% of Edison’s activity locations (electric power and hytemplate for the guidelines of their internal drocarbons) are covered by ISO14001 certification, with 51% also processes. Because ISO 26000 is a guideline and not a standard, a failure to comply with one holding EMAS certification and 80% OHSAS 18001 certified. of its requirements, instead of constituting a The objectives achieved in 2010 included the following: nonconformity issue, should be viewed as a signal ■■Completion of the certification process for the integrated envito the organization that a specific area requires ronmental and safety management system for the Sarago Maattention or, possibly, remedial action. ria a Mare site and the Transportation Operating Unit of Edison The project launched by Edison is designed to Stoccaggio (hydrocarbons operations). measure to what degree activities already carried ■■On May 13, 2010, certification of the Engineering Department’s meet the expectations of the guidelines for the following six key issues: human rights, labor Health and Safety Management System in accordance with the practices, environment, fair operating practices, BSI OHSAS 18001 standard. The first certification renewal consumer issues, community involvement and inspection was completed successfully in October 2010. The development. safety management system is being integrated into the quality The first phase of the project entailed identifying management system, which is already certified. the scope of implementation of the issues covered The steady increase in certified locations demonstrates the Comby the standard. Specifically, it involved developing pany’s commitment and attention to environmental and safety isa methodology to determine which issues were most relevant and, on that basis, carry out a more sues. A tool in this area is provided by the internal auditing prodetailed assessment process. Accordingly, the cess, which is designed to bolster and improve the handling of Company identified a series of criteria, consistent operational practices. Compliance with relevant standards has with a risk-based logic, that enabled it to identify reached outstanding levels, system activities have become comits key issues. In 2011, this project will include mon practice and operational competency is growing and widea more in-depth analysis of these key issues, with the aim of identifying any gaps between the spread. Consequently, as independent audits have also shown, practices currently implemented by Edison and the situations of statutory non-compliance are virtually non-existent recommendations of the reference guidelines. and the risk levels of field activities are kept under control and managed in accordance with system rules. Who We Are n Sustainability Report 2010 20 Edison and the Management of Business Risks Edison established a centralized corporate function to control the For this purpose, Edison adopted a Corporate Risk Model that risks that arise in connection with the pursuit of its different busicovers all types of risks inherent in the Group’s businesses and ness activities. This function’s purpose is to maximize the efficiency applies a risk scoring method that assigns a relevance index to and effectiveness of the risk mitigation actions implemented by the each risk, based on an assessment of its overall impact, probability Company, while providing an important tool to exploit the full range of of occurrence and level of control. growth opportunities. In 2010, the existing ERM process underwent a complete overThe Group’s system to control and manage corporate risks adhaul, which is currently being finalized, designed to achieve a dresses two main areas: Enterprise Risk Management, which is continuous alignment with international practices and standards designed to identify, monitor and control risk in accordance with and implement available improvements, such as the support of a the integrated management system model adopted by the Group, dedicated IT system. and Energy Risk Management. The latter is designed to manage With this in mind, the risk model was further fine tuned. Specificalthe commodity market risk, which is the risk entailed by changes ly, issues related to climate change were embodied into specific in the prices of energy raw materials in the financial and physical physical, regulatory and process risk components. markets in which the Company operates. The table below provides an overview of the risk model adopted Edison developed an integrated risk model based on the Enterby Edison. prise Risk Management (ERM) international principles. ERM’s main purpose is to adopt a systematic approach to the process of mapping the Company’s most significant risks, assess in advance their potential negative effects and take appropriate mitigating action. In addition, the integrated management of risks is a tool that supports the process by which strategic business choices are made, based also on a constantly evolving external context. Examples of these strategic responses include: decisions to invest in new projects that use the best available technologies, a plan to improve the efficiency of the existing production facilities portfolio, direct involvement in national and international discussions concerning such issues as energy and the environment, etc. Type of risk Risk area Examples Risks related to the Institutions and Image risks, regulatory risks, Enterprise Risk Management external environment society risks of conflicts with host communities, etc. Market Risks related to commodity Aggregation of risks Mapping of Prioritizing prices, etc. of operating units Group risks actions Competitive Competition based and environment technology risks, etc. + Weather events Risks of business and natural interruption, etc. disasters Process risks Transversal Ethics, sustainable risk level EDISON Spa development, etc. Core business Failure to achieve objectives, etc. Human Risks related to occupational – resources safety, loss of qualified – control level + personnel, etc. Finance Credit rating, liquidity, etc. Information Data integrity and security, Technology information systems availability, etc. Compliance Compliance with regulations, etc. Strategic and planning Strategy Business model, Risk level = overall impact x probability of occurrence risks performance monitoring, etc. 21 Sustainability Report 2010 n Who We Are Examples of risks related to the external environment include Group’s business units and departments map and assess the regulatory issues, macroeconomic factors, the impact of changes risks affecting the areas under their jurisdiction through a Risk in public opinion and social views, climate and weather conditions Self Assessment process, by which risks are assessed in terms and the effect of fluctuations in energy commodity prices. In addiof probability of occurrence, impact (economic, image, etc.) and tion to the risks inherent in the Group’s core businesses, process control level. They also provide an initial indication of the mitigatrisks include such risks as those related to ethics, social responing actions associated with each risk. sibility, customer care, environmental issues, human resources, The results of this process are then consolidated at the central litigation, compliance requirements and information technology. level into a map, in which risks are prioritized based on an asExamples of strategy risks include all risks related to the Group’s signed score and aggregated to facilitate the coordination of the business model, to the process of making strategic decisions, to corresponding comprehensive mitigation plans, consistent with an corporate governance tools and to performance monitoring. integrated risk management approach. The issue of respect for human rights, which recurs pervasively The findings of the ERM and Risk Self Assessment processes throughout the Group’s diverse activities, affects transversally all are communicated to the Audit Committee at regularly scheduled of the risks in the Business Risk Model. For example, risks that dates and are used by the Internal Control Systems Department are most affected by this issue include environmental responsibilas information input for the preparation of targeted risk-based auity, social responsibility in managing projects with regard both to dit plans. the work performed directly and the work of contractors, and the Lastly, a map of the business risks identified through the ERM management of human resources, particularly with regard to ocprocess is annexed to the budget schedules and the industrial cupational health and safety. plan approved by the Board of Directors of the Group’s Parent With the coordination of the Risk Office, the managers of the Company. Who We Are n Sustainability Report 2010 22 23 Sustainability Report 2010 n Who We Are IDENTIFICATION OF RELEVANT CSR ISSUES Through a process that included interviewing management, asholders, communities and institutions in particular) was the consessing the input of stakeholders and analyzing the main sustainstruction of industrial facilities (the ITGI project, mainly). Also in ability issues that appear to be relevant to the energy industry, as the economic area, the assessment of customer satisfaction and discussed in the main national and international media, Edison interaction with consumers also qualified as relevant issues, parmonitors social responsibility issues that it believes should be ticularly for their impact on customers. analyzed for the purpose of developing future action plans. In the environmental area, most of the attention was focused The approach used is based on a broader concept of significance, on the development of nuclear energy, with the active involvement which defines the relevance of information relative to the impact of the media and the public, due in part to the creation of the of the Group’s activities on economic, environmental and social Nuclear Forum, of which Edison is one of the promoters, together issues. with other parties. Energy conservation was another issue identiThe issues that were deemed to be relevant and, consequentfied in the survey of the environmental area, reflecting the effect of ly, are discussed in this Report, were identified through the use special programs on this issue that Edison has been implementing of a matrix that included such variables as Edison’s significant for some time (e.g., the establishment of the Energy Conservation economic, environmental and social impacts and the effects that and Sustainable Development Business Unit, the 100% emissions these impacts have on the perceptions and decisions of its stakeoffset for Opening Night at La Scala in Milan, the Edison Change holders. The analysis was based on a scale with three levels of the Music project and the Eco-generation – Scuola Amica del assessment: low, medium and high. Clima project for the school system). Ultimately, this issue is indicaMore specifically, an analysis of Edison’s press review summary tive of a steadily growing awareness by the stakeholders. was performed taking into account the relevance of information In the social area, issues relevant to the stakeholders that deconcerning sustainability mentioned in major Italian and internaserve attention included the dialog with the local communities tional print media and the impact that this information had on the made possible by the launch of the new corporate website and assessments and decisions of the stakeholders. a more visible presence on the social networks, as well as soThe analysis performed in 2010 showed that, compared with cial programs (e.g., the “Together for Haiti” project), which have the previous year, new issues that are deemed to be relevant are the greatest impact on the community but also affect instituemerging in the economic area, the environmental area and the tions. Sports and culture were two other issues that attracted the social responsibility area. steadily growing interest of the stakeholders in 2010. In the economic area, the issues debated most frequently inThis analysis was just one aspect of a series of activities carried cluded economic performance and the submission of bids for calls out by Edison to dialog with its stakeholders and provide increasfor tenders, which are items particularly relevant for shareholders. ingly more effective responses to the expectations of its counterAnother issue that attracted the interest of stakeholders (shareparties. Relevant Issues by Area High Environmental area: ■■ Employee satisfaction ■■ Climate change ■■ Siting of new facilities within ■■ Nuclear energy development the territory ■■ Renewable energy ■■ Support of communities Impact on stakeholders ■■ Energy efficiency ■■ Sports and culture ■■ Impact reduction ■■ Supply chain monitoring Medium ■■ Protection of biodiversity ■■ Partnering and fair dealing with suppliers ■■ Development of green products Economic area: Social area: ■■ Business integrity ■■ Human rights ■■ Economic performance ■■ Fair contracts ■■ Transparent communications with customers Low ■■ Customer satisfaction ■■ Health and safety ■■ Training Low Medium High ■■ Equal opportunities Significant economic, social and environmental impacts of the Edison Group Who We Are n Sustainability Report 2010 24 Edison AND ITS stakeholders Consistent with Edward Freeman’s classic definition, Edison idenshareholders) and externally (customers, suppliers, financial comtifies as its stakeholders “all individuals and cleary identifiable munity, public administrations, competitors, community and the groups that can affect or be affected by the activity of an organienvironment) and undertakes specific commitments toward each zation in terms of its products, policies and work processes.” one of them. The analysis of the level of impact of Edison’s activiAs part of its responsible management path, Edison interacts with ties was used to develop a map that lists the main categories of and involves all its counterparties both internally (employees and stakeholders with whom the Group interacts. Local communities NGOs SHAREHOLDERS Suppliers Institutions CUSTOMERS Media Labor unions EMPLOYEES Public Administration Future generations Environment 25 Sustainability Report 2010 n Who We Are Tools to Listen and Talk to Our Stakeholders In the pursuit of its endeavors, Edison is constantly engaged in a In addition, a special workshop on biodiversity is being planned dialog with parties who represent different interests with regard for 2011. to Edison. Among several dialog methods adopted by Edison, the As part of the interaction with its stakeholders, the Company Sustainability Report represents an important tool to communicarried out in 2010 its annual survey to monitor the “health” of cate with a vast universe of stakeholders, who are provided with its image and the satisfaction of its stakeholders. In addition to information about significant results achieved during the year in an analysis of the 2009 Sustainability Report carried out by the the economic, social and environmental areas. The Report also students enrolled in the “Corporate Citizenship Masters Program, provides an overview of the main activities carried out during the Integrated Strategies of Corporate Responsibility” organized by year as part of the dialog and engagement process. Fondaca, Edison asked ISPO, a consultant specialized in this area, With regard to stakeholder engagement, Edison organized several to conduct a qualitative/quantitative survey about the following isprojects in 2010 and early 2011 that made it possible to increase sues: familiarity with Edison, Edison’s overall evaluation, satisfacthe engagement of the Company’s stakeholders, define more action with the relationship, service, quality of communication tools curately the Report’s content and provide the input of experts on and channels, reputation and Edison position. specific issues. The survey conducted by ISPO generated the following results: In addition to the traditional surveys (satisfaction surveys, meet■■Familiarity with Edison increased: more than half of the interings with the financial community, etc.), Edison’s engagement viewees stated that they were familiar with the Company (of the projects included several new initiatives. ISPO interviewees, 24% were “very familiar” with Edison, 45% In the area of human rights, Edison collaborated with the Global were “fairly familiar” and 31% were “not very familiar”). Company to organize, at its head office, a seminar entitled “The ■■The Company’s overall assessment was down slightly, but was United Nations Global Compact: an in-depth discussion on human significantly better than those of its competitors; rights.” This initial gathering was followed by a decision to convene ■■The overall satisfaction was about the same as in the past; an operational meeting reserved for companies and organizations ■■Edison’s image is that of a reliable and integrated company interested in working on human rights issues, with the aim of esthat is also sustainable and technologically advanced (the trend tablishing a work group within the Global Compact Network Italia. shows generally improving levels of performance, except for fiThe plan is to continue pursuing the implementation of this project nancial strength and growth); in 2011. ■■The data show improvements for two messages of key imporEdison Generation is a Facebook community established in 2010 tance for Edison (Edison as a competitor of Enel and a competidevoted exclusively to the issues of sustainability and energy eftor of Eni). ficiency in school buildings. The aim of this virtual community, which Edison operates jointly with Legambiente, is to become a conduit for dialog and the exchange of information among all parties within the educational system and anyone who is interested in the issues related to climate change. The activities carried out in the stakeholder engagement area include projects to record impressions, suggestions and opinions of stakeholders from the locations where Company operates, who are encouraged to become engaged through discussions and presentations by external experts and professionals on social and environmental issues delivered on the Edison Generation online platform (www.edisongeneration.it). Also in 2010, the Company organized three individual interviews with Edison’s main counterparties, aimed at hearing the opinions of specific stakeholders regarding relevant issues that are believed to be most significant. Specifically, the associations Legambiente and Cittadinanzattiva and the specialized magazine Business, the first magazine of sustainable businesses, were queried about such issues as climate change (Legambiente), the services charter, sustainable consumption and fuel poverty (Cittadinanzattiva) and communications regarding sustainability (Business). Who We Are n Sustainability Report 2010 26 SATISFACTION OF EDISON’S STAKEHOLDERS 8.09 8.11 7.95 7.58 7.55 7.3 7.13 7.1 7.22 6.93 6.74 6.96 2008 2009 2010 n Edison’s overall assessment n Satisfaction with personal relationships and service n Emotional and relational reputation n Key messages Lastly, it is worth mentioning the development of an important tool required by the need to interact clearly and transparently with the world of non-profit organizations and international cooperation: in 2009, the Company established a Committee charged with evaluating socially beneficial projects and developing specific guidelines to identify and develop projects that pursue shared social goals. 27 Sustainability Report 2010 n Who We Are ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY sales revenues millions of euros 8,867 2009 10,446 2010 EBITDA millions of euros 1,471 2009 1,369 2010 EBIT millions of euros 699 2009 273 2010 Group interest in net profit millions of euros 240 2009 21 2010 net financial debt millions of euros 3,858 2009 3,708 2010 TRENDS IN THE ENERGY INDUSTRY A fter the slump that characterized the global increase considerably due to structural changes in capacity, higheconomy in 2009, a recovery began to take hold er fuel costs and higher expenses required to acquire permits. in 2010, albeit at a slower pace than anticipatIn Italy, gross demand for electric power totaled 326.2 TWh (1 ed in the first half of the year and with different TWh = 1 billion kWh) in 2010, or 1.8% more than in the previous growth rates in different geo-economic areas of year. On a seasonally adjusted basis (i.e., eliminating the impact the planet. of changes in average temperature and the number of business Among the developed countries, signs that, in 2010, the economy days), demand was unchanged compared with 2009. Most of the was on a firmer footing and was beginning to recover came mainly growth recorded in 2010 occurred in the North Zone and the from the United States and Germany. In the euro zone, however, South Zone, while demand in the Central Zone and the Islands conditions in 2010 were severely affected by sovereign debt held at about the same level as in 2009. The increase of 6 TWh problems (after Greece and Ireland, Portugal and Spain appear to in thermoelectric production recorded in 2010 (+2.8% compared be the countries most exposed to a sovereign debt crisis). Among with 2009) is due to the combined effect of a gain of 5.4 TWh the main countries in the euro zone, Italy showed the slowest in net domestic production (+1.9%), a decrease of 3.4 TWh in growth rate (+1% in 2010), because, as a major net exporter of hydroelectric output (-6.6%) and an increase of 2.8 TWh in power finished goods, it continues to feel indirectly the effects of weakgenerated from renewable energy sources (+23.2%). ness in other economies. In 2010, Italian demand for natural gas grew by 6.6% compared In the oil market, the price of crude oil increased by about 30% with the previous year to a total of about 82.8 billion cubic mein 2010, with the average price rising from 62 U.S. dollar per barters, for an overall gain of about 5.1 billion cubic meters. This rel in 2009 to 80 U.S. dollar per barrel in 2010. In the euro zone improvement, which occurred in all demand segments, reflects countries, the impact of this increase was magnified by a decline the positive impact of a more favorable economic environment, in the value of the euro versus the greenback. colder weather and a limited availability of water resources, which In September 2010, the European Commission published the caused a substantial increase in the production of electric power “Energy Trends to 2030” report, which updated previous docufrom fossil fuels. ments also prepared by the Commission. The report offers two scenarios: the first one (Baseline Scenario) shows the European energy system developing based on current trends/policies THE WEALTH WE CREATED (economy, prices, demographics, etc.), while the second one (RefThe incremental wealth that Edison creates through its industrial erence Scenario) incorporates the effects of the policies develactivities is computed by determining the Economic Value that it oped from April to December 2009. generates and how it is distributed among its main stakeholders. Conclusions common to both scenarios are lower consumption of In 2010, the total Economic Value generated by the Group primary energy, greater supply reliability, lower levels of emissions amounted to 11,295 million euros. Edison retained only 8.6% and considerably higher prices for electric power. of this amount and distributed the remaining 91.4% to its Specifically, both scenarios show a decrease in primary energy stakeholders. consumption and use of fossil fuels, due mainly to the economic crisis and the implementation of policies to improve energy efficiency. A positive fallout of this reduction is an increase in the reliability of energy supplies, due to a lesser need for imports from geopolitically unstable countries outside Europe. Insofar as fuels are concerned, according to the Reference Scenario, the objectives pursued with the RES – Renewable Energy Sources Directive1 should result in a lower consumption of fossil fuels than under the Baseline Scenario, with carbon prices also declining, due to an increased use of renewable sources by the electric power industry and the reduced demand for power resulting from the adoption of eco-design architecture, to a level that could be too low to justify additional investments in Capture and Storage (CCS) technologies. Lastly, both scenarios show that the price of electric power could 1 Directive No. 2009/28/EC of the European Parliament and Council of April 23, 2009 on the promotion and use of energy from renewable sources, which amends and subsequently repeals Directive No. 2001/77/EC and Directive No. 2003/30/CEC 29 Sustainability Report 2010 n Economic Responsibility ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED BY THE EDISON GROUP 2010 2009 2008 (in millions of euros) amount % amount % amount % Economic value generated by the Group 11,295 100.00% 9,529 100.00% 10,914 100.00% Total revenues (*) 11,084 98.13% 9,384 98.48% 10,729 98.3% Financial income 211 1.87% 145 1.52% 185 1.7% Economic value distributed by the Group 10,327 91.43% 8,721 91.52% 9,918 90.87% Operating expenses (**) 9,374 82.99% 7,578 79.53% 8,797 80.60% Remuneration of employees 253 2.24% 240 2.52% 223 2.04% Remuneration of lenders and shareholders 356 3.15% 532 5.58% 553 5.07% Remuneration of the public administration 300 2.66% 367 3.85% 338 3.10% Charitable contributions and sponsorships 4 0.04% 4 0.04% 3 0.03% Economic value from discontinued operations 40 0.35% 0 0.00% 4 0.04% Economic value retained by the Group 968 8.57% 808 8.48% 996 9.13% Depreciation, amortization and writedowns 1,096 9.70% 772 8.10% 782 7.17% Additions to provisions and reserves -128 -1.13% 36 0.38% 214 1.96% (*) Total revenues reflect the presentation of trading activities that recognizes only the resulting “trading margin” (net presentation). (**) Operating expenses do not include expenses attributable to trading activities, which are reflected in “trading margin” (net presentation) included in “Total revenues.” A breakdown of the Economic Value distributed to the stakeholders ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED is as follows: BY THE EDISON GROUP ■■For operating expenses (payments to suppliers, non-strategic investments, royalties and other payments), over 9 billion euros 0.39% (83.0% of the total); 0.04% ■■To employees (direct and indirect remuneration: wages and salaries, social security contributions and benefits, severance in2.91% demnities, bonuses, and professional development and supple3.45% mental training expenses), 253 million euros (2.2% of the total); 2.45% ■■To shareholders and lenders (remuneration of risk capital and debt capital), 356 million euros (3.2% of the total); ■■To the Public Administration (income taxes for the year), 300 million euros (2.7% of the total) ■■To the community (including non-commercial sponsorships, 90.77% community programs and charitable contributions), about 4 million euros (0.04% of the total). n Operating expenses n Charitable contributions and n Remuneration of employees sponsorships n Remuneration of lenders n Economic value from discontinued and shareholders operations n Remuneration of the public administration Economic Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 30 RELATIONS WITH THE FINANCIAL COMMUNITY The Board of Directors and, under its direction, the relevant manNUMBER OF MEETINGS WITH SHAREHOLDERS agement structures, strive to provide relevant documents promptly 2008 2009 2010 to the shareholders. Conference calls 5 5 4 Both directly and through its representatives, Edison engages in Road shows 1 0 0 an ongoing dialog with the market, while fully complying with the Meetings with analysts/investors 4 3 5 laws and regulations governing the circulation of insider informaTotal 10 8 9 tion and the procedures applicable to confidential information. The aim of the Group’s activities and procedures is to avoid disparities in access to information and ensure the concrete implementation of the principle that every investor and potential investor has a right to receive the same information to make informed investment decisions. Edison’s organization chart includes a department responsible for handling financial communications and assigned to the manager of the Investor Relations Department responsibility for managing relations with institutional investors, equity and fixed-income financial analysts and rating agencies. EDISON’S SHAREHOLDERS ●● A2A Spa ●● IREN Spa ●● SEL Spa ●● DOLOMITI ●● FINANCIAL ●● EDF ENERGIA Spa INVESTORS Group 51% 15% 10% 10% 14% 100% ●● DELMI Spa ●● WGRM 50% 50% ●● Transalpina di energia 61.3% 19.4% 10.0% ●● Tassara group 9.3% ●● MARKET INVESTORS 31 Sustainability Report 2010 n Economic Responsibility Transparency and Timeliness of Financial Investor Relations Activities in a Year of Deep Communications Economic Crisis The activities of the Investor Relations Function are designed to The main purpose of the activities of the Investor Relations Funcprovide the market with information that makes it as simple as tion is to provide the market with the information it needs to aspossible to assess the Company’s operating and financial perforsess most effectively the Company’s performance and its projects mance and its growth outlook. They are carried out through an onand strategies. However, even transparent and comprehensive going dialog both with buy-side counterparties, through one-oncommunications are not always sufficient to value the Company one meetings, conference calls and meetings with investors, and correctly. Often, instability at the statutory/regulatory and macrosell-side counterparties, through conference calls and meetings economic levels has an impact on its stock price, irrespective of with financial analysts to discuss corporate strategies, and include the Company’s results and growth plans. Other activities of the Inthe constant daily availability of the Investor Relations team via vestor Relations Function in this area include the interaction with e-mail and telephone. the rating agencies, which it carries out with conference calls and In managing communications with shareholders and investors, meetings with top management. the tool that reaches the widest audience is the Group’s webDespite a highly negative market environment that continued site, which has separate Governance, Investor Relations and uninterrupted in 2009 and 2010, characterized by excess supPress Room pages, all of which can be easily reached from the ply and a persistent pressure on margins, the Company’s electric home page. On the occasion of the announcement of its annual, power operations were able to hold their margins at a level subsemiannual and quarterly results, the Company organizes special stantially in line with the previous years, thanks mainly to a sales conference calls with institutional investors and financial analysts policy focuses on end customers and a more favorable product that are also open to members of the financial press. All press remix. In the natural gas area, however, Edison is in the process of leases, paid announcements published by the Company regarding renegotiating all of its long-term contracts to import natural gas, the exercise of rights conveyed by its securities and documents seeking terms that will provide an adequate return on its merconcerning Shareholders’ and Bondholders’ Meetings are posted chant gas operations. A continuous communication effort by the on the www.edison.it website. The Company encourages qualified Investor Relations Function helped make the market aware of journalists and experts to attend its Shareholders’ Meetings. the strategies deployed by Edison to address the economic crisis and stabilize its performance. As for the downgrading of Edison’s long-term rating, caused mainly by concerns, on the part of the rating agencies, for the deterioration of Italy’s economic scenario and competitive framework, the communications provided by the Investor Relations Function helped contextualize the information provided to the market, explaining the actions taken by Edison to strengthen its financial position and adjust its growth strategy consistent with changes in market conditions. There are currently no disputes with institutional investors or other holders of the Company’s common shares and none ever existed the past. In 2008, a decision was handed down in a civil action filed by the largest holder of savings shares. In June 2009, the Company reached a settlement that effectively ended this dispute. The Board of Directors agreed to offer to the other savings shareholders who filed damage claims a lump sum in settlement of any and all claims they may have. Economic Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 32 33 Sustainability Report 2010 n Economic Responsibility ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY electric power produced from renewable sources 14.3% 2009 15.5% 2010 energy used by the Group millions of GJ 288.1 2009 278 2010 water resources used millions of m3 3,669 2009 3,302 2010 effluents generated millions of m3 2,791 2009 2,589 2010 specific CO2 emissions, electric power operations g/KWh eq 486.0 2009 484.5 2010 waste generated thousands of t 111.45 2009 Rapporto di sostenibilità 2010 n Chi siamo 34 92.31 2010 PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT E dison has always been committed to sustainable development in all of its activities, both in Italy and abroad, and has always been keenly aware of the needs of its employees, stakeholders and the environment in which it operates. Its commitment to environmental protection, regulatory compliance and continuous improvement is embodied in actions that, over the years, enabled Edison to achieve levels of excellence in its performance, in terms of reducing its impact on the environment through: ■■the adoption of certified environmental management systems to monitor and manage significant environmental issues and factors that, while their impact is smaller, can be held at levels of excellence; ■■use of the best techniques available, with the aim of constantly reducing emissions levels, alongside research and development of new technologies and less polluting energy sources; ■■ongoing use of programs to train and increase the awareness of employees and outside contractors, because improving the environment requires, above all, the daily effort of everyone who works for and with Edison. Significant Environmental Issues The significant environmental issues over which Edison can have an effect vary depending on the areas of business in which Edison operates. In all cases, the Company deploys mitigation, monitoring and control activities designed to steadily reduce its environmental footprint by using resources with a low polluting impact, improving waste management and increasing waste recycling and treatment through the development of facilities capable of an environmental performance at the excellence level. Specifically, the Company opened and operated six construction sites in 2010, both in Italy and abroad, to build new power plants and infrastructures, revamp and repower production facilities and start construction of photovoltaic systems in Piedimonte San Germano (FR) and Castellavazzo (BL) that will expand its production from renewable sources. No extraordinary environmental events occurred in 2010. 35 Sustainability Report 2010 n Environmental Responsibility thermoelectric hydroelectric wind farm production production production RESOURCES USED RESOURCES USED RESOURCES USED ●● Water ●● Water ●● Chemicals (dielectric oil and lubricants) ●● Raw materials (fuel) ●● Raw materials (dielectric oil) ●● Consumables (chemicals) ●● Fuel for auxiliary services ELECTRIC POWER OPERATIONS SIGNIFICANT SIGNIFICANT SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS ●● Emissions into the atmosphere ●● Effluents ●● Noise ●● Effluents ●● Solid waste ●● Electromagnetic fields ●● Solid waste ●● Noise ●● Visual impact ●● Noise ●● Biodiversity ●● Solid waste ●● Biodiversity (impact on birds) MITIGATING ACTIONS TAKEN MITIGATING ACTIONS TAKEN MITIGATING ACTIONS TAKEN ●● Use of natural gas and combined-cycle ●● Minimum vital downstream water flow ●● Use of low-noise wind turbines cogenerating facilities ●● Installation of noise reduction ●● Installation of transformer stations ●● Use of DLN (Dry Low NOx emission) equipment and sound proofing inside the wind turbine towers technology ●● Construction of fish ladders ●● Integrated environmental and safety management systems Environmental Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 36 hydrocarbon e&p natural gas distribution RESOURCES USED RESOURCES USED ●● Water ●● Chemicals ●● Raw materials (fuel) ●● Chemicals ●● Electric power hydrocarbons operations SIGNIFICANT SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS ●● Impact on soil, subsoil ●● Gas leaks released into the and aquifer atmosphere ●● Noise ●● Solid waste ●● Emissions into the atmosphere MITIGATING ACTIONS MITIGATING ACTIONS TAKEN TAKEN ●● Actions to secure the aquifer ●● Continuos network monitoring ●● Remediation of areas disrupted by ●● Periodic replacement of damaged the laying of the pipeline pipes ●● Use of sound proofing panels ●●Resources used ●● Use of scheduled maintenance ●●Significant environmental impacts (workover) ●●Mitigating actions taken ●● Use of tanks and reservoirs to contain aquifer water 37 Sustainability Report 2010 n Environmental Responsibility AVERAGE YIELD ALL THERMOELECTRIC POWER PLANTS TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMED (thousands of GJ) (thousands of GJ) 44.8% 360,409 44.0% 43.0% 288,148 277,844 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Remediation of Industrial Sites The Group continued the remediation of some of its sites, most of In 2010, the Group used even more accurate methods to record which are within high profile industrial areas, potentially polluted emissions data. by activities carried out in previous years and designated as areas As for avoided CO2 emissions, which are computed based on a of “national interest” pursuant to law. CO2 emissions indicator developed specifically for this purpose by In 2010, projects involving the characterization, remediation and Edison (down compared with the previous year) and the producsecuring of 11 industrial sites continued at the following locations: tion of renewable energy (up compared with the past two years), the Levante and Azotati power plants in Porto Marghera (VE); the the trend was positive in 2010. Torviscosa (UD), Sesto San Giovanni (MI), Piombino (LI), Bussi Completion of the plan to retire all equipment with a PCB content of sul Tirino (PE), Taranto and Milazzo (ME) power plants and the less than 500 parts per million is expected in the first half of 2011. Sinigo (BZ) and San Giuseppe di Cairo (SV) electrical stations. In addition, a characterization plan for the Pieve Vergonte (VB) Innovation and Impact Reduction power plants and a technical report of the Pentima (TR) site were At the Marghera Azotati power plant, the replacement of GE F9E filed in 2010. gas turbines with GE LMS100 gas turbines, which are derived from aeronautical systems and can deliver high efficiency and Emissions into the Atmosphere lower emissions of nitrogen oxides, was completed in 2010. Work Emissions into the atmosphere are generated primarily by the auxalso started on a similar project at the Bussi sul Tirino power plant iliary systems operated in connection with hydrocarbon activities during the year. These projects will have a significant impact on and the use of resources for thermoelectric energy production. the reduction of CO2 and NOx emissions, cutting them by more In this area, the Group’s thermoelectric operations achieved a sigthan 40%. nificant reduction in SOx emissions due to a decrease in the use Other projects completed in 2010 included the revamping of the of fossil resources and to the deployment at full operating capacCividate hydroelectric power plants and implementation of the ity of SOx and NOx scrubbers at Edipower’s power plants. first phase of the revamping process for Sonico, Albano and CafOn the other hand, the resumption of production from the VEGA faro 2, with completion expected in 2011. platform and the commissioning of the Leonis, a Floating Storage The systems that monitor environmental factors undergo regular testOff-loading (FSO) unit used to store hydrocarbons produced by ing programs, in accordance with the control and monitoring plans the wells, is partly responsible for the rise in some emissions indirequired by the environmental certifications adopted by the Group, cators, carbon monoxide and nitric oxides in particular. which make it possible to keep under control variances in those facEnvironmental Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 38 WATER USED AND EFFLUENTS GENERATED WASTE GENERATED (thousands of m3) (tons) Total water resources used Recycled Sent to landfills 4,977,984 Total effluent discharged 8,089 11,307 3,723,375 3,668,556 3,301,589 5,632 2,790,622 2,588,655 108,386 100,138 86,682 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 EMISSIONS ELECTRIC POWER OPERATIONS (tons) 419 tors that may occur due to changes in plant configuration. 1,833 As for issues concerning compliance with environmental laws and SOx CO regulations, in 2010, the public prosecutor of Modica, upon a reNOx Particulate ferral by the Coast Guard, charged Edison with violating Article 104 and Article 260 of Decree Law No. 152/2006 (Environmen13,072 229 1,255 264 tal Code) by discharging in the deep geological layers of the Vega 1,901 field effluents resulting from the production of hydrocarbons. The resulting proceedings (currently in the preliminary phase following 10,158 a request for indictment) refer to the discharge of effluents back 10,466 into the field and not to spills of crude oil or contaminants into the sea, for which the Company has not been charged, since none ever occurred. Moreover, the activity that is being challenged is 10,320 a practice used in the oil industry that is fully in compliance with 5,953 regulatory requirements and encouraged by the industry oversight 4,456 authorities, whenever the existence of a dry underwater well is available. In the case in question, the Company is being charged 2008 2009 2010 with a failure to secure a permit, which, in Edison’s opinion, it secured when the platform was initially activated. Therefore, Edison is certain that its actions were fully in compliance with current regulations and the evidence produced in these proceedings will confirm its position. Moreover, it is important to Environmental Accounting emphasize that, in over 20 years of activity, no accident ever ocThe amounts invested are an indication of the Company’s belief curred at the Vega field, nor were there ever any spills of oil or that protecting the environment is in its interest and represent the substances used in the production process that contaminated the expression of an environmental policy that includes soil, subsoil, marine environment, as shown by investigations carried out by the nature and biodiversity protection projects and programs to manjudicial authorities. age waste and water resources. 39 Sustainability Report 2010 n Environmental Responsibility PROTECTING BIODIVERSITY Interview of Legambiente on the biodiversity project Answers by Rossella Muroni, General Manager of Legambiente What are Legambiente’s concerns, How does Legambiente rate the policies priorities and expectations with regard to adopted by Edison and the projects Edison and the handling of biodiversity it implemented to handle biodiversity issues? issues? Biodiversity must be a priority issue in Edison’s Legambiente rates very highly the efforts that policies and strategies. This is because major Edison has been making to address biodiversity energy groups can play a role of primary issues. Obviously, there is always room for importance in the protection of biodiversity. It is improvement, starting with the problems essential that companies establish biodiversity encountered in earlier projects. We expect Edison related monitoring programs from the moment to remain vigilant, particularly when it builds new they develop their business plans. There are facilities. In the case of wind farms, it is important numerous tools and activities that can be to check for the presence of special protection deployed to protect biodiversity and programs zones or EU protected sites and any other that Edison can bring to bear in this area, restrictions that could require special solutions including, for example, studies, monitoring tailored to the territory and wildlife considerations. systems and, in general, activities indicative of Undoubtedly, it is important to emphasize actions an ongoing concern for the environment. When that can be deployed to protect biodiversity, a new industrial facility is being planned, it is of such as monitoring, information, scientific fundamental importance to verify the existing education and, lastly, the involvement of the local biodiversity conditions, particularly when the area community, so that any actions taken can help includes a significant presence of endangered multiply the level of knowledge. animal species. Environmental Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 40 The most noteworthy investments of 2010 included the following: The Nagoya summit also provided an opportunity to assign to bio■■Edipower developed a project to rehabilitate a building located diversity an explicit and recognized economic value. Specifically, near the Chivasso power plant using the most modern bio-conthe member countries adopted a protocol about access to genetic struction techniques. The energy consumption of the building, resources and how benefits from their use should be shared: gewhich was inaugurated at the end of 2010, will be covered by netic resources from plants, animals, fungi or bacteria were recself-production. ognized as assets of the supplier country, which must consent to ■■As part of its energy conservation effort, Edipower developed their use and receive a portion of the benefits deriving from their a system to provide heat to the district heating systems of Piaexploitation. cenza and Chivasso. ■■In 2010, a 693 KWp photovoltaic system was installed in a reEdison’s Protection of Biodiversity claimed area adjacent to the Milazzo power plant. This facility, In 2010, continuing a program started in 2009, Edison developed which is connected to the medium voltage power grid, cover a total a method to analyze the sensitivity of its operating sites in terms surface of 14,300 square meters. of biodiversity issues. The method used, developed on a national ■■The Porto San Giorgio (AP) gas treatment plant and the wells scale, was based on three types of data: use of soil, protected connected to it received ISO 14001 and OHSAS18001 certifiareas and distribution of vertebrate species. These three types cation, requiring an investment of about 580,000 euros. of information, taken from official databases and scientific publications, were organized within the framework of a geographic 2010: International Year of Biodiversity database that included, in addition to these data, the location of In December 2006, responding to strong concerns about the soits operating sites. cial, economic, environmental and cultural consequences of the The database thus created was used to develop a ranking of the loss of biodiversity and the continuous deterioration of the global operating sites, in terms of their sensitivity for biodiversity issues, by ecosystem, the United Nations General Assembly declared 2010 applying a three-step process: the International Year of Biodiversity: the aim of the United Na■■Define two areas of study (1 km and 2 km radius) and analyze tions was to increase awareness of the importance of biodiversity the three types of data collected in each area; among member countries and other stakeholders and encourage ■■Identify, for each area of study and each site, three different key the start of local, regional and international programs to protect indicators: “nature in all its forms.” a) Soil use: type of soil use within a study area and the correA large number of programs to foster greater understanding of the sponding percentage; concept of biodiversity and increase public awareness of the reab) Vertebrate species: identify the species that exist in each sons why its conservation is endangered in so many parts of the study area and develop an overall indicator representing the world and of possible solutions were started both at the national interest in preserving the vertebrate species, obtained as the and regional level and at the local level. The U.N. member countries, sum of the conservation indices of the different species presmeeting in Nagoya, Japan, for the Tenth Conference of the Parties ent in the study zone (Maiorano et al., 2006); (Cop-10) of the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity c) Protected areas: percentage of protected areas within the launched at the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, adopted 20 study area. strategic objectives that must be reached at the global level by 2020. ■■Combine this information into a single biodiversity sensitivity Over the next 10 years, the U.N. member countries must adopt the index for each site. necessary measures and deploy effective programs to stop the loss A summary data sheet that provides a description of the results of biodiversity. For example, 17% of land surfaces and 10% of the of the analyses and lists the indicator data, useful for developing sea areas must be classified as protected and each country must a ranking of operating sites, was prepared for each site, valued define a strategy that is best suited for its situation. based on the abovementioned biodiversity indicators. This projIn this area, Italy presented at the summit a National Strategy for Bioect represents another step forward in the process of achieving diversity developed by the Ministry of the Environment in October and awareness of the impact that the Group’s activities could have on approved by the Central Government-Regional Administrations Conthe territory and constitutes a milestone in the development of a ference. This document analyzes biodiversity challenges in three secPreliminary Corporate Biodiversity Action Plan – PCBAP. The Actions (services for ecosystems, climate change and economic policies), tion Plan that will be developed in 2011 will include the definition identifies 15 areas of activity (species, habitats, landscape, genetic reof clear and realistic objectives to manage and protect biodiversity sources, agriculture, forests, rivers and lakes, the sea, infrastructures and the requirement that biodiversity protection be gradually inand transportation, cities, health, energy, tourism, research and innovacorporated into the environmental management systems adopted tion, education and information) and recommends the establishment of at the operating sites. a national biodiversity observatory and a consultation system. 41 Sustainability Report 2010 n Environmental Responsibility EDISON AND CLIMATE CHANGE CO2 emissions CO2 emissions CO2 emissions thermoelectric hydrocarbons network leaks million tons million tons thousand tons 20.8 2009 109 2009 17 2009 21.5 2010 128 2010 23.7 2010 research and avoided emissions installed capacity innovation costs with renewables renewable-source facilities million euros million tons MW 3.8 2009 3.32 2009 2,105 2009 3.2 2010 3.80 2010 2,161 2010 Environmental Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 42 Climate Change and the Energy Context The issue of climate change continued to be the focus of the define an agreement that would replace the Kyoto Protocol startinternational debate in 2010, which, according to several studies, ing in 2013 more complex. The position of the United States in was the warmest year since the start of the twentieth century. support of a Cap-and-Trade system in America, championed by Extreme weather events, such as the drought in Russia and China Obama during the election campaign, weakened significantly and and the floods in Pakistan, occur with ever increasing frequency binding commitment to reduce emissions starting in 2013 seems and the effects of climate change are now undisputable. now highly unlikely. However, the current economic crisis has made negotiations to GLOBAL EMISSIONS SCENARIO GREENHOUSE GAS CONCENTRATION 43 Sustainability Report 2010 n Environmental Responsibility COP 16, a conference that was supposed to lead to the defini●● TARGET tion of a binding international agreement, was held in Cancun in ●● 20% December 2010: the expectations were quite negative and no COMPARED WITH 1990 agreement was signed. However, according to various sources, Cancun laid a solid foundation for future negotiations. As for the European Union, the target is still a 20% reduction in ●● 14% COMPARED WITH 2005 emissions compared with 1990, as defined in the Climate Package. This target, which must be reached by 2020, was spelled out in Directive No. 2009/29/EC, which revised the EU’s Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS), and the Effort Sharing Directive, which atEU NON-ETS tributes to individual member countries emissions reduction tarETS SECTORS gets for sectors not covered by the ETS Directive (transportation, ●● 21% ●● 10% agriculture, construction). COMPARED COMPARED The ETS Directive places the greatest burden on the thermoelecWITH 2005 WITH 2005 tric sector, which will have to reduce its emissions as much as possible and buy additional emissions permits at auction. Manufacturing sectors, particularly those exposed to outsourcing risk, will continue to receive free permits. With the approval of the Climate Package, the European Union defined the path that it intends to follow to achieve the objective of the environmental compatibility of generating facilities in the electric power sector. Each member country will be required to contribute to achieving the following EU targets: Differently from earlier phases, the ETS Directive requires, for the (i) reduction of CO2 emissions by 20% compared with 1990 2013-2020 period, neither the assignment of targets to individual emissions; member countries, nor, consequently, the adoption of National Al(ii) coverage of 20% of final consumption (electric power sector location Plans. Member countries contribute jointly to achieving + heating and cooling + transportation) with production from a target, without being required to achieve a specific target asrenewable sources (target adjusted for each member counsigned to each of them. try: Italy 17%); In purely theoretical terms, assuming a fair allocation of reduction (iii) 20% reduction in energy consumption by 2020, compared requirements among the different countries, Italy should reduce with a business-as-usual scenario. the emissions of ETS sectors by 21% compared with 2005, stayThe first two targets are binding and the third one, while not binding below 180 million tons of CO2 by 2020. Even if we were to ing, seems to be necessary, if the two challenging targets are to assume a major increase in production from renewable energy be achieved. sources and a growing impact on consumption of energy effiThe objective of the 20-20 Package is to reduce total European ciency programs, the thermoelectric sector alone will account for emissions of CO2 by 20% compared with 1990, or by 14% com150-160 million tons of CO2 by 2020, in addition to the emissions pared with 2005 emissions. of the other ETS sectors. For the sectors covered by the ETS Directive, the target translated Even though, as mentioned above, there are no specific restricinto a 21% reduction from 2005 levels, to be achieved through a tions limiting the level of emissions by the various Italian ETS secgradual decrease in total available emissions rights. tors, it is obvious that the substantial disparity that would arise Each member country will be provided with a certain quantity of compared with a theoretical reduction trend increases the expoemissions rights (determined based on defined criteria for the alsure of the manufacturing system to the CO2 risk. location of the total emissions rights available at the EU level), which will be sold at special auctions. The quantity allocated to Italy should amount to 164 million tons of CO2 in 2020. Environmental Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 44 EMISSIONS EU-ETS SECTORS (MT CO2) 223 Under this scenario, by 2030, Italy’s manufacturing Allocation Italy 2020 system will have to buy emissions permits from other 76 164 MT CO2 (-26% from 2005) EU countries or use the CDM (with limits). post-crisis REFERENCE SCENARIO 150-160 150-160 MT CO2 147 of estimated emissions after efficiency measures and Other ETS sectors promotion of renewables Thermoelectric 2005 2020 It is worth nothing that the potential reduction in CO2 emissions by in CO2 emissions from a portfolio of generating facilities that use the Italian thermoelectric sector is not limited to implementing profossil fuels. grams to increase efficiency at the final use level or to increasing On the other hand, CCS would burden the power generation sysproduction from renewable energy sources. An absolutely signifitem with higher production costs and energy dependence on forcant contribution could be provided by simply replacing production eign sources (significant increase in fuel consumption to produce from coal-fired facilities with production from CCGT systems fired the same amount of power). Moreover, there are still many uncerwith natural gas. tainties about the actual feasibility of CCS technology: a scaleThe maximum potential of such a program (replacement of 40 up of a capture facility to a commercial size has not yet been TWh from coal facilities with CCGT systems) would result in a achieved and the ability to store CO2 underground for geological decrease of emissions by this sector (~25 million tons of CO2) of lengths of time is yet to be proven. a size comparable to that achievable through the expanded use If the objective is to diversify energy supply sources and reduce of renewable sources mentioned in the government’s Action Plan CO2 emissions, the use of nuclear energy presents an attrac(from the current 60 TWh to 99 TWh). tive opportunity to contain the use of fossil sources in the Italian Alternatively, the adoption of Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) power generation system and minimize the impact that the use of would seem to be indispensable to achieve a significant reduction CCS would have on the system. 45 Sustainability Report 2010 n Environmental Responsibility Edison and the Management of Risks Related to Climate Change Edison’s ongoing commitment to fight the negative effects caused Because it is a producer of electric power with facilities that inby climate change is reflected in a number of programs that entail, clude thermoelectric power plants, Edison is required to comply for the most part, selecting the best technologies for the construcwith the provisions of the European Emissions Trading Scheme tion of new infrastructures, investing in the production of energy (ETS) and, more specifically, the National Allocation Plan for CO2 from renewable sources, researching and developing technoloemissions rights. However, because of the new ETS Directive and gies with a low environmental impact, promoting sustainable dethe new international agreements, currently being finalized, that velopment in developing countries, supporting energy conservashould strengthen or replace the Kyoto Protocol, the Company tion education in the school system and offering clean energy to must now monitor on an ongoing basis developing trends both customers. domestically and internationally. This is because amendments to Edison’s awareness of the effects of climate change is closely reagreements and regulations currently in effect could have a matelated to managing the risks resulting from climate change, which rial impact on its operations and require it to defray substantial can be classified as follows: costs to comply with new directives. ■■Regulatory risks, caused by change in regulations concerning Given the need to adjust to restrictions created by existing and emissions, taxation, etc., which could have an impact of a finanfuture regulatory measures, Edison currently engages public incial, organizational or management type; stitutions and other stakeholders as an active counterparty in a ■■Physical risks, caused by unexpected natural events that could dialog for the development of a path to sustainable development, have an impact on the Company’s infrastructures, with probable in which it can play a leading role. Recently, the Company estabconsequences on costs incurred for insurance, occupational lished a task force responsible for monitoring and assessing the health and safety, etc. economic impact or regulatory changes on its business activities. ■■Other risks, such as financial, market and reputational risks. In Edison’s case, physical risks can consist mainly of an immediate reduction in the production of electric power due to a decrease in the volume of rain or snow and by the unavailability of raw materials caused by an excessive increase in temperature. To avoid negative consequences, in addition to managing this risk with its Enterprise Risk Management model, Edison monitors on a daily Regulatory risks basis the trends in the energy it supplies and gas consumption, as ■■ International agreements they relate to changes in temperature. ■■ Carbon tax In managing these risks, the aim is not only to avoid the nega■■ Cap-and-trade scheme tive impact of the operational effectiveness and profitability of the ■■ Limits on emissions ■■ Regulation and taxation of Company’s activities, but also to take advantage of opportunities fuels/energy developed by anticipating the consequences of climate change. ■■ Environmental regulations The first major opportunity seized by Edison in this area was the Physical risks ■■ Emissions reporting development of electric power production from renewable sourc■■ Scarcity of precipitations/ changes in rainfall es, stimulated by the need to comply with the targets on the redistribution duction of CO2 emissions. ■■ Increase in extreme weather events The Company also believes that the challenge posed by climate change is closely related to the protection of biodiversity, because Other risks the preservation of natural habitats and ecosystems has a major ■■ Reputational risks impact on the intensity of the effects of climate change. It was ■■ Market risks consistent with this belief that, in 2010 (International Year of Bio■■ Financial risks diversity), Edison defined an action plan to manage and protect biodiversity in the areas where it operates, setting a series of concrete objectives for the future that will help fight climate change. Environmental Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 46 CO2 EMISSIONS THERMOELECTRIC OPERATIONS HYDROCARBON SECTOR AND INDIRECT EMISSIONS (tons) (tons) CO2 emissions, hydrocarbons operations Emissions from consumption 128,016 27,726,181 of purchased electric power 108,707 20,796,734 21,518,201 47,368 47,986 46,540 29,065 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Carbon Management SPECIFIC EMISSIONS ELECTRIC POWER OPERATIONS (g/kWh equiv.) As mentioned above, companies in the thermoelectric sector will be required to buy their emissions permits at auction. In this reSpecific CO2 emissions – thermoelectric power plants gard, the European Union published Regulations governing such Specific CO2 emissions – all power plants auctions, which provide the option of purchasing emissions rights 590.9 587.4 on special platforms. After 2012, companies will still be able to 558.2 use credits from CDM/JI projects to offset their emissions, but in a quantity limited to the level allowed for the 2008-2012 period, based on the allocations to production facilities. 523.6 486.0 In addition, the European Commission banned the use of credits 484.5 from HFC projects, starting in 2013, because it found these project insufficiently compatible from an environmental point of view. Edison openly supported the EU’s position, consistent with the decision it made at the outset not to invest in these technologies, choosing instead to support renewable energy and energy efficiency projects, which are more in line with its core business. Edison’s approach to CDM development projects is unique for 2008 2009 2010 various reasons: not only did the Company choose to invest in environmentally sustainable technologies, it also carried out strict due diligence procedures for each project, specifically to verify the project’s social and environmental sustainability (e.g., avoiding projects with child labor issues, projects near protected areas or, for dam construction, projects involving population relocation). The overall assessment also takes into account technical, legal and financial issues and makes it possible to evaluate a transaction’s positive potential and the risks related to it. Based on this process, Edison decides whether or not it will buy the potential CER/ERU credits expected from the project, handling the entire credit registration and issuance process. Currently, Edison is a direct participant in about 20 CDM projects in Asia and is an investor in two carbon funds for the purpose of purchasing credits. 47 Sustainability Report 2010 n Environmental Responsibility Development of Renewable Energy Sources The recently published EU Directive No. 2009/28 sets forth As for the production of electric power from renewable sources, binding 2020 targets for the consumption of electric power from the target in the Action Plan is about 99 TWh by 2020, or about RES, both at the EU and national levels. The 17% target set for 35 TWh more than the production generated in 2009 (+13 TWh Italy was translated into the specific targets for the electric power, for wind power, +11 TWh for biomasses, +10 TWh for photovolheating/cooling and transportation sectors that are listed in a Nataic and +1 TWh for geothermal). tional Action Plan that was submitted for approval to the European Commission in July. ItalY 2020 TARGETS 2009 PRODUCTION 2020 TARGETS 12% 19% 8% 42% 1% 7% 63.3 TWh 69% 98.9 TWh 10% 2% 10% 2% 18% n Hydroelectric 43.12 TWh n Geothermal 5.34 TWh n Hydroelectric 42 TWh n CSP solar systems 1.7 TWh n Onshore wind power 6.54 TWh n Biomasses 7.63 TWh n Onshore wind power 18 TWh n Geothermal 6.75 TWh n Photovoltaic 0.68 TWh n Offshore wind power 2 TWh n Biomasses 18.78 TWh n Photovoltaic 9.65 TWh n Sea tides and waves 0.01 TWh Environmental Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 48 The economic crisis has made achieving the 17% target by 2020 In 2010, the Group commissioned 30 MW wind farm in Mistretta easier, due to the reduction in gross consumption by end users (province of Messina). Two wind farms located at San Giorgio La with potential impact on future demand. Nevertheless, a significant Molara and Foiano di Val Fortore (Campania region) with an inportion of the selected programs must still be carried out. stalled capacity of 54 MW and 17 MW are under construction. Edison goal is to increase and consolidate its growth in the reThe commissioning is expected by 2011/2012. The acquisition of newable sources, a sector in which has been active throughout 100% of Parco Eolico San Francesco Srl company (26 MW wind its history. farm located at Melissa KR) from Gamesa was also completed The total Group renewable capacity accounts for 2,160 MW broin 2010. ken down as follows: Hydroelectric: 1,741 MW, wind: 410 MW, In the Photovoltaic sector Piedimonte San Germano (FR) power photovoltaic: 5 MW and biomass: 6 MW (through the Sistemi di plant (1 MW) was completed and other two photovoltaic power Energia subsidiary). plants (4 MW) are under construction in the province of AlessanWind power generation is expected to grow in Italy, due to a signifidria. These new power plants use a mixed fixed/tracker photovolcant pipeline for about 700 MW. The Group also plans to achieve taic technology. an important international presence, mainly in Southeast Europe, A 105 kW photovoltaic rooftop was installed on the industrial with greenfield projects and potential acquisitions. building of Castellavazzo biomass power plant, replacing the existIn the photovoltaic sector, growth will be pursued with Greenfield ing roof containing asbestos. projects in Edison sites and third-party sites and through potential The company received the authorization for 1 MW photovoltaic acquisitions of projects at different stages of development. power plants in the province of Campobasso, the construction of In the hydroelectric sector the development of new mini hydro which should be completed by the end of 2011. power plants and the repowering of the existing power plants are In the biomass area, a 6 MW power plant was commissioned in expected in the next years. 2010 and over 25% of the fuel used in 2010 was sourced from In addition to monitoring of all renewable sources, Edison is studylocal suppliers (short supply chain). ing the potential of innovative technologies, such as deep water offshore wind farms, high altitude wind power technology, thermodynamic solar and concentrated solar power. 49 Sustainability Report 2010 n Environmental Responsibility Research and Innovation for the Environment Edison’s Research and Development Department is engaged in In the area of energy efficiency, Edison’s R&D Department works a broad spectrum of activities that concern primarily energy techin close collaboration with and in support of the Energy Efficiency nologies and environmental sustainability. Activities in the areas of and Sustainable Development Business Unit. Several technolorenewable sources, energy efficiency, low-impact power generagies, including heat pumps (both electrical and gas fired), small tion technologies and development of advanced energy matericogenerating systems and fuel cells, were studied in 2010. als range from monitoring technologies to feasibility studies, the Also in 2010, a multifunctional Project Team coordinated by the construction of pilot facilities and the development of proprietary Research and Development Department, worked on establishing technologies. a framework for research in Smart Grid development, both nationIn the pursuit of these activities, Research and Development works ally and at the international level, which involved establishing an synergistically with Edison’s internal departments and with many important international network of operators and developers. important public and private institutions engaged in researching Many energy topics tackled in 2010 share as their common deenergy related topics. nominator the use of advanced materials, which are the subject of Renewable-source projects carried out in 2010 focused on cona specific research project by Edison’s R&D Department. ventional and concentrating photovoltaic systems, thermodynamic The main line of research in this area is that of superconductors, solar systems, innovative wind power facilities and biomass power which is carried out primarily at the Trofarello Research Center and in plants. collaboration with the CNR’s IENI Institute in Lecco. Photovoltaic projects completed in 2010 included the construcOver the years, Edison’s R&D Department established a wide nettion of a testing station at the Research Center in Trofarello (TO). work of collaborative relationships with other important public and Completion of this project, which joins an existing testing facility at private organizations engaged in energy-related research activities. the Altomonte (CS) power plant, is expected later this year. Both These relationships with organizations that represent centers of locations can be used to field test systems based on different excellence provide the Group with a privileged position in monitortechnologies, both commercial and developmental. ing evolution in the technology scenario, which is essential both to A study carried out also in the renewable-source area involved asseize new opportunities and mitigate technology risks. sessing the potential technical and economic benefits of integratThe institutions with which we collaborate include: Milan Polying storage systems with large-scale wind farms. technic, Turin Polytechnic, Environment Park (Scientific TechnolSeveral testing and study programs focused on power generaogy Park for the Environment TO), CNR-IENI in Lecco, ENEA tion with a low environmental impact. Projects carried out in 2010 (National Agency for New Technologies, Energy and Sustainable studied issues such as carbon sequestration (CO2 capture and Economic Development), ECLT at Ca' Foscari University, in Vengeological storage technologies) and various high efficiency ice, and, at the international level, EDF’s R&D organization, EIFgeneration and cogeneration technologies. Activities in this area ER (European Institute for Energy Research Karlsruhe), Ecleer included fuel-cell testing projects at the Research Center and col(European Energy Efficiency Research Center, which involves laborative projects with Turin’s Polytechnic, the Eifer Institute in the Federal Polytechnic in Lausanne and the Ecole des Mines in Karlsruhe and other institutions. Paris). Environmental Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 50 Technological innovation, renewable energy sources and energy conservation answer the challenge of climate change Answers by Rossella Muroni, General Manager of Legambiente What are Legambiente’s issues, priorities and How does Legambiente rate the policies and expectations with regard to the Edison Group the strategies adopted by the Edison Group in terms of managing environmental innovation and the projects it carried out to fight climate and fighting climate change? change? “At Legambiente, in light of the productive collaborative “The Edison Group has done great things in the area of relationship we developed in these areas, starting with technological innovation, particularly with regard to clienvironmental education, we have great expectations mate change. Legambiente witnessed this development with regard to Edison concerning the issue of climate first hand. We expect investments in technological innochange. What we are hoping for is for Edison to implement vation to continue, leading to the gradual elimination of a Group strategy based on a massive investment in clean facilities with a greater impact on the environment, such energy, shifting its business more towards renewable enas power plants that burn fuel oil. In our view, it is essenergy sources, a sector that, from Legambiente’s point of tial for Edison to focus its investments on renewable enview, is not compatible with nuclear energy. Therefore, we ergy sources and concentrate its efforts on research and urge Edison to focus more on renewable sources and less development. At Legambiente, we stand ready to support on nuclear energy. Edison in the pursuit of a virtuous path, with the aim of Edison can use different types of tools to address the achieving the common goal of fighting climate change, acchallenge of climate change. At Legambiente, we expect knowledging that natural gas represents a viable source Edison to make additional investments in the areas of in the transition toward renewables. education and energy conservation. For this reason, the With regard to projects to fight climate change, we believe projects that we developed together always addressed that Edison implemented optimally some of the numerthese issues, focusing specifically on increasing the ous projects carried out in this area. A decisive issue is awareness of the younger generations about the issue of that of environmental education: we must communicate climate change. In addition, we believe that action must with the public, providing accurate information about enbe taken at the individual level, specifically with regard to ergy conservation and the reduction of consumption. Edienergy consumption. Edison should continue on this path, son should publicize more effectively its offer to supply investing in renewables with increasing determination. In green energy, which, in our view, is absolutely competitive. terms of strategies, Edison should collaborate with enviA straight sales offer can also be a conduit for a personal ronmental associations and businesses in the renewable contribution: choosing Edison as a supplier also means energy sector, which are currently hobbled by new regulachoosing green energy. This is a very promising issue, tions that hinder their development. This issue is particuwith regard to which we could develop a joint effort.” larly important for us and it is essential that a responsible company such as Edison take a clear stand on this issue.” Edison and Italy’s Nuclear Program development and understanding of technical and scientific inforEdison is continuing to carefully consider the use of nuclear enmation about nuclear issues that is as exhaustive, clear, transparergy as a technology for the production of electric power that ent and accessible as possible, by disseminating ideas, considergenerates no CO2 emissions and provides better diversification of ations and knowledge in terms that are both simple and readily supply sources than conventional technologies. understandable, while at the same time providing an opportunity In 2010, as an active participant in the dialog with its stakeholdfor expressing different viewpoints and thus stimulate a frank exers, the Company promoted the establishment of the Italian Nuchange of ideas. clear Forum, a non-profit association whose aim is to contribute to the resumption of public debate on the development of nuclear energy in Italy. Drawing on the experience developed with similar forums, established in other countries where nuclear power is part of the energy mix, the goal of the Italian Forum is to promote the 51 Sustainability Report 2010 n Environmental Responsibility SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY percentage of employee injury lost workday female employees incidence rate incidence rate 17% 2009 3.04 2009 0.07 2009 18% 2010 2.96 2010 0.11 2010 average hours of training per capita thousands 31.9 2009 32.5 2010 occupational safety total complaints for expenses all energy customers thousands of euros % 11,484 2009 2.23% 2009 14,080 2010 3.25% 2010 suppliers based in Italy % 84% 2009 88% 2010 purchases from qualified suppliers % 85% 2009 87% 2010 total number of electric power and natural gas customers 538,632 2009 Rapporto di sostenibilità 2010 n Chi siamo 52 1,011,301 2010 OUR EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEE EDUCATION LEVEL (%) E dison’s people are the engine that drives the growth 2% of our Company. 1% Concern for company employees translates into a 16% corporate culture aimed at promoting team work, communication, a results oriented approach and 32% the delegation of responsibility as key factors in the achievement of important corporate results. Equal opportunities, awareness of employees’ professional and personal needs and expectations, protection of employee health, a commitment to support professional development and rewards for performance are the fundamental principles on which Edison’s relationship with its staff is based. Edison rigorously complies with all statutes governing labor con49% tracts and promotes its internal personnel management standards and the principles of the Group’s Code of Ethics to ensure that the rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the principles of the Global Compact are protected in all of n Elementary n Intermediate n High school n College n Other the countries where it operates. Edison does not tolerate any type school school diploma degree (Masters, of irregular work, off-the-books employment and, especially, child PhD, etc.) or forced labor and adopted an internal policy for the respect of human rights. Employee Recruitment Methods or religious affiliation, sex and sexual orientation, health and perWhile the Company continues to pursue a policy that favors the sonal characteristics are avoided.2 internal development of professional competencies, the interacThe recruitment and selection of employees to staff the Comtion with the labor market can provide important opportunities to pany’s organization is carried out consistent with the principles of acquire competencies and professional skills that are not available objectivity, transparency and equal opportunity, while respecting within the Group or hire and invest in young resources. the privacy of each candidate. Edison fully understands that the cooperation of highly motivated Recruitment and selection processes are designed to cover all of individuals with outstanding professional skills is a strategic facthe Group’s requirements with regard to human resources and, tor of fundamental importance for the Company’s growth. Consetherefore, hiring employees to take up work positions in various quently, it adopted a comprehensive recruitment process, followed business environments. by a human resources management and development system Special attention is paid to college seniors and recent graduates, that, subsequent to their hiring, offer to all employees equal opto whom Edison offers numerous internships and work opportuportunities for improvement and professional development. nities to help them develop dissertations in various professional Consistent with the provisions of the Group’s Code of Ethics, all fields. These potential employees are recruited through numerous discriminatory practices based on race, nationality, political, union meetings with students at top universities. 2 The principles defined in the Group’s Code of Ethics do not call for the preferential hiring of candidates from the areas where most of the Company’s businesses are located. 53 Sustainability Report 2010 n Social Responsibility Employee Development The development of the Group’s employees is promoted and imThe identification of Company profiles that, because of the poplemented through specific professional and career paths. sition, experience and key competencies involved, must be conThe Company has developed a Professional Competencies Asstantly monitored and protected is an integral part of the purposes sessment system, within professional families and role classificaand output of the Company’s Management Review and Profestions, which it uses to identify technical-knowledge competencies sional Competencies Assessment processes. of key value for the development of the Group’s businesses and For all positions deemed to be essential and/or critical, the Comdeploy appropriate training and organizational activities to enpany updates periodically special replacement charts and takes hance and augment them. the most appropriate management actions to protect its corporate Edison also developed a Performance Assessment process that assets, which without doubt include employees. was applied to about 1,000 employees, including executives, middle managers and office staff, in 2010, with the aim of promoting and rewarding the achievement of business results, within the framework of an objective and transparent dialog between managers and employees. For a number of years Edison has consistently applied a Management Model to assess, guide and develop the management skills that its managers must have to support the growth of their associates and handle management responsibilities. Lastly, the Company pays special attention to the management of recent college graduates, to whom it applies a special development, training and compensation policy during the first three years they spend at the Company. Social Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 54 Employee Benefits and Balancing Work and Personal Life: Edison Per Te Program For a number of years, by executing special agreements Business and People Network: Edison, together with with the labor unions, Edison progressively integrated some of Italy’s biggest companies with a concern for into its organization the new rules required by changing the needs of their employees and the issues related pension and health benefits legislation. to balancing family and work obligations, established Specifically, employees have the option of availing a commercial exchange platform through which themselves of supplemental retirement benefits employees of each company within the network can systems and supplemental health benefits systems purchase at discounted prices products and services funded through joint employer and employee developed by other network companies. contributions. In addition, the Company established The Business and People Network also represents an the Edison Per Te program to help employees balance exceptional opportunity for companies to exchange personal and professional commitments, further information about potential employee benefits and improve the protection of their health and provide programs to balance work and personal life. support for their families. This program, in its third year in 2010, was expanded and upgraded with new initiatives and activities, demonstrating Edison’s growing concern for the needs of its employees. The program includes four areas of activity: n The main activities in the Health and Wellness area focused on a cardiovascular prevention campaign and an ophthalmology campaign that was extremely well received by employees. Additional initiatives included online medical consultations, information about medical facilities and hospitals, and wellness programs designed to promote physical activity and well being. n The Family area includes pediatric assistance services, summer camps, babysitting services, online computer and foreign language courses for the children of employees, and information about facilities and services for young children and teenagers. The help desk for the elderly, a new support service that provides information on issues related to caring for elderly parents and/or relatives, was activated in November 2010. n The Personal Time area includes specific programs to support economically and environmentally Compared with 2009, when the program took first sustainable mobility through special agreements with place in the Famiglia-Lavoro prize sponsored by the ATM, Ferrovie Nord and Trenitalia Lombardia. Regional Administration of Lombardy and ALTIS, use of Other services in this area, available to employees these services by employees and associates increased at all locations, include online consulting support significantly at all locations. In 2010, about 54% of the for private and personal legal and tax issues and employees and associates of the Edison Group used at support by specialized personnel in dealing with the lease one of the services provide by the Edison Per Te public administration paperwork on behalf of Group program. employees. Confirming the effectiveness of the services and the n Within the Savings Opportunities area, the network broad scope of the needs they covered, a satisfaction of suppliers and stores located throughout Italy who, survey carried out at the end of the year showed that through new conventions and agreements, provide between 85% and 95% of the people surveyed found significant economic benefits to employees was the individual areas of the program useful. expanded in 2010. Specifically, the following two programs were launched during the year: Temporary Shop: online sales at promotional prices, available for limited time periods and each time involving a different merchandise category. 55 Sustainability Report 2010 n Social Responsibility Compensation Training and Empowerment of and Incentive System Human Resources Edison compensates its employees in accordance with meritBased on the findings of a structured process designed to deterbased criteria that take into account the results achieved, manamine the Group’s training needs and assess professional comgerial performance and professional competencies. petencies, the Personnel Department defines a training program The compensation system for all employees, with the exception that benefits the entire staff by addressing the multiple needs of executives, includes collective incentives (result bonus), based of developing professional technical competencies, strengthening on the achievement of profitability and productivity targets, and is management competencies and developing transversal compedesigned to foster a more direct involvement of the staff in the tencies (such as business competencies and an understanding of pursuit of the Group’s objectives. economic-regulatory and corporate context), which are essential In addition to a fixed amount, the compensation system for exfor any professional or manager working at Edison, irrespective of ecutives and professionals with positions of high responsibility the position he or she holds. includes a specially designed system of variable incentives based In addition, Edison carried out a training program provided to over on the achievement of annual and multi-year targets. An important 1,900 employees. In 2010, this program, which targeted with speinnovation introduced in 2009 is the addition of a target tied to cific projects different populations within the Group, was characthe Group’s occupational safety performance. terized, in addition to the customary emphasis on occupational In 2007, as an addition to the conventional merit-based compensafety and the environment, also by a twin focus on: managerialsation system, the Company launched the Edison Group Award, operational skills and professional competencies. an annual event to honor teams involved in special strategic Group The Group’s investments in training and development also include projects, who receive non-cash prizes. the increasingly frequent use of internal programs to update its In 2010, the award went to the team that achieved the important entire management population on relevant business topics. Spesales objective of “one million customers.” cific activities in this area included “action learning” programs aimed at defining an action plan for an increasingly effective implementation of the Management Model; conceptual and developmental training initiatives for professional families, such as the launch of the Market Academy in the sales area; and educational programs provided by internal instructors carried out by the different business segments, concerning geological competencies for the hydrocarbons operations and technical electric competencies for the electric power operations. An important development that characterized 2010 was the second cycle of the management review process, which involved an integrated assessment of managerial results and competencies extended to all executives and middle managers on a triennial basis. The assessment process was launched in the second half of 2009, targeting more than 500 employees for assessment, and ended with a strategic analysis by top management and a comprehensive feedback process involving all assessed resources. Social Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 56 EMPLOYEES WHO UNDERWENT TRAINING BY TYPE (HOURS) PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT 2,356 7,579 34% 18,801 28% 29% 45,596 10,197 18,235 25,466 2008 2009 2010 n Quality, environment and safety n Foreign language courses n Technical training n Information technology training n Institutional training – internal n Conventions n Institutional training – external Occupational Health and Safety Promoting the development of our employees while guaranteeing The main activities carried out or launched in 2010 by Edison Spa their occupational health and safety is one of the challenges that are are reviewed below: inherent in Edison’s responsibility. With this in mind, Edison tackles ■■As was the case in 2009, Edison was an active participant in and manages health and safety issues with an integrated manageOSHA Week 2010, the European Health and Safety Week ment approach, promoting the development and deployment of in(October 25-29), promoting the topics of risk assessment and tegrated management systems as a key element of prevention and healthy and safe work environments, specifically with regard to continuous management improvement, while respecting and consafe maintenance, with informational and training programs. stantly interacting with the communities within which it operates, con■■The Risk Assessment Documents were amended to comply sistent with best international practices. The adoption of health and with the requirements of the updated Legislative Decree No. safety systems that comply with international benchmark standards 81/08. By year’s end, the risk assessment software covered (BS OHSAS 18001) demonstrates the Group’s commitment to going about 95% of the Group’s locations. In this area, a process to beyond merely maintaining compliance with statutory requirements, assess risk from work-related stress, designed in accordance choosing instead to promote a policy of continuous improvement that with the general guidelines of the European Agreement of Ocfosters a culture of safety at all levels of the organization. tober 8, 2004, was launched in 2010, ahead of the deadline Consistent with its relentless pursuit of a “zero accidents” objecof Legislative Decree No. 81/08. The first part of this process, tive, Edison continued to identify and develop activities that will involving the collection of objective indicators, has been comproduce a further improvement in its occupational safety indices. pleted and work has started on recording subjective percepThe occupational safety indices, which posted significant improvetions (through focus groups) required to complete the assessments in recent years, appear to have stabilized at levels of excelment process. lence within the framework of the Italian and international industrial scenario. 57 Sustainability Report 2010 n Social Responsibility INJURY INCIDENCE RATE LOST WORKDAY INCIDENCE RATE 8.22 Group Group 0.24 Contractors Contractors 3.55 3.43 0.11 0.11 0.10 3.22 3.04 2.96 0.07 0.06 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 ■■A training program for all company officials involved in manby Legislative Decree No. 81/08. Contractor employees were aging occupational safety (employers, delegated managers, also provided with educational and training courses to increase supervisors, prevention and protection service managers, emtheir awareness of such topics as emergency regulations, conployee safety representatives and maintenance managers) with struction site risks, interference risks, specific risks (high elevaregard to the requirements of the Uniform Occupational Safety tion jobs, excavating and excavation protection, lifting of loads, Code (Legislative Decree No. 81/08) was completed. In addiroad work), approved conduct and training in the use of protection, training continued for newly hired employees and a project tion devices and special equipment. As a rule, initial training is to provide online training about the risks entailed by the differprovided at the start of all construction sites. ent tasks performed by Company employees was started. The training provided to employees of Edison Spa on environmenEdipower, an Edison subsidiary, also implemented verious solutal and safety issues required a total of 30,198 hours (27,632 tions to prevent and minimize risks to the health and safety of its hours exclusively for safety), equal to 35% of the total training employees, including: hours (83,087) provided in 2010. ■■guidelines and procedures to manage critical processes; ■■The Company developed and tested at its Foro Buonaparte ■■regular tests of compliance with regulatory requirements and head office a pilot project based on observing and reporting company standards; risky behavior. This project, which requires the involvement and ■■analysis of accidents and identification of corrective actions; participation of all head office employees, is designed to pro■■communication of significant occurrences and resolutions to all mote an informal culture of safety and help reduce accidents. production units; The project will be completed in 2011. ■■training of all employees on health and safety issues. ■■As part of the preventive and management activities concerning Specific programs implemented in 2010 included: health and safety at the Group’s international operations, specific ■■European OSHAS campign on safety in maintenance activities; audits and inspections were carried out at the Abu Qir Branch, ■■OHSAS 18001 for the Brindisi power plant and the Udine Hub; in Egypt, and at the construction site for the new Thisvi thermo■■preparation and joint review of operating instructions for the electric power plant in Greece. In addition, a project to ensure prevention of interference between operating, maintenance and proper management of health, safety and environmental issues construction activities carried out in common areas; by ElpEdison was started with the support of a local consultancy. ■■safety audits at construction sites and production facilities; ■■Lastly, activities concerning the handling of construction con■■review and assessment of the performance of supplies; tracts and contractor companies were further strengthened. ■■optimization of the process for the development of Safety and Specifically, special attention was paid to the qualification proCoordination Plans. cess for contractor companies and the assessment of interferIn addition, Edipower is actively engaged in the adoption of an efence risks involving Group employees and employees of confective Occupational Health and Safety Management System that tractors, identifying the corresponding safety costs, as required will help develop an improved occupational safety culture. Social Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 58 Industrial Relations Employee Involvement Edison shares with the labor unions a structured system of indusIn 2010, Edison+, the Company’s Intranet portal, consolidated the trial relations based on an ongoing constructive dialog, carried out services and functionalities added mainly with the 2009 restylwith the utmost respect for the fundamental principles that uning, confirming its function as a constantly updated space where derpin the main relevant collective bargaining agreements. Early employees can find news, recent developments, information about communication, consultation and debate and dialog between the the Company and their colleagues, work tools, detailed informaparties are the essential tools to maintaining a systematic aption about ongoing projects and employee services. proach to union relations and, consequently, deploy positive soluThe Intranet serves the dual purposes of providing an effective tions for the Company and its employees and avoid the occurtool to share information and simplify work, while creating a horence of personal and collective conflict. mogeneous company culture and reinforcing employee identificaThe most significant events of 2010 included the following: tion with that culture. ■■An agreement renewing the National Collective Agreement, In 2010, internal communications addressed the issue of the which expired on June 30, 2009, was signed on March 4, 2010 growing popularity of Web 2.0, testing new tools, like blog and with the labor unions representing workers in the electrical inchat, understanding full well that their use could lead to a higher dustry. Consistent with the terms of the agreement signed by level of user interaction. This issue was also addressed in the anall unions on April 15, 2009, which implemented a reform of nual Intranet Survey of employees. Blogs specifically designed the contractual stipulations that govern the Italian system of into give a voice to the community and increase the possibility of dustrial relations, the contract will be in effect for three years dialog were developed in 2010. Quizzes and mini-surveys were (i.e., until December 31, 2012) with regard both to benefits and carried out for the same purpose. economic issues. The publication of MondoEdison, a paper magazine, continued ■■Likewise, an agreement with the labor unions representing with the release of “specials” providing in-depth coverage of inworkers in the energy and oil industry renewing the National dividual issues, such as MondoEdison Speciale Sicurezza, pubCollective Agreement, which expired on December 31, 2009, lished in connection with Safety Week. was signed on April 23, 2010. The new agreement will be in Activities to promote awareness of energy conservation and suseffect until December 31, 2012. tainability and promote positive practices in these areas included ■■On March 26, 2010, the Company and the Unified Union Repa continuation of the Re-evolution Project, which is carried out resentatives for Edison’s central offices signed an agreement through three types of actions (Re-cycling, Re-specting and Regoverning the shift from a 39-hour workweek to a 38-hour ducing energy use). In addition, Biodiversity was the theme choworkweek. The agreement reached by the parties adjusted the sen for the third edition of the Photography Competition. provisions of the National Collective Agreements for workers The following internal events that involved all employees were in the energy and oil industry in order to take into account the held during the year: operating needs of the central offices, achieving a substantial ■■Parents at Work Day, when the Company opened its doors to balance between the Company’s technical and organizational the children of its employees; requirements and the personal needs of employees working at ■■Diversity Day, which included a luncheon based on ethnic foods those offices. and a seminar on diversity aimed at emphasizing the benefits of ■■Other agreements reached with the unions in 2010 concerned the Group’s cultural diversity; the use of resources available in the “bilateral” funds (Fondoim■■The Summer Festival, which marked the conclusion of the thirpresa and Fondirigenti) to create funded training programs for teenth edition of the annual Company Tournament of Arena eligible companies, consistent with the adopted Management Soccer; Model and with specific interfunctional professional develop■■The traditional Christmas Party, during which awards were the ment needs, through the development of transversal compewinners of internal competitions and project contests were hontencies. ored with awards. The party also featured a performance by the In 2010, as has been the case in recent years, Edison was free Edison Band, a group of musically gifted employees. of collective work stoppage events related to specific Company The closing event of 2010 was the Managers and Executives issues. Convention, a corporate event that provided an opportunity to share the results achieved during the year and the objectives for the future. 59 Sustainability Report 2010 n Social Responsibility OUR CUSTOMERS In 2010, just two years after entering the residential electric Edison’s goal for 2011 is to continue growing its retail business, power market, Edison reached the milestone of one million end both in the electric power sector and the natural gas sector, while customers. The key factors that made this important achievement always making customers the focus of its attention, seeking to possible were affordability, simplicity, transparency and quality of offer opportunities to help them make informed and sustainable service. Working with its attention focused on customer satisfacbuying decisions. In addition to offering green energy sales packtion, Edison continues to offer its customers a portfolio of innovaages, always part of the Group’s portfolio, online offers, which, in tive and transparent sales offers. By holding focus groups with a combination with electronic billing and interbank payments minidiverse mix of consumers before the launch of each sales offer, mize paper use, will become increasingly important. In addition, the Company was able to best address customer needs. It was Edison will continue to monitor regulatory changes and technospecifically by listening to and collaborating with its customers logical innovations, such as developments in smart grid and electhat Edison developed, in 2010, its successful EdisonWeb sales tric car technologies, so as to be always in the forefront, ready to package, which customers can sign up for simply and quickly seize new opportunities and provide its customers with increasonline to take advantage of the most affordable prices available ingly complete and innovative services. This approach, supported for electric power during evenings and weekends, which is when by a highly effective advertising campaign, is the reason why every more than two-thirds of electric power consumption by houseday in 2010 more than 2,000 households chose Edison as their holds is concentrated. To enhance the benefits of the speed and supplier of electric power and natural gas. ease of use of these services, the support provided by the existing 24/7 telephone customer service was augmented with a simple and complete online aftersale service that enables customers to resolve independently and quickly their daily support requests. TOTAL NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS – EDISON GROUP RECS CERTIFIED GREEN ENERGY SOLD (GWh) (GWh) Total electric power customers Total natural gas customers 425,637 658 313,770 585,664 169,746 224,862 176 106 45,009 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Social Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 60 Transactions That Can Be Executed Online In 2010, the online channel broadened its sales offer portfolio with the launch of an exclusive sales offer for internet-savvy residential and micro-business users. EdisonWeb, for electric power and natural gas, is the sales offer that guarantees for Edison Energia customers the best price available in Italy, plus the simplicity of paying by direct interbank transfer and receiving bills directly by e-mail. This sales offer is particularly innovative for the microbusinesses, a segment in which Edison was the first company in Italy to invest, using the internet as an alternative contract-closing channel. EdisonWeb was also designed for technologically sophisticated small businesses and professionals who choose to switch to Edison for ease of use and affordability. Because of the type of target, differently than in the case of residential users, micro-businesses can sign up for the EdisonWeb sales package either by filling out the online form, or through the call-me-back service that enables customers who are surfing the Edison Energia website to be called back by an operator and receive the required support. The purpose of the edisoncasa.it and edisonbusiness.it sites it is to increase Edison Energia’s customer base for the sale of electric power and natural gas in the residential and micro-business segments. For this reason, the key element that defines the structure of these websites is their ease of use. By using clear images, color codes that identify different products or segments and dividing pages into different sections, these websites enable customers to quickly identify the main features of the sales offer and the path required to accept it. Another important factor in pursuing the objective of these websites is the clarity of the information provided to customers. We have gradually and steadily improved the type of information we provide, the manner in which it is provided and the level of additional details. In 2010, the self-care functionalities available to customers were significantly expanded. They include: online billing, updating bank payment information and switching to direct interbank transfer payment, credit card payments, checking payment status, changing bill mailing address and application to change sales offer, switching from a dual hourly rate to residential usage. New services were added to those available with the sales offer, including “Comodità più”, for the maintenance of the heating system’s boiler, and “Tetto d’Oro,” for the construction of a photovoltaic system. 61 Sustainability Report 2010 n Social Responsibility ELECTRIC POWER CUSTOMERS NATURAL GAS CUSTOMERS (number) (number) 50 165,173 135,394 6,448 414,043 290,193 n Residential n Business n Small n Natural gas n Natural gas n Other businesses sector, total for sector, total for sales SOHO Edison Energia AMG Palermo Edison continues to interact with its industrial customers as an sources makes it possible to benefit from opportunities to reduce operator that views energy efficiency as a sustainability tool that energy costs and increase the economic and environmental suscan increase competitiveness and minimize the environmental imtainability of Italy’s entire economic system. pact of business activities. Specifically, a rational use of energy A Sustainable Product Line ZeroE People, the sales offer available to Edison’s to promote a culture of sustainability among Italian residential customers is a package with zero businesses, based on three key clean-energy concepts: environmental impact. This sales package, created • Production of electric power using exclusively in partnership with Lifegate, is the first offer of renewable sources available in nature; Zero Impact® renewable energy certified by RECS • Respect for the environment; International (Renewable Energy Certificate System). In addition to the lack of CO2 emissions, as is usually • Audited certification of DOC production provided by the case for energy produced from renewable sources, an independent guarantor (RECS International). the CO2 emissions produced from the construction of In 2010, as was the case in 2009, the demand for the generating facility and the emissions caused by RECS certified energy was small, compared with the administrative, billing and customer service activities total volume sold, due to the continuing impact of the are computed and offset by creating new forests. economic crisis, which caused consumers to focus on To its Business segment customers Edison offers the price variable instead of sustainability. In any case, the “Green Energy” option, with the use of a RECS RECS certified sales offers for retail customers were certificate to offset emissions. In addition, Edison also promoted in partnership with business in other Energia licenses the use of its “ECODOC Energia sectors, like Garnier and Ikea, who share our concern elettrica dalla natura” trademark, which was created for environmental and sustainability issues. Social Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 62 Managing Energy Efficiency Issues Answers by Antonio Gaudioso, Deputy General Secretary of CittadinanzaAttiva What are Cittadinanzattiva’s issues, priorities and “A number of different approaches have been used expectations with regard to the Edison Group in in this area, including some by other companies, but, terms of managing energy efficiency issues? generally, none of them can qualify as a good practice. “An effort should be made to ensure that the pursuit In my opinion, programs carried out thus far by different of these benefits, thus far focused mainly on business parties, such as handing out informational material in the customers, begins to address also the needs of street, when not implemented within the framework of consumers, the end users in particular. In this area, it a campaign that targets the public directly, are not good is generally easier to deal with business customers, practices worth noting and using as a reference point.” because, in the case of large, energy consuming entities, How does Cittadinanzattiva define the once an incentive is introduced to change consumption concept of “fuel poverty” within the context patterns and make them more efficient, due to their of Italian society and what does it believe size, an equal percentage change can produce a very that public institutions, first, and companies, large impact in absolute terms. On the other hand, second, should do about it? from a culture standpoint, having an increasingly well “From the standpoint of Cittadinanzattiva, “fuel poverty” informed public that behaves in a manner consistent is, unfortunately, no longer an issue that affects only with energy efficiency goals is a signal of fundamental those groups of people that we can all imagine as being importance in persuading future generations to make indigent (e.g., retirees living on social security pensions). concrete investments in their future. Because Edison It now affects a large number of families. Paradoxically, has a steadily growing customer base, it should direct customers who are large energy users are often large its efforts in this direction, focusing on end users and families that naturally consume more energy. households, and become a reference point for other From this point of view, we believe that what is needed companies in its industry. is an innovative approach both by public institutions At the operating level, Edison could involve consumer and businesses. Insofar as businesses are concerned, associations with two types of activities: upstream it would be significant if they could attempt to develop activities, through communication tools and better and sales offers increasingly tailored to meet the needs of more efficient use of Company commercials to reach special types of customers, offering them differentiated households with messages about these issues, and rates. As for public institutions, they could be doing downstream activities, developing programs that involve much more. For example, the way we see it, the idea both Edison’s customers and the public at large. I am of the “social bonus,” they way it was conceived, was thinking, for example, of programs that could be carried not satisfactory because it is carried out in the form out within the school system using Edison employees of solidarity among consumers, when, instead, public as spokespersons. It would be interesting to see the institutions should decide to intervene using general Company invest energy and resources in communication tax revenues to support this category of people who activities in this area. I also believe that focusing on are faced with increasing hardships. As I said, it is a households and individual consumers is of fundamental numerous category, particularly now that international importance.” tensions are causing the market price of energy to Is Cittadinanzattiva aware of successful increase.” practices in this area that it believes the Edison Group should consider incorporating in its activities? The Value of Energy available for the supply of electric power from the grid. The types In 2010, the Energy Efficiency and Sustainable Development of situations to which this model can be applied depend on the Business Unit helped its industrial customers use energy resourcactual needs of individual customers (production and distribution es rationally and produce energy from renewable sources through of heat/refrigeration, compressed air, installation of motors and a new regulatory model called “Efficient User System.” Edison ininverters, indoor and outdoor high-efficiency lighting, etc.), based stalls high efficiency systems fueled with renewable sources and/ on a process that starts with an energy audit and includes support or with a low environmental impact that are used exclusively to in offsetting the carbon footprint. Edison undertakes to achieve meet the site’s needs, from plant to buildings. Edison understands an efficiency target and helps the customer communicate to its that the main obstacle to the development of energy efficiency is target markets the work done and the environmental benefits the inability of customers to allocate resources to non-core acachieved. The projects started in 2009 and completed in 2010 tivities (especially during an economic crisis). With the model it is included numerous analyses of energy resource usage patterns, proposing, Edison invests directly, makes its technical expertise defining virtuous processes to reduce costs and the environmenand its knowhow in the areas of occupational safety, quality and tal impact and the construction of photovoltaic systems of sizes the environment available to the customer and offers economic suitable to meet the energy needs of customers and located interms that are more competitive than any of the better alternatives side production facilities. 63 Sustainability Report 2010 n Social Responsibility Customer Satisfaction and Service Quality Edison adopted a Quality Management System in November 2007 The organization’s focus on customers, which Edison continues to and was the largest energy wholesaler, in terms of revenues, active view as a strategic element of fundamental importance, is mainin the deregulated market to become ISO 9001:2000 certified, tained through detailed customer satisfaction surveys. The annual receiving its certification in 2008. The certification received the in-depth customer satisfaction survey was carried out in 2010. following year was in accordance with the new ISO 9001:2008 This survey provides an important tool to assess the performance standard. In addition, the Company defined a new quality program of the services provided by the different divisions and functions, that conformed with the principles and objectives adopted by Ediidentify existing weaknesses and make the improvements necesson upon its entry in the residential market, which are consistent sary to meet customer needs. In 2010, in addition to the annual with the basic principles of its Quality Policy. These principles are: customer satisfaction survey, the Company deployed quarterly focus on customers, continuous improvement of processes and activities to monitor customer satisfaction and review the impledissemination of a culture of quality within the Company. mentation of programs introduced to resolve problems identified In 2010, the certification agency again confirmed that Edison Enby the customer satisfaction survey and, if necessary, plan adergia’s Quality Management System was in compliance with the ditional remedial actions. Other activities carried out with the aim ISO 9001:2008 standard and that there were no instances of of increasing customer satisfaction and learning how to improve non-conformity for the second consecutive year. Consistent with it included performing an analysis of the reasons why some cusa continuous improvement approach, the objective of zero nontomers decided to leave Edison and, starting in June, launching conformity has thus become an established achievement, but is monthly prevention campaign that measure the level of satisfacalso a challenging target for 2011, particularly in view of the detion of customers believed to more at risk. gree to which the company has evolved, in terms of the size of its customer base. The Edison Observatory – Italians and Energy The idea of establishing for the first time an “Edison Observatory – Italians and Energy” developed concurrently with Edison’s entry in the residential market, following market deregulation. It was in 2008, with the launch of an electric power and gas sales offer for households, that Edison addressed for the first time a type of consumers significantly different from the customers it was historically accustomed to. Italy is a country with many contradictions, based on the findings of the Edison Observatory on Italians and Energy, which was carried out in 2010 in collaboration with the sociologist Enrico Finzi, who, based on a representative national sample (1,071 interviews, corresponding to a universe 34.1 million people 25 to 65 years old), studied the deeper reactions and the behavior of Italians with regard to energy, understood in its broadest meaning, with the aim of developing archetypes representative of how Italians deal with energy issues. While there is a growing awareness of the importance of sustainability and energy conservation, Italians continue to be major energy users, with a behavior that is inconsistent with their stated concern for the environment and its future, and lack sufficient information to fully understand the peculiarities of the different energy sources. Social Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 64 The Importance of Dialoging and Interacting With Consumers In view of the fundamental role played by citizens/consumers, tion and Efficiency in Buildings, which was developed as part of whose needs and expectations are inevitably reflected in the the European ENFORCE – European Network for the Energy choices they make and, consequently, in the marketing strategies Performance Certification of Building project. Italy, Spain, Portuof businesses, Edison understood to what extent it was necesgal Slovenia and Greece joined this project, which was approved sary and important to interact and dialog directly with consumer and partly funded by the European Commission. The project calls groups, provided they are members of the National Council of for the establishment of a network of energy auditors, who will Consumers and Users and are recognized by the Ministry of Ecoprovide consumers with qualified and independent energy diagnomic Development. noses listing the best activities to improve the energy efficiency These groups represent an important listening tool to understand of their homes, thereby motivating them to make the necessary the true needs of consumers and the reasons for dissatisfaction. investments (www.enforce-een.eu). From the very moment it entered the residential market in SepIn February 2011, Edison launched its Quality Charter Service, tember 2008, Edison understood that a close, ongoing collabwhich is an actual “pact” with its users/customers and constitutes orative relationship between consumers and businesses would a communication and information tool with which customers can produce a dialog between equals, through which the parties can understand the services offered to them and the promised delivpursue the difficult process of balancing their respective interests. ery methods and standards, verify that commitments made are Over these years, important knowledge was acquired and a valurespected and register their assessment. The Charter will be upable collaborative relationship was established through a series of dated periodically to consolidated the quality levels achieved and projects and initiatives that enable Edison to monitor and continurecord the changes made. ously improve the level of customer service. Lastly, consistent with the goal of improving the understanding The first of these projects dealt with the issue of disputes by trying of contractual and sales documents by customers and providing to offer an alternative solution to the judicial system that would greater consumer protection, Edison, working with the Cittadinanbe less costly and faster both for consumers and businesses: the zattiva consumer association carried out a critical review of its conciliation. contracts, flyers, bills, FAQ and other documents, which produced Thanks to an agreement between Edison and the consumer the following results: some contract terms were amended, flyers groups of the National Council of Consumers and Users, the Joint were made more readily understandable, a bill reading guide was Conciliation tool was activated in 2009. This tool can be used to developed, FAQ were expanded and a series of tools to help cusresolve disputes amicably, voluntarily and free of charge, contribtomers make informed choices were developed. uting to the improvement of the services provided to the public. Edison is also a member of the Consumers’ Forum, an indeIn January 2010, after an initial six-month testing phase in two pendent association that includes the most important consumer regions (Piedmont and Molise), Edison extended the use of the groups and many industrial and service companies and represents conciliation tool to all of Italy and to all customers who have a conthe first permanent venue for consultation between businesses tract with Edison to supply electric power and natural gas to their and consumer representatives. It is a place for discussion and joint homes. Differently from other industry protocols, Edison agreed to analysis, designed to facilitate mutual understanding, overcome accept requests for conciliation for any type of dispute. the challenges of a dialog and jointly promote an evolution of On the heels of this project and to foster a better understandconsumer policies. The goals of the Forum include improving the ing of the rights of the public and consumers, Edison agreed to quality of life of consumers; carry out studies, research, training cooperate with Cittadinanzattiva on the publication of a Conciliaactivities and any other initiative aimed at promoting, developing tion Guide. In 2009, consistent with its commitment to foster the and disseminating a culture of responsible consumption; support empowerment of consumers, Edison began a collaborative project the establishment of venues for interaction; and improve the level with Adiconsum and some of Assoelettrica’s member companies of information and transparency about the quality and safety of to develop a campaign to educate the public about issues related public and private products and services and about the applicable to the deregulation of the electric power market and the opportunational, E.U. and international regulations. nities it created for residential customers. This campaign included In order to assist the people affected by the flood that struck the numerous local events, where participating companies were able Veneto region this past fall, Edison Energia agreed to extend the to advertise their sales packages. This educational campaign was due dates of gas bills, for the November 2010 April 2011 period, extremely well received and was repeated in 2010. In its second in the towns where its Edison DG subsidiary owns the distribution edition, it addressed such issues as complaints and conciliation, network. reading and understanding utility bills, dual hourly rates for electric power and energy conservation. Also in 2010, Edison worked with Adiconsum to publish the ENFORCE Guide – Energy Conserva65 Sustainability Report 2010 n Social Responsibility COMPLAINT INDEX AND NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS Total No. of customers (EP and Gas) – excluding AMG Palermo and others Management of Complaints and Disputes Percentage of complaints on the total No. of Edison Energia customers 875,857 The number of complaints increased in 2010, reflecting the impact of a large increase in the number of residential customers. More specifically, the number of complaints to number of customers ratio increased from 2.2% in 2009 to 3.3% in 2010, following a sharp rise in the number of customers (+115.3%). In order to ensure the transparent handling of any problems with its customers, Edison, consistent with the relevant regula404,550 tion (AEEG No. 04/08), defined a procedure to handle payment reminders that protects equally the interest of the Group and that of its consumers. The procedure calls for a sequence of 214,728 three payment reminders. After the third reminder, Edison sends a registered letter demanding payment. After five business days 2.23% 3.25% 1.40% have passed from the delivery of the letter without receiving a 2008 2009 2010 response from the customer (challenging the bill or providing proof of payment), Edison physically cuts off the supply of power (or reduces it, when so required). The supply of power is reacticausing the Authority to impose a fine of 315,000 euros (72,000 vated only when a fax with evidence of payment is received or euros for the invoice for residential customers and 143,000 euros an application for an installment payment plan is received and for the invoice for other types of customers). approved. Customers at the third reminder level are contacted Edison Energia acknowledged the fine and refrained from pursuby registered letter. ing a dispute with the Authority, even though it is certain that it did By Resolution AEEG VIS111/10, the Electric Power and Gas Aunot cause any damage its customers and believes that it acted in thority fined Edison Energia for issuing electric bill that did not the utmost good faith, always with the aim of providing its customconform with the format provided in Resolution 152/06, which ers with the best service and maximum transparency, including defined the format and information of invoices for customers with through its invoices. The Electric Power and Gas Authority also protected status, i.e., residential customers and independent profined Edison Energia in the amount of 370,800 euros, following fessionals receiving low voltage power. Edison Energia, in designan inspection performed in June (Resolution AEEG VIS 28/10), ing the layout of its invoices, focused on clarity and consistency for the portion concerning the obligation to provide detailed anwith the terms of the sales offer chosen by the customer, thereby swers to written complaints. The Service Charter Answers by Antonio Gaudioso, Deputy General Secretary of CittadinanzaAttiva What are Cittadinanzattiva’s issues, priorities and desirable to collaborate on campaigns addressed to expectations with regard to the Edison Group in consumers and the public, in pursuit of the common terms of managing customer relations? objective of launching an effective message that is also “It is essential to link this issue with that of Corporate clear, simple and transparent and eliminates the risk of Social Responsibility. We believe that a company misunderstandings.” is socially responsible when it operates fairly and How does Cittadinanzattiva rate the policies successfully in the marketplace, with an approach and strategies adopted by the Edison Group focused on involving its stakeholders, who include and the projects it implemented in managing consumers. We understand that, this year, Edison relations with its customers? continued to implement the Conciliation process “I believe that a lot has been accomplished. This is clearly launched last year, improving it by making its sales offers related to a specific intent that is reflected in most of simpler and more transparent. We also believe that this is the activities carried out by Edison. Usually, we tend to important because one of the ways in which consumers believe that, within a corporate entity, initiatives are the can be helped when making a choice is to offer simple reflection of the good intentions of individual managers. and clear services, with all of the information needed What we hope is that Edison is guided by a more unified to make an informed decision and, most importantly, and comprehensive approach, as we have indeed found that are best suited to meet the needs of their families. this to be the case. Some of Edison’s competitors are While the path chosen by the Company is positive and also following this approach, but their programs are still there has been an improvement compared with the limited, with wide margins for improvement in the future.” previous year, there is still room for improvement, which could be achieved by transitioning from a collaborative relationship to a partnering relationship. It would be Social Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 66 OUR SUPPLIERS Edison fully understands that it is only by sharing its expertise In other words, Edison is aware that its suppliers play a central and its best resources with its suppliers that it can accelerate the role in every phase throughout the development of a project, an process of positive communication required to catalyze the eneridea and the Company’s own image. The suppliers with whom the gies of all of the parties involved in a project. For an initiative to Company does business are asked to embrace Edison’s system be successful, it must produce a fair and lasting benefit also for of values because they represent an effective and reliable vehicle the supplier. This simple, yet fundamental, paradigm is rooted in for successful business transactions. the style of the relations that Edison promotes with its suppliers. TOTAL VALUE OF PURCHASES GEOGRAPHIC BREAKDOWN OF PURCHASES (thousands of euros) (GWh) Italy Other countries 11% 12% 16% 886,000 645,305 636,191 89% 88% 84% 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 67 Sustainability Report 2010 n Social Responsibility The Supplier Qualification System Supplier. The rating received with regard to these issues has the A particularly intense activity was carried out in 2010 concerning same weight for qualification purposes as the ratings for technical, supplier qualification. A major campaign targeted both non-qualcommercial and financial issues. ified supplier, urging them to apply for qualification, and qualified New functionalities aimed at managing a supplier’s life cycle are suppliers, asking them to update the relevant questionnaires. As currently being developed for inclusion in the vendor qualification a result of this effort, the percentage of total purchases supplied system. The final result will be a comprehensive IT architecture by qualified vendors grew from 84.7% in 2009 to 87.2% in 2010. characterized by a high level of integration and the convergence All of the players within the Company’s organization who play a of multiple collaborative processes, ranging from vendor’s rating part in the qualification process provided a very active contributo subcontractor management, from the electronic exchange of tion. The average length of the qualification process was 54 calsafety information in the order award phase to internal audits, and endar days in 2010 (for the Suppliers’ Register and Vendors’ List). including the automated gathering of information about suppliers The new Qualification Portal is providing an increasingly decisive published by the main rating agencies, including those concerning contribution in conveying to all users the sensitivity the Edison human rights issues. developed with regard to such issues as sustainability and social In accordance with the qualification process, any supplier of goods responsibility. Specifically, any supplier who begins the qualificaor services can spontaneously submit an application, through the tion process is required to agree to the binding conditions that it suppliers’ qualification portal, for the relevant merchandise and will adopt our 231 Organizational Model, our Code of Ethics and service categories. The qualification process proceeds in the manour Human Rights Policy. These conditions are repeated as bindner required to enter the applicant either in the Vendors’ List or ing contract clauses when an order is awarded. the Suppliers’ Register, depending on the strategic nature of each Today, the qualification of a supplier has grown into a structured merchandise category. In the latter’s case, once the prequalificaprocess that enables Edison to assess a supplier’s overall “quality.” tion phase is completed, the application is submitted to a Supplier To help the “qualifiers” assess a new candidate’s true beliefs with Qualification Team (TQF), which decides whether proceeding with regard to CSR issues, special emphasis has been placed on the the qualification phase is warranted. The TQF is cross-functional section of the questionnaire that deals with safety, certifications, and, depending on the merchandise categories involved, can ask permits and awards by international organizations received by the outside professionals to render an independent technical opinion. TOTAL VALUE OF PURCHASES FROM QUALIFIED SUPPLIERS QUALIFIED SUPPLIERS (GWh) (thousands of euros) 86% 85% 87% 758,257 546,705 554,469 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Social Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 68 Vendor Rating Procurement Planning The vendor’s rating process, which is the assessment of the delivSince 2009, the activities of the Purchasing Department have ery of ordered goods and services, has been the focus of a major been supported by the Group Order Placement Plan. Planning effort by the personnel responsible for contract management. The purchasing needs over a three-year horizon makes it possible purpose of this process is maintain a natural alignment between to develop a new strategic vision to guide negotiating activities, the Suppliers’ Register and the actual capabilities of the Group’s which are carried out not only for the purpose of making purchassuppliers. The evaluation process focuses mainly on safety issues, es more efficient, but also, and more importantly, to develop more the quality of goods or services and the vendor’s reliability. Each stable, responsible and sustainable commercial partnerships. evaluation produces a positive or negative change in the vendor’s In 2010, the planning of procurement needs carried out through rating for the merchandise category that corresponds to the orthe Purchasing Department was characterized once again by an der being evaluated. The rating change is determined based on excellent coverage index, based on the Company’s budget. This the evaluation’s outcome, the amount of the order and historical process is becoming established within the Group’s culture and is evaluation data. becoming increasingly popular as a tool to manage relations with Data of negative evaluations are collected and analyzed every six internal customers. months by a homogenization committee, which decides what acIt is also thanks to this tool that Edison is able to pursue the foltions should be taken with regard to suppliers. These actions can lowing objectives as part of its procurement process: range from confirming the rating to requiring the vendor to take ■■Satisfaction of internal customers with regard both to the qualcorrective action to suspension of the vendor’s qualification. ity of purchased goods/services and on-time delivery; ■■Reduction of the Company’s exposure to risks related to LegisContract Award Criteria lative Decree No. 231/01, occupational safety and compliance In the selection process, in addition to a supplier’s rating, which with ethical principles; summarizes Edison’s opinion about the supplier’s technical capa■■Identification of a more economically advantageous and susbilities and reputation, special attention is paid to historical data tainable solution that maximizes benefits also for the supplier; about accident incidence rates and to whether the bidding con■■Establishment of stable relationships with the most reliable suptractor is compliant with regard to employee compensation and pliers with an impeccable reputation. benefits. In the case of contracted construction work, the vendor is required to resubmit updated documents about employee Disputes and Human Rights benefits and occupational safety when work begins at the jobsite. In 2010, there was only one instance of legal proceedings filed in These documents must be reviewed by an Edison project reprea civil court in connection with 12,336 orders handled and awardsentative. ed to 3,225 different suppliers. A total of two civil lawsuits were All subcontracting arrangements are authorized only after an evalpending at December 31, 2010. uation of the subcontractor’s technical capabilities, an algorithmic Concern for and respect of human rights were strengthened by assessment of accident incidence rates and a review of the subthe inclusion in the vendor’s qualification process of the accepcontractor’s paperwork regarding social security contributions and tance and compliance with the rules of the 231 Organizational insurance. Model, the provisions of the Code of Ethics and, most importantly, For repetitive purchases of non-strategic items, Edison has been the principles of the Group’s Human Rights Policy. With this apgradually increasing the use of framework contracts, which can proach, the Company intends to disseminate outside the Group be used by individual users through online catalogs, supported by ethical principles that it believes are of fundamental importance in dedicated software. Generally, both when a facility is being built the conduct of business activities. and when it is in operation, the technical and financial conditions being equal, Edison tends to favor local companies to have better control and continuity in the procurement process and contribute to the market development of the area where its new facility is located. The negotiating policies and the selection and order award criteria applied are the same both in Italy and outside Italy. 69 Sustainability Report 2010 n Social Responsibility PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS Environmental protection, sustainability and the challenges of clirelevant strategic choices by the Company. Accordingly, Edison mate change continue to be strategic issues that dominate nais also in contact with government entities, the Parliament, indetional and international political agendas, with an undeniable and pendent Authorities (AEEG, AGCM, Privacy Authority), actively highly significant economic impact. collaborating with these parties and making available to them its For this reason. Edison has been following closely developments knowhow in specific areas. in these areas, becoming increasingly actively engaged in the diaThrough an ongoing dialog with these institutions, Edison prolog between national and European institutions and all stakeholdvides valuable support to the drafting process of bill and other ers. The Code of Ethics states that:“Edison engages in relationlegislative measures, collaborating in developing “corporate posiships with political organizations only for the purpose of gaining tion papers” that best represent the interests of the Group. insight into issues that are relevant to the Group and of transparToday, the monitoring process has been expanded to the regional ently promoting the positions it supports. The Group neither filevel: through the Regional Energy Observatory, the Institutional nances nor supports political parties or their representatives and Affairs Department monitors regulatory developments in 13 retakes a strictly neutral stance toward contending political groups gions, organizing each region’s activities and initiatives into a during election campaigns or events involving political parties.” single database, so as to support the Company within the context Edison interacts on an ongoing basis with central and local public of the current federalist approach to energy and environmental administrations to monitor and manage the process of securing issues. This monitoring process, combined with a careful identiauthorizations, permits, concessions and public grants and fification of the main institutional counterparties at the local level, nancing. This process entails establishing discussion groups and makes it possible to begin a transparent, effective and informed transparent and constructive relationships, always carried out in dialog with the involved stakeholders. compliance with the Organizational Model pursuant to Legislative Edison is also actively involved with national and European inDecree No. 231/01. dustry associations (Confindustria, Assoelettrica, Assomineraria, Besides presenting the Company’s positions to the outside world, Federestrattiva, Eurelectric, Eurogas, Unice, etc.), through its conthe Institutional and Regulatory Affairs Department also focuses tribution to various work groups, and associations that support on picking up any tentative signals emanating from the political, broad-based interests, such as environmental associations, conadministrative and social system in order to anticipate and redirect sumer groups and labor unions. Social Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 70 OUR COMMUNITIES Developing New Projects Through Constant Dialog with the Community and Institutions The building of a new facility, the construction of a gas pipeline or the development of a major infrastructure constitute activities that have a major impact on the territory and local communities. Edison’s responsibility is to develop its projects identifying shared solutions through dialog with local communities and transparent communications. The key elements that characterize Edison’s interaction with the local communities include: ■■Presence – Constant contact at the local level to listen, understand and meet the needs and expectations of the local community; ■■Trustworthiness and Reliability – Willingness to be held responsible for the consequences of one’s actions; ■■Communication – Establishment of a team at the local level capable of providing clear, complete and transparent information; activation of dedicated websites; implementation of informational and educational programs. The use of discussion forums, an ongoing dialog with the opposition and a lasting relationship with the local authorities are the tools used in this process, within which Edison has been playing a leading role in Italy in terms of its willingness to listen to and dialog with local communities for the shared development of new projects. The success of this process can be measured with the following quality indicators: ■■The project’s actual implementation; ■■The development of economic initiatives tied to the project’s implementation; ■■Widespread support among political groups and the population; ■■A strong relationship with local players based on trust and ongoing collaboration; ■■Administrative continuity at the local level as evidence of a constructive approach to managing local relationships. Among other projects, Edison is one of the founders of the “Vajont October 9, 1963” Foundation, which was established to promote studies and scientific research for the prevention of hydro-geological risks, and organize research and study projects and scientific, cultural and promotional activities designed to prevent an imbalanced use of natural resources from producing in the future disasters similar to what occurred in the Vajont district in 1963. 71 Sustainability Report 2010 n Social Responsibility STRATEGIC PROJECTS FOR ITALY AND EUROPE Edison and the ITGI Project Union included the Galsi pipeline in the list of priority projects for the development of the Trans European Edison is engaged in promoting the development of the Energy Network and in the European Recovery Plan. ITGI (Interconnector TurkeyGreece-Italy) gas pipeline that will link Italy and Europe, by way of Turkey and Galsi’s mission is to provide a new natural gas supply Greece, with the Caspian Basin and the Middle East. source to the Italian and European markets, contributing The European Union recognized the ITGI pipeline as to the economic progress and well being of the a Project of European Interest and included it in the community by guaranteeing the reliability of energy European Recovery Plan. This pipeline, by handling supplies. Galsi is aware of the potential environmental imports of up to 10 billion cubic meters of natural gas impact of a major construction project such as this a year, will be one of the main arteries of the Southern pipeline. Consequently, it is making every possible effort Corridor. As part of this project, Edison and DEPA are to protect the environment, with a view to minimizing building jointly the IGI (Italy Greece Interconnector) gas any interferences between the infrastructure and the pipeline. surrounding ecosystems and achieving a harmonious This gas pipeline will have a total length of about 800 coexistence. For this reason, it has already completed km, including an onshore segment in Greece (590 an environmental impact study specifically based km) and an underwater segment (210 km) called IGI on geotechnical and geomorphological analyses Poseidon. The construction of the ITGI gas pipeline, of the seabed, carried out with the most advanced with its branch line to Bulgaria (IGB), will help diversify technologies, and will adopt precautions to mitigate the natural gas sources for Italy and Europe, increase the impact of construction activity: no excavation will be reliability of gas supplies for Southeast Europe (by done in the open sea segment to avoid interaction with way of Greece and Bulgaria) and other countries in the marine environment and, in the segments close to Europe (by way of Italy). It will also make it possible to the shore and on land, the pipe will be buried without implement solidarity mechanisms in Eastern Europe, in interfering with the surrounding ecosystems and, when the event of supply interruptions, by providing a link to necessary, restoring any natural habitats disturbed Italy’s many gas importation routes and the abundant by the project. Once construction is completed and storage capacity for these markets. In the Apulia region, the project is commissioned, the Galsi pipeline will the local community was involved in the development represent a precious resource for the Italian market, by of this project through a process of intense contacts, providing the following benefits: discussions and education programs over a period of • Increased reliability of the country’s entire energy five years. system: the pipeline will provide a cost-competitive alternative to supply sources from Eastern Europe; Edison and the GALSI Project • Lower energy bills for families and businesses in Sardinia: natural gas will replace more expensive The Galsi pipeline, which will link Algeria and Italy by fuels currently used in that region (LPG, propane-air way of Sardinia, is a major project made possible by mixes, diesel fuel, etc.), with the resulting savings the joint efforts of Italy and Algeria: it will be deepest providing a significant boost to Sardinia’s economy, underwater pipeline ever built (sea depth of 2,885 specifically benefiting businesses that are high meters) and will run for about 900 km, from the east energy users; coast of Algeria to the south of Sardinia and from there to Tuscany. Edison participates to this important project • Lower environmental impact: natural gas produces together with other major energy industry players, all less polluting emissions than coal and oil, currently as shareholders of Galsi SpA, the company responsible the fuels most frequently used in Sardinia. for designing and building the pipeline. The European KAZAKHSTAN FRANCE Piombino RUSSIA ITALY BULGARIA GEORGIA UZBEKISTAN Rome GALSI PROJECT ITGI PROJECT ARMENIA SARDINIA AZERBAIJAN Porto Botte GREECE TURKMENISTAN TURKEY IRAN ALGERIA TUNISIA GALSI PROJECT ITGI PROJECT AFGHANISTAN Galsi IGI Poseidon IGI Compression Station IGI Onshore Italian grid IGB ITG EGYPT Turkish grid existing South Caucasus Pipeline PAKISTAN Social Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 72 The Edison Foundation supports research, development and innovation in the energy The Foundation carries out scientific research projects and studand environmental sectors, and the dissemination of a better unies of the economic, cultural and social issues concerning local derstanding of energy and environmental issues and problems manufacturing systems and industrial clusters, focusing on relaamong individual citizens, institutions, private entities, the media tionships between small/medium-size businesses and large enand the public in general. terprises and between communities and local development, as Among the laboratories organized by the Energy Lab Foundation well as of issues relating to the infrastructure and services offered in 2010, Edison participated in the “Access to Energy” laboratory by a civil society, particularly in light of the globalization process. to discuss the problems of access to energy faced by underdeThe foundation also promotes studies, surveys, publications and veloped countries and by the ever-present connection between events both on its own and in cooperation with research entities energy, development and the struggle against poverty. and institutes, other foundations, associations, businesses and individuals. It also sponsors projects that are consistent with the Partnerships and Projects for the Community purposes stated in its Bylaws. Edison views partnerships with nonprofit associations, charitaDuring the decade since its founding, through publications, books, ble organizations, NGOs, foundations, cooperatives and socially news bulletins and conventions, the Edison Foundation showminded entities as an integral part of its corporate responsibility, cased the areas of excellence in the Italian economy, in a context because they represent effective tools to dialog with civil society dominated by theories about the alleged decline of Italy’s manuand its stakeholders. In 2009, Edison established a Committee to facturing system, helping sustain the debate about the strengths evaluate socially useful projects, with the goal of addressing the and weaknesses of Italy’s industrial system, both among econoneed for specific guidelines, and adopt a proactive approach in mists and in the political and media communities. A tangible sign seeking out such projects and making their development process of the appreciation of the manufacturing community for the work transparent. Consistent with this approach, the Company selected carried out by the Edison Foundation is the support of a steadily projects for implementation at the locations where it operates, rising number of members. which require the direct involvement of its employees and focus The Edison Foundation pursued numerous projects in 2010. on priority issues, such as the promotion of sustainable developAmong numerous cultural initiatives, the main conventions and ment and energy efficiency, sports and culture (http://www.edipublications are especially noteworthy. In October, the Foundation songeneration.it). organized, in collaboration with Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei, Particularly important projects carried out in 2010 included “Toan international convention entitled “The structure of economic gether for Haiti” and “It’s my right. It’s my life!”, a project selected system through input-output applications,” which benefited from in 2009 by the Social Committee that deals with the rights of analyses contributed by many Italian and foreign academics and children and vulnerable women in Egypt (see special article). experts. The subject of this convention, the seventh since the In addition, Edison supports the “Sodalitas Social Innovation” projFoundation began to collaborate with Accademia Nazionale dei ect aimed at facilitating partnering between for profit entities and Lincei, was Input-Output analysis, which is one of the most impornon-profit institutions.. tant tools that the economy can provide to researchers and policy makers interested in the true structure and interdependence of the economic system. In addition to publishing volumes on economic and energy-related issues for the Edison Foundation Series, published by Il Mulino, in November, to celebrate the tenth anniversary of its founding, the Edison presented at an event in Milan a volume entitled “La Fondazione Edison. Dieci anni per l’economia italiana in Europa,” edited by Marco Fortis and Alberto Quadrio Curzio. This event was attended by Umberto Quadrino, the Foundation’s Chairman, the editors of the volume, Alberto Meomartini, Chairman of Assolombarda, and Professor Romano Prodi. Among collaborative projects with other foundations and institutions, the most important, specifically for the relevance of joint analyses of areas of excellence in Italy’s manufacturing system, included those with Aspen Institute Italia, the Italiadecide Foundation, Symbola Foundation and the Energy Lab Foundation, which 73 Sustainability Report 2010 n Social Responsibility EDISON AND HUMAN RIGHTS During this phase of international expansion and as part of the process of integrating social responsibility into its business model, Edison, in collaboration with the Italian Network of the UN Global Compact, began a strategic review of the issues related to human rights, the first result of which was the adoption of a specific policy. The Human Rights Policy, the implementation of which is monitored by the Human Resources Department, is based on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and is consistent with the main international guidelines and conventions. At the end of 2010, also in collaboration with the UN Global Compact, the Company established a work group that includes representatives of several companies. Its purposes are to provide input about human rights, identify new areas for review, define operational methods for cultural training and develop tools for dealing internally with these issues. One of the commitment that Edison has undertaken towards the UN Global Compact is to go beyond merely respecting and protecting human rights and actively promote them within its host communities. In January 2009, Edison, acting through its Edison International subsidiary, signed a twenty-year contract with Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) acquiring the exploration, production and development rights for the Abu Qir offshore concession, located north of Alexandria, in Egypt. By establishing a presence in this area, the Company was confronted with issue of honoring its commitment to protect human rights, some of which are not always protected in a developing country. In Egypt, even today, there are many children who are still exposed to the risk of mistreatment, psychological and physical abuse, malnutrition and, in the case of girls, genital mutilation and early marriage. Especially in rural area and slums, where poverty makes the situation worse, many of them are child laborers (about 2.7 million), mostly 6 to 14 years old. Children represent about 40% of Egypt’s population and are the most vulnerable and marginal group in the scale of social priorities, despite being protected by the UN Convention of 1989 and a National Child Law (Law No. 126 of 2008). Despite the impressive strides made in this area in recent years, in Egypt, most of the provisions of the Child Law are ignored every day. There is still a great deal of work left to do to ensure that the rights of children are protected, particularly with regard to such fundamental rights as the right to education, health and non-discrimination. Fundamental factors for the protection of these rights is the effort to increase knowledge and awareness of them (possessing a right that we are not aware of makes that right virtually non-existent) and the delivery of the services needed to ensure that these rights are protected. Most often, it is the NGOs and local associations that take action to fill this gap. 74 It’s my right, it’s my life! Edison, who has had a presence in Egypt for more than 10 years, agreed to join COSPE (www.cospe.it) in developing the “It’s my right. It’s my life!” project. IT’S MY RIGHT, IT’S MY LIFE! is a project on human rights launched in Egypt by Edison and COSPE to promote the social and economic development of four communities in Cairo and support the initiatives carried out by local associations (Community Development Associations – CDAs) to deliver services and facilitate access to their rights by children, young people and women. This project was chosen by the Committee established by Edison in 2009 to evaluate social projects because it is perfectly compliant with Edison’s guidelines regarding social investments. More specifically, on the one hand, it is carried out in a country where the Company has been established for several years and, on the other hand, it is focused on children and the younger generations. Moreover, the project is consistent with the goals of the strategic review started by Edison a year ago with the publication of the Human Rights Policy in collaboration with the UN Global Compact. Thanks to IT’S MY RIGHT, IT’S MY LIFE! four school centers became facilities where educational and training courses for children, teachers and parents are being taught, with special emphasis on women. The school centers also provide a venue for family consulting activities, education abut the “Charter of Children’s Rights” and for the inclusion of at-risk and disabled children. To perform this function, the centers are being equipped with technologies specific to the psychological and physical rehabilitation of children and will carry out the following activities: n Training and education for teachers and parents; n Training and education for children; n Handling of equipment to establish and operate school centers; n Literacy courses for women; n Promoting and increasing awareness of the “Charter of Children’s Rights.” In addition, the project will finance a campaign to increase awareness of the UN “Charter of Children’s Rights” through cultural events, the mobilization of the community and the production of material by the children themselves. This Edison initiative for the rights of children and women is part of a COSPE program called “Fight Against Poverty for Social Inclusion,” which is cofinanced by the Italian Foreign Ministry and the European Union. It is estimated that 500 disabled children and their families will be helped by the centers, plus 3,00 preschool children from the economically disadvantaged communities of Helwan and “October 6,” including 2,000 girls at risk of genital mutilation. About 5,000 children will be involved in awareness raising campaigns and activities and about 600 will be officially registered with the Bureau of Vital Statistics. In addition, 600 women will attend literacy courses to earn an elementary school diploma. Indirectly, over 60,000 people will be reached by various programs and initiatives in different communities. 75 Together for Haiti: a Corporate Volunteering Project Following the earthquake that struck Haiti, Edison launched an awareness raising campaign addressed to its employees to finance the urgent relocation of homeless Haitian children, in collaboration with ANPIL. In just a few weeks after the earthquake, Edison and Edipower employees has raised sufficient funds to relocate 100 children from the tents in the refugee camps of Port au Prince to ANPIL’s Hospitality Center in Port de Paix, where the children can receive education and love. In addition, the children received a thorough medical visit and were vaccinated against cholera. By investing about 100,000 euros, Edison gave its employees an opportunity to serve as volunteers at the Hospitality Center (in June, teams of properly trained volunteers traveled to Haiti every 15 days; the period of volunteer service was treated as special paid leave and the Company paid all expenses). The volunteer teams worked alongside the local staff in all of the activities needed to care for the children and operate the Center and are the authors of the “Together for Haiti” blog (www.edisongeneration.it), created to record the impressions of the volunteers and provide a venue for sharing such an important human experience. Within the context of the European Employee Volunteering Awards, Fondazione Sodalitas (Italy’s partner for the awards) selected Together for Haiti as Italy’s project in the Innovation category. The European Employee Volunteering Awards is organized by Business in the Community, an English organization that serves as a reference point for corporate sustainability, in collaboration with the European Commission. In March 2011, the Together for Haiti project was relaunched with the establishment of a work group for the construction of a renewable-source system that will make the Center energy independent. Social Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 76 Edison Changes the Energy: Promoting The schools that participated in this project created a blog on Sustainable Development Facebook, establishing a shared space where all the schools inEnergy conservation and renewable energy sources can provide volved can publicize the projects they are pursuing and commusignificant momentum to the recovery of the global economy. nicate to other schools good practices of energy conservation. Therefore, the dissemination of a culture of awareness and conThe goal, in this case, is to be ready to receive suggestions from cern abut these issues is important, particularly at a time of crisis, technicians, students, local institutions and private individuals, such as the one we are facing now, when the climate emergency while encouraging an active participation that creates a network risks fading into the background, justifying the use of more polof shared competencies. luting technologies. For this reason, Edison, traditionally committed to creating a widespread culture about climate and energy Edison Change the Music: Music Delivers the conservation, has focused for the past few years on the younger Message of the Value of Energy Conservation generations with projects in schools and the world of music. After the success of last year’s second edition, Edison Change the Music (www.edisonchangethemusic.it), Italy’s first project for the Eco-Generation – Your School is the Climate’s development of culture of sustainability and energy conservation Friend in the music world, ran for its third season in 2010, with growing Eco-Generation – Your School is the Climate’s Friend is the natusupport from the Italian music community. With this program, Ediral development of 10 years of collaboration by Edison and Leson intends to strengthen its commitment to environmental susgambiente to promote sustainable development. tainability, broadening its activities to include the music world. The The purpose of this project is to create actual environmental monpurpose of this project, supported by famous artists, record labels, itoring stations, consisting of a network of pilot schools that will be event organizers, music promoters and the media, is to achieve able to transfer to all the other schools in their district knowhow important and measurable results in terms of energy conservaabout energy conservation, sustainable housing and renewable tion and reduced environmental impact through music in all of its sources. manifestations. In 2010, this campaign, which has a three-year duration, involved In addition to organizing a musical context, Edison helped estab10 schools (lead schools) in 10 Italian cities (Milan, Monza, Pioltellish an “Observatory of CO2 Emissions” associated with musical lo, Varese, Padova, Verona, Ravenna, Scerni, Foggia and Palermo). events that provides a useful tool to monitor emissions at live The project got under way with a thermographic survey to assess concerts held in Italy. The Observatory’s latest report shows that, the energy efficiency of pilot schools distributed throughout Italy, even though the overall level of CO2 generated increased due to with the aims of detecting the presence of any thermal anomalies the higher number of music events held, the emissions generated that could affect building efficiency and comfort. at each event have been decreasing, particularly at large-scale The survey performed in January and February 2010 showed that events, because artists, organizers and the fans themselves are action was required at all of the surveyed schools to achieve enerincreasingly adopting eco-compatible technological and logistic gy savings from 50% to 70% compared with the existing situation. solutions and behaviors, such as using renewable-source facilities In addition, at each of the pilot schools, energy consumption meto supply electric power and lighting, public transit and carpooling ters were installed on all existing energy devices and a program instead of individual cars, printing advertising material on recycled of ad hoc activities was organized to promote good sustainability paper, etc. practices (educational courses, theater performances, laboratoAnother initiative in this area is the Sustainable Music manifesto, ries for young energy managers, comic strips in support of energy where the contribution of the online community is presented (spaces efficiency, technical experiments, training for teachers, etc.). on the web dedicated to this project, where anyone can support the At the completion of this process, each class will produce a Susproject’s principles and find suggestions and technical information tainable School Handbook, as a tool for revamping their school on energy conservation in the music world). It constitutes a veritable building. The best handbook will be selected as the Charter of handbook of best practices for a zero impact concert, through activiQuality Objectives for Sustainable Schools, which all the other ties in such areas as transportation, energy consumption and use and schools will be urged to use as their guide. Under the project, the disposal of materials. pilot schools will be asked to test and concretely implement the activities listed in the Charter. The final objective of Eco-Generation is to present to all schools in Italy the Charter of Quality Objectives for Sustainable Schools, which was developed and field tested by the pilot schools, and award “Efficient School Stamps.” 77 Sustainability Report 2010 n Social Responsibility The Cres.Co Project and the Virtuous Circle of Sustainability Edison joined 23 other companies in supporting the “Cres.Co” known as Cresco Islands. Project about sustainable development promoted by the Sodalitas This project focuses on three areas: energy and water, recoveryFoundation to encourage the adoption of environmentally sustainrecycling and sustainable mobility. Its aim, pursued with training able behaviors in four cities in Lombardy (Abbiategrasso, Carucourses, seminars and theater performances, is to transfer good gate, Morbegno and Calusco d’Adda) involving representatives of business practices to sensitive districts by fostering the creation local institutions, the public in general, students and businesses in of a network on individuals who follow ecocompatible practices. the development of a model of virtuous and replicable territories, Communicating and Interacting Through Social Networks: Edison Generation The Web provides an ideal venue to disseminate the new culture of sustainability and social media are particularly suited for developing new ideas and allowing discussions and exchanges of opinions. It was with this in mind that we established the “Edison Generation” community, to report upclose and in real time about Edison’s main social responsibility projects and exchange information and research about issues concerning the environment, energy conservation, biodiversity, social commitments and human rights (www.edisongeneration.it). At the heart of Edison Generation is a multi-author blog, a log book about all projects, updated in real time with inputs by outside authors. It also includes a section devoted to sustainable events and another one for conversations about sustainability taken in real time from the main social networks that enables viewers to follow the latest developments about social responsibility. Edison Generation was honored with the Aretê Award 2010 (www.premioarete.com) sponsored by Confindustria for Responsible Communications, for the internet category. Social Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 78 The Power Happy in School and Learning to Dialog of Positive Energy to Prevent Bullying Edison is keenly aware of the needs of the younger generations The purpose of this project, which was completed in 2010, was and is committed to protecting their fundamental rights to life, eduto create, through training and support programs, a network of cation, family and, in simple words, the right to grow up. qualified and skilled intermediate school teachers who know how The aggressiveness of adolescents is just energy, which, when to strengthen communications and interpersonal relations and inproperly channeled in a “positive” direction, can help them grow centivize the development of social and emotional components and develop their personalities, as they learn to interact with othin educational relationships, with the aim of preventing bullying. ers and society in general. This is the common thread that runs At the intermediate school level, it is still possible to intervene through some important programs developed to help young peobefore violence among minors and other dysfunctional behaviors ple: “Il senso di una meta” in collaboration with AS Rugby Mireach extreme levels. This project required the involvement of all lan, “Essere felici a scuola” with the Sodalitas Foundation and of the parties who interact in a school environment, from manag“Sportivi Dentro” at the Opera correctional facility. ers to teachers and from students to parents, showing them that a school is a place where they all can come together. In the 2009“Il senso di una meta” 2010 school year, 30,000 students and 100 teachers from 60 “Il senso di una meta” includes two programs called “L’ovale al Becschools in Milan were involved in this project. caria” and “Soft Rugby-Psicomotricità,” which share rugby as their common denominator, viewed as a tool for growing, sharing and be“Sportivi dentro” longing in accordance with the ethics of sportsmanship. The goal of To bring the positive values of team sports to the Opera maxi“L’ovale al Beccaria,” now in its third year, is to teach and convey the mum security prison, consistent with Edison’s commitment to values of rugby to youngsters of different ages, social backgrounds sports for all categories of stakeholders. This is the basic sense of and nationalities (South Americans, North Africans, Eastern Eurothe “Sportivi dentro” project, which involved creating a volleyball peans and Italians) who are inmates at the Milan juvenile detention team at the Opera correctional facility, with the aim of helping the facility, and welcome them to the clubhouse when they are released. inmates understand the importance of teamwork and the comAbout 40 boys, 16 to 20 years old, entered the program, including mitment and determination that required to achieve the common three who joined the AS Rugby Milan, training and playing with boys objectives that are inherent in sports activities. of their age who were already members of the club. Six hundred students from schools in Milan participated in the “Soft Rugby-Psicomotricità” program, which applies interpretative categories and psychomotor techniques to mini-rugby (7-13 years old). The goal is to eliminate any form of discrimination arising from the ability of more precocious children, accommodating different paces in the developmental process. This makes it possible to use a “softer” approach to rugby and creates an opportunity to involve a larger number of teachers and parents. 79 Sustainability Report 2010 n Social Responsibility Employee Volunteering: Together for a designed to make the 1,000 pediatricians who work in Lombardy Common Goal and the 783,200 families who visit their offices aware of the asEdison is convinced that corporate volunteering projects help sociation’s existence. Thus far, 65 of the 85 dreams brought to the motivate employees and strengthen their identification with their association’s attention have been realized. company. The involvement of employees in social projects helps In November, Edison provided its support to Missione Sogni in condevelop teamwork, gain understanding of social responsibility isnection with a concert by Ludovico Einaudi organized to raise funds sues and build a strong corporate identity. It is with these aims that to support the Association’s projects. Also in 2010, the Company projects like “Together for Haiti” (see special article) and “Siticibo” helped Antonio, a seven-year old suffering from diabetes mellitus were developed. who wanted to visit and discover the land of the ancient Egyptians, In addition, Edison is a participant in the laboratory on “Employee and Marco, and eight-year old affected by psychomotor retardation Volunteering” promoted by Fondazione Sodalitas. who wanted to meet TV personality Gerry Scotti, make their dreams come true. Siticibo Siticibo is a project in which a large number of employees at the Edison Supports Culture Foro Buonaparte headquarters volunteer during business hours to Edison supports directly or through sponsorships the implementacollect surplus food from the Edison cafeteria for donation to soup tion of culturally significant initiatives and activities. kitchens in Milan. More than 4,000 food portions and over 70 kg Consistent with Edison’s long-standing involvement in the film of bread were collected and distributed in 2010. world and the close relationship that exist between Edison and the director Ermanno Olmi (www.edisongeneration.it), the Company agreed to coproduce a new film on immigration by this Missione Sogni – Make Dreams Come True famous director, with the temporary title “The Cardboard Village.” to Fight Illness Ermanno Olmi began his career at Edison, filming the construcFor the past three years, Edison supported Missione Sogni, an astion of power plants, the people involved and their hard work, and sociation that helps 5 to 18 years old boys and girls suffering from producing numerous documentaries. serious diseases or disabilities realize their dreams. This new collaboration with Ermanno Olmi is a confirmation of the It is scientifically proven that pain an illness-induced anxiety lower extraordinary bond that still exists today, after more than 50 years, our organism’s natural defenses, while anything that brings joy between Edison and this famous filmmaker and is consistent with and serenity has a beneficial effect and undoubtedly helps the the strategy of supporting cultural development pursued by the healing process. As part of its collaboration with “Missione Sogni,” Group. Edison supports the “A Dream Pediatrician” project, specifically Olmi’s documentaries are included in the Edison Fund, stored at Social Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 80 the National Corporate Film Archives, in Ivrea. The fund includes Edison Supports Sports about 300 films, produced by the film production units of EdiEdison supports sports because it fully shares the values of insonvolta, Montecatini and Montedison, that depict the histories of tegrity, team spirit and respect. In addition, support for amateur, these three companies from the 1920s to the 1980s. youth or “minor league” programs, which always have a signifiIn addition, the project for the preservation of entrepreneurial cant local following, have traditionally been one of the tools with memory that involved digitizing over 5,000 images from Edison’s which Edison interacts with local communities. In 2010, the Group photography and film archives, which can now be viewed on the supported sports initiatives both locally and at the national level. www.Edison.it, is continuing. Edison is the main sponsor of the Italian Basketball Federation Edison, the company that first brought the electric light to Teatro and official sponsor of the Italian Volleyball Federation and of the alla Scala in 1883, “illuminated” the December 7 Opening Night Italian Rugby Team. In addition, under an agreement with the Italwith renewable energy, making the performance that marks the ian National Olympic Committee, it was the main sponsor of the start of the opera season environmentally sustainable. Italian Olympic Team at the Vancouver Winter Olympics. Edison was also present at the Rimini Meeting, providing full offsets for the meeting’s emissions, where it organized a photography exhibit and showed a film, entitled “The responsible soul of a business, history and innovation,” on Edison’s social responsibility today and in the past. Also in 2010, Edison was a participant in the sixth edition of “Dal dire al fare” [Walking the Walk], an Italian event about corporate social responsibility, where it collaborated in presenting a special section devoted exclusively to students that featured various programs to increase awareness of sustainability issues among young people. Edison, which has always been aware of the importance of a culture based on respecting nature, history and traditions, has been a supporter of the Italian Environmental Fund (FAI) for a number of years. 81 Sustainability Report 2010 n Social Responsibility PROJECTS FOR THE COMMUNITY Edison decided to provide an accounting of the projects for its host TYPE OF ACTIVITY communities, showing not just the amount of resources it provided, euros % but also the types of projects involved (sponsorships and charitable Sponsorships 3,273,226 84% contributions.) In 2010, numerous contributions were again provided Charitable contributions 613,976 16% to social projects to support the cultural and economic development Total 3,887,202 100% and, ultimately, the prosperity of the communities where Edison operates. Edison’s activities in favor its host communities consisted mainly of contributions provided in the form of: ■■charitable contributions, i.e., occasional gifts provided with a charitable intention; The initiative supported in 2010 concerned mainly the promotion ■■sponsorships, i.e., commercial initiatives with a social impact. of sports and culture, as well as other activities requiring less fiThe initiative pursued in 2010 were valued at about 4 million euros, nancial resources in such areas as social issues, education and with sponsorships receiving the lion’s share (84%). the environment. TYPES OF ACTIVITIES SUPPORTED IN THE HOST COMMUNITIES 2,008,813 908,676 484,688 6,000 376,071 102,955 environment culture education social sports other commitment Social Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 82 SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTING – A NOTE ON METHODOLOGY Edison views its Sustainability Report as a tool to communicate dated data of the Edison Group, computed in accordance with how the Group manages its social responsibility and provide a the IAS/IFRS International Accounting Principles, and must complete and balanced presentation of its values, strategies and include Edipower at 50%; performance during the reporting period. The Report is also a ■■The social and environmental data must be those of Edison’s management tool that can be used to monitor the Group’s suscore businesses (electric power operations and hydrocarbons tainability performance and set improvement goals for the future. and natural gas operations), stated in accordance with the abovementioned consolidation principles and, therefore, with The 2010 Sustainability Report was prepared in accordance with Edipower at 50% and the other companies at the consolidation the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines developed by the Global percentages used in the consolidated financial statements. Reporting Initiative (GRI) in 2006 (G-3), integrated with the additional disclosures required by the Electric Utilities Sector SuppleInsofar as the scope of the Report is concerned, the 2010 edition ment, as approved in 2009. This standard is internationally recogreflects the following peculiarities: nized as the best practice in sustainability reporting. Edison chose ■■The environmental data and information do not include those of to follow a gradual approach in adopting the GRI Guidelines and the Thisvi power plant; plans to add to the Report new indicators of social and environ■■Unless otherwise specified, data and information about the permental performance each year. In 2010, the Group again achieved formance with customers refer to Edison Energia. the A+ level in the implementation of the Guidelines. As was the case in previous years, the 2010 Sustainability Report The Sustainability Report is published each year and is distributed was audited by Independent Auditors to provide our stakeholders to the Board of Directors concurrently with the presentation of with the assurance that the information it contains is accurate the Annual Report, which this year occurred February. It is also and reliable. This process was completed successfully with the distributed at the Shareholders’ Meeting issuance of a certification letter, which is annexed to this Report (page 96). The consolidation method adopted requires the following: ■■The operating and financial data and the data for the main performance indicators shown in the Report must be the consoli83 Sustainability Report 2010 n Note on Methodology COMMITMENTS FOR THE FUTURE Area 2009 Objectives 2010 Results Climate change Expand the information about issues related We expanded the section on climate change, to climate change, developing, when possible, providing more information about issues related to analyses of the main financial implications, risks managing risks from climate change. and opportunities entailed by these issues. Biodiversity Develop a more specific and systematic approach In 2010, Edison developed a method to analyze to monitoring the impact of the Group’s activities the sensitivity of its operating sites in terms of on biodiversity, also for the purpose of mitigating biodiversity (assessment ranking of the sites). any risks that could affect the Group’s operations. A new section with more detailed information on Subsequent to this activity, the monitoring process Edison’s protection of biodiversity was added. will cover the impact on biodiversity in areas undergoing environmental remediation or selected to satisfy offsetting obligations. Human rights The Group is committed to providing its employees The implementation of audit procedures for with training about issues related to the respect of compliance with the human rights policy is still human rights. being studied. In addition, Edison will be developing an operating Training sessions on this issues are being planned. procedure to monitor any failure to comply with A work group on this issue has been established the Human Rights Policy recently adopted by the with the Global Compact. Group. The It’s My Right, It’s My Life project for the promotion of human rights in Egypt has been activated. Dialog with the In 2010, the Group will define a structured program A stakeholder involvement plan, based on stakeholders to encourage the involvement of its stakeholders interviews, workshops and web forums, was and will begin to carry out the projects developed defined and launched. It will be completed in 2011. for this purpose. Impact on the community Over the next two years, the Group will further A method to monitor the resources provided to refine the system used to monitor its activities the local communities and their effectiveness was within the local communities and their impact, with submitted in 2010. special emphasis on sponsorships and charitable contributions. Social Responsibility n Sustainability Report 2010 84 Area 2011 Objectives Defining sustainability Develop a structure process to define corporate objectives regarding sustainability issues that involves objectives the entire corporate organization and allows a more effective integrations of sustainability issues into the corporate governance process. Biodiversity Describe the results of the Action Plan that will be developed in 2011 and provide an accounting of the results obtained by mapping sensitive areas for biodiversity. Human rights Begin internal and external communication and training activities on biodiversity. Impact on the community Organize training sessions on this issue. Stakeholder engagement Describe in quantitative terms the scope of community projects, specifying the types of programs, the issues involved and the geographic locations. Intensify stakeholder engagement activities (e.g., by organizing meetings with local stakeholders, new workshops, activities on Edison Generation, etc.) 85 Sustainability Report 2010 n Performance Indicators performance indicators AREA Unit 2008 2009 2010 % change GRI reference ENVIRONMENT (datA AT 12/31) Energy produced EU 2 Total thermoelectric power Gwh 44,606 35,646 35,361 -0.8% Total hydroelectric power Gwh 5,021 5,398 5,734 6.2% Total electric power from wind energy Gwh 524 556 683 22.9% Electric power from other renewable sources Gwh 5 47 779.0% Total net electric power Gwh 50,151 41,604 41,825 0.5% Total thermal energy Gwh equiv. 1,024 811 845 4.2% Total energy produced Gwh equiv. 51,175 42,415 42,669 0.6% Electric power produced from renewable sources % 11.1% 14.3% 15.5% 8% Electric power produced abroad Gwh n.a. 236 943 299.6% Efficiency of the thermoelectric power plants Average yield of the thermoelectric power plants % 44.8% 43.0% 44.0% 2.3% EU11 Availability factor for the thermoelectric power plants % 86.7% 89.5% 91.6% 2.3% Availability factor for the hydroelectric power plants % 92.0% 92.5% 92.7% 0.2% Availability factor for the wind farms % 95.3% 95.3% 94.9% -0.4% Average availability factor % 91.3% 92.5% 93.1% 0.7% EU 30 Energy used to produce electric power EN3 Natural gas millions of Sm3 7,828.9 6,538.4 6,697.7 2.4% Coke-oven gas millions of Nm3 594.1 437.0 566.0 29.5% Blast-furnace gas milioni di Nm3 5,725.7 4,368.0 5,324.7 21.9% Steel-mill gas millions of Nm3 68.2 75.7 66.2 -12.5% Blast-furnace and steel-mill gas mixture mmillions of Nm3 3,610.7 888.5 1,939.5 118.3% Fuel oil thousands of t 717.2 645.4 311.2 -51.8% Gasoil thousands of t 6.1 5.9 1.9 -68.1% Coal thousands of t 714.0 398.0 333.3 -16.3% Bark thousands of t 55.5 48.7 50.1 2.8% Mud thousands of t 21.2 17.9 22.8 27.4% Wood chips thousands of t 1.4 52.8 Total energy used thousands of GJ 360,409 288,148 277,844 -3.6% Energy used for ancillary services** Natural gas migliaia di Sm3 4,757.1 42,838.8 49,891.8 16.5% Gasoil t 5,119.8 4,486.2 5,293.6 18.0% Fuel oil t 2,005.0 7,766.0 6,405.0 -17.5% Purchased electric power MWh 102,750 100,955 104,092 3.1% EN 4 Materials used EN1 Total process chemicals t 31,205 30,893 25,736 -16.7% Dielectric oil used as a lubricant and coolant t 444 357 49 -86.1% Water resources used EN 8 Sea water thousands of m3 2,751,025 2,048,515 1,591,863 -22.3% Water from rivers and canals thousands of m3 968,063 744,245 655,385 -11.9% Water drawn from the aquifer thousands of m3 4,508 3,317 4,750 43.2% Purchased demineralized water thousands of m3 2,075 1,662 1,717 3.3% Other water resources used thousands of m3 250 324 3,407 952.1% Recycled water – thermoelectric operations thousands of m3 1,252,064 870,494 1,044,468 20.0% EN 10 Recycles industrial water thousands of m3 7,165 7,068 6,486 -8.2% Water from condensation and purchased steam thousands of m3 1,244,899 863,426 1,037,982 20.2% Total water resources used thousands of m3 4,977,984 3,668,556 3,301,589 -10.0% Recycled water – thermoelectric operations % 25.2% 23.7% 31.6% 33.3% Flow-through water and biodiversity – hydroelectric operations EN 12 Turbine powering water thousands of m3 18,621,583 21,064,597 21,772,784 3.4% Minimum vital water flow thousands of m3 961,917 1,254,953 1,363,892 8.7% Minimum vital water flow releases % 5.2% 6.0% 6.3% 5.1% Performance Indicators n Sustainability Report 2010 86 AREA Unit 2008 2009 2010 % change GRI reference Effluents EN 21 Industrial effluents generated thousands of m3 30,661 29,871 28,249 -5.4% Reinjected water (hydrocarbons operations) thousands of m3 17 19 19 Cooling water thousands of m3 3,692,596 2,760,571 2,560,229 -7.3% Residential waste water thousands of m3 116 160 158 -1.2% Total effluents thousands of m3 3,723,375 2,790,622 2,588,655 -7.2% Greenhouse gas emissions Electric power operations CO2 emissions – thermoelectric operations t 27,726,181 20,796,734 21,518,201 3.5% EN 16 Specific CO2 emissions – thermoelectric power plants g/Kwh equiv. 590.9 558.2 587.4 5.2% Specific CO2 emissions – all power plants g/Kwh equiv. 523.6 486.0 484.5 -0.3% SF6 t of CO2 equiv. 191 845 454 -46.3% Emissions rights allocated t 19,190,650 18,161,361.1 -5.4% Level of compliance with the Kyoto Protocol % 92% 84% -8.5% EU 5 (rights allocated/emissions generated) Emissions avoided by using renewable energy sources t 3,276,545 3,323,665 3,796,407 14.2% Hydrocarbons operations CO2 emissions – hydrocarbons operations t 29,065 108,707 128,016 17.8% EN 17 Natural gas distribution operations CO2 emissions from pipeline leaks t of CO2 equiv. 16,544 16,544 23,764 43.6% Indirect emissions* Emissions attributable to consumption of purchased electric power t 47,368 46,540 47,986 3.1% EN 18 Emissions of gases harmful to the ozone layer EN19 CFC-11 equivalents t 0.5 1.8 Emissions into the atmosphere EN 20 SOx t 10,320 5,953 4,456 -25.1% NOx t 13,072 10,158 10,466 3.0% CO t 1,833 1,255 1,901 51.5% Particulate t 419 229 264 15.3% Waste generated EN 22 Special non-hazardous waste t 109,674 107,246 88,037 -17.9% Special hazardous waste t 6,800 4,200 4,277 1.8% Total waste generated t 116,474 111,446 92,314 -17.2% Recycled waste t 108,386 100,138 86,682 -13.4% Waste sent to landfills t 8,089 11,307 5,632 -50.2% Inspections to locate natural gas leaks PR 1 Pipelines inspected Km 1,965 2,110 2,366 12.1% Pipelines existing at the beginning of the year Km 2,461 2,510 2,549 1.6% Network inspected % 80% 84% 93% 10.4% Total number of leaks located No. 1,056 1,363 1,234 -9.5% Total volume of leaks thousands of Sm3 999 999 1,435 43.6% HSE management systems Sites covered by ISO 14001 management systems Electric power operations % 100% 100% 97% -3% Hydrocarbons operations % 79% 89% 93% 4% Sites covered by EMAS management systems Electric power operations % 99% 99% 88% -11% Hydrocarbons operations % 11% 11% 14% 29% Sites covered by OHSAS 18001management systems Electric power operations % 95% 95% 68% -29% Hydrocarbons operations % 67% 89% 93% 4% Audit Process Internal audits No. 108 102 138 35.3% External audits (third-party audits) No. 16 18 20 11.4% Total audits No. 124 120 158 31.8% 87 Sustainability Report 2010 n Performance Indicators AREA Unit 2008 2009 2010 % change GRI reference Inspections – Italy Performed by local governmental entities No. 6** 19 33 Other No. 1** 17 10 Total inspections No. 7** 36 43 Environmental accounting EN 30 Protection of air and climate €/000 26,485 24,381 6,253 -74.4% Water management €/000 2,711 4,021 3,860 -4.0% Waste management €/000 5,385 4,991 7,958 59.5% Soil, subsoil and aquifer protection €/000 6,809 1,723 2,036 18.2% Protection of nature and landscape and remediation projects €/000 5,046 2,022 1,119 -44.7% Other environmental protection activities €/000 3,399 4,033 4,776 18.4% Noise and vibration reduction, CEM €/000 463 513 364 -29.0% Total outlays €/000 50,296 41,683 26,366 -36.7% Investments €/000 25,636 21,861 8,999 -58.8% Operating expenses €/000 24,661 19,822 17,367 -12.4% Material environmental events Spills No. 1 0 0 EN 23 Fines € 0** 0 5,682 EN 28 Other non-cash penalties No. 0** 0 0 EN 28 * The data do not include Edipower and the Group’s international operations. ** The data do not include Edipower. Performance Indicators n Sustainability Report 2010 88 AREA Unit 2008 2009 2010 % change GRI reference PERSONNEL (data at 12/31/) Personnel breakdown by classification LA 1 Executives No. 157 189 192 1.9% Middle managers No. 532 629 656 4.3% Office staff No. 1,652 2,154 2,186 1.5% Production staff No. 621 952 905 -4.8% Total No. 2,962 3,924 3,939 0.4% Personnel breakdown by type of contract LA 1 Permanent employees No. 2,945 3,832 3,847 0.4% Temporary employees No. 16 91 92 1.1% Total No. 2,961 3,923 3,939 0.4% Personnel breakdown by geographic region LA 1 Italy No. 2,870 3,012 3,000 -0.4% International No. 92 911 939 3.2% Total No. 2,961 3,923 3,939 0.4% Presence of female employees LA 1 Executives % 10% 10% 9% -1.8% Middle managers % 24% 24% 25% 3.1% Office staff % 24% 23% 23% 1.0% Production staff % 1% 1% 1% 5.1% Average % 19% 17% 18% 3.1% Women/Men compensation ratio LA 14 Top management Women/Men % compensation ratio % n.a. n.a. Women/Men age ratio (average year differential) No. n.a.. n.a. Management Women/Men % compensation ratio % 105.7% 111.9% Women/Men age ratio (average year differential) No. < 2.6 <2.4 Professionals Women/Men % compensation ratio % 92.6% 96.2% Women/Men age ratio (average year differential) No. < 5.7 <3.5 Office staff Women/Men % compensation ratio % 89.3% 89.2% Women/Men age ratio (average year differential) No. < 3.7 <1.3 Production staff Women/Men % compensation ratio % n.a. n.a. Women/Men age ratio (average year differential) No. n.a. n.a. Note: Gross annual compensation, including collective and personal fixed components, but excluding any indemnities. Training-work Apprentices No. 9 20 53 165.0% Interns No. 30 32 26.5 -17.2% Part-time employment Employees with part-time contracts % 2.2% 1.7% 1.7% Employees belonging to protected categories**** DMA LA Disabled No. 78 85 86.5 1.8% Other (e.g., orphans) No. 31 30 28 -6.7% Total No. 109 115 114.5 -0.4% Personnel breakdown by educational level Elementary school % 1% 2% 2% -13.0% Intermediate school % 14% 16% 16% 1.2% High school diploma % 56% 49% 49% -0.5% College degree % 28% 31% 32% 1.6% Other (Masters, PhD, etc.) % 1% 1% 1% 18.9% 89 Sustainability Report 2010 n Performance Indicators AREA Unit 2008 2009 2010 % change GRI reference Personnel breakdown by age group Younger than 25 years of age % 2% 3% 2% -31.2% Between 25 and 35 years of age % 24% 25% 26% 3.2% Between 36 and 45 years of age % 33% 31% 31% 0.3% Between 46 and 55 years of age % 34% 30% 30% -0.7% Older than 55 years of age % 9% 10% 11% 6.2% Average staff age* No. 44.7 44.5 44.8 0.8% Average length of service at the Company* Executives No. 13.9 15.1 14.7 -2.7% Middle managers No. 14.4 14.6 14.0 -4.2% Office staff No. 19.4 19.7 18.8 -4.7% Production staff No. 19.8 19.8 19.1 -3.7% Average No. 16.9 17.3 16.7 -3.9% New hires by classification LA 2 Executives No. 5 2 1 -50.0% Middle managers No. 50 21 27 28.1% Office staff No. 200 147 104 -29.6% Production staff No. 45 58 50 -13.1% Acquisitions (Abu Qir, AMG, CEB) No. 880 -100.0% Total No. 299 1,108 182 -83.6% Separations by reason* LA 2 Resignation No. 95 45 67 49.4% Retirement No. 75 66 80 20.5% Death No. 1 1 2 50.0% Termination/Divestment of business operations No. 18 5 -100.0% Other No. 106 31 19 -39.3% Total No. 294 147 166 13.3% Employee turnover LA 2 by classification Executives % 0.2% 0.0% 0.1% 200.0% Middle managers % 1.1% 0.3% 0.5% 33.3% Office staff % 1.7% 0.7% 0.8% 21.2% Production staff % 0.2% 0.1% 0.4% 250.0% average % 3.2% 1.1% 1.7% 49.4% by gender Women % 1.0% 0.4% 0.6% 50.0% Men % 2.2% 1.1% 1.6% 49.2% by age group Younger than 30 years of age % 0.6% 0.2% 0.2% -5.9% Between 30 and 45 years of age % 2.3% 0.6% 1.1% 78.0% Older than 45 years of age % 0.3% 0.3% 0.4% 27.3% by length of service at the Company Less than 3 years of service % 1.1% 0.5% 0.5% 0.0% Between 3 and 10 years of service % 1.8% 0.5% 1.0% 82.9% More than 10 years of service % 0.3% 0.2% 0.3% 83.0% Employees who received training Employees who attended at least one training course No. 2,478 3,025 2,658 -12.1% Employees who received training % 83.7% 77.1% 67.5% -12.5% Hours of training provided LA 10 Executives No. 8,259 8,069 8,457 4.8% Middle managers No. 17,741 19,372 23,676 22.2% Office staff No. 56,086 68,881 66,781 -3.0% Production staff No. 29,762 27,548 29,316 6.4% Total No. 111,848 124,935 128,229 2.6% Average hours per capita No. 37.8 31.9 32.5 2.2% * The sum of the components does not match the total shown for Separations by reason due to the rounding out that occurred when consolidating the data for Edipower at 50%. Performance Indicators n Sustainability Report 2010 90 AREA Unit 2008 2009 2010 % change GRI reference Training hours and costs by type LA 8 Quality, environment and safety No. 36,072 44,275 45,596 3.0% Technical training No. 35,215 23,477 25,466 8.5% Institutional training – internal No. 14,231 29,690 18,235 -38.6% Institutional training – external No. 11,958 10,484 10,197 -2.7% Language courses No. 8,100 12,317 18,801 52.6% Computer training No. 4,587 2,420 7,579 213.2% Conventions No. 2,911 2,258 2,356 4.3% Total hours No. 113,073 124,920 128,229 2.6% Total cost €/1000 2,303 2,081 2,321 11.5% Occupational safety LA 7 Accidents occurred to Group employeeso No. 16 19 20 5.3% Injury incidence rate No. 3.22 3.04 2.96 -2.4% Lost workday incidence rate No. 0.06 0.07 0.11 56.4% Health care support** LA 7 Medical examinations provided No. 1,599 3,454 1,576 -54.4% Average number of medical examinations per employee No. 0.54 0.88 0.40 -54.6% Average number of hours worked per capita* Regular hours No. 1,557 1,571 1,601 1.9% Overtime hours No. 126 94 86 -8.5% Average hours of absence from work per capita**** LA 7 Illness No. 48.2 36.7 38.1 3.9% Accident No. 1.0 0.9 2.0 124.1% Maternity No. 12.2 11.0 10.0 -8.9% Strike No. 0.1 0.0 0.1 172.7% Employee Assembly No. 2.6 1.8 1.8 -1.9% Paid leave No. 17.3 12.2 13.6 11.9% Unpaid leave No. 7.9 2.7 2.9 7.4% Total No. 89.3 65.3 68.5 5.0% Occupational safety expenditures Operating expenses €/000 6,200 7,394 8,473 14.6% Investments €/000 3,720 4,090 5,607 37.1% Total €/000 9,920 11,484 14,080 22.6% Employees who underwent performance review* LA 12 Executives % 100% 100% 100% -0.3% Middle managers % 76% 76% 83% 8.8% Office staff % 16% 17% 22% 29.5% Production staff % 0% 0% 0% Total % 28% 29% 34% 16.9% Average productivity bonus per capita**** Middle managers***** € 1,598.0 1,600.0 1,677.0 4.8% Office staff € 1,628.5 1,712.5 1,729.0 1.0% Production staff € 1,295.5 1,350.0 1,408.0 4.3% Average € 1,507.3 1,554.2 1,604.7 3.2% Incentivizing bonuses* Employees who received an incentivizing bonus, No. 318 376 427 13.4% not counting the productivity bonus (MBO) Employees who received a non-cash incentivizing bonus (Award) No. 38 61 85 40.5% Incentivized employees % 12.0% 11.1% 13.0% 16.7% Promotions* Promotion from middle manager to executive No. 7 11 7 -40.9% Promotion from office staff to middle manager No. 39 34 39 14.7% Promotion from production staff to office staff No. 53 30 44 45.0% Total No. 99 75 90 18.7% 91 Sustainability Report 2010 n Performance Indicators AREA Unit 2008 2009 2010 % change GRI reference Collective bargaining and union membership*** LA 4 Employees covered by national collective bargaining agreements % 101% 99% 99% 1.0% Employees who are union members % 39% 48% 47% -1.2% Disputes with employees Outstanding at 12/31 No. 26 26 0.0% Occurred during the year No. 5 2 -66.7% Closed during the year No. 11 9 -18.2% Employees of contractors LA 1 EUSS Full Time Equivalent (FTE) average No. 3,791 2,662 -29.8% Days worked by employees of contractors* EU 17 Construction activities No. 335,817 688,404 105.0% Maintenance activities No. 497,325 470,383 -5.4% Total No. 833,142 1,158,787 39.1% Occupational safety of contractors LA 7 EUSS Accidents occurred to employees of contractors Injury incidence rate No. 8.22 3.55 3.43 -3.3% Lost workday incidence rate No. 0.24 0.11 0.10 -9.9% * Abu Qir is not included. ** The data for Edipower refer only to administrative offices. *** The data for Abu Qir do not include temporary workers. **** The Group’s independent contractors and the employees of AMG GAS, Sistemi di Energia, CEB, Sel Edison and Eneco are not included. ***** Edipower’s middle managers receive only the portion of the results bonus tied to the Company’s profitability (50% of the total bonus) and not the portion tied to productivity. Performance Indicators n Sustainability Report 2010 92 AREA Unit Unit 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 % change 2010 GRI reference CUSTOMERS (data at 12/31) Electric power and natural gas customers No. 214,755 538,632 1,011,301 Total electric power customers No. 45,009 224,862 585,664 Gwh 20,054 24,978 27,203 Residential No. 4,991 155,199 414,043 EU 3 Gwh 10 304 996 Business No. 4,971 4,389 6,448 Gwh 18,745 22,862 22,781 Small-business soho No. 35,047 65,274 165,173 Gwh 1,299 1,812 3,426 Total natural gas customers No. 169,746 313,770 425,637 million Sm3 3.9 4,716.5 4,593.4 Edison Energia residential gas customers No. 169,200 179,078 289,653 million Sm3 288 254 359 Edison Energia industrial gas customers No. 519 610 540 million Sm3 3,646 4,382 4,162 Total natural gas operations, Edison Energia No. 169,719 179,688 290,193 million Sm3 4 4,636 4,522 AMG gas Palermo residential gas customers No. 133,045 134,394 million Sm3 AMG gas Palermo industrial gas customers No. 1,000 1,000 million Sm3 Total natural gas operations, AMG Palermo No. 134,045 135,394 million Sm3 80 72 Total sales to external thermoelelctrci customers No. 6 17 19 million Sm3 988 1,813 3,801 GASL sales volumes No. 21 20 31 million Sm4 907 423 952 “Green” energy sold Gwh 176 106 658 RECs certified energy Interruptions of electric power service EU 27 “Interrupted” customers broken down by length of time between disconnection and payment < 48 h No. 2229 1169 48 h -1 week No. 150 1799 1 week 1 month No. 125 1259 1 month 1 year No. 0 270 > 1 year No. 0 0 “Interrupted” customers broken down by length of time between payment and reconnection < 48 h No. 2500 4317 48 h -1 week No. 4 45 1 week No. 0 135 Failures to comply with codes and regulations on advertising and product marketing PR6 Electric power operations No. 0 2 0 Natural gas operations No. 1 0 0 Contact center service Total number of inbound calls No. 165,000 691,685 1,350,525 Total number of outbound calls No. 285,000 490,000 684,000 Number of calls answered within 30 seconds No. 140,250 401,177 640,248 % of calls answered within 30 seconds % 85% 58% 47% Number of complaints Total number of complains for the electric power services (Edison Energia) No. 2,091 7,749 23,299 Complaints as a % of the total number of electric power customers (Edison Energia) % 4.65% 3.45% 3.98% Total number of complains for the natural gas services (Edison Energia) No. 907 1257 5,164 Complaints as a % of the total number of natural gas customers (Edison Energia) % 0.53% 0.70% 1.78% Total number of complaints (Edison Energia) No. 2,998 9,006 28,463 Complaints as a percentage of the the total number of Edison Energia’s customers % 1.40% 2.23% 3.25% 93 Sustainability Report 2010 n Performance Indicators AREA Unit Unit 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 % change 2010 GRI reference SUPPLIERS (data at 12/31) Breakdown of suppliers Total number of suppliers No. 3,860 3,627 Total value of goods and services supplied* €/000 886,000 645,305 636,191 Breakdown of purchases by geographic region EC 6 Italy €/000 788,528 543,582 559,537 % 89% 84% 88% International €/000 97,472 101,723 76,654 % 11% 16% 12% Value of purchases from suppliers qualified by Edison (in thousands of euros)* Total value of purchases from qualified suppliers €/000 758,257 546,705 554,469 as a % of total purchases % 86% 85% 87% Contract fairness Average length of contractual payment terms** days 60.26 78 84 * The amount includes purchases of goods, services and labor. ** The data for 2007 and 2008 do not include Edipower. Performance Indicators n Sustainability Report 2010 94 GRI Index AREA Profile Unit Coverage 2008 Page No. 2009Notes 2010 % change GRI reference 1 Strategy and Analysis 01:01 Statement from the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer Total 6 6, 13, 21, 01:02 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Total 29. 46 2 Organizational Profile 02:01 Name of the organization Total cover 02:02 Primary brands, products, and/or services Total 12 02:03 Operational structure Total 12 02:04 Location of the organization’s headquarters Total ibc 02:05 Countries where the organization operates Total ic 02:06 Nature of ownership and legal form Total 31 02:07 Markets served Total ic,12 10, 12, 28, 02:08 Scale of reporting organization Total 34, 52 02:09 Significant changes Total 15 02:10 Awards received Total 26, 76, 78 EU1 Installed capacity Total ic, 11, 42 EU2 Net energy produced Total 11 EU3 Number of customers, broken down by type Total 93 Edison does not provide electric power distribution and EU4 Length of transmissions and distribution networks n.a. transmission services EU5 Allocation of emissions rights and compliance with the Kyoto Protocol Total 86 3 Report Parameters 03:01 Reporting period Total 83 03:02 Date of publication of previous report Total 83 03:03 Reporting cycle Total 83 03:04 Contacts and addresses for report information Total ibc 03:05 Process for defining report content Total 24 03:06 Scope of the report Total 83 03:07 Limitations on the objective or scope of the report Total 83 03:08 Information about affiliated companies Total 83 03:09 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations Total 83 03:10 Restatements compared with previous report Total 83 03:11 Significant changes from previous report Total 83 03:12 Reference table Total 95 03:13 Independent certification Total 97 4 Governance, Commitments, Engagement 04:01 Governance structure Total 18, CG Report 04:02 Indicate whether the Chairman is also an executive officer Total CG Report 04:03 Independent and non-executive Directors Total CG Report 04:04 Mechanisms for shareholders to provide recommendations Total CG Report 04:05 Linkage between compensation for Directors and top management and performance Total CG Report 04:06 Conflicts of interest Total CG Report 04:07 Qualifications of Directors Total CG Report 04:08 Mission, values, codes of conduct, and principles Total 17 04:09 Procedures to identify and manage economic, environmental and social performance Total 19 04:10 Process for evaluating the Board’s performance Total CG Report 04:11 Method for applying the precautionary principle or approach Total 21 04:12 Adoption of external economic, social and environmental codes and principles Total 17 04:13 Memberships in industry associations Total 70 04:14 List of stakeholdes engaged by the organization Total 25, 26 04:15 Basis for identification of stakeholders with whom to engage Total 25, 26 04:16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Total 25, 26 04:17 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement and actions taken Total 25, 26 95 Sustainability Report 2010 n GRI Index GRI Index AREA Profile Unit Coverage 2008 Page No. 2009Notes 2010 % change GRI reference ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 29. 60. 82 Under Italian law, the handling of materials containing PCB DMA EC Disclosure on management approach Total is governed by Law No. 62 of April 18, 2005 EU6 Management strategy to ensure the availability of energy over the medium/long-term Total 13 EU7 DSM (demand-side management) programs Total 13 EU8 R&D activities and investments n.a. 50 Edison does not own any nuclear power plants EU9 Decommissioning of nuclear facilities Total EC1 Economic value directly generated and distributed Total 30 EC2 Risks and opportunities due to climate change Total 46 Report on EC3 Coverage of pension obligations Total Operations EC4 Significant financing received from the public administration Total 29 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers Total 67, 94 EC7 Hiring of residents from the locations where most of the organization’s activities are carried out Total 53 EC8 Development of investment provided primarily for “publicly useful projects” Total 73, 82 EU10 Planned capacity vis-à-vis projected long-term energy demand Total 29, 84 EU11 Average yield of the thermoelectric power plants 86 Edison does not provide electric power distribution and EU12 Energy losses during transmission and distribution n.a. transmission services ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE DMA EN Disclosure on management approach Total 9, 35 EN1 Raw materials used Total 86 EN2 Materials reused or recycled n.a. EN3 Direct energy consumption by source Total 86 EN4 Indirect energy consumption Total 86 EN5 Energy saved Partial 50 EN6 Energy-efficient or renewable-energy-based products and services Total 60 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved Total 38 EN8 Water consumption by source Total 86 EN11 Siting of facilities in protected areas or areas with high biodiversity Total 40 The information will be available in 2011 EN12 Description of significant impacts on biodiversity Total 40, 86 EU13 Biodiversity of offset habitats compared with damaged habitats Total No area offsetting activities were carried out EN13 Habitats protected or restored Total 40 EN14 Future strategies and plans to manage impacts on biodiversity Total 40 EN16 Direct greenhouse gas emissions Total 47, 86 EN17 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions Total 47, 86 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Total 47, 48, 86 EN19 Emissions of substances harmful to the ozone layer Total 86 EN20 Other air emission Total 47, 86 EN21 Effluents discharge Total 86 EN22 Waste production and disposal methods Total 86 EN23 Total number and volume of polluting spills Total 86 EN26 IInitiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services Total 60 Indicator not reported because it is not significant for the EN27 Percentage of products sold and packing materials reused or recycled n.a. type of business operated by the Group EN28 Fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Total 86 EN30 Environmental protection expenditures and investments Total 86 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE EU14 Programs to ensure the availability of specialized personnel Total 53 Only qualitative information is available. Objective for the EU15 Employees who potentially could be leaving the organization over the next 5-10 years Total 54 future: list the percentage of employees who potentially could be leaving the organization over the next 5-10 years EU16 Policies concerning the health and safety of employees and contractors Total 57 DMA LA Disclosure on management approach Total 9, 53 LA1 Breakdown of workforce by employment type,employment contract, and region Total 89-92 LA2 Turnover by age group, gender, and region Total 89-92 n.a.: not applicable ibc: inside back cover ic: inside cover GRI Index n Sustainability Report 2010 96 GRI Index Profile Coverage Page No. Notes EU17 Days worked by contractors Total 89-92 Only qualitative information is available. Objective for the EU18 Employees of contractors who received health and safety training Total 57 future: list the percentage of employees of contractors who received training on occupational health and safety LA4 Collective Bargaining Agreements Coverage Total 89-92 Covered by current legislation: Legislative Decree No. LA5 Minimum notice period for operational changes Total 18/2001 and Law No. 223/1991 LA7 Injuries and occupational diseases Total 57, 89-92 Training programs concerning prevention and risk control to assist employees regarding serious LA8 Total 57 conditions or diseases LA10 Employee training Total 89-92 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving performance and career development reviews Total 56 LA13 Breakdown of employees by gender and other indicators of diversity (e.g., disability) Total 18, 89-92 LA14 Ratio of the base salary of male employees to that of female employees in the same category Total 89-92 HUMAN RIGHTS DMA Disclosure on management approach Total 53, 59, 67, 74 HR HR1 Transactions that have undergone human rights screening Total 17, 68 HR2 Supplier and contractors who have undergone human rights screening Total 57 HR4 Occurrences of discrimination and actions taken Total Activities in the course of which the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining 74 Covered by current laws: Article 21 of the Italian HR5 Total could be jeopardized Constitution HR6 Transactions with a high risk of the use of child labor Total 74 HR7 Transactions with a high risk of the use of forced labor Total 74 IMPACTS ON SOCIETY Involvement of stakeholders in the decision making process for the development of new energy EU19 Total 71 facilities During the reporting period Edison did not carry out any EU20 Approach adopted to manage the impact of decommissioning projects n.a. decommissioning projects DMA SO Disclosure on management approach Total 71 SO1 Management of impacts on communities Total 71 During the reporting period Edison did not carry out any EU22 People in the community who were physically displaced or economically compensated n.a. decommissioning projects SO2 Monitoring the risk of corruption Total 19 SO3 Employees trained in preventing corruption crimes Total 19 There were no instances of corruption during the reporting SO4 Actions taken in response to corruption cases Total period SO5 Positions on public policy and lobbying Total 70 SO8 Fines and non-cash penalties for failures to comply with laws and regulations Total 88, 93 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY EU23 Programs to improve or maintain access to electric power Total 64 EU24 Information provided to customers about the safe use of energy and support services Total 64 DMA PR Information about approaches to manage electrical networks Total 60, 64 PR1 Phases in the life cycle of services the impacts of which on health and services have been assessed Total 35 EU25 Number of accidents that affected the community and any resulting judicial proceedings Total There were no disputes outstanding against Edison in 2010 PR3 Information requested for the procedures and services subject to such disclosure requirements Total 62, 64 PR6 Programs to comply with laws and voluntary codes on marketing activities Total 64,65 PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of privacy Total 66, 93 PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations Total 66 Edison does not provide electric power distribution and EU26 Population not served in the distribution area n.a. transmission services EU27 Disconnections from the network for non-payment Total 93 Edison does not provide electric power distribution and EU28 Frequency index of network interruptions n.a. transmission services Edison does not provide electric power distribution and EU29 Length index of network interruptions n.a. transmission services EU30 Average availability factor for all power plants Total 86 97 Sustainability Report 2010 n GRI Index Review report n Rapporto di sostenibilità 2010 98 Review report 99 Rapporto di sostenibilità 2010 n Edison online www.Edison.it www.edisongeneration.it Edison decided to revamp its Sustainability Report, focusing in on the main social and environmental issues and highlighting the results achieved in these areas. In addition to this document, the Company developed other corporate communication tools on is website www.Edison.it, which are specifically cited here as a reference source for information about the “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” published by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the principles of the UN Global Compact. Specifically, the sustainability report searchable online http://bilanciocsr2010.Edison.it/ and the website www.edisongeneration.it, also reachable from the home page www.Edison.it, which is devoted to social responsibility issues and provides information and updates about Edison projects. http://bilanciocsr2010.Edison.it/ www.edisonchangethemusic.it Edison Spa Foro Buonaparte, 31 20121 Milan Share capital: 5,291,700,671.00 euros, fully paid-in Milan Company Register and Tax I.D. No. 06722600019 VAT No. 08263330014 Milan REA No. 1698754 Published by External Relations and Communications Department – Corporate Responsibility Tel. +39 02 6222,1 sostenibilita@Edison.it www.Edison.it www.edisongeneration.it A thank you to all Edison Departments and colleagues who collaborated in creating this Report In collaboration with KPMG Global Sustainability Services Art Direction Message Srl Milano Photographs Edison Archives Valerio Catalani Milestone Camera Chiara Renato Cerisola Eye Photography Jenny Zarins A thank you to all Edison employes who took part in the Company photography competition on biodiversity and the volunteers of the “Together for Haiti” project, who took many of the photographs published in this Report Printed by Grafiche Maggioni, Milan Milan, April 2011 This publication was printed on ecological paper, with a low impact on the environment.­ Edison Spa Foro Buonaparte 31 20121 Milan Tel. 02 6222 1 www.Edison.it
