2010 Global Citizenship Report we are global citizens 2010 Global Citizenship Report 1 contents we are global citizens Letter from Greg 5 Life Technologies Corporation (NASDAQ: LIFE) Life Technologies Corporation is a global biotechnology life science lab in the world. They include innovative Letter from Cristina  7 company dedicated to improving the human condition. Our instrument systems under the Applied Biosystems and ® systems, consumables, and services enable researchers Ion Torrent brands, and the broadest range of reagents ™ to accelerate scientific and medical advancements that available from Invitrogen , Gibco , Ambion , Molecular ™ ® ® make life even better. Our customers work across the Probes , and TaqMan brands. ® ® we are global citizens 9 biological spectrum to advance the fields of discovery For more information about Life Technologies, please visit and translational research, molecular medicine, stem our website: www.lifetechnologies.com cell–based therapies, food safety and animal health, and Our year in review science  10 21st-century forensics. We manufacture both molecular To view our supplemental videos, scan the tags with your mobile phone. A free mobile app is available at http://gettag.mobi diagnostic and research-use-only products. Our family of industry-leading brands is found in nearly every ethics  20 people  26 environment  44 community  64 Awards and recognition  74 Data summary table  76 About this report  78 2 2010 Global Citizenship Report 3 letter from Greg At Life Technologies, we work behind the scenes, arming scientists and researchers with the technologies they need to advance scientific discovery. As the life sciences, and in particular, genomics, have evolved, we have moved closer to the process of discovery, sometimes working side by side with researchers at the bench, striving to stay ahead of them to anticipate what they might need next. We are poised to move as a company once again, this time closer to the clinical setting, as we become part of the medical diagnostic community. Last year was a pivotal one for our company, as we named our first Chief Medical Officer and acquired a significant business with an important technology, the Ion Torrent Personal ™ Genome Machine . Both are critical in our commitment to developing the tools that advance ™ how genomic research today can be translated into effective clinical treatments in the future. The pace of innovation is rapid, and the need for solutions that affect human health requires ever greater velocity. We are committed to taking the steps necessary, from the introduction of new products and educational initiatives to strategic investments and collaborations, to enable the translation of sequencing solutions from the research lab to the clinic. The advent of personalized medicine has begun. Being a catalyst for the evolution of personalized medicine is just one way that Life Technologies is contributing to solutions that improve the human condition. Our systems, products, and services enable us to help solve many of society’s most critical issues, from the depletion of our natural resources to the proliferation of global disease to the very real concern of climate change. Behind every great discovery, behind every technological advance, behind every new product, are the people of Life Technologies. Inquisitive and driven, passionate and insightful, pioneering and innovative, they are committed to our shared responsibility as global citizens. Bridging the gap between the life sciences of today and their potential to help us create a better tomorrow requires massive collaboration, new levels of partnership and influence that we are just beginning to appreciate. As we look to the future, we do so with the knowledge that our journey is very much a shared one. We have much to celebrate as a company, as an industry, and I salute the people of Life Technologies who are and will continue to be part of this success. Presence: Patents and Facilities: 82 2010 net sales: 160 3.9K exclusive $3.6 licenses: Gregory T. Lucier countries sites billion Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Our financial review Employees: Employee Product types: R&D investment ~11K hires in 2010: in 2010: 1,952 50K+ $359 million 4 2010 Global Citizenship Report 5 letter from Cristina At Life Technologies, global citizenship is expressed in many ways. It’s how we interact and co-exist with our people, our communities, and our environment. It’s in the ethical conduct that we compose ourselves, and the standards we aspire to. And at its essential core, our global citizenship is found in our breadth of products and services that advance scientific discovery to make the world a better place. In 2010, we began to articulate the opportunities and challenges inherent in becoming a low-carbon business. As a supplier and partner to many of the world’s most respected scientific institutions, we have a unique perspective on climate change. We are closely looking at how we, as a corporation, as scientists, and as individuals, can contribute to solutions that are necessary for society to thrive in a low-carbon world. Specifically, we are looking to transform the way we use energy and natural resources—examining the entire life cycle of our products and services. As we move away from the traditional, take-make-waste linear model of manufacturing, we are recognizing new opportunities for innovation, collaboration, and partnership. 2010 highlights • W  e made significant progress in resource efficiency. Two years into our four-year goal of 25% reductions across the board, we have reduced energy use by 10%; CO2 emissions by 9%; and water intake by 25%. • We progressed in our move away from expanded polystyrene (EPS) coolers for cold transport of consumable products, converting two of our largest-volume products to ambient temperature transport, eliminating over 100,000 EPS coolers and 700,000 pounds of dry ice and gel packs annually. With small ambient packages, we increase freight density, save fuel and reduce 300 tons of CO2 emissions. •  We introduced the Ion Torrent Personal Genome Machine , a semiconductor technology that holds ™ ™ promise to expedite the discovery and selection of organisms for their ability to generate oil, create energy, produce food, desalinate water, and bioremediate pollution. •  We sequenced the Jatropha curcas genome using the SOLiD 4.0 System. With potential ranging from ® medicinal use to next-generation biofuel, the seeds of this plant carry huge impact. We continued our work sequencing algae, a potential biofuel and carbon sequestration crop, and created kits for researchers who are evolving that science. •  We partnered with UL Environment , a third-party certification source, who will provide clarity for the ® Water saved LEED Safety Committee Energy reduction validation of claims and certification to standards for our instruments. since 2008: buildings: members: since 2008: 25% 3 733 10% This year’s report acknowledges the finest attributes of the people of Life Technologies, who are not only our inspiration but also our source of accomplishment and innovation. Join us in celebrating the milestones of 2010, and on our journey as global citizens. Investment in Volunteer hours: Employee Gender $363 36K+ 99.4% 44% innovation: completion rate diversity: Cristina Amorim for ethics training: Vice President of Global Citizenship women Addressing the future million 6 2010 Global Citizenship Report 7 we are global citizens global citizenship community Life Technologies defines community broadly—from the regions where we live, work, and operate to the community environment of scientists, researchers, and educators who use the products Just as we are committed and services we provide, to the to being one step ahead Living as a in scientific discovery, we students of today who are the scientists of tomorrow. responsible global are equally committed to citizen is one of our going beyond protecting the environment to helping to core values at Life Technologies. science people restore the natural world. Our systems, products, We help shape discoveries in We recognize that the work molecular and regenerative we do attracts passionate and and services enable medicine that will likely lead committed people, and we researchers to to cures for diseases such as strive to be an employer of accelerate scientific cancer and heart disease. We choice by creating a place where also develop life science tools employees can thrive. We make exploration, driving that enable safe and clean water teamwork, diversity, safety, to discoveries and supplies and a more abundant ethics health, wellness, and trust our developments that food supply. priorities. Life Technologies is providing make life even better― tools and technologies that help while minimizing our scientists explore the origins collective footprint. Our of life as well as ways life can cure devastating diseases. We sustainability approach do pioneering work in uncharted is to drive top-and territories to recapture bottom-line impact biodiversity loss. We are also while addressing key moving closer to the patient and the clinical care setting. All these challenges of the initiatives require high standards 21st century. of ethical conduct, accountability, and transparency. 8 2010 Global Citizenship Report 9 science we are explorers science For Dr. James Lupski, Cullen Professor and Vice Chair for the Department of Molecular and Human Genetics at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, the scientific quest is intensely personal. Dr. Lupski has CharcotMarie-Tooth Disease (CMT), as do three of his siblings. CMT is one of the most common inherited neurological diseases, affecting one in 2,500 people in the United States. For the past 20 years, Dr. Lupski has been trying to identify the genetic basis of this disease. In April 2010 he and his partner, Dr. Richard Gibbs, announced in the New England Journal of Medicine that they had found clinically relevant genetic mutations associated with it. Lupski and Gibbs used the SOLiD System, a next® generation genomic analysis platform, to identify the key DNA mutations connected to his type of CMT. Through this collaboration between Life Technologies and Baylor College, scientists now can apply this methodology to the discovery of rare genetic variants in more than 12,000 other genetic diseases. Life Technologies is at the forefront of this pioneering enterprise. We are enabling scientists worldwide to more deeply understand the spectrum of disease by equipping them with rapidly evolving tools, and we are closing the gap between research and treatment by fully engaging with physicians in the clinical setting. Together, we are furthering the quest to make mass personalized medicine a reality. Improving lives “The pace of innovation is rapid, and the need for solutions that affect human health requires ever greater velocity. We are committed to taking the steps necessary, from the introduction of new products to greater financial investments and educational initiatives, to enable the translation of sequencing solutions from the research lab to the clinic.” Gregory T. Lucier, Chairman and CEO 10 2010 Global Citizenship Report 11 science genomic sequencing on the fast track Life Technologies is committed to helping researchers discovery | collaboration | innovation identify the causes of thousands of diseases and to helping doctors to deliver affordable and efficient treatment. The Life Technologies Foundation™ announces $5 million in grants, to be distributed over the next two years, to accelerate the education of This year, discovery, collaboration, and innovation moved physicians in the field of molecular medicine. us closer to the realization of these goals. Life Technologies, the Translational Genomics Research Institute (TGen), and US Oncology announce a plan to sequence the genomes of 14 patients with triple-negative breast cancer. Life Technologies introduces the SOLiD 4.0 System, an advanced next-generation ® genomic analysis sequencing system, achieving the $6,000-pergenome target. Discovery The journal Science Translational Medicine publishes a paper that Cancers, both rare and common, are a focus for genomics demonstrates the application of next-generation sequencing to potentially identify individual-specific biomarkers in solid tumors. This means the research. Life Technologies supplies technology and insight to the potential to match treatment to tumor is one step closer to reality. best scientists in their field, helping them expedite the process of Life Technologies announces early-stage results from single-molecule research and development. sequencing (SMS) technology. SMS enables genomic analysis without cloning or amplification, allowing for data generation in only a few hours, a critical need in a clinical setting. Collaboration Life Technologies is partnering with premier medical institutions A recent report spoke to the $3.8 billion that the US government invested in the Human Genome Project from 1988 to 2003. As reported, the project and a diverse community of research teams. This enables us to helped to drive $796 billion in economic impact. In 2010, the human understand not only what goes on in the lab today, but also what genome sequencing projects and its related industries helped to generate $67 billion in US economic output, 310,000 jobs, $20 billion in personal scientists will need tomorrow in their search for treatments and cures. income, and $3.7 billion in federal taxes. Innovation Life Technologies and the Stanford University School of Medicine announce the discovery of a genomic component that plays a key role in Rapidly evolving the tools for genomics research to make them breast cancer progression. more affordable and accessible to scientists requires a speedy The Center for Genomics and Transcriptomics offers SureSelect Enrichment and nimble innovation process. Life Technologies tools combined and SOLiD System genetic screening for hereditary eye diseases, epilepsy, ® and metabolic and neurodegenerative disorders. with the 2010 acquisition of Ion Torrent semiconductor technology ™ created that for us. Life Technologies launches the 5500xl SOLiD System, designed to deliver the ® industry’s most accurate genomic sequencing data for genetic disease research. The Ion Torrent Personal Genome Machine (PGM ) sequencer is launched. The PGM ™ ™ ™ ™ Sequencer is the first product to use semiconductor sequencing technology to enable chemical signals to be translated into digital information. 12 2010 Global Citizenship Report 13 science era of advancement Next-generation biofuels Food safety Forensics In a step toward synthetic biology as The MicroSEQ Salmonella spp. Detection ® Life Technologies introduced new forensics a solution for renewable energy, Life Kit and the MicroSEQ E. coli O157:H7 ® kits, shaping a new era of efficiency and Technologies and SG Biofuels, Inc., a assay were validated by the AOAC Research effectiveness for forensic DNA laboratories. bioenergy crop company, used the SOLiD ® Institute, one of the world’s leading food These kits are used globally in a wide range 4.0 System to sequence the Jatropha curcas industry standards organizations. These of investigations, including cold cases, genome, advancing the development of kits will enable more effective monitoring missing persons, exonerations, this oilseed-producing crop as a source of food for Salmonella and Escherichia coli and historical and archeological cases. for biofuel. Resistant to drought and pests contamination. and able to thrive in locations not desirable • T he AmpFlSTR MiniFiler PCR ® ™ Life Technologies introduced its first USDAIn 1983, Kenny Waters was for food crops, these oil-packed, nonedible Amplification Kit was approved for licensed PCR test to detect bovine viral convicted of a murder he did not seeds are a high-yielding and low-cost inclusion in the National DNA Index diarrhea virus (BVDV). BVDV is an immunecommit. His sister, Betty Anne, source as feedstock substitutes for diesel, System (NDIS). The NDIS is a Federal suppressing disease that makes cows spent two decades working to set petrochemical, and jet fuel industries. Bureau of Investigation (FBI) database susceptible to respiratory and reproductive him free. After 18 years in prison, that facilitates the exchange of DNA As we reported last year, Life Technologies illnesses. This disease costs the US cattle DNA testing of a blood sample profiles between participating local, believes that algae also have enormous industry about $2 billion per year. The exonerated Kenny. The moving county, state, and federal law enforcement potential to diminish our reliance VetMAX -Gold BVDV Detection Kit provides ™ story of Kenny’s survival and agencies and forensic laboratories. on petroleum as a fuel, as well as to veterinary diagnostic laboratories with a Betty Anne’s perseverance is the sequester carbon effectively. Today, the sensitive tool to test cattle for type 1 and • T he Identifiler Direct and Identifiler ® ® subject of Conviction, a feature film process of converting algae to biofuel type 2 BVDV. Plus forensic kits were approved by the produced by the Innocence Project, is energy-intensive and expensive, but FBI for use by laboratories generating starring Academy Award winner the US Department of Energy and a DNA profiles for inclusion in the NDIS Hilary Swank and Sam Rockwell group of industry partners that includes Combined DNA Index System (CODIS) (photo above). Life Technologies is exploring synthetic database. The Innocence Project is a biology as a way to create affordable and • T he AutoMate Express Forensic DNA ™ national litigation and public plentiful algae-based biofuels. In 2010 Extraction System streamlines sample policy organization dedicated to the group pledged a total of $12 million preparation and improves downstream exonerating wrongly convicted to create a Consortium for Algal Biofuels DNA profile quality. This system is people through DNA testing, and Commercialization. The goal of the program commercially available and has been reforming the criminal justice is to develop new genetic and molecular adopted by all 48 government forensic system to prevent future injustice. technologies that can improve algal fuel laboratories in Japan. To date, DNA results have freed production, as well as new approaches more than 250 people from for recycling nutrients and technologies incarceration for crimes they did for producing crops. Life Technologies is not commit. Life Technologies contributing sequencing capabilities via the was a proud sponsor of Conviction SOLiD 4.0 System, and also creating kits ® and applauds the efforts of the with vectors, media, and reagents needed Innocence Project. Together, we are for algae research. committed to developing the most cutting-edge tools to help solve and prevent a wide variety of crimes, to contribute to public safety and security, and to exonerate the wrongly convicted. 14 2010 Global Citizenship Report 15 science disease research spotlight Life Technologies scientists are not only pioneers in the way they use genomic sequencing to help develop diagnostic methods and treat different forms of cancer, they are also working on projects addressing other debilitating diseases for which there is currently no cure. Through these projects, researchers gain insight into biological processes, which are important in understanding both rare and prevalent diseases. Twins Alexis and Noah Beery suffered from dopa-responsive dystonia, a hard-to-diagnose movement disorder that causes the muscles to contract and spasm involuntarily. The twins were not diagnosed until the age of 5. Now, at age 13, after enduring years of physical and emotional pain, they have found Schizophrenia Schinzel-Giedion Autism ALS (Lou Gehrig’s Disease) life-altering treatment. The Life Technologies and New research published A team led by Dr. Stephen Life Technologies, the University twins’ father was so inspired by EdgeBio are partnering in Nature Genetics sheds Scherer at The Hospital for of California, San Diego, and the potential of DNA analysis to with researchers at Virginia light on Schinzel-Giedion, Sick Children (SickKids) was The Salk Institute for Biological help his children and others with Commonwealth University an extremely rare and granted $8.9 million from the Studies have initiated studies for similar struggles that he came to (VCU) to study the impact fatal disorder with only 50 Global Leadership Round in the development of cell transplant work for Life Technologies. of gene regulation in the diagnosed cases worldwide. Genomics & Life Sciences in therapy for amyotrophic lateral “We spent five-and-a-half years development of schizophrenia. Children with SchinzelCanada to study the genomic sclerosis (ALS). Currently there searching for what is actually The project is using the SOLiD ® Giedion usually do not survive basis of autism spectrum is only one FDA-approved a relatively simple problem to System and MethylMiner ™ past the age of10. Geneticists disorders (ASD). pharmaceutical addressing this solve. During those years, there Methylated DNA Enrichment from the Radboud University The project, called “Autism lethal disease, which affects is nothing I would not have done Kit to search for methylation Nijmegen Medical Center Spectrum and Associated approximately 30,000 people in as a parent to make them more patterns associated with (RUNMC) in The Netherlands Neurodevelopmental the United States. comfortable and to get them schizophrenia in the hope used the SOLiD System to ® Disorders: Genomes to Life Technologies is providing where they are today. And I think of better understanding the pinpoint the disease’s cause: Outcomes,” is geared toward support through its expertise in in sequencing, having the ability cause of this complex disease. a spontaneous mutation in a developing cutting-edge stem cell biology, cell separation, to identify this problem right after parent’s germ cell line, in a technologies to diagnose next-generation sequencing, birth would have been… lifegene called SETBP1. This is ASD and other neurological and bioproduction, to help teams changing.” the first study to decipher the disorders. Scientists are test their preclinical research cause of a dominant human Joe Beery, currently using this technology concepts. disease by sequencing the Chief Information Officer to sequence genes from protein-coding sections of thousands of ASD patients in ALS progress & promise the human genome (exome). Ontario. It is the largest study of its kind. Life Technologies The Beery Story donated a $700,000 nextgeneration SOLiD System ® to the project. 16 2010 Global Citizenship Report 17 science genomics 3.0 Personalized medicine Innovation and influence Sharing discovery The response rate of patients to cancer Life Technologies is both an innovator and Widespread adoption of personalized medicine drugs is notoriously low―only 20 to 25% of influencer in the rapidly emerging science also requires rethinking how we protect and patients respond to the drug therapy they of personalized medicine. Already, hundreds share scientific discoveries. In the 1990s, are prescribed. Traditional science fails us of genes can be analyzed at a price similar when gene sequencing emerged, scientists in matching the drug to the disease. And it to conventional single gene diagnostic and institutions quickly applied to patent is not just cancer treatment. In the case of tests, and thanks to technologies like our the sequences. Today we know that those many diseases―Alzheimer’s, osteoporosis, SOLiD and Ion Torrent systems, the $1,000 ® ™ sequences belong in the public domain and migraines, diabetes―doctors are working genome is on the horizon. that researchers need access to advance from a toolbox of drugs with which they In the US, science is no longer the hurdle; understanding. Life Technologies is engaged practice trial-and-error medicine, searching the obstacle is an antiquated approach in voicing support for intellectual property for the right drug therapy for their patient. to designing, developing, and approving frameworks that continue to foster and protect Personalized medicine has the potential to therapies. Today, clinical trials establish innovation, while also ensuring the access change this process. Personalized medicine boundaries for drug treatment based on needed for open genomic inquiry in medicine. uses genomic analysis―gene sequencing―to disease location. The science of tomorrow Physician education is essential to effective match treatment to disease. In the case of requires a shift in thinking to emphasize use of genomic technology in healthcare. In cancer, genomic analysis has the potential biological underpinnings of disease. early 2010 the Life Technologies Foundation™ to produce enough information about the Genomic testing infrastructure will enable granted $300,000 to help launch a sweeping biological pathways of disease to inform a smarter clinical trials, where patients will international effort called the Association for treatment plan. This is rapidly becoming be enrolled efficiently and where genetic Genomic Medicine, providing online courses achievable and affordable on a mass scale, patterns of response will be characterized to teach the principles of gene sequencing not just for cancer but theoretically for any for improved drug targeting, but only if we and genetic and genomics-informed therapy disease. Understanding the genetic basis for an have the right infrastructure in place to selection. By the end of the year, the online individual’s disease has the potential to allow support trials. course was available to practicing physicians. physicians to personalize medical treatment The Life Technologies Foundation™ also in ways never before possible, and provides In 2010 Life Technologies worked to help shape the regulatory conversation by voicing granted $300,000 to Dr. Dan Von Hoff at the an opportunity to reduce health care costs for University of Arizona to create fellowships society through effective targeting. support for an FDA-NIH initiative in which the agencies will coordinate efforts to in genomic oncology, training the world’s At Life Technologies we are working to support translate scientific discoveries into approved first experts in what will be a crucial new the use of genetic information to provide better therapies, combining basic science field of medicine. These are the first steps diagnoses, earlier interventions, and more research, translational medicine, drug in a massive educational campaign that will efficient drug development. Today, technologies development, and regulatory science. be necessary to facilitate the shift to mass are evolving faster than the infrastructure to personalized medicine. support molecular and genomic medicine. We We are working with governments outside are working to change that. the US as well to spearhead practical implementation of genomics into health systems. From the UK to Australia, Life Technologies is part of the solution. “Our company has a unique perspective of the movement of genomic technologies from the research bench to the clinic. We believe this transition is not only underway, but is moving even faster than anyone had ever anticipated.” Martin Naley, Medical Next-Generation Sequencing 18 2010 Global Citizenship Report 19 ethics we are responsible ethics Life Technologies enables acceleration in scientific exploration, driving to discoveries and developments that make life even better. Our success depends on passion, intellectual curiosity, and a sense of urgency. We strive for excellence and act with unyielding integrity in everything we do so that we can serve as responsible stewards in the global life science community and all of society. When you work in science—and work alongside people in the sciences—you naturally adopt a respect for the truth. In science and in business, you must have an honest, sober, and fearless dedication to identifying problems, following the data, and building a solution that will last. Respect for the truth and unwavering integrity are key components for a solid moral compass. Having the personal honesty to stand by the truth is a great “We create science-based demonstration of integrity. applications that work in the customers’ hands, give true and The Protocol—our guide to integrity reliable results, and support a At Life Technologies, we build our reputation every deeper understanding of Life day by the manner in which we conduct ourselves Technologies. Our stockholders and by making right choices. As we move rapidly only make money when we into new business opportunities, whether they be help our customers solve real personalized medicine, synthetic biology, stem cells, problems. Our employees only or sequencing, the Protocol helps each of us make prosper when we succeed in good ethical choices. satisfying this difficult market. I know of no other way to achieve The Protocol is updated biannually to reflect this than by working in and changes and modifications required to keep living in a culture that is guided pace with our rapidly expanding environment. In by a solid moral compass: addition to a printed guide translated into multiple with respect for the truth, the languages, we offer our employees Protocol integrity to follow that truth, and training. In 2010, 99.4% of our employees completed the commitment to discover the training. where it leads.” Mark Stevenson, Chief Operating Officer 20 2010 Global Citizenship Report 21 ethics emerging topics in bioethics Synthetic biology Genetic information Procurement and use of Human embryonic stem cells Synthetic biology raises concerns about human tissue and cells Stem cell research is many things: a Genetic research is essential to our the use of science to manipulate nature efforts to improve the human condition In the US, the Federal Food and Drug critical tool in the study of cellular and and to “enhance” life forms through nonand fight disease. Life Technologies Administration (FDA) recommends that developmental processes; a valuable therapeutic uses of genetic technologies. realizes the importance of protecting biotech and pharmaceutical companies source of transplantable cells and There also are questions about genetic information complying with all test new drugs with human and animal tissues for repair and regeneration; a distributive justice, societal fairness, laws involving genetic information and cells to minimize exposing patients to basis for identifying drug targets; and an and the application of resources within testing. Our company policy is modeled dangerous side effects during clinical important step in developing therapies to society relative to who will benefit from after the US federal law, the United States trials. Life Technologies supports this treat diseases such as cancer, diabetes, these technological advances. To this Genetic Information Nondiscrimination practice, provided certain guidelines are Alzheimer’s, and Parkinson’s. Life end, Life Technologies pledges to educate Act (GINA) of 2008. followed. As a company we adhere to Technologies has guidelines governing its employees and the general public all US and international requirements how human embryonic stem cells may about the science, regulatory, and ethical related to patient consent, governmental be obtained for research and a policy issues relevant to synthetic biology. We protections for patients, and ethical of respecting the wishes of scientists also promise to be transparent about our requirements in the handling of and research associates who have an synthetic biology work, including details human-derived tissues and cells. We objection to working with such cells on about the potential risks and benefits of obtain human tissue from federally the basis of their religious beliefs. It is the research that we perform and support. regulated tissue and organ procurement the company’s policy to adhere not only We provide opportunities for employees to organizations, qualified research tissue to our own guidelines, but also to local discuss these issues and have input into organizations, and prominent medical and national laws of all countries where company policies and practices. centers through collaborations that are we do business. regulated and accredited. A chill in the air “The potential for stem cell research to produce new insights into our biology In August, Joydeep Goswami was alerted to a recent As of today, the future of robust stem cell research and to produce radical cures for diseases ruling in the US District Court, which would challenge is in question. The court has rescinded the August for which we have no known therapies is the future and potential of stem cell research. Citing freeze on funding, pending a final ruling. tremendous. Having interacted with the a 1996 law prohibiting federal money for research Life Technologies joins the scientific community scientific community working in this field, in which an embryo was destroyed, a judge issued in reaching out to federal officials, communicating we believe that the rules already in place a preliminary injunction against federal funding for the critical need for continued access, continued enable the science to be carried out in an human embryonic stem cell research, resulting in research, and the potential of stem cell research. ethical manner and that scientists respect an immediate freeze of federal funds—stifling the the boundaries.” pipeline for research. Joydeep Goswami, Primary and Stem Cell Systems 22 2010 Global Citizenship Report 23 ethics ethics and influence Synthetic biology regulation Green chemistry regulations UL Environment validates Carbon regulation Synthetic biology involves taking what we We are also closely watching the emergence green claims As a global company headquartered in the US, know about how biological systems work and of green chemistry for consumer products, In 2010 Life Technologies announced we maintain a world view when it comes to the applying that knowledge to enhance those and we proactively apply green chemistry its partnership with UL Environment™, impact of climate change, the potential for systems or build new ones. The work Life principles to our products. An initial review of a third-party certification source cap-and-trade legislation, and the ongoing Technologies is doing in the area of renewable draft regulations by the California Department that validates environmental claims global conversation. biofuels is one example. Our company enables of Toxic Substances (DTSC) included provisions for products. UL Environment™ is a While watchful eyes remain on the US, China, scientists to push forward synthetic biology that we interpret to mean that our products business subsidiary of Underwriters and India, Life Technologies agrees with breakthroughs. We are also working with would be defined as consumer products. We Laboratories Inc. (UL), a globally international sentiment that only a global policymakers to ensure that our products are objected to that scope based on the idea that recognized product safety organization. accord―not yet achieved in Copenhagen or used safely and ethically, and that regulations products used in research should be outside To bring added value to our customers, Cancun―will result in carbon regulation in these surrounding this field are made with sound those boundaries. Our concern was that the Life Technologies chose UL three energyand population-intense countries. scientific understanding. processes outlined in the regulation would Environment™ as a trusted source to slow our ability to innovate continuously and Life Technologies sites in the UK are affected provide clarity for the validation of claims Life Technologies joined the International Gene add “green” products to our portfolio. Along by a cap-and-trade program with tax and certification to standards for our Synthesis Consortium (IGSC) to ensure that the with other interested parties, Life Technologies consequences that become relevant beginning instruments. synthetic biology community shares a common submitted comments to the DTSC and provided in April 2012. By July 2011 we will produce a understanding about proper uses of this testimony. As a result of our input, the most UL validated the company’s claims for carbon footprint report for submission to the technology. As part of our efforts in this area, in recent draft of the regulations address these energy efficiency and dematerialization UK Department of Energy and Climate Change 2010 we submitted a letter to the Presidential concerns. At present, DTSC is revisiting critical for the ViiA 7 and ViiA 7 DX Real-Time ™ ™ (DECC), which will be publicly available in 2012. Commission for the Study of Bioethical Issues policy and program issues before adopting the PCR Instruments, and StepOne and ™ We are confident that our 2020 carbonto discuss the regulatory framework that regulations as drafted. More changes StepOnePlus Real-Time PCR Systems, ™ reduction goals have us on track to reduce both should govern this young field. We also met are anticipated. as compared to their preceding models. energy costs and carbon emissions, enabling with the FBI to discuss biosecurity, and met Life Technologies can now use the UL us to do our part to meet existing and emerging with the Wilson Center to discuss bioethics. Environment mark in marketing and ™ regulations on greenhouse gas reduction. In This field promises to significantly impact our external packaging for these systems. addition, as we apply our tools and solutions to vision of shaping discovery and improving life. help our customers develop products for the low-carbon economy, we will assist them in reducing their carbon footprint and that of the customers they serve. United Nations (UN) Global Compact Aligned to our Protocol, in 2010 Life Technologies signed the UN Global Compact, whereby we expressed our intent to advance the principles of human rights, environmental labor, and anticorruption within our sphere of influence. Retaining our right to freedom of expression, we are committed to supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and to ensuring that we are not complicit in human rights violations. We uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor, the effective abolition of child labor, and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We also work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 24 2010 Global Citizenship Report 25 people we are engaged people Employee engagement is a fundamental imperative for the way Life Technologies operates as a company. Research conducted by the Corporate Executive Board’s Corporate Leadership Council in 2010 confirms our belief that engagement improves productivity (by 57%) and yields greater employee retention (87%). We invest in methodologies to improve engagement and monitor it throughout the year. Quest Survey Life Technologies tracks engagement with an all-employee survey. While performance dialogues are useful in managing individual relationships, the survey is designed to help assess employee engagement and job satisfaction collectively. We believe the fast-moving culture of science and discovery has a great deal of influence on our culture, and by constantly monitoring engagement, we are able to respond quickly and make changes as deemed necessary. On our 2010 survey, our employee engagement rose to 74% across the company. Our top employee engagement strengths included employees seeing a clear connection between their work and company goals, having confidence in Life Technologies’ future success, and believing in the quality of our products and services. Areas for improvement included career development and stress/ pace of work, although in each of these areas we’ve seen improvement over the prior year’s survey results. Participation Engagement Q2 2010 93% 74% Q4 2009 93% 72% Q2 2009 91% 72% Our culture 26 2010 Global Citizenship Report 27 people professional growth Development In total, the Schools of Life University Life University is the premier source of provided hundreds of classroom and information on learning and development e-learning programs to employees around opportunities and resources throughout the the globe. Life University is constantly evolving company. The schools within Life University to meet the diverse learning needs of our provide training on a wide variety of technical employees. As such, it is a work in progress, and professional skills in order to foster the with new schools being established in 2011. growth and development of our employees. Creating innovators Highlights from a few of the schools include: One of our most popular courses in 2010 was our new User-Centered Innovation (UCI) The School of Leadership and Professional course in which more than 200 employees Development delivered more than 100 were certified as UCI Skills or Master trained. classroom programs to more than 2,100 UCI is a process and set of methodologies employees globally in a variety of classroom that allow for more breakthrough solutions. 360-degree feedback Rewards and e-learning programs on topics such Participants work on projects that span at as strategy, innovation, virtual team least 8 weeks, observing current and potential In response to the Quest Survey results, the Life Technologies has created many ways to recognize management, and leadership. customers, developing frameworks for leadership team continued efforts to promote career and reward our employees. Our favorite program understanding human needs, brainstorming development in 2010, including 360-degree feedback, promotes peer recognition by celebrating people The School of Marketing strengthens the ideas to meet these needs, and then expanded learning opportunities, and a new approach whose work reflects their determination not only to customer-client relationship while shaping a prototyping solutions that can be developed to formal mentoring which we are rolling out in early go above and beyond, but also to embody the marketing culture that creates a competitive into real-world offerings. 2011. company’s values. This program provides employees advantage. In 2010 the school successfully At Life Technologies, we recognize that A 360-degree feedback tool was piloted globally in with a venue to show appreciation for every act of launched four live, instructor-led courses, corporate growth goes hand-in-hand with 2010. This allowed direct reports, peers, managers, excellence. In 2010 more than $2.6 million was delivered in partnership with Rady School employee growth. That is why we go above and other stakeholders to give confidential feedback awarded to employees by their peers, including 130 of Management, UC San Diego. and beyond to provide our employees with to employees. The 360 tool assessed employees’ Platinum nominations at $5,000 each. There is no The School of Operational Excellence many opportunities for continued growth and strengths and areas for improvement so that they limit to the number of times employees can send provides opportunities for employees development. In so doing, each individual could create focused individual development plans. a formal “Thank you” to a colleague through the interested in exploring or expanding roles in will be able to discover his or her own unique A workshop accompanied the feedback to assist rewards system. Operations. Certifications in Lean Six Sigma career path. employees in analyzing and interpreting their report and project management are also provided. as well as connecting their results to Life In 2010 the school delivered 25 classroom Technologies’ leadership behaviors and helping to programs for professional development to identify areas for further personal development. more than 245 employees. The School of Information Technology helps employees stay abreast of current technology “In the past, employees may have thought of Life University as a resource for trends and provides technical training in core their human resources or leadership training needs. Life University now includes computer programs. Nearly 7,000 employees schools that offer functional training from how to be a more effective salesperson were trained in Security Awareness. to Six Sigma training. It is a great resource for employees to grow and develop a unique career path.” Kel Locklar, Global Operations 28 2010 Global Citizenship Report 29 people fostering leaders The International Women’s Influential Network Expanding our reach International speaker series (IWIN) is a grassroots organization that creates In 2010 IWIN gained significant momentum In October 2010, IWIN hosted its second capstone event of opportunities for networking, mentoring, in enhancing its programs, expanding its the year: an interactive leadership workshop, “Leadership and leadership development for all Life reach, and streamlining its internal processes Essentials for Everyday Success,” featuring Courtney Technologies employees. The IWIN goal is to to increase the scalability of the IWIN Lynch, Lead Star, LLC co-founder and best-selling author. encourage, inspire, and empower employees organization, which now comprises more that As part of the international speakers series, this event to actively manage their career development 20 chapters throughout the Americas and was video broadcast from Carlsbad, California, to 14 other and to expand their connection with Life Europe. From 2009 to 2010, overall IWIN event sites globally. More than 800 employees came to learn the Technologies beyond their current roles. IWIN attendance increased by about 1,700 people. five characteristics of a strong leader―high performance, creates tangible benefits for Life Technologies, service, emotional resolve, accountability, authenticity― including enhanced employee engagement and and how to apply them in their everyday activities. development of a diversity of leadership styles. 2009 2010 YOY IWIN creates a space for employees to network Engaging mentors with executives and peers, build mentor Events 76 140 84% relationships, learn about our customers and In 2010 we continued to drive engagement through our our business, and grow as leaders. Attendees ~1,900 ~3,600 89% mentoring program by adding a tool to match mentees with a mentor who has the specific experience that will help guide them to improve their skills, capabilities, and overall perspective. In our new 2011 program, people interested in mentoring will be able to choose between two different kinds of Popular events include: learning opportunities. The first is a more traditional sixmonth mentor-mentee relationship, and the second is a shorter-term, eight-week commitment that focuses more on building skills and technical knowledge. “IWIN has exemplified many of Life Technologies’ core values and Executives volunteer to spend an hour talking with a small group about pertinent career topics. Executive volunteers host Twilight Socials in their personality traits—from providing myriad collaboration opportunities homes, providing a casual setting for a small among our colleagues, to driving development and mentor programs, group of employees to network. to creating a culture of citizenship and camaraderie. I embrace and applaud the efforts of IWIN and have seen firsthand the powerful impact it has had on our organization.” Pete Leddy, Global Human Resources IWIN partners with professional organizations Lunch and Learn sessions cover a range of topics that share our commitment to fostering relevant to our industry, offerings, and culture. professional development. 30 2010 Global Citizenship Report 31 people putting safety first If you have ever tripped over a computer cord in a conference room or slipped on a wet floor in a common area, you have experienced a workplace safety hazard. Life Technologies is committed to eliminating all safety hazards because we value the health and safety of our employees above all else. We believe that when it comes to the well-being of our people, one injury is one too many. As a result, we provide our workforce with the tools and training they need to do their jobs safely every day. We empower our grassroots safety teams to mitigate hazards, and we collaborate with our management team and local regulators to enhance our safety program. Foster City and Pleasanton, California: Used Pleasanton, California: Expanded ‘10 at 10’— In 2010 our employees were recognized for the following safety initiatives: thermal imaging for electrical systems preventive 10 minutes of stretching at 10 a.m.—to other sites. maintenance and reduced employee exposure to electrical hazards. We use US Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards to report all work-related injuries and illnesses globally. We determine this as a rate based on 100 employees working 2,000 hours annually. We measure health and safety performance against two metrics: the OSHA recordable injury and illness rate, and the Days Away and Restricted Time (DART) rate. Since 2008, we have reduced our OSHA recordable and DART rates by 42% and 28% respectively. This translates as 55 fewer recordable injuries and illnesses, therefore, more employees are working safely. The number of United States Worker’s Compensation claims has dropped by 45% since 2008, resulting in greater productivity. Inchinnan, Scotland: Replaced pressurized Madison, Wisconsin: Received OSHA Voluntary single-use glass bottles with a reusable keg Protection Program Star certification in record delivery system. This reduced the potential for time by raising awareness through an employee chemical spills and exposure and eliminated engagement and communication campaign. Injury/illness recordable case rates DART (days away & restricted time) rates 6.8 tons of glass bottle waste. 2008 baseline 2008 baseline 1.3 0.7 2009 2009 0.8 -38% 0.6 -14% 2010 2010 0.7 -42% 0.5 -24% 2012 target 2012 target 1.0 -25% 0.5 25% Grand Island, New York, Liquid Manufacturing: Grand Island, New York, Distribution: Worked over Results are based on 100 employees working 2,000 hours annually. Reduced injuries by 75% compared to 2009, 80,000 hours and shipped over 28 million units resulting in an estimated savings of $135,000 without an injury since 2008. in workers compensation costs. 32 2010 Global Citizenship Report 33 people safety in distribution Safeguarding employees does not come without its difficulties, especially when balancing the need for growth and expansion with the need to avoid customer disruption. An example of this is at our European Distribution Center (EDC) in Bleiswijk, The Netherlands. The Bleiswijk road to excellence In July 2009, two sites were combined to form the EDC with the goal of being fully operational in just three months. With 2,500 orders per day, 18,000 types of goods, 4,000 inbound lines per week, 35,000 bin locations, and 112 new employees―each with unique language and experience levels― the challenges we faced were daunting. But with persistence and determination, we didn’t just achieve our goal―we surpassed it. Site maturation and development revealed the need for significant safety improvements in 2010. The following accomplishments were high points in measuring our success as a new distribution center, and they now are a model for all our distribution sites. Small steps make big differences. Ergonomics Equipment We maximized productivity by minimizing Equipment improvements made distribution Facility Training operator fatigue, discomfort, and risk. safer and more efficient. We equipped forklifts To prevent slips, we sandblasted walk-in The warehouse was cleared of all hazardous We realize that while it is essential to safeguard with reverse mirrors and high-level alarms, used freezers, installed lock-tile flooring in the and obsolete materials, including the external both the facility and the equipment, it is equally bonded pallets in inbound for shipments with a packaging area, and placed anti-slip treads freezer, which allowed for more flexibility in essential to equip the workforce with the risk of leaking, and introduced new gloves for in the freezer entrances. We also installed the loading dock area and resulted in fewer tools they need to maintain a high standard of cryogenic storage and endurance. Adjustments absorption mats under dry ice boxes, where hazards with forklifts. We installed cross-braces safety. To this end, we commenced EHS training to the trash press reduced its sound level by condensation was a major problem. Finally, in pallet racking to prevent pallets from falling, for all employees and contractors, which 20% and minimized vibration. Installation of we introduced head protection for employees and we recycled old pallets to reduce fire risk. included working with chemicals safely and spill alarms and upgrades to freezer entrances of considerable height and improved We restructured offices to maximize space, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and first reduced condensation. We also equipped doors packaging to reduce employee handling. efficiency, and safety, and repositioned lockers aid training. We introduced near-miss cards, with automatic closing mechanisms. to prevent blind spots. We also restructured resulting in increased safety awareness, and nitrogen storage areas and 80-below freezers; initiated weekly site support meetings, a weekly upgraded first aid stations; and improved the walk-through with the 5S coordinator, and Dangerous Goods bunker by removing all scrap mandatory risk assessments generated by material and installing a fixed alarm, a safety an outside company. camera, and an automatic closing system for the main door. As much as we have achieved in such a short time at our newest distribution center, we know that safety is an ongoing process. It is a full-time job, not a part-time practice. As we look to 2011, Life Technologies is committed to creating, improving, and expanding programs, policies, and procedures to ensure the well-being of our employees as we strive towards our goal of zero injuries. Safety first, last, and always. 34 2010 Global Citizenship Report 35 people health and wellness A healthy and productive workforce Some highlights of the program: reflects a healthy and productive partnership between Life Technologies We encourage a “spread the wellness” mentality, and it is working. Employee volunteers around and its employees. It is our responsibility the world are showing their enthusiasm by organizing local wellness challenges and events. to create wellness programs, target health interventions, and provide health information, tools, resources, and support. It is the employee’s responsibility to embrace the tools and programs, adopt proactive consumerism skills, and get the care needed to maintain good health. An active partnership will guarantee success for both the company and the individual. Fitness We recognize that exercise plays a crucial role in combating stress and preventing illness, and we encourage employees to stay fit in several ways. We have built on-site fitness centers that offer exercise classes and state-of-the-art equipment at Jeanine Drucas of Carlsbad, California lost 30% Team CPC (Singapore) exercised for over 75 hours some of our major sites. of her beginning body weight and is now training in one day. In 2009 we piloted the “Shape Up For Life” for her first 5K. program, which challenged employees to “get physical.” Participants in the program received a Life Technologies pedometer to track and log their every step. When employees met their targeted goal, they received prizes, because “getting physical” should also be about having fun. “Shape Up For Life” was such a success that we expanded it in 2010 to include sites in 29 countries. A total of 2,736 employees participated. As a company we lost 2,894 pounds (1,186.7 kg) and walked a total of 542 million steps since the program started. That adds up to more than 271,000 miles (433,600 km), the equivalent of walking around the world five times. In Texas, the Austin Cycling Team participated in In October 2010, 200 employees and family the LiveSTRONG Challenge and raised $11,370 to members in Grand Island, New York, participated support the fight against cancer. in a 5K walk/run benefitting the Roswell Park Fact: healthy employees = happy employees = productive employees = thriving company Cancer Institute, raising $2,000. 36 2010 Global Citizenship Report 37 people life even better Tobacco-free life Benefits According to the World Health Organization Wellness programs are an investment in a company’s (WHO), every eight seconds someone dies most important resources―its employees. That of tobacco use. That is almost five million is why Life Technologies offers a complete array deaths annually. We refuse to accept this of competitive health, wellness, financial, and for our employees, so we are fighting back. supplemental benefit programs to support our In April 2010 we launched the “Tobaccoemployees at every stage of life. Our programs are Free Life” initiative, making tobacco designed not only to ensure the long-term success cessation programs available to all of Life Technologies as a company, but also to employees and their families. Currently, support our employee population through personal over 80% of Life Technologies locations, in health management and preventative care. 31 countries, are offering on-site sessions, Total Life benefits with remaining locations to include countries in Asia Pacific and Latin America. To date, more than 300 employees and spouses have participated. Studies show that competitive benefits It is our goal to achieve tobacco-free packages attract and retain the high-caliber campuses or workplaces (at facilities employees that companies need to succeed. where the property is leased) at all Life Our comprehensive program* includes: Technologies facilities by April 2011. Medical/Dental/Vision Tobacco-free Tobacco-free Total impact campus workplace 401(k) retirement plan Employees* 5,867 2,207 8,074 Employee Stock Purchase Program (ESPP) Health Advocate Sites 33 30 63 Wellness program Countries 13 18 31 Fitness centers/gym reimbursement *Employees located at site facilities. Life insurance Flexible Spending Account (FSA) Health Savings Account (HSA) Legal plan Don Schultz of Frederick, Maryland, quit smoking after 13 years and Employee Assistance Program (EAP) nearly a pack a day, and now he says: “I have new-found energy and I Disability insurance can breathe in a new way. A surge of self-confidence emerged and has Back-up dependent care lifted the weight of the guilt and fear I carried for all these years.” Vacation, holiday, sick time Education reimbursement “To work for a company like Life Scholarships Technologies, where you come to work International SOS every single day with smart people who Adoption assistance are passionate about what they do, who are engaged and intellectually curious… Cafeterias in some locations there is no better motivation than that.” *US benefits. Life Technologies offers enhanced benefits Theresa Schommer, Human Resources in all countries in which we operate, including wellness programs to all employees globally. 38 2010 Global Citizenship Report 39 people new talent Attracting top talent On-boarding into our culture At Life Technologies we know that our employees are our greatest assets; therefore, attracting, hiring, and We consider on-boarding to be an essential tool that is retaining talent is critical to our success as an evolving company. We recognize that potential employees are critical to the success of both new employees and our looking not only for meaningful ways to utilize their skills, but also for an opportunity to be an integral part of company. We put as much effort into assimilating new a company where social and ethical responsibility is ingrained in the corporate culture. employees as we do recruiting them. Successful onEmployer branding is one of the most powerful recruitment tools available in today’s competitive business boarding reduces the costs associated with on-the-job marketplace. In 2010 Life Technologies focused on revamping our talent recruitment process to more learning and increases new-hire engagement. In 2010 effectively communicate our story about “Life Even Better.” Life Technologies launched a new, three-stage approach to on-boarding: connect, ground, and grow. Social media Intern/Co-op program Connect In addition to redeveloping our career portal to Life Technologies understands the importance of engaging with local university students, Loyalty, pride, and self-worth are inevitable by-products more productively service potential employees, who will one day be tomorrow’s sought-after of emotional connection. From the offer letter to the we are investing in innovative technical solutions workforce. As a result, we initiated the global first day on the job, we aim to connect new hires to our and social media strategies to gain maximum University Relations (UR) program to hire interns products, our culture, and our global impact. exposure for our company recruitment. Social media creates a community that is and co-ops. Ground transparent, accessible, and employee-centric. The UR program allows students to apply It gives employees a conduit to talk about their their knowledge and complete short-term The orientation experience centers not only on who Life experiences at Life Technologies, helping us to projects while experiencing the culture of Life Technologies is but also on establishing where a new hire attract the best talent. By using social media sites Technologies. In addition to working on functional fits into the equation. Our approach is two-fold. First, we like LinkedIn, Facebook, YouTube, and Twitter to projects, interns participate in community allow new employees to ease into the company through have an open dialogue with potential candidates, service projects, create videos to document a flexible, self-paced week of completing eLearning we are showing that we are a dynamic company their internship experiences, and interact with modules. Next, we allow them to gain hands-on that embraces current technology and trends to executives. They are also featured on our Facebook experience in key areas through job shadowing. achieve the best results. Student Hotspot page to increase transparency. Grow We are also promoting Life Technologies The final stage in the on-boarding process gives the on college campuses. In 2010 we provided new employee guidance and resources during the first opportunities for more than 200 interns, 90 days in order to accelerate their journey to and we hired 207 new graduates. “My daily contacts are with proficiency within Life Technologies. It includes the First 90 Days Guidebook, which provides a consistent people from all over the world.” Meet our interns framework for learning, as well as activities that help Levente Egry, establish networks, build relationships, and expand Molecular Biology Systems their knowledge of the team, the company, and how their role will contribute to our shared success. “My time at Life Technologies has been a lot of firsts: my first time working in a biotechnology company, my first time starring in a movie (intern testimonials), my first movie award (intern video competition).… All the great experiences would not have been possible without the help of the University Relations Team. Your work is important and impactful and touched my life and countless others.” Dzifa Duose, PhD in Bioengineering, Rice University 40 2010 Global Citizenship Report 41 people people diversity and inclusion Diversity and inclusion are about creating a work environment that represents the global communities in which we live and work. We do this by bringing together people of all backgrounds, ethnicities, genders, races, abilities, and experience to serve as catalysts for unique ideas and workable solutions. Life Technologies is not just about acquiring the best scientists, engineers, and computer analysts. We need people of all talents for a wide spectrum of diverse positions because we appreciate their uniqueness and we value what Gender diversity (women) Ethnic diversity (minority) they have to offer. 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Life Technologies encompasses a combined Total workforce 43% 45% 44% 36% 32% 37% workforce of approximately 11,000 individuals Management 37% 38% 38% 33% 34% 35% representing a wide range of backgrounds, cultures, and experiences. Among other Leadership 28% 29% 29% 21% 20% 20% advantages, this diversity strengthens and Executive 12% 9% 20% 13% 10% 16% empowers us to anticipate, understand, and * Minority ethnic groups indicated for US only and include Black or African American, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, American Indian or Alaskan Native, Asian, Hispanic or Latino, and two or more races. respond more effectively to the needs of our customers across the globe. To ensure that diversity and inclusion is Life Technologies is committed to affording qualified deeply embedded in our culture and with our We have established corporate suppliers with the opportunity to provide goods and employees, we have formed an Executive partnerships with a number of services to our business. Because smaller, diverse Diversity Team. This is a significant milestone organizations, such as Society of suppliers have played an important role in shaping in our diversity initiative because it further Women Engineers, National Society our success, we remain committed to providing demonstrates our focus on implementing of Black Engineers, and Society of equitable opportunities for historically underutilized strategies that increase our productivity as Hispanic Engineers, with a focus on enterprises to supply goods and services. a company by embracing and leveraging the the advancement of diverse talent in differences of all of our employees. We are the science, technology, engineering, an organization committed to attracting, and mathematics fields. developing, and retaining diverse talent. In 2010 we established a new Diversity and Inclusion “By promoting a workforce that reflects Our 2010 supplier diversity performance: department that is focused on coordinating the markets in which we compete, 2008 2009 2010 our workforce, workplace, and marketplace we’re better able to understand, relate Small business 186.4 271.4 309.5 diversity initiatives. to, and anticipate customer demands. Small disadvantaged business 2.2 8.4 9.9 For our employees, our commitment to Women & Technology Summit diversity and inclusion fosters a rich, Woman-owned business 15.7 21.2 22.8 rewarding environment that offers Veteran-owned business 5.8 11.5 7.1 unlimited opportunity for all.” Service-disabled veteran business 2.6 2.2 2.3 HUB Zone 2.4 2.1 2.1 Ronita Griffin, Diversity and Inclusion 42 2010 Global Citizenship Report 43 environment environment we are closing the loop environment Transforming our company for a low-carbon economy means looking at not only what we take and how we make, but also what happens to our products when they have reached their end-of-useful life. Transforming means moving away from a traditional linear manufacturing model toward a cyclical model that challenges how we use energy and our dependence on natural resources in favor of a more resource-efficient, closed-loop system. The process of closing the loop demands greater accountability for carbon emissions, which is why we will be expanding our carbon inventory in 2011 to include additional direct and indirect sources, such as employee travel, materials production, and product shipments. operations sourcing distribution innovation end-of-life use Life Technologies participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project, providing transparency to our carbon emissions and potential impacts of climate change on our business. Additionally, in 2010 we enrolled in the Business Roundtable’s Climate RESOLVE (Responsible Environmental Steps, Opportunities to Lead by Voluntary Efforts) initiative, committing to undertake voluntary actions to control greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and improve the GHG intensity of the US economy. With a score of 76, Life Technologies was named as the Life Sciences Tools and Services carbon-reporting leader in the 2010 Global 500 Report of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). 44 2010 Global Citizenship Report 45 environment environment innovation and sourcing Innovation 2010 sourcing highlights Transforming business requires radical innovation Challenging existing paradigms that challenges the status quo in every part of an Essential to our oligonucleotide business is the organization. Life Technologies employs the Usersolvent acetonitrile (ACN). Due to its flammable Centered Innovation (UCI) process to go beyond nature, the regulated storage quantities of ACN product and process development and explode our is capped, which limits our ability to scale up the thinking for end users, whether they be suppliers, manufacturing processes. customers, or internal clients. UCI programs are deployed in every aspect of the closed-loop cycle. In our Pleasanton, California, facility, we procure thousands of ACN 4-liter glass bottles each year. Additionally, Design-for-Environment is a The hazardous nature of the solvent requires program that is being systematically deployed labor-intensive rinsing of the empty glass bottles across instrument and tool lines. Our goal is to for recycling. In 2010 the team sourced several create low-impact products for the low-carbon 205-liter reusable ACN bulk-storage tanks economy―an economy where instruments and installed a distribution system to pump are designed for ease of service, upgrades, the solvent on demand. This sourcing change and maximum reuse. We seek to extend the will eliminate 7 tons of glass bottles and 5,600 lifetime of the product and reduce the total cost cardboard delivery boxes annually, while allowing of ownership. We aim to use fewer hazardous for business expansion across the site. materials in process and content, and to employ material and energy efficiency in product design. The teams in Guangzhou and Shanghai, China, identified alternative uses for the ACN solvent waste. Through partnering with a licensed third party, they have been able to Sourcing establish a revenue generating upcycling route for all of their ACN waste. In 2010 some 25 tons of ACN waste was distilled to enable it to be sourced by other industrial sectors We look to our supply chain to ensure that we are such as the automotive and paint industries. sourcing greener alternatives from suppliers who share our commitment to sustainability, and we are committed to lowering our carbon impact by purchasing from local providers Smarter computer sourcing whenever possible. Life Technologies sources more than 14,000 cartons of computer equipment annually. We noticed that on many occasions pallets were reconfigured and then shipped on to other sites. In 2010 we optimized our ordering process in a configuration to match the way we use the items. Furthermore, we partnered with our supplier to implement a new way of shipping, one which enables direct shipment to more locations within the company. By instituting this process, we reduce the time it takes to unload a truck by 87% and increase our freight density by one third. Furthermore, we reduce our CO2 emissions by 6 tons annually. 46462010 Global Citizenship Report 2010 Global Citizenship Report 47 environment environment operations: energy We are pursuing radical efficiency in everything we 2010 energy conservation projects do, from incorporating the concept of zero waste Life Technologies is a high-energy and zero emissions in operational decisions we workplace in more ways than one. make, to committing to Leadership in Energy and More than 80% of our company’s Environmental Design (LEED)-certified buildings direct greenhouse gas emissions and high-efficiency processes. Through these efforts come directly from our energy use, we can continue to increase productivity while primarily from our manufacturing minimizing our carbon footprint. facilities and laboratories. Reducing Energy and water emissions and using energy more In 2010 Life Technologies invested $2.3 million in efficiently are our key goals. eco-efficiency conservation projects globally. The In 2010 we leveraged our partnership 16 energy and 6 water reduction projects resulted with the United States Environmental Our employees agreed to be temperatureImplementation of automatic fume hood sash in reductions of 5% in energy use and 8% in water Protection Agency to benchmark tolerant, which allowed for air conditioning– closers improved indoor air quality in intake (indexed to sales), resulting in over $800,000 in our top 10 energy consumption sites derived energy reductions of 5% in Carlsbad, Bedford, Massachusetts. California, and Inchinnan, Scotland. annual savings. We are firmly on track to reach our against other corporate ENERGY 2012 target of 25% global energy reduction. We are STAR partners. Additionally, we proud to announce that we exceed our 2012 target of networked with other partners 25% global water reduction two years early. to share and highlight best energy conservation Cold-storage room practices, fostering upgrades with highefficiency fan motors new ideas for our were installed in energy program. Austin, Texas. Boiler improvements reduced natural gas use Lighting studies and retrofits with low-wattage by over 4% in Bedford, Massachusetts, and fixtures optimized use of sensors and daylight Frederick, Maryland. harvesting in our Austin, Texas, and Pleasanton and Carlsbad, California locations. Energy consumption (GJ/US$ million of sales) 2008 baseline 242 Combined, these energy projects saved 4,736 tons of CO2 —the equivalent of taking 875 cars 2009 off the road for a year. 228 -6% Visit Inchinnan 2010 217 -10% Smart software applications reduced electricity 2012 target consumption for the central plant by 40% in Carlsbad, California. 182 -25% 48482010 Global Citizenship Report 2010 Global Citizenship Report 49 environment environment operations: water 2010 water conservation projects LEEDing the way In 2010 we added two new LEEDcertified buildings to our portfolio, bringing our number of Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) facilities to three. LEED is the gold-standard program of the US Green Building Council. They review building performance in five areas: energy efficiency, indoor environmental quality, materials selection, sustainable site development, and water savings. Irrigation controller upgrades and the shutdown of Added a cooling tower to the reclaimed water Irrigation system improvements, including use of reclaimed LEED-commercial interiors, unnecessary zones reduced water usage by 38% in system in Carlsbad, California, resulting in 8,200 water, drove usage down by 14% in Carlsbad, California. Silver Certification: Foster City, California. cubic meters of water saved annually. • M ay 2010: 17F Grand Gateway Plaza Tower I, No.1 Hongqiao Rd., Shanghai, China Type of facility: molecular biology products manufacturing and R&D Collectively, these water conservation projects will save 8.7 million gallons of • D ecember 2010: 5791 Van Allen water a year, enough to fill 13 OlympicWay, Carlsbad, California sized swimming pools. Type of facility: corporate headquarters and offices Water consumption (m3/US$ million of sales) 2008 baseline 252 A controller improvement on the cooling tower 2009 improved usage by 5% in Austin, Texas. 205 -19% Efforts within manufacturing to move away from ball mills Visit Austin 2010 to Fitzmills reduced water usage by 5% in the cleaning 188 -25% process in Inchinnan, Scotland. 2012 target 189 -25% 50502010 Global Citizenship Report 2010 Global Citizenship Report 51 environment environment operations: waste Nonhazardous waste Plastics recycling is profitable Hazardous waste Across the globe, Life Technologies facilities are In Inchinnan, Scotland, we diverted waste plastic Both safety and environmental impacts are Making it right bottles from landfill and upcycled them for use in competing in an informal, internal race to become the considerations when we think about the many We have made great strides in injection moulding applications. Bottles are crushed, company’s first site to reach “zero landfill”―a sign chemicals we use in our operations. In 2010 Life reducing hazardous waste, but we separating the contents from the bottles and then that conservation is part of our company’s focus. Technologies reduced hazardous waste by 23%. are not immune to incidents that compacted on-site for recycling. Not only has landfill There are several benefits of hazardous waste have the potential to set back our Recycling waste been reduced by 20 tons annually, the recycled reduction: we reduce waste volume, transport and efforts. One such incident occurred plastic is revenue generating. This pilot project In Carlsbad, California, local variance exists in each incineration are minimized, thus reducing carbon in 2010. As Life Technologies expanded to Grand Island, New York, increasing the community regarding what items can be recycled, emissions and transportation. was working to close a facility impact by an additional 300 tons annually. creating confusion for employees as they recycle in Hopkinton, Massachusetts, a at home and work. As a result, the site’s Green Additionally, Inchinnan implemented a project Hazardous waste assessments contractor removed and stored Committee deployed individual recycling centers to to recycle high-grade plastic bags, which come The teams in Foster City and Pleasanton, California, asbestos on the site, an act that over 1,400 desks that included pictorial recycling as transit packaging with new plastic bottles. conducted hazardous waste assessments which led violated the Massachusetts cards to simplify communication. The new containers Experimenting with a cardboard baler, the team to the replacement of old equipment that generated asbestos handling regulations. make recycling convenient and limit the size (and demonstrated that the same equipment would work excessive chemical waste with more efficient We agreed to a civil penalty of volume) of the “landfill” bin. Early indicators show a for baling plastic. Both plastic recycling projects machinery. The assessment also identified new $6,000, which was used to print 5% reduction in nonhazardous waste. generate $4,000 in income, which is used to offset instrument testing procedures that eliminated the and distribute educational waste handling costs, and removes 30 tons of waste need for wet testing, reducing consumable product brochures on the safe handling Construction of a new building in Inchinnan, and $3,500 in landfill taxes annually. waste by 3 tons annually. These activities combined to of asbestos for construction Scotland, presented an opportunity to integrate common recycling into the layout design and the result in a reduction of more than 75 tons of chemical associations in Massachusetts. removal of local waste bins. By making recycling waste per year. stations visible and available, the site’s team increased recycling by 30%, diverting some 7 tons of waste from landfill in just a few months. Zero-waste enzyme production eliminates radioactivity Life Technologies developed a new fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) assay based on a fluorescent dye that eliminates radioactivity in the creation of enzyme-based product lines. Radioactive isotopes are costly to buy and dispose of, and they carry significant safety, environmental, and regulatory burdens. Radioactive waste has to be “decayed” on-site, a process that requires storing the waste until it is no longer radioactive. Hazardous waste generation (kg/US$ million of sales) Replacing radioactive isotopes with a fluorescent 2008 baseline dye reduced radioactivity by 60% in Carlsbad, California, and Austin, Texas, and radioactivity 517 has been completely eliminated in Foster City, 2009 California. This new process also resulted in assay 496 -4% execution in half the time, with more accurate results. This breakthrough has the potential to 2010 one day completely eliminate radioactivity in 356 -32% production of enzymes. 2012 target 387 -25% 52522010 Global Citizenship Report 2010 Global Citizenship Report 53 environment environment distribution Increasing freight density through package redesign and developing strategies for low-carbon Using “big blue” for bulk shipments delivery and reverse logistics minimizes our logistical footprint. Affectionately dubbed “big blue,” a bulk shipping container was adopted last With one million cold-chain shipments annually, expanded polystyrene (EPS) continues to be year to consolidate large intercompany shipments. The blue container holds our company’s largest environmental challenge. As nearly half of our shipments require coldthe equivalent of 5-8 single-use jumbo pallets, and requires less dry ice to chain transport, we are looking for alternative solutions, understanding that the quality and maintain the required temperature. Through increases in freight density and performance of our products cannot be compromised. reductions in shipping weight, we have eliminated 5,000 tons of CO2 emissions from our intercompany shipments. In 2010, these actions have saved the company in excess of $200,000. 2010 distribution highlights Going ambient Paper cooler pilot Cooler take-back and reuse program Eliminating EPS for cushioning Life Technologies began looking at ways to Life Technologies continues to explore alternatives Following Singapore’s successful cooler takeWe recently investigated the feasibility of redesign our consumable products so that they to EPS coolers. In 2010 we developed and piloted back program, we implemented a pilot in the shipping our NuPAGE gel products without the ® do not require refrigeration during transport. We our own alternative. The new cooler (patent United States, whereby customers local to our insulating and protective properties of an EPS are designing new products that can withstand pending) was constructed of recycled paper distribution centers could return the coolers cooler. We have found that by adding minimal the temperature variations a product experiences and was performance-tested using a simulated and gel ice packs via our local couriers, for paper cushioning to a corrugate container, the during ambient shipping. In addition, we are summer shipping temperature profile. Using reuse. This pilot proved successful, so in 2011 NuPAGE gels can be shipped without impact on ® systematically evaluating existing products for paper wadding for cushion and insulation, the we are launching a full-fledged program and are product quality and lifespan. Annually, this will the potential to convert from cold to ambient cooler was designed for recycling. We piloted looking to expand to other communities where eliminate over 7 tons of EPS coolers from our transport. By performing rigorous stability and this cooler with three customers and quickly we have distribution facilities. distribution network. performance analysis, we are able to determine learned that the cooler effectiveness had too if short-duration ambient shipment has any many practical limitations. Although the pilot effect on the immediate and long-term quality of was ended, it is a first step in going beyond what selected products. is readily available in our quest to seek more In 2010 we converted our TaqMan Assays and ® environmentally friendly and less costly packaging GlutaMAX Media Supplement from cold to ™ alternatives to EPS. ambient shipping conditions. Annually, these conversions eliminate more than 100,000 Styrofoam coolers and 700,000 pounds of dry ® ice and gel packs, increasing freight density and reducing 300 tons of carbon emissions. 54542010 Global Citizenship Report 2010 Global Citizenship Report 55 environment environment use In closing the loop, we will enter an era of unprecedented product transparency with credible green 2010 use milestones marketing programs. We will seek third-party validation of our environmental product claims, as is practicable. Additionally, product literature and marketing materials will have a paperless option. Less hazardous We developed a new version of the Click-iT detection and labeling tool, which is no longer made with hazardous ® Greener product alternatives copper-based catalysts. Now scientists who monitor protein synthesis and protein metabolism have an alternative labeling system—one that does not require radioactive chemicals or hazardous materials like In 2010 we launched our green product copper. alternatives and made them visible to our Neuraminidase assay kits were designed with safer alternatives: the NA-Fluor Kit uses a nonhazardous ™ customers through our Re:sponsibility sodium bicarbonate stop solution instead of corrosive sodium hydroxide, and less hazardous alternatives marketing campaign. In compliance with the were found for the conventional accelerator used in NA-XTD Kits. ™ Green Guidelines for the Use of Environmental Marketing Claims from the US Federal Trade Less waste Commission, each of the listed products is The eco-friendly design of the Attune Acoustic Focusing Cytometer generates one liter of biohazardous ® accompanied by a green feature fact sheet to waste for every 20 liters generated by conventional flow cytometers. substantiate our environmental claims. Our new stabilized Blood-to-CT Systems, used to analyze specific RNA sequences in blood and other cells, ™ In 2010 we continued incorporating Design-forwere designed to eliminate the need for hazardous solvents and to use fewer plastic consumables than Environment concepts into our instruments traditional technologies. In addition, this new process reduced plastic waste from 87 to 9 grams per kit. and consumable reagents. Broadly, this includes designing instrumentation for Energy-efficient material and energy efficiency as well as ease of repair and upgrade instead of replacement, Using energy-efficient halogen lamps instead of lasers, the ViiA 7 Real-Time PCR System draws 74% less ™ incorporating principles of green chemistry in energy when idling, and 83% less energy to process one sample plate. The instrument is light by design, our product formulations, and finding solutions requiring less packaging material. to decrease the environmental impact of our Functional and stability testing demonstrated that genomic and plasmid DNA prepared with PureLink DNA ® plastic consumables. We believe it is our Stabilization Reagent can be stored and shipped at ambient temperatures (-80°C to 76°C). This eliminates responsibility to provide our customers with the need for dedicated freezer space and associated energy use. sustainable product options, categorized Sustainable packaging according to the following areas of focus: “Right-sizing” boxes removes unnecessary space, resulting in smaller shipping boxes and less refrigerant use. • Less hazardous We introduced 25 new boxes used in over 100,000 product kits sold annually. These smaller boxes require less • Less waste; use of fewer resources product storage space. Made of 100% recycled paper, 50% post-consumer waste, and totally recyclable at endof-life, these boxes also help avoid nearly 12 tons of CO2 emissions and save 125,000 gallons of water annually. • Energy-efficient • Sustainable packaging Sustainable disposal The StepOne Real-Time PCR System can now be upgraded to a StepOnePlus Real-Time PCR System by ™ ™ • Sustainable disposal converting the 48-well block to a 96-well VeriFlex block and expanding the dye flexibility to four colors. ™ The SOLiD 4.0 System allows customers to upgrade new sequencing chemistries and longer read lengths ® Green product alternatives without having to purchase a new unit. Designing for expandability increases the application flexibility of our instruments while extending the life of components and minimizing the amount of material going to waste. 56562010 Global Citizenship Report 2010 Global Citizenship Report 57 environment environment end-of-life As we move forward, we will forge partnerships with our customers so that they become a part of our supply Instrument take-back chain. Ideally, all new products will be zero-landfill products. We will build “take-back” into the product life A major element in the closed-loop production model is an end-of-life Take Back cycle so that our products are collected, disassembled, refurbished, recycled, or harvested for high-value program. Life Technologies has active instrument refurbishment and part reuse parts, in order to close the loop. programs to extend the life of our materials in our major platforms (e.g., SDS, CE, SOLiD System). These programs reduce the raw materials required to generate ® new instruments, and diverts viable research tools from the landfills. We continue to optimize our collection processes to enable a broader Take Back program and 2010 end-of-life highlights Smaller footprint/material usage expand reuse programs. Many of our instruments have been designed so that updated versions are smaller and weigh less Some of the programs we have instituted to extend the life of our products include: than their predecessor. Having a smaller footprint helps improve efficiency in the use of laboratory • Sale of pre-owned instruments space. Less materials used for manufacture of the • Sale of refurbished instruments instruments translates to less waste at end-of-life. • Offer reuse of parts for service or maintenance Regional recycling services have also been established in the EU, US, and in major markets within APAC to ensure responsible and more localized handling of instruments at end-of-life. Through accredited recycling providers, we have established regional hubs for more localized asset recovery and routing of scrap for recycling to reduce the negative impacts of transportation while still ensuring maximum recycling of materials. The 3500xL Genetic Analyzer requires 37% less material and takes up 8% less space. The StepOnePlus Real-Time PCR System ™ requires 17% less material and is almost 18% smaller. The ViiA 7 Real-Time PCR ™ System is 44% smaller. 58582010 Global Citizenship Report 2010 Global Citizenship Report 59 environment environment employee activation One of our fundamental sustainability objectives is to empower our employees to make environmentally sustainable decisions both at work and at home. To that end, in 2010 we piloted a UCI program to assist employees in making better choices about carbon-intensive activities. Our initial research (60 face-to-face interviews, and 350 surveys distributed randomly at a global level) revealed that even though our employees care about our sustainability initiatives, only a fraction of our workforce was consistently active in ongoing efforts to reduce our collective carbon footprint. In response, we piloted the “Do One Thing” (DOT) movement, a rallying cry demonstrating how each seemingly small individual gesture builds on the Connecting employees collective efforts of all employees. Moving ahead As a global company in which teams often are spread out across multiple locations, in 2011, we will take what we learned from our Life Technologies recognizes the importance of facilitating employee connections. As a result, initial pilot and deploy DOT globally, establishing we collectively travel a distance equal to 13 times around the world each day for business a baseline for measurement and monitoring our purposes. We are not proud of this metric, and we are continually looking for alternatives. progress going forward. In 2010 we implemented new ways to increase connection while decreasing air travel: LifeLink Telepresence Last year we reported on the launch We have installed telepresence rooms of a project to modernize our employee using Cisco Telepresence technology intranet and provide a relevant, social in Carlsbad and Foster City, California; experience that connects employees Frederick, Maryland; Inchinnan, Scotland; globally. Launched in 2010, LifeLink Tokyo, Japan; and Shanghai, China. This was a means to move employees from life-like video conferencing system affords passive consumers of information to employees and clients the face-to-face active participants. From marketers convenience without the fly-to-there swapping ideas and sharing inspiration hassle, expense, and negative impact to social groups seeking the best coffee, on the environment. today there are well over 1,600 LifeLink project collaboration spaces created and managed by individual users. The number of collaboration documents in the system climbed from 2,300 at launch to over 35,000 in just a few months after launch. 60602010 Global Citizenship Report 2010 Global Citizenship Report 61 environment environment green teams Green teams are self-organized groups that convene to identify and solve site-specific eco-challenges. The top green team initiatives in 2010 Carlsbad, California: Our 2010 There are approximately 20 active green teams globally, with new teams formed in Brazil, Australia, included moving away from single-use Earth Day Event featured the importance of reusable bags and Canada in 2010. Currently, more than 250 employees globally participate in green teams. containers and recycling. By replacing instead of plastic. Styrofoam cups with recyclable, washable ® alternatives, we reduced the volume of orders of Styrofoam used in our facilities. ® Another initiative encouraged employees to commute to work by carpool or public transportation. Employees who participated were reimbursed with a cumulative $400,000 from the company through the alternative transport program. Singapore: The site turned off their lights for an Oslo, Norway: On-site giveaway of CFL bulbs promotes Bedford, Massachusetts: For Arbor Day 2010, hour in observance of Earth Hour on March 27. energy conservation at work and at home. employees planted shrubs and other greenery for homes built through Habitat for Humanity. Pleasanton: zero-alkaline-battery site Problem: Approximately 475 alkaline batteries are used on-site, resulting in more than 1,000 batteries disposed of each year. Action: With the goal of becoming the first zero-alkaline-battery site, the Pleasanton Green Team purchased a small solar panel that was installed on the roof and used for powering rechargeable batteries. Result: Reduced waste in landfill and a cost savings of $1,000 per year in battery replacements. 62622010 Global Citizenship Report 2010 Global Citizenship Report 63 community community we are socially conscious community We strive to positively impact the social, environmental, and economic conditions of all the communities in which we live and work. Through our interaction with each other and our customers, our service in local neighborhoods and communities, and our contributions to the fields of science and education, we enhance and improve all our lives, individually and collectively. We believe in connecting with others in a meaningful way―a way that inspires and motivates each and every one of us to not only meet our potential, but to help others reach their potential as well. To that end, 2010 was a noteworthy year for Life Technologies, with the greatest level of volunteerism we have ever achieved. Among the highlights were a 170% increase in service hours, 50% employee participation in Global Volunteer Day, more than $500,000 in corporate donations, and more than $4 million in grants and sponsorships awarded for life science research, training, and education programs. Giving Back at Life Expanded in 2010 with the integration of AngelPoints, a system for documenting volunteer hours, our Giving Back at Life web portal amplified the impact of our corporate social responsibility programs. On this web portal, employees have direct access to researching opportunities in the areas of their personal interest―creating initiatives and projects, recruiting colleagues, producing events, and tracking volunteer hours. AngelPoints streamlined the process of our service work so significantly that we surpassed our annual goal of 25,000 volunteer hours in just six months. We have realized efficiencies in time and effort and focused our energy where it helps the most: giving back to others. Volunteering in Carlsbad 64 2010 Global Citizenship Report 65 community community volunteering our time The 2010 Global Volunteer Day was a huge success, donated items at food banks to providing educational Inspired to contribute beyond Global with 50% of our employees stepping up to give and entertaining activities to seniors and disabled Volunteer Day, many of us gave even more almost 17,000 hours to more than 160 projects all people. From cleaning and rejuvenating nonprofit time to ongoing projects. On Earth Day, over the world—a major increase in participation community service facilities, to supporting Eugene, Oregon, employees dedicated one from 2009. For the first time, our field-based environmental restoration at sites in our local week to Earth Day activities, focusing on employees on the Sales and Human Identification neighborhoods and national parks, to soliciting and everyday habits to live a sustainable lifestyle. teams were also able to participate, choosing collecting a myriad of donations, and to building toys In Bedford, Massachusetts, employees opportunities together or individually across the for distribution to underserved youth, we made an gave Habitat for Humanity homes and country. Projects ranged in diversity from sorting impact in many areas. their neighborhoods new landscaping. Employees in Austin, Texas, regularly Volunteering in Singapore assist their neighbor, the J. Frank Dobie Family Resource Center, through donation drives and facility improvement. Beyond local needs, Austin, Texas; Warrington, United Kingdom; and Carlsbad, California, participated in bikeand swim-a-thons for cancer and diabetes research. Volunteering in Foster City 66 2010 Global Citizenship Report 67 community community sharing our talents Life Technologies is deeply connected to our volunteer work and to advancing the understanding and In May we hosted Biotech Career Day in Carlsbad, appreciation of the life sciences. Interacting with people through compelling presentations of our work, California, welcoming 100 local underserved high whether through site tours or interactive activities both onand off-site, is perhaps the most effective school students. We presented an educational course method for engaging with our greater community and, particularly, with the younger generation. with four elements: resumé reviews, site tour, handson workshop, and career discussion. The students learned about the educational requirements needed for a career in science, and we made personal connections with our future colleagues. Meeting our scientists of tomorrow, today We hosted tours at many of our sites, introducing our Our scientists also created activities to reach out to and work to students as young as 11 years old. engage the next generation of biotech researchers. What better way to connect with our young people than through hands-on experiments that relate to their daily lives? Life Technologies was excited to both sponsor and participate in science festivals in Washington, DC, in San Diego, California, and in North Carolina. In our DNA double helix booth, kids learned about genetic sequencing and the real-world applications that potentially benefit all species on the planet. Other activities demonstrating the power of science included: Cheetahs in Danger, Modern Sherlock Holmes, Super Doctor, and Save the Banana. San Diego Science Festival Underwritten by the Life Technologies Foundation™, We sponsored the Industry Initiatives for Science and the “Nifty Fifty” program brought leading scientists Math Education (iiSME) summer fellowship program, into local schools for presentations on research, hosting local science teachers on dedicated projects. careers paths, and real-world applications. Science in the city 68 2010 Global Citizenship Report 69 community community donating our resources Life Technologies and its Foundation are advancing Haiti disaster relief science literacy through a myriad of channels, from The devastating effects of the modest but meaningful projects such as teaching earthquake in Haiti in January children about global amphibian decline, to funding 2010 have continued to hamper the ground-floor research into the growing field of country’s recovery. After a previous molecular medicine. In 2010 the Life Technologies volunteer trip to the island in 2009, Foundation™ funded more than $3 million in grants Life Technologies employees Christina and obligated over $4 million to programs in life Martens and Natasha Edwards knew sciences research, education, and training. they had to return to Haiti. In July 2010 they were able to do so, bringing with Life Technologies Foundation grants them suitcases full of toiletries, soap, and other supplies that customers, 2008 2009 2010 friends, and families in Cambridge, $0.50 million $5.54 million $3.89 million Our commitment to developing genomic and Massachusetts, had donated. Taking molecular medicine continued with major personal leave from work, Christina grants to Scripps Translational Science Institute As part of our dedication to training science and Natasha spent nine days not and the Translational Genomics Research educators, the Life Technologies Foundation™ again far from Port-au-Prince helping an Institute (TGen). At Scripps, the newly formed funded the San Diego Zoo Institute for Conservation orphanage and elementary school Association of Genomic Medicine will provide Research’s Summer Teacher Workshop. In the get ready to reopen their doors and education and accreditation to healthcare three-day intensive professional development preparing the students for the start professionals in the subspecialty of genomic program, 60 middle school and high school of school by handing out uniforms medicine, training them to individualize science teachers from around the country focused and books. Their desire to help was medical treatment for their patients based on curriculum development from the approach certainly appreciated by the children on their genetic profiles. TGen not only will of biodiversity and wildlife conservation, while at the school, but their work also fund research in molecular medicine directed also performing hands-on experiments in DNA inspired many others to give back. To to treatments of rare cancers, but will also extraction and analysis, gel electrophoresis, and date, Life Technologies has matched provide workshops to physicians exploring the enzyme immunoassays. our employees’ donations to American consequences of genomics in personalizing Red Cross for Haiti, and supported the medical treatments. Life Technologies Foundation Hope for Haiti Foundation, with a total gift of almost $164,000. First Lego league robotics The dedication of Natasha Edwards “My hope is to inspire my students to be mindful of and Christina Martens to helping those their choices and how they can become stewards of in need reflects the company’s desire our resources. This experience was truly eye-opening. to be a good citizen, responsive to all Again, thank you for providing me this opportunity.” the communities in which we live, Joanne Yan of San Diego, California whether local, national, or global. We aim to improve and enrich the lives of others, and in the process we make all of our lives even better. 70 2010 Global Citizenship Report 71 community community global volunteer day A glimpse around the world Löhne, Germany: Clearing roadside litter, cleaning, and Beijing, China: Enjoying activities with repairing an animal shelter, residents, improving the garden, and touring and packaging donated food for Bethel—an education, training, and foster distribution to the needy. care facility for visually impaired children. Guangzhou, China: Teaching and Löhne, Germany empowering special-needs students to be environmental stewards through sorting Brown Deer, Wisconsin Burlington, Canada and recycling items meant for landfills. Brown Deer, Wisconsin: Decorating Beijing, China Chemo Caps for women receiving Grand Island, New York treatment for breast cancer. Frederick, Maryland Rehovot, Israel Foster City, California Guangzhou, China Mexico City, Mexico Singapore Singapore: Entertaining and engaging with senior citizens and learningFoster City, California: Completing disabled, special-needs, and a greenhouse for Collective Roots to underprivileged children and young support K-12 students and their school adults at a community center party. garden programs in East Palo Alto. Frederick, Maryland: Constructing trails and park maintenance at the historic Rehovot, Israel: Improving Sydney Monocacy National Battlefield. and cleaning an afterschool-care facility that Melbourne provides support to children with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and other Grand Island, New York: behavioral obstacles. Preparing dinners for families living at Ronald McDonald House. Burlington, Canada: Setting up, painting, and donating supplies at Mexico City, Mexico: Donating food, the art and music rooms at Eva Roth toys, and books to Casa de la Sal and Melbourne: Improving the Monkami Sydney: Working at Kurringai Chase Resource Centre, a neighborhood presenting a science party at Casa de Centre, which supports adults with National Park on bush regeneration with community center. la Amistad, which support children disabilities. National Parks and Wildlife rangers. suffering from AIDS and cancer. 72 2010 Global Citizenship Report 73 awards and recognition Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (since 2008) “Our performance has afforded us selection to these listings, which in turn attracts socially minded Life Technologies was again selected as a member of the Dow investors. In 2010, eight new holding companies Jones Sustainability World Index in 2010 and also was named known to invest only in companies publishing a GRIto the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index (DJSI). compliant report added LIFE to their portfolio. At the Membership in the DJSI is reserved for the top 10% of the 2,500 end of the year, these companies held $63 million in largest companies in terms of sustainability, and Life Technologies market value—attesting that sustainability pays.” was the only biotechnology company to be listed on both the North America and World Indexes. Meredith Raymond, Global Citizenship FTSE4Good (since 2008) In May 2010 Life Technologies was named to the FTSE4Good Index Series, an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognized citizenship standards. Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met Best Corporate Governance stringent social, ethical, and environmental criteria. in Health Care Industry The company was also awarded “Best Bloomberg-Maplecroft Climate Innovation Corporate Governance in the Health Care Industry” and rated among the “Top 5 Index Leaders Corporate Governance in North America” Life Technologies was named to the Bloomberg-Maplecroft for 2010, as announced by Investor Relations Climate Innovation Index (CII) Leaders. As a member of the CII Global Rankings (IRGR). In total, more than Leaders, we rank among the top 100 of the 819 largest US-based 500 companies from over 30 countries were companies in terms of climate-related innovation and carbon evaluated. IRGR is the most comprehensive management programs. auditing and ranking system for investor relations websites, corporate governance practices, and financial disclosure procedures. Corporate Responsibility Magazine “100 Best Corporate Citizens” List In 2010 Life Technologies was named to the 100 Best Corporate 2011 Technology Pioneer Citizens List by Corporate Responsibility Magazine. The list is In September 2010, the World Economic based on over 360 data points of publicly available information in Forum announced that Ion Torrent™ was selected seven categories: environment, climate change, human rights, as a 2011 Technology Pioneer. To be selected philanthropy, employee relations, financial performance, and as a Technology Pioneer, a company must be governance. In 2010, Life Technologies was ranked 78.. developing a technology with “the potential for long-term impact on business and society.” Previous Technology Pioneers include Google (2001) and Twitter (2010). 74 2010 Global Citizenship Report 75 data summary table Section & Indicator1 Units 2008 2009 2010 Section & Indicator1 Units 2008 2009 2010 Company profile CO2 emissions5 Non-GAAP revenue $M 3,145 3,303 3,595 Total emissions (scope 1 & 2) Tons CO2e 98,219 95,177 97,519 Non-GAAP R&D expenses $M 323 334 363 Normalized by sales Tons CO2e/$M 31 30 28 Non-GAAP taxes $M 220 219 247 Business travel emissions Tons CO2e/$M -28,703 22,597 Effective tax rate % 22.7 28.5 26.7 Energy usage Non-GAAP net income $M -551 676 Total direct nonrenewable energy sources6 GJoules 316,360 296,107 308,702 Non-GAAP EPS $ -3.04 3.55 Natural gas GJoules 315,787 295,639 308,125 Free cash flow $M -534 614 Fuel distilled from crude GJoules 573 469 577 Share price US$ 23.31 52.22 55.50 Total direct renewable energy sources GJoules 0 0 0 Patents and exclusive licenses # of 3,600 3,900 3,900 Total indirect nonrenewable energy sources GJoules 447,260 435,832 438,080 Facilities # of 82 82 86 Electricity GJoules 447,260 435,832 438,080 Countries # of 110 160 160 Total indirect renewable energy sources GJoules 0 0 0 Board of Directors Total energy usage GJoules 763,620 731,940 746,782 Total Board size # of 13.0 13.0 13.0 Normalized by sales GJoules/$M 242 205 217 Independent directors % 12.0 12.0 12.0 Water usage Women % 7.7 7.7 7.7 Total water usage m3 796,106 658,042 648,666 Average age # of 63.2 64.2 65.8 Normalized by sales m3/$M 252 205 188 Average compensation $M 0.2 0.3 0.3 Recycled water usage % 1 7 6 Employees Waste generation Employees by region # of 9,725 8,772 9,273 Hazardous waste kg 1,623,683 1,590,820 1,225,851 EMEA # of 2,024 1,675 1,729 Normalized by sales kg/$M 517 496 356 North America # of 5,925 5,449 5,666 Nonhazardous waste kg 3,522,936 3,489,729 2,295,979 South America # of 115 119 158 Normalized by sales kg/$M 1,115 1,088 667 APAC # of 1,661 1,529 1,720 Recycling kg 1,051,711 14,817,478 1,341,830 Employees by type Normalized by sales kg/$M 333 399 390 Full-time employees # of 9,543 8,621 9,135 Health and safety Part-time employees # of 182 151 138 Recordable injuries Rate 1.3 0.8 0.7 Contract/temporary workers # of 929 1,146 1,805 DART Rate 0.7 0.6 0.5 Ethnic diversity3,4 % 36 32 37 Fatalities # of 0.0 0.0 0.0 Management (bands 7-8) % 33 34 35 Safety committee membership (employees) % -5.4 7.3 Leadership (bands 9-10) % 21 20 20 Product regulation Executive (bands 11-14) % 13 10 16 Regulatory and voluntary code incidents # 0.0 0.0 0.0 Gender diversity (women) % 43 45 44 Labeling non-compliance incidents # 0.0 0.0 0.0 Management (bands 7-8) % 37 38 38 Product transformation Leadership (bands 9-10) % 28 29 29 Dangerous goods (green chemistry application) % change --15.5 -14.0 Executive (bands 11-14) % 12 9 20 Philanthropy Human rights Foundation grants $M 0.50 5.54 3.89 Child labor operational risks # 0 0 0 Cash donations $M 0.21 0.49 0.29 Forced labor operational risks # 0 0 0 Product donations $M 0.02 0.04 0.35 Supplier diversity3 Employee volunteerism Small business $M 186.4 271.4 309.5 Company events # of --532 Small disadvantaged business $M 2.2 8.4 9.9 Employee hours (and goal) # of --37,249 (25,000) Woman-owned business $M 15.7 21.2 22.8 Participation rate (and goal) % --38 (40) Veteran-owned business $M 5.8 11.5 7.1 Community impact value (and goal) $M --1.73 (1.2) Service-disabled-veteran business $M 2.6 2.2 2.3 Cost and investment HUBZone $M 2.4 2.1 2.1 Investment in sustainability $M -1.71 1.77 Minority-owned business $M -10.8 7.0 NOTE: Data not previously tracked in this manner is denoted by a dash (--). Anti-corruption 1 Unless stated otherwise, the data have an estimated coverage of 95%. Organizational risk assessments # --100 2 The year ended December 21, 2008, provides an “as if” Invitrogen and Applied Biosystems were combined for the year beginning January 1, 2008. 3 US only. Anti-corruption training % 100 98 99 Minority ethnic groups include: Black or African American, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, American Indian or Alaskan Native, Asian, Hispanic or Latino, and 4 two or more races. 5 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions have been accounted for and reported as CO2 in accordance with the World Resource Institute (WRI) GHG Protocol. 6 Natural gas and heating oil consumption used in direct-fired fuel-burning equipment at our locations, and electricity consumption from our operations. 76 2010 Global Citizenship Report 77 appendix A: Life Technologies strategy and profile—GRI index about this report Where This is the third Life Technologies Global Citizenship Report, and the second annual report that GRI indicator follows the generation 3 (G3) guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The previous reports reported covering the 2008–2009 time periods can be found at www.lifetechnologies.com Profile disclosures Strategy and analysis: 1.1 5 Organizational profile: 2.1–2.101 2, 4, 76, 77 This report covers 2010 performance data and activities at manufacturing, distribution, sales, services, support, and training facilities worldwide for the period ending December 31, 2010. Report profile, scope, and boundary: 3.1–3.81 79 It does not address the performance of our joint ventures, third-party manufacturers, suppliers, or contractors. This report also includes 2011 information where the information adds clarification Report scope and boundary: 3.5–3.8, 3.10–3.11 79 to the described 2010 activities. GRI content index: 3.12 78 Governance: 4.1–4.41 76 This report addresses the full range of material economic, environmental, and social impacts of the organization, within the context of the boundary of the report as described in Appendix A, GRI Index. Stakeholder engagement: 4.14–4.15 79 The basis for reporting on facilities does not significantly affect comparability from period to period. There were no effects of any restatements of information identified in this report. Economic Economic performance: EC1 4, 76 Indirect economic impact: EC8 76 Through this report, we hope to convey to you how we conduct our business sustainably; living as a global citizen is at the core of who we are as a company. We look forward to developing a dialogue with Environmental Energy: EN3, EN4, EN5 77 our stakeholders and welcome your feedback through our website: www.lifetechnologies.com Water: EN8, EN10 77 Emissions, effluents, and waste: EN18, EN22, EN16, EN17 77 Other documents of similar interest, including our 2010 Annual Report, are available at www.lifetechnologies.com Social Employment: LA1, LA3 76 Occupational health and safety: LA6, LA7 77 Training and education: LA12 76 Please submit any suggestions for improvements to this document to: Child labor: HR6 24 Meredith Raymond Forced and compulsory labor: HR7 24 Global Citizenship meredith.raymond@lifetech.com Corruption: SO2, SO3 21-25 Public policy: SO5, SO6 21-25 Except as otherwise indicated by the context, the terms “Company” or “Life Technologies” as used herein mean Life Technologies Corporation. Customer health and safety: PR1, PR2, PR4 77 This report includes forward-looking statements about Life Technologies’ anticipated results that involve risks and uncertainties. Some of the information contained in this document, including, but not limited to, statements as to industry trends and Life Technologies’ plans, objectives, expectations and strategy for its business, contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause Compliance: PR8 21 actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. When used, the words “believe,” “plan,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “target,” “estimate,” 1 Information responsive to this indicator appears on our website: www.lifetechnologies.com “expect” and the like, and/or future tense or conditional constructions (“will,” “may,” “could,” “should,” etc.), or similar expressions, identify certain of these forward-looking statements. Important factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forwardlooking statements are detailed in filings made by Life Technologies with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Life Technologies undertakes no obligation to update or revise any such forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. 78 2010 Global Citizenship Report 79 © 2011 Life Technologies Corporation. All rights reserved. Headquarters 5791 Van Allen Way | Carlsbad, CA 92008 USA | Phone +1.760.603.7200 | Toll Free in the USA 800.955.6288 www.lifetechnologies.com
